[{"Title":"Generic body switch formula.","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Like Father, Like Son is probably most appealing to 80s fans, presenting typical teen genre conflicts as well as 80s teen stars, Kirk Cameron and Sean Astin. Young kids might appreciate it simply for the story (despite it's lack of novelty) of a teenager getting all the priveleges of being an adult, while only having to change appearance and not attitude. The decade however, offering a nauseating selection of role switching comedies and parodies, may have the rest of us looking to avoid this repetition and searching for something else on the shelves. Chris Hammond (Kirk Cameron) is a high school senior. He's an average student, a decent track team participant, and likes a girl at school who happens to be dating a psychotic jock bully. And, his dad, Jack (Dudley Moore) is breathing down his neck to get him an ivy league school to study pre-med, leaving Chris secretly wanting to tell his dad to just let him make his own decisions about what he wants to do.Chris's buddy, Trigger (Sean Astin), has a wacky uncle who's staying with him. He lived in the desert for awhile, experimenting with body-switching potions. Trigger gets a hold of the brain transference serum and it switches Chris and Jack's brains so that Chris is Jack and Jack is Chris. There's a mistake here, in that their accents should've switched as well, since when Trigger tried it on the cat and dog, the cat barked at the dog and the dog meowed at the cat. But, it makes for a whole lot of trouble. The incredibly boring and sometimes big-shot Dr. Hammond has to settle on being a teenager awhile. And Chris has to settle for being Dr. Hammond, both without screwing things up. For Dr. Hammond, he hopes to get the ordeal with over quickly; but for Chris, there's advantages to not having to show up for school, take tests, and the like. But, they each grow quite irritable of the situation as they tend to screw up each other's lives. Dr. Hammond has a few nasty run-ins with the bully as Chris. And Chris, involved in an affair with the boss's wife, not only sets the living room on fire, but also risks his father's chances of becoming chief of staff. I still think it's a fun movie for kids and probably teenagers. Safe family fun for the most part anyways due to lack of sex, violence, and for the most part, language. However, Kirk Cameron did tend to get quite annoying at parts as the whiny teenager. Actually, Trigger was one of the best characters in the movie as a sort of slacker friend of Chris, except he's not in the movie all that much. I did like Chris as Dr. Hammond during the hospital scenes, when he had to take his med students on rounds, and didn't know what the heck he was doing. It has it's moments.  "},{"Title":"entertaining","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I enjoy this movie, I like it even better than Vice Versa, although Leonard Maltin gave it no stars. The biggest exception I noticed about his film, is how Kirk Cameron (Chris Hammond) was only 16, and a senior in high school, 17 in the movie. When in a majority of flicks the actors that age are in the early or mid twenties and look way too old. it's what a real high school looks like, and Clarence (Sean Astin-Samwise, Lord of the Rings Trilogy) his wacky, sarcastic friend, was in this when he was fifteen or sixteen, making him look actually a little young to be a senior. He is the one responsible for the body change, snatching an ancient potion from his archaeologist uncle. Chris' dad, Jack (Dudley Moore) is a heart surgeon, on the verge of being named chief of staff. And Chris is on his biology exam not seeming to have much of a clue what he's talking about, and is an average student. But then they switch bodies and Chris is in his dad's body and his dad has to go to school cause he's in Chris' body, and is really studious in his classes, even smarter than the teachers! While Chris in his dad's body doesn't have the slightest clue what he's doing as a heart surgeon, and has no sophisticated vocabulary, and parties like a child/teenager. Chris has bully problems at school and has to face up to a huge old looking kid who says dickhead And the kids at school think Chris is a dork, as his father, but the interns at the hospital think he's a lot of fun, chewing gum, driving a jeep, and taking them out for pizza and beer. The chief-of-staff's wife, a good 25-years younger than him, cheats on her husband and screws around with Jack' in Chris body, which leads to catastrophe. Anyway, I really like this movie. Here are some reasons why, and also why, I think it was superior to the others and should of gotten three stars, if not more. Despite the acting and script being considered inferior, this is the only one that makes me truly happy when watching it, it is set in southern California where the sun is always shining during the day. Sean Astin was in this at a young age, the kid is a teenager, and not a child, so there's two girlfriends in the movie. it is priceless watching Dudley Moore party and laugh watching MTV, and dance on the kitchen table to rock and roll. It teaches something about American History and how Okay became a word, through Chris' lecture in his dad's body at school. The interns have a bawl with Jack in Chris' body after work, eating pizza and drinking, Jack, Chris and Clarence go on a little vacation to get the antidote near the end of the movie, and he and his dad, hug each other and Cameron cries on cue, before the conclusion. Am I forgetting anything? "},{"Title":"Stupid funny! I love it!","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Maybe there's something wrong with me, but I think this movie's great. There's lots of hilarious (and clean) sight gags, slapstick and laugh-out-loud situations.Dudley Moore, obviously the far more superior comedian, is fantastic as a teenager stuck in an adult's body. He has many funny scenes and milks them for all they're worth, my favourite being the chewing gum/cigarette incident. The looks on his co-stars' faces is priceless. Watch also for Moore's date with Margaret Colin (that goes really badly) and when he does the rounds at the hospital.Unfortunately, there are a few flaws. There's a bit of swearing and sexual reference (which would make it an otherwise very suitable film for kids). It wastes the talent of Catherine Hicks in a surprisingly pointless and unnecessary role and Sean Astin is super-annoying (as always) as the wacky best friend/sidekick. The film also resorts to schmaltz at the end when it goes for a warm and fuzzy finale.Otherwise, a great film that's lots and lots of fun. Funky soundtrack and wonderful flashback to the delightfully tacky fashions and hairstyles of the '80s. "},{"Title":"A great 80s movie","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Im not too sure about what the last reviewer was expecting to see...Citizen Kane? This was a great lighthearted comedy from the time I was graduating high school that anyone born in the late 60s-early 70's will enjoy. You will love the cornball fashion from the big 80's as well as the big hair. I thought they put a interesting plot in the freaky Friday theme using the brain transference juice. Also, Dudley Moore did an excellent job right after the switch acting like a freaked out 17 year old in a 47 year old's body. And of course, the comedy ensues as both struggle to jump into the others life, one in high school and the other at the hospital as chief surgeon. So if you want to come home and have a drink and relax and watch a lighthearted comedy from when you were in high school and remember the old days, this is definitely the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Each Other's Lives","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Like Father Like Son was made at the height of Kirk Cameron's bubblegum popularity as teen idol, courtesy of his television series Growing Pains which was dominating the ratings in 1987. Cameron was just getting into his fundamentalist religion kick so the script couldn't be too naughty.As it is it's a mildly amusing comedy of the Freaky Friday vein, only this time it's a father and son, Kirk's father in this case being Dudley Moore. Kirk's your typical teenage kid, just looking for a good time and not too serious. Moore is a very serious and respected surgeon who would like to be the new chief of staff at his hospital to replace Patrick O'Neal's whose recommendation on a replacement will probably make or break a candidate.Kirk's got some troubles of his own in the form of shapely Camille Cooper who's hitting on him. She's the girl friend of jock Micah Grant who hates Kirk and his friend Sean Astin.In fact Astin's archaeologist uncle is the cause of all the problems that Moore and Cameron face. The uncle Bill Morrison has come back from a dig at the Navajo reservation with a body transference medicine that Astin thinks would be worth a few laughs, even experimenting with a dog and cat on it. But when the maid thinks it's a condiment and Moore and Cameron use it on the spaghetti, strange things happen. Each lives about 36 hours in the other's bodies and the other's lives and generally make a mess of it. If you've seen both versions of Freaky Friday you've got a general idea of what's going to happen.The film did reasonably well at the box office though it failed to make Cameron a movie star. That didn't happen until Kirk started playing on the Christian film circuit. Moore and Cameron and Astin work well together and it's still mildly amusing. "},{"Title":"Like Bad, Like REALLY Bad","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Someone must have thought that all this movie needed to succeed was Kirk Cameron to pull in the teenage girls and Dudley Moore to pull in their parents. Somehow they forgot that Kirk is incapable of pulling off anything in the way of depth in his acting and Dudley in a role like this would get carried away with its silliness. The premise was old, the dialogue poor, the situations strained, and the acting cartoonish. The result is a bad movie with a fading teen heartthrob and a fifty-something actor playing his Arthur character at the age of ten. If anyone finds this in a 'sale' bin for used videos, try to bury it farther down where it can be avoided and forgotten. "},{"Title":"You are grounded dad","Date":"9 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In the late 1980s there were several body swap teen comedies that emerged in a short space of time. Tom Hanks in Big was the big one and the others were judged against it.Like Father Like Son is a likable comedy but drastically lacks a plot, wastes some of its actors and seems to be a series of sketches.Kirk Cameron plays a high school teenager who with the aid of a Native Indian portion mixes his mind with his brilliant surgeon father, Dudley Moore.Now its Moore who acts as the kid and Cameron goes to school with his adult know how which irritates the other students and his best friend, Sean Astin.They both have to get used to their new bodies, Moore has to navigate a promotion but upsets his hospital boss by siding with a colleague to offer medicine to those without insurance and fooling around with his wife.Moore is in his element when he is having fun as a teenager and Cameron is very good as the more uptight one after the body swap, maybe he was just being himself!Patrick O'Neal and Catherine Hicks are rather wasted in this very 1980s comedy. Its sporadically funny and mildly enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Like so many before","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" At the time (1987) this film was one of a spate of body transference films on offer. Hollywood had found a new theme to play with. If Rod Daniel's flick is any indication, none of the projects were very successful.Chris (Kirk Cameron) and his doctor dad (Dudley Moore) inadvertently swap bodies after a mishap with an American Indian potion. Comedy from here on in is strictly 'fish-out-of-water', as Chris and his pa must learn to cope and adapt to the other's life.A few of the resulting situations bring a laugh, some just a smile. Mostly however, this is your average situation comedy. Lorne Cameron's story makes that common but dreadful mistake of going for a sentimental finale, which of course falls flat on its face.It was films like this that abruptly ended Kirk Cameron's movie career; and this is probably one of his best. Dudley Moore has been infinitely better. Miles Goodman provides a bouncy score.Monday, February 1, 1999 - Video "},{"Title":"Ebert was right","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I agree with Roger Ebert on a lot of this movie. First, I agree that Dudly Moore has one good scene and Kirk Cameron has none. Second, I agree that the acting of the movie characters is way off.This is another of the body swap comedies that came out in 1987-1988. This is the worst one of them. Dudly Moore and Kirk Cameron swap bodies when Kirk's friend Sean Austin sneaks some mind transfer serum into Dudley's drink. Then the two of them swap minds. At first of course, they're shocked and upset. After that, the way each one of them acts in each other's body is so way off and unconvincing. And they act very annoying on top of that. And neither of them act even remotely funny and amusing except for Dudly twice at the hospital. Once when he sees a machine next to a patients bed, and once when he smokes a cigarette at the board meeting. Every, and I mean everything else from both of them was stupid. Examples include Kirk in Dudley's reaction to Dudly in Kirk driving to school. Kirk in Dudley dancing and yelling to loud music. Dudly in Kirk arrogantly patronizing his classrooms until everyone completely turned againced him. Dudly in Kirk on a date at a rock concert. Kirk in Dudley painting the town red with Sean. And Dudley's forced irritating yelling such as his singing Jeremiah was a bullfrog and his yelling I wanna be a doctor! I wanna be a doctor!.Then for the supporting characters the high school kids (the bully, the hot girl, the other cliques that wouldn't except Kirk) were just tired retreads of other 80s high school movies. The seducing woman from the hospital was so snobby. The chief executive boss at the hospital was a one dimensional jerk. Look at all of these different things here made this film something yet to be desired. "},{"Title":"Stupid fun (possible spoilers)","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The jokes did not quite take off in the first half of the film. I was appalled by how bad the dialogue was, and how un-funny the lines that are supposed to be funny are. Chris' best friend is perhaps THE most annoying person in the first half; his lines are retarded, and so is he. Chris (Kirk Cameron) is also very annoying, and so is his dad. After they switched brains though, the film got a whole lot better. It's a riot to see Dr. Hammond in Chris' body going to school and being a smart ass. It's even funnier to see Chris in his father's body going to work. This movie is basically something to entertain you for a couple of hours. It's not over-the-top-ly funny, and it's very stupid, but it's all in the name of entertainment. Great acting from Dudley Moore and Kirk Cameron. Can't say much for the rest of the cast 'cause I don't really remember what the heck they did. A rather interesting plot as well, if you're not in the mood to think.To sum it up, Like Father, Like Son is stupid...but it's fun.  "}{"Title":"Idiot Savant?","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Upon watching this film in the TBS Sunday movie context, dully and without vision for the 27th time, as if by exquisite divine intervention, it came to me.  This movie is quite brilliant in its stupidity.  Let's look at the average B 8o's switcheroo flick as if it were a slice of swiss cheese - the holes are meant to be there.  It wouldn't be the cheese without it.  One may not look any further than the montage of running sneakers and joyous looks of dumb amazement coming down the stairs at you to realize that what we have here is a little slice of heaven.  I also particularly like the fact that the Chief of Staff's middle-aged wife is trolling around the singles bars on Sunset Blvd by herself on a random week night - where she just happens upon Dr. Hammond and his son's friend, Trigger (as in hung like).  The fact that said bar seems to consist solely of single, attractive women doesn't strike anyone odd?  The brilliance here is less subdued - this is obviously how Chris Hammond SEES the bar through his inexperienced, sheltered eyes.  This is yet another scene where we get to see Dudley Moore dumbfounded and looking agog.  As he surveys the scene, the camera again treats us with super-fast editing so that we can see his expression not once, but several times.  I could wax on and on about the adventures of the Hammond's however, I often frighten myself.  "},{"Title":"A very underrated comedy","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I personally liked this film and really compare it to a similar comedy I enjoyed called Vice Versa where father and son exchanged places to create a very similar scenario. There was a lot to like about this movie and think the ratings overall for whomever saw this movie were disappointing to me but this is life. I gave this 8 out of 10 stars and deserving. The acting was pretty good for this type of comedy where Daddy is a doctor and his son has to take on his role as they exchange places for a day or so.Dudley Moore as a doctor is very humorous and his son trying to take on his normal roles as doctor is hilarious.I really like these kinds of comedies and hope to see more similar in the future. Dudley really didn't act in a whole lot of movies I really enjoyed but this is one of them. Give it a try...think anybody who hasn't seen this movie will surprisingly like it despite ratings) "},{"Title":"Not a bad way to pass the afternoon","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, if you've got an Sunday afternoon with nothing else to do, this is the movie for you.  It's neither intellictually stimulating, nor is it hilariously funny, but it's one of those guilty pleasure movies.  You don't know why you watch it, because you've already seen it before and it wasn't that hot of a movie, but you can't help but sit and watch it until the credits roll.  It is neither the best nor the worst parent/child switching places movie ever. "},{"Title":"The worst of the body switch genre","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I think I have seen every example of the body switch genre, at least all of those that have been made in the past 40 years or so, and Like Father Like Son is the worst of them. The first 20 minutes or so are painless mediocrity, but then soon after the movie collapses. What's the problem? I think the main problem is that the characters are stupid. If I was in their situation, I know I would be terrified and trying my best to not raise suspicion. If the movie had done that, it could have been funny seeing these people trying to do their best but making mistakes. But the movie's two main characters seem to be trying their best to blow the charade - not realistic. And the movie's sense of humor is really bad - we have such stuff as audiences falling asleep during lectures, a gag that's done TWICE. If you want to see a good example of this genre, see Freaky Friday (the original or the remake) or Vice Versa. "},{"Title":"Closes the generation gap","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The way I see it, this story gave each of the two groups (teenaged students and middle-aged professional people) a better understanding of the trials and tribulations the other experiences on a daily basis.  As kids, we think our parents' lives are easy, and as adults, we tend to forget the pressures experienced by highschoolers.  I enjoyed this film, and hope others will, too. "},{"Title":"Like Pain, Like Misery.","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Doctor Dudley Moore and his teenage son Kirk Cameron end up becoming each other in this terrible little film. A brain transference formula is the cause here. The typical misunderstandings and forced-comedic situations then occur. Moore continued to struggle with roles after his crowning achievement in Arthur six years earlier. Cameron, thought to be the biggest star of television's Growing Pains, was trying to become a bankable movie star. That plan fell flat as well. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"A lethal combination of suck.","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I suffered through this film in jaw dropping disbelief.First of all, who would cast Dudley Moore and Kirk Cameron in the same film? Seriously? It's like mixing oil and water and just doesn't work. Especially if your cast Kirk Cameron as Dudley Moore's son. Who thought that would be believable? Hey, let's take two of the worst actors in the world that are complete opposites and cast them as father and son.Then, to add to the puke factor, there's the 80's hair band background music. As if Cameron as son and Moore as father wasn't enough to induce projectile vomiting they pushed it one step further with the lame soundtrack.Then there's the story line, the script. Were they taking mind altering drugs when they wrote this? If so, it was something that caused complete stupidity. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked Growing Pains, and I liked Dudley Moore, and I was 10 years old--how could I not like this film.  Though i would have easily given the film a 10 had the imdb existed eleven years ago, watching it again I realized there just wasn't much there. though i still enjoy it, with a guilty grin on my face.  the adult-teen switch formula was done much better in Vice Versa and Big, but worse in 18 Again (which all came out in the same year or so if i remember).  There are some funny moments, and though overall it's not very high-quality, watch a few minutes of it on TV, you might even like it a bit. "},{"Title":"The First...and Worst.","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  LIKE FATHER, LIKE SON was the first of many mind-swapping comedies.  This one stars Dudley Moore and `Growing Pains' star Kirk Cameron as father and son who switch bodies after Moore accidentally drinks from a strange Indian potion.  For a first timer, this one is absolutely pathetic.  Cameron is an okay actor, but he ain't box-office material, and Moore is as wasted as ever and the humor isn't there.  Even the concert sequence is dreary.  Thankfully, the many imitations that followed fared somewhat better, the best one being BIG.  LIKE FATHER, LIKE SON is the worst, with a pointless story and all those cliches that turkeys like this are made of.  Sleazy and stupid.0 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Worthless and mindless...","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I could fill pages on why this film is such a pathetic attempt at the kid/parent switch comedies of the 80's but let me just give you a quick summary.This film completely fails to portray how people put into this situation would behave.  The best (worst) example of this is the scene when Dudley Moore, playing an 18 year old in a 40 something body, is staying at home alone.  He's supposed to be a senior in High School and yet when left at home for 5 minutes he behaves like a 6 year old....playing loud music and jumping on the furniture.  Obviously the director just couldn't resist having Dudley Moore jump around like an idiot for a few minutes.Had the writer and director spent 30 seconds thinking about how people might really try to act in this situation it might have been entertaining...but then again this movie was made about 5 times in the space of 18 months in the late 80's anyway so I think the best idea would have been to get an original idea and not waste everybody's time. "}]