[{"Title":"Terrific Tim Robbins performance almost saves it...","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Offbeat--to say the least--comedy-drama from director Tony Bill and writer/co-producer John Patrick Shanley combines unforced, unshowy nostalgia with dark (and rather wobbly) comedic undertones. In a troubled Bronx neighborhood in the 1960s, Jodie Foster is a young woman hounded by just-released convict John Turturro, while Tim Robbins is a former classmate reevaluating his priorities based on turbulent world events. Foster has little to work with in a weakly-written role (she's not going to meet this nutcase in the park at night!), but Robbins' quiet sincerity is lovely, and his handsome face and expressive manner keeps the film grounded in reality. Overall, it's much too flighty, with a melodramatic final 30 minutes which doesn't do anything good for anybody--least of all the viewer. However, there is some dryly eccentric humor in Shanley's screenplay, and when director Bill's touch is light the film generally works. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise...","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I came across this film on sale, and purchased it because I saw the leading roles- Jodie Foster and Tim Robbins, before they really got famous, and I was surprised at how well the movie was done.  Set in the 60s, Five Corners rings true with tone and mood of the times.  Plot is straightfoward and even mildly believable, but what the film's shining aspect is its portrayal of human emotions- its very clean, raw look at the fundamental of social interaction.Listen to Jamie's cries at his abducted girlfriend through the steel subway bars.  Feel his pain as he scratches for the just-beyond-reach token. Though seemingly one dimensional at first, Heinz is a complex, tortured character with roots (albeit predictably) from youth and upbringing.The film belies its innocent appearance with a few unexpected flashes of violence, yet maintains a positive feel with occaisional punchlines. Another surprise is Eriq La Salle, who plays a commanding role in the film's racial commentary.  (Look for his surgeonesque brusque manner in his pre-Benton, MD role.)All together with a mysterious archer vigilante (?) in the midst and cute penguins mucking about, this film is worthy of your time if you have some extra.Verdict for a five dollar DVD?  A+ simply on the Beatles tune alone. "},{"Title":"Excellent drama","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Set in 1964 Bronx, the film starts off great with the Beatles In My Life and just keeps getting better.A psycho Heinz (John Turturro) is released from prison and goes after the woman Linda (Jodie Foster) who put him there.  Harry (Tim Robbins) and James (Todd Graff) try to protect her.  Then there's the man that sells his girlfriend and her friend to two guys.  And there's people being shot with arrows...This got some noteriety in it's 1988 release because its writer, John Patrick Shanley, had just won the Oscar for Moonstruck.  But this film disappeared without a trace after that.  That's a shame because it's a fantastic movie.The script is sharp and believable with three-dimensional characters and ALL the performances are great.  Direction by Tony Bill is perfect...he gets a real feel for the era and captures it on screen.  It's also interesting to see Tim Robbins before he hit it big.  Engrossing from beginning to end...a must see!There's so many great lines in this movie!  But a particular standout is Someone murdered our teacher, so we have the day off.  Want to go for a ride? "},{"Title":"A Little Gem","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is a little gem. A very good quirky understated drama. The story is well-developed, reasonably believable, and directed quite nicely. The story is set in a New York neighborhood in the time period of early 60s - both aspects are portrayed well in the film - realistic and believable but not so hammed up as to come across as phony. The acting is superb. Tarturro is great - plays the part of a local psycho bully very well - quite edgy and frightening but not over-the-top. Both Jodie Foster and Tim Robbins also do really well in this movie and is probably the best of that time period (the 80s) for either actor. Would recommend the movie for anyone looking for a good drama or for a movie with some social commentary that does not overwhelm the story. "},{"Title":"Pretty decent indy.","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Life in the Bronx in 1964.  A psycho gets out of prison and picks up where he left off, affecting the lives of people he knew.  Has some funny moments and a couple interesting sub-plots.  Excellent cast in this Hand-made indy Jody Foster, Tim Robbins, Todd Graff as Jodie's limp-legged boyfriend, and John Turturro as the psycho. "},{"Title":"A quirky indie","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Some interesting performances from people who went on to bigger and better things. Turturro in particular gives a controlled turn to a role that could easily have been over the top. Many discontinuities mar the script, and there are plot elements which seem to come out of nowhere. But overall it is a movie worth seeing when the cupboard is bare. "},{"Title":"A Diamond in the Rough; A real treat!! A charming, underrated little film.","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this movie at the Houston International Film Festival in April or May of 1988. From the moment I saw the names of Jodie Foster, Tim Robbins and John Turturro, and Oscar- winning screenwriter John Patrick Shanley in the festival booklet, I was interested and I put this film on my list of films I would go see. I was not disappointed. On the contrary, I was very pleasantly surprised. I love period movies, and this one is warmly set in New York City (specifically, in the Bronx) in 1964. The script may be a bit unusual, but that is part of its charm. I agree with some other comments that Jodie Foster's role is small, but I think she does a fantastic job in the time she is on screen. Her New York accent is so believable you start thinking she actually is from the Bronx! She is certainly not wasted. Tim Robbins and John Turturro are also excellent. A few people who have written comments have said that his performance is even more admirable because it could have been over the top, but is not. This is absolutely true. You can see what a fine actor Turturro really is, and how the world would come to see that in his later, more widely-distributed films.Tim Robbin's portrayal of a young man who renounces violence is also excellent; an early sign of his acting genius.Besides this film being an early entry in the filmography of Jodie Foster, Tim Robbins and John Turturro, it is also one of the few films made by Rodney Harvey, a talented young actor with a lot of promise (he was the Bellboy at the bed-and-breakfast where Kevin Costner and Sean Young spend the weekend in No Way Out) who unfortunately died of a drug overdose in 1998. Had he lived, I am sure, he would have gone far. I also loved the sub-plot involving the glue-sniffing girls and the boys they meet. Plus, the mysterious bow and arrow vigilantes' antics are pretty funny.Overall, this is a charming, often funny, poignant film, with excellent performances, plenty of good humour, and even social commentary. I also think its portrayal of 1960's New York is right on the button. The use of Beatles songs in the soundtrack is a nice touch. I recommend it to anyone who loves movies and good acting.I wish John Patrick Shanley would write more for the movies!! He is an excellent writer!!This films deserves to be seen by more people than those who saw it in its limited theatrical release. I have the Criterion Collection Laserdisc. Now that it is out on DVD, maybe it will get the audience it deserves. "},{"Title":"elements that don't mesh, like a square peg in a five-cornered hole","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Turturro plays a brutal psycho released from prison, and Foster plays the woman in peril. Neither is really pressed hard here, therefore.Robbins plays a guy who protected Foster before, but who is volunteering to go south to help the rights of blacks in the south, being inspired by Martin Luther King (this being a period drama). Foster also has a boyfriend who was crippled by Turturro when she was attacked.Turturro has a weird gift for Foster, and there's a teacher who inexplicably gets shot by an arrow. Meanwhile, there's a pair of guys who are paid to look after two glue-sniffing. And there's a pair of cops and so on...A strange drama with moments of comedy that don't really fit in comfortably. Seems more like an awkward play awkwardly made into a film. "},{"Title":"Very watchable, but mostly for young superstars!","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is an intriguing movie. The cast is mainly budding superstars. Their performances here are in keeping with their march up the ladder to A-list status. Tim Robbins especially connects with an ex-ruffian that has found his conscience. He wants in to a trip to Mississippi, to join MLK's freedom fighters. His explanation to a Malcom X type recruiter in Harlem, is heartfelt and well delivered. The rest perform their quirky roles well, thru some very quirky situations. The movie is very..... quirky.But....the writer, who went on to Oscar consideration later in life, has really stretched stuff to fit the plot. The mood change is radical, sub-plots are diverting, but unnecessary. And the worst to me was Jodie being slugged and knocked out. She remains knocked out while, carried from the subway, a car theft, a police shootout, a car crash, a 3rd floor Mom/Son confrontation, a climb to a rooftop and a 3 way struggle on the roof. Then she wakes up, reasonably clear headed!?!?! Hmmm! Too much for me. The inept police approach was good comedy and again, the cast showed the promise of bigger things to come!! Worth a watch! (in fact, watch the credits roll for a laugh out loud moment!) "},{"Title":"split stories odd but still interesting","Date":"14 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's 1964 The Bronx. Violent Heinz (John Turturro) returns to his neighborhood after getting out of prison for an attempted rape of Linda (Jodie Foster). Harry (Tim Robbins) rescued Linda the first time but has turn pacifist since then. Somebody shoots a teacher with an arrow. Castro and Willie are two kids blowing up a store sign with cherry bombs. They pick up Melanie and Brita who are out of it from sniffing glue. Heinz is after Linda again thinking he's in love with her. Jamie would like to be her boyfriend who protects her.This movie is split in two. Turturro, Foster and Robbins inhabit one half. Turturro is great as the disturbed rapist. The penguins are weird. The acting is good but the script meanders a bit with a lot of strange turns. The other half has four lesser known actors. The girls are funny. It's odd that it seems to float on the surface of the movie without connecting to the other half. I do find the unknown actors' story interesting especially the elevator scene. I kept wondering what that story has to do with anything. The final reveal satisfied me to some extent. I wish it could have made more connections earlier in the movie. "}{"Title":"Nice dramedy","Date":"14 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have a bit of a nostalgic spot for this movie -- my friends and I used to watch it in high school. A guy who I knew then was obsessed with Jodie Foster and the Beatles -- I don't know which came first, or if that was why he watched the movie or if the movie was why he was a fan of Jodie Foster and the Beatles. But those two things seemed to dominate his life and they came together in this movie, and as his close friends we all shared in the enjoyment of this fine film.The main story of Five Corners is about John Turturro's character Heinz, a disturbed young man who has just been released from prison for attacking Jodie Foster's character Linda. In between Linda and Heinz are two other concerned young men her on-again off-again boyfriend Jamie (Todd Graff), who was crippled by Heinz in the fight, and the boy who actually stopped the rape by smashing a pitcher over Heinz' head, Harry (Tim Robbins), who has become a pacifist in the mean-time under the influence of Martin Luther King Jr. Heinz' reappearance puts Harrys' non-violence to the test and strains Linda and Jamie's relationship. There's also a side plot involving a pair of young women who get ditched by their protector and spend a night and an afternoon carousing and adventuring with a couple of strange boys. The continual cross-cutting between the different plots makes the film feel a bit like American Graffiti or Dazed and Confused, coming-of-age films of that genre. But this film has quite a bit more violence and perversity to it, and you don't notice the music nearly as much.All the young actors acquit themselves well in this film. Jodie Foster, although perhaps sadly typed at this point in her career (or forever?) as a rape victim, sheds all layers of movie star with this very believable humble girl who's more intelligent than she's been taught to reveal. Robbins gets some wonderful scenes with Kathleen Chalfant who plays his mother, and a really excellent first scene with Turturro. Of course it's Turturro who does the heavy lifting, coming off brilliantly in a very difficult role. It's a bit like watching a young DeNiro, seeing him in this movie. He's clearly got his psycho act down but he never fails to interact with all the other cast members in a believable way. His big pre-climactic confrontation with his mother could stand up under any comparison. In fact that was the main effect for me of seeing this movie; I kept my eyes out for Turturro after that, and have not been disappointed on the whole.The film's fabric is a bit shaky; screenwriter John Patrick Shanley was still a bit of an excited novice and it shows. There's a lot of talent here, a lot of good lines, but the structure of the thing doesn't really support the kind of dextrous switching between comedy and drama that his dialog demands. And the director Tony Bill, while bringing the film a pleasing intimacy and warmth, can't do anything to stylize the film and make it really propel itself along. We're always sort of waiting for what Turturro is going to do next, instead of just being carried along with the feeling of the whole piece. That makes the scenes in the largely unrelated sub-plot feel even more like filler or padding.On the whole however, this is a very good film and I highly recommend it. I was surprised when I came here on IMDb that there were so few comments and votes. I thought it was a pretty famous movie, but apparently my friends and I were part of a cult and we didn't even know it! Why not join up? "},{"Title":"The Complexities of Compassion","Date":"1 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think the strength of this movie was Harry's (Tim Robbins) attempt to come to grips with his father's death through non-violence. It was so interesting to see how Martin Luther King Jr. inspired him, and his journey to make meaning of his life in the turbulent 1960's era by helping others. The ending dramatizes the limitations of non-violence, that very small percentage of people who are so clinically insane they will throw their own mother out of a window. Yet, we all know that non-violence was very helpful for the civil rights movement, so I think what this movie is really exploring is not whether non-violence is valuable, but how much complexity it makes for someone who is able to experience their full humanity and feel compassion for others. It is, in a way, so much easier to be Linda's (Jodie Foster) boyfriend Jamie (Todd Graff), who sees things in black and white - He isn't a rival - he's a phenomenon, hahaha!! For Harry it isn't so easy. Harry knows he can kill Heinz (John Tuturro) but he doesn't want to. He can't feel any righteous vengeance when Heinz dies. He just feels sadness for the fragility of human life.Also, in the reviews here I see a lot of comments about the seemingly unrelated subplot with the two glue-huffing girls. I'm not 100% sure, but it seems to me in the end their presence becomes clear - the two boys they spend the night with are the Indians. We see two of them in the shadows after the last arrow is shot - one taller and maybe blond, one shorter and dark. Especially considering the short brown-haired guy said, I have the day off because my teacher died, it suggests he was the one who shot the arrow because the teacher failed him. Apparently they were also around the neighborhood that night, and shot the arrow to kill Heinz.I will agree with other reviewers though - the fact that Linda goes to see Heinz by herself in the middle of the night is pretty stupid. I found this movie on Netflix under the the heading 'comedies featuring a strong female lead, but I don't think it was very much of a comedy, and I certainly wouldn't describe Linda as a strong female.That said, I'm really glad I saw this movie. Definitely a worthwhile 2 hours spent on a sick day. "},{"Title":"Weird, funny, upsetting great film","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I rented the film for its elements (John Patrick Shanley, Tony Bill, obviously all of the cast members...) and I wasn't disappointed. It's not your basic thriller or even your basic offbeat ...uh...I don't know that there's a noun for this type of film. Cohen-y, quirky, but darker, less ironic...I think it falls into the 'you love it or hate it' category, like A Box of Moonlight. Hmm. I don't think I could be less articulate about this work. How 'bout this It's violent and funny. The performances are spot on. John Turturro is especially disturbing (as usual) as the psycho. And his mother (Rose Gregorio) is so strange and, like, aggressively out-of-it it's heartbreaking. The whole thing works so well that the ending - which does, at least for me, come as a surprise (or, rather, in that wonderful way, as a perfectly expected surprise) - is a true culmination of everything that came before. I think it's a great movie. The only reason I gave it 8 and not 10 is that I felt it was unnecessarily slow at points. But there you go. I liked Box of Moonlight. "},{"Title":"Satisfying slice-of-life melodrama.","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was persuaded to watch this film on late-night TV by the cast Tim Robbins, Jodie Foster and John Turturro, and lots of familiar faces who you're glad to see, even if you don't know their names. Turturro is better in this than in most of his later work. Psycho? or just a stupid, unhappy bully, whose violence seems almost normal in the tough, white, working class neighbourhood which gives the film its title. He is genuinely threatening, mean, short fuse, unpredictable, but a believable rounded character who excites our pity as well as our disgust. Foster and Robbins fit their roles like fingers fit gloves, the period setting - 1964 - is nicely realised, and the script sets up and resolves a series of classic conflicts with some originality and some appealing off-the-wall subplots. Of course, the good end happily and the bad unhappily, but that is fiction, my dear, and that is why I call it a melodrama. If it comes up on the late-night schedules, or you see it in your local video-store, watch it. "},{"Title":"Worth watching for fans of the actors; horrible score","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not worth going out of your way to see, but worth keeping on if it comes on on TV.  Will provide mild pleasure to fans of Jamie Foster, Tim Robbins, and John Turturro (I enjoy all three).  It would be interesting to watch this back-to-back with Barton Fink, in which Turturro plays a polar opposite character.The only other thing I have to say is that the score of this movie is one of the worst I've ever heard.  I hadn't heard of composer James Newton Howard, so I'm amazed he went on to respectable and (to my rememberance) perfectly well-scored films like Pretty Woman, My Girl, Glengarry Glen Ross, The Sixth Sense, and Dinosaur.His score in this film is so melodramatic, so overstated, so overly hit-happy (in the sense of hitting marks), and so cheesily realized, I'm amazed Howard wasn't relegated to scoring cheeseball B-flicks. "},{"Title":"A big disappointment!","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sorry, but I found this film, even with top notch actors, a bad taste film.  Surprised Tony Bill directed this.  There was no compassion for any of the characters.  Everyone seemd to be a loser.  Not one role seemd to have any conviction.  They all seemd to be vacant and lost in a maze of self destruction.  John Turturro, at least was thorough in his evil ways.  But the Robbins character seemed poorly written and sadly the actor didn't find any salvation.  The use of animals being beaten and killed, didn't please this viewer.  Any more than throwing people off roofs.  Violence was the theme and helplessness the winner. Not one character had my interest.  In fact, they made me angry.  It was a shame to see Miss Foster in this.  Up to this film I had always liked her performances.  Whatever possessed her to do this clinker? Not recommended for viewing, even on the tube. "},{"Title":"Very random but positively enjoyable","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Five Corners is a dark comedy about a man (John Turturro) recently released from prison who seeks revenge on the people who caused him to be arrested. They are the woman (Jodie Foster) he tried to rape; her boyfriend (Todd Graff) and the hero's situation (Tim Robbins), who saved the woman's life, and probably used of a lot of force to detain the rapist (nothing is shown so we have to deduce), since now he's peace-keeper who doesn't trust violence at all after this life changing incidentThis marked as being John Patrick Shanley's first script ever filmed, separated by a few months of the other one that brought him some recognition and the Oscar, the acclaimed Moonstruck. Never elegant or brilliant like his most successful screenplay, Five Corners is something to be seen because Shanley knows how to create good moments one after another with knowledge of cause (he lived similar experiences as the ones showed here), some odd humor and makes you feel interested even when the story goes on a random rampage of sequences and characters that doesn't seem to fit a purpose in the plot - the young kids having a good time all around, including a memorable ride on the top of elevators. They have a purpose actually, but it takes too long to get there.But, like Moonstruck, he has on his disposal and director Tony Bill, a good ensemble casting (the difference is that most of the actors in this film were relatively unknown at the time of its release while Norman Jewison's film had an stellar casting already famous). Foster and Robbins are fine together, very comfortable in their roles (Tim's best scene involves a small monologue about why he wants to join the Civil Rights Movement); Graff, unforgettable as the comic relief in 99,9% of The Abyss, is quite annoying as the goofy boyfriend who always seem to ruin the day for everyone. Top quality performance of this comes from the terrorizing psychotic character of Turturro, his coldest and scariest character I've seen since John Shooter in Secret Window. The drama? Engaging. The suspense? Good with some violent moments, but predictable at many parts (the ending was quite strange though, who could have thought of that happening?). And the comedy? Hardly work I must say. First of all, there's too much randomness included in this, the parts should be put together in a better way and the dialogs should go under a deep construction - that's why the Coen's succeed so much in doing funny and dark tales. OK, not just dialogs, but also in developing believable, sustainable situations. This goes beyond ridiculous when the girl decides to meet the psychopath, completely alone on a park at midnight. Who does that? All in all, presentable, watchable and manageable. A good little flick, probably more known these days because of the cast, which is the main reason why you should see it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Death of  a penguin","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Five Corners concerns several people living in a Bronx neighborhood in 1964 .There are two independent plots ,one involving two girls who look like if they were part of girls group of the era ,the Ronettes,the Crystals or most likely the Shangri Las .The merit of this period piece is to be able to create an atmosphere without using the oldies but goldies of the time (the girls group's classics for instance).The only songs we hear are the Beatles ' in my life which 1) is British 2)was released late 1965 and is a bit irrelevant as the movie is not treated as a flashback and a brief excerpt of Dylan's the times they are a changing ,which makes sense since the hero (Tim Robbins)wants to help his black brothers (it was the Civil Rights time ,and Luther King was the Man of hope)who,on the other hand, are not that much excited by his help .A psychotic (John Turturro) ,released from jail ,scares a young girl (Jodie Foster) he tried to rape before.Both Robbins' and Turturro's are presentthe former is a widow -her husband was a policeman killed in a riot- who does not want her son to commit himself (to fighting for causes she does not believe in anywayfor her,black people are still n......) ,the latter is an extravagant woman ,who seems to live in another world,who seems interested only in her ludicrous hairdo .In 1964,before Flower Power ,bed-ins and peace and love hippies ,the question which must be asked after watching Five Corners would be is non-violence the solution?The movie would tend to prove that it isn't. "},{"Title":"textbook indie sleeper","Date":"18 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's rare for a movie to be sold on its screenwriter's credentials, as seen in the ads for this modest comedy drama, promoted as being from the writer of Moonstruck (to which it bears little resemblance except for its author's ear for dialogue). The story traces a day and a half in the lives of a dozen characters teenagers, cops, and other assorted Bronx delinquents caught in the flux of changing times, circa 1963 of course as always the watershed year for American coming-of-age movies. Director Tony Bill preserves all the rough edges of John Patrick Shanley's presumably autobiographical memories, maintaining a trace of gritty urban reality beneath the often rose-colored period detail. The film moves from bittersweet early 60s nostalgia to an exaggerated, violent climax (with disturbed ex-con John Turturro cornered on a tenement rooftop), which is then cleverly deflated by one final, almost offhand plot twist. It's a small film with lots of personality (the definition of a 'sleeper'), providing a welcome push to the career of more than one talented young actor. "},{"Title":"Worth searching for in the bargain bin","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am a big fan of John Turturro after seeing him in all the Coen Bros movies. When I had a chance to catch this movie, I was blown away by the great performances. Particularly Turturro's as the neighborhood psycho. If you are the kind of person that can sit down and watch an old Playhouse 90 episode and marvel at how great the talent was, and what those stars have become over the years, then Five Corners is a must see. The movie was set in the 60's, so nothing seems dated by todays terms. The cinematography was good at the time it was filmed, although I'm sure the camera angles and lighting would be a little different if it was filmed today. If I find it in the bargain bin, I'll own it. "}{"Title":"The most frustrating two things about this movie...","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...were the couple in the convertible--really don't see what the actual point of their subplot was, and the fact that the big dramatic ending scene relies on the premise that in 1964, cops had yet to figure out how to climb stairs--leaving them helplessly watching from the street wondering How did they get up there?Tim Robbins and Jodi Foster are worth a look--if for nothing more than historical interest, and I think they were going for almost a Fargo-like approach (yes, I know this predates Fargo) to some of the mayhem like the cop in the phone booth's fate and the mother of the psycho's final reward. "},{"Title":"Under rated","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Classics and Shakespearean scholars of the world, unite! This one is for you! Outside frame #1 Cupids whose arrows are directed toward anger and hatred, not toward instilling love.Inside frames 1. Snow White rescued from troll-baby by Prince Charming, who doesn't want to stick around, with a side-kick who becomes disabled in the process, and who pines for Snow White's love. Troll-baby is cast into spell-bondage (prison).2. Snow White learns that troll-baby has been released from spell-bondage and is coming back around. Prince Charming also is back in the neighborhood, but isn't interested in fighting any more.3. Prince Charming has bigger dragons to slay racism.4. Snow White bravely tackles troll-baby herself, but angers him in the process. Seeing no help from Prince Charming, she turns to the side-kick.5. Side-kick leads her to the underground, where troll-baby has power; troll-baby takes over and seizes her, leaving side-kick helpless on the ground.6. Prince Charming re-engages, re-unites with side-kick, and end up confronting troll-baby above ground (Bronx rooftops).Outside frame #2 Re-enter cupids with arrows directed toward anger and hatred.Sub-plots akin to Puck and Peasebottom in Shakespeare, each with comedic elements 1. Glue-sniffing young women and the cupids, in elevators shafts and bowling alleys. 2. The police, alive and dead.Contrary view Shakespeare would have had a marriage in there somewhere. There is a potential marriage, but it's not consummated or celebrated.Do I read too much into this one? Possibly. But enjoy it!!!! It's under-rated. "},{"Title":"Unique in style and Subject Matter","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Five Corners is a socially relevant film with a unique visual styleand a sense of humor. the cast is superb. Robbins, Foster andTurturro give hints as to what they would go on to accomplish astheir careers grew. Todd Graff is also awesome but seems to behaving better luck as a screenwriter and producer. The twofemales who play the glue sniffers are hilarious in roles that couldhave easily be unsympathetic. The two mothers (Chalfant andGregorios) carry their weight in smaller but no less significantroles. The two cops are straight out of the old crime dramas of the1940's and 50's. There is also a good sense of 'place' in the film. Igot a genuine feel for the neighborhood where these charactersdwelt. I have also had the pleasure of being directed by Tony Bill ina made for T.V. movie, A Chance of Snow. He's a professional. Iwish that he'd do more along the lines of Five Corners. "},{"Title":"Acting for acting's sake","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Five Corners showcases some good performances by a decent cast and has little else to offer. Crisscrossing subplots are pedestrian and muddle the clockworks of this somewhat quirky noirish drama about a bunch of peculiar people from a neighborhood in the Bronx known as Five Corners. Obviously scripted, probably because it was written by a playwright, FC comes off like a theatrical production as it slowly gathers momentum with a payoff which is insufficient and too late. Okay for those interested in watching actors ply their craft. "},{"Title":"Young talent on display.","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Younger versions of some of today's great actors show that yes, they were always good. Stand-out performances by John Turturro and Tim Robbins who carry the film from start to finish. Unfortunately it builds from the opening moments to an inevitable confrontation that turns into a complete cop out in my opinion, a great something could have happened here but instead nothing. Maybe the director was to afraid to go down the road I was hopping for, but the again I've heard others say it's some kind of Shakespearian metaphor. If that's the case it goes way over my head, and I still think my way is better. I am reminded of a documentary I recently watched, 10 Questions for the Dali Lama, the interviewer asked the Dali Lama about the non-violent resistant approach that he and his Tibetan followers have taken on, a view and method also taken up by Gandhi in India during the British occupation and Martin Luther King Jr. during the civil rights movement. He asked, at what point does violence have two equate violence, like during the Holocaust and World War II, does that mean the Allied forces did the wrong thing by stopping the Nazis, should we have just held non-violent protests and staged boycotts and sit-ins instead. Of course even the Dali Lama who I respect immensely dodged the question, he answered with something about in self-defense only. It feels as if the director of Five Corners doesn't want to have to answer that question either. Him and the Dali Lama, I'd say he's got good company. Those who have not seen Five Corners don't see the relevance of all this and I apologize for going so far off track, once you have seen the film you will hopefully see the reason. There is also a side story going on that I was sure must play into the main storyline but never does and that's a disappointment to both stories, because I feel they would be better for it. I've also read plenty of complaints about the DVD quality, who cares, wow we're spoiled by living in the Blue-Ray generation. Over all a well-acted film that if nothing else touches on some real interesting issues, and touching on real issues is more then most movies do. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Great movie with great acting. Having grown up in that part of the Bronx during that era, so much of the film rings true to me. As the film depicts there were good times & isolated horrific incidents. Shanley, the author has an ear for the rhythms of the era. Jodie Foster gives a nuanced understated performance portraying her character, making her very real.Tim Robbins in his pre-political gadfly days,also turns in an affecting performance.The supporting cast is excellent. I vividly recall the incident with the penguin in the fountain (much more benign in reality) from my teen age years. The film is a winner in every way. "},{"Title":"Awfully darkly shot  -literally","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Liked the flic, but I could barely see what was going on in half of the scenes even though it it was on DVD - darkly shot and reminiscent of some of the 70's films of the same genre. A bit fractured in plot line, but still a good watch. And I almost melted when I heard, In My Life at the opening and closing. (Sigh-) Foster wasn't really in the game, but Robbins saved the day in the film as did the disastrous villain. I kept waiting for Paccino to turn up!-) A bit cliché however. Robbins has to take the credit for carrying the movie with his cool demeanor and fondness for the girl. I'm sure some producer in L.A, saw this and was inspired to create C.S.I. (jokingly)! Huh Corston "},{"Title":"Disc sound problems!","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Wish I could see this film, but I'm on my 3rd DVD from NetFlix, and the sound is no good on ANY of them. Very frustrating, because they say there is nothing they can do all the DVDs are purchased directly from Westlake. Long history of customer complaints about the discs being unplayable because of the sound. Darn it!I am tempted to trying buying a copy somewhere, but how will I know that the one I buy isn't bad too? Other people have obviously seen it and not had the problems I have experienced. I checked the Westlake Entertainment website, but they don't even have this film listed. All suggestions will be gratefully received! "}]