[{"Title":"Unique and twisted","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"77 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of the sickest and most depraved horror films of its time, and I love every minute of it. Where other films had only touched on the barest suggestion of the link between sex and death, Hellraiser shoves that fact right in your face.Frank Cotton (who starts out the film as the main character) is a soulless man who lives only for life's pleasures. He will go to great lengths to satisfy his lusts, and thinks nothing of who he may be stepping on to get there. He is offered a small, strange puzzle box called The Lament Configuration by a strange man in what looks and sounds to be a Mid Eastern market. The box, he is promised, will open the gates to a world of pleasures that no mortal can possibly imagine. Frank takes the box, but he doesn't understand that the pleasures the box offers are to the demons who live within it. The Cenobites, sadomasochistic creatures who live eternally beyond the gates that the box can open and close, take great pleasure in ensnaring new human victims to toy with, imprisoning them forever in a labyrinth of pain and suffering. Frank disappears, and many months later, his brother and sister-in-law come to live in the abandoned home.The film then switches gears and gives us a new main character Julia. Julia, the wife of Frank Cottons brother Larry, is a cold woman. Beautiful and immaculate, she is icy and distant and seems to derive no pleasure from anything, least of all her husband and his daughter from a previous marriage, Kirsty. Julia's only private joy are the memories she has of Frank, with whom she once had an affair. Frank seems to be the only man who was never intimidated by Julia, treating her roughly and breaking down her defenses. Little does Julia know that Frank never left the house; he is upstairs, in the attic, having escaped from the Cenobites and now biding his time until he can return to a world of flesh and blood. When Larry accidentally injures himself and bleeds on the floor of the attic, Frank is brought back, feeding on the fluid and slowly regenerating, growing back bones, muscle and skin. Julia soon discovers the terrible secret in the attic. After her initial shock and disgust, she agrees to help Frank, for whom she still lusts, and begins bringing him men she picks up in bars. She bludgeons them to death and Frank feeds on them, each one helping him in his regeneration.The film then switches points of view once more and Kirsty becomes the main character. Kirsty, who has never liked the pretentious, frigid Julia, becomes suspicious. Her suspicions are soon confirmed when she comes face to face with Uncle Frank and barely escapes his bloody clutches, the Lament Configuration in her hand. She accidentally opens it, and when the demons within, led by the now-famous Pinhead, threaten to take her back with them to their dimension, she makes a deal she will lead them to Frank, and they can have him instead of her. From there on out, it is a countdown; will Kirsty find Frank in time? Can her father be saved from the adulterous couple plotting against him in his own house? Or will it be too late for all of them?This is another sex-equals-death film, but with a slightly updated feel. Julia is Bad; she cheats on her husband and likes her sex rough. Kirsty is Good, but she is no virgin, living with her boyfriend and eagerly engaging in premarital sex. Larry, a dull-as-paste husband who seems to genuinely love his wife but doesn't quite understand how to treat a woman, falls victim to his own blandness. He never sees what's coming because he possesses no imagination, no foresight; he is just the everyday, mundane man mowed under by his own unspectacular existence. Frank is the ultimate Bad; he is a user. He likes sadism, but not when it is turned on him. The Cenobites are the real reason this film was so successful; expressionless zombies in black leather and fetish wear. Led by the majestic Pinhead, they come into our world equipped with chains and hooks and all manner of painful devices, literally ripping their victims apart without batting an eye. They are what Frank wants to be, but Frank is not strong enough. He collapses beneath the weight of his own ego; he wants to think he is a god, but he is only an insect after all.This film received an X rating when it was first released, but seems pretty tame now. The gore effects are only a tad dated, but they're still quite shocking. I think the X rating might have been due more to the films unrelenting sadism than anything else. It's sick and remorseless, but that's not to say it's bad. It's innovative. Nothing like it had been seen up to that time, and it still remains an original. It never imitates; it's all fresh and frighteningly new and should be appreciated for that if nothing else. Followed by one pretty good sequel and a handful of really bad ones, this first installment remains the best. Should be seen at least once. "},{"Title":"It ain't SUPPOSED to be Macbeth, here folks....","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"103 out of 141 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In a decade of cheap, exploitive slashers, we finally get this one. Relief.Instead of some maniac ripped from Halloween, we get a simple wooden box. Simple, or so Frank thought.What results is a cinematic masterpiece, a great mix of gore and violence, as well as a great musical score and some nice drama.  The acting is fine, but there are imperfections. One common complaint The characters are not pleasant enough we can latch onto them.  Maybe that's because these seem more realistic than the characters we CAN latch onto.  Just a thought, don't jump on this.What really gets me, though, is the people calling it down, saying it's not quality entertainment.  Come on guys, if it was SUPPOSED to be Shakespeare, it would not advertise as being able to tear your soul apart.The presence of the cenobites was originally intended not to carry the story but to emphasize it.  As usual, the sequaes ignored it.  Hey, merchandizing.This is the only one of the series that depends on the story more than the demons.  We hardly ever see the infamous Pinhead at all.all in all, this was a fun movie.  No Shakespeare, but it's not supposed to be.  Just dramatic, gory, groundbreaking horror, delivered to us excellently by Mr. Barker. "},{"Title":"It Took Ten Years Off My Life Watching This","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"104 out of 152 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser was a bloody good film but part of me wishes I hadn't seen it because it made the hairs on the back of my neck stand up. I remember renting it out on video along with A Nightmare On Elm Street back in the late 1980's. I thought Freddy Krueggar was bad but those cenobites scared the you know what out of me.The acting is good throughout the film and praise must go to everyone. The characters were very interesting characters from the humans right up to the cenobites.There was a lot of gore in this movie and it was quite sick at times-not a film to watch if you're eating.The storyline of the film is a very intriguing one and very original indeed.But those cenobites didn't half scare me particularly when that pinhead said, We will tear your soul apart! Then again, that is what a good horror is all about-scaring the you know what out of it's audience.If you're looking for a quality horror movie of the 80's then check this one out. Just don't be surprised if it sends you hair grey. "},{"Title":"Pure horror!","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"57 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I first saw this brilliant shocker when I was only ten years old and it scared the hell out of me!I still think that this is a really effective horror filled with gruesome imagery(for example rats nailed to the wall).Hellraiser reminds me a bit such Italian horror movies like The Beyond(1981)and The House by the Cemetery(1981),mainly due to its surreal atmosphere of total dread.Add also plenty of gore and some really gruesome special effects made by Bob Keen(Proteus)and you have a winner!I like Hellraiser series in general(especially HellboundHellraiser 2 which is,in the unrated/uncut version a nasty gorefest!),even Part 5(HellraiserInferno)that almost only get bad reviews.It surely is the lowest budget film of the series so far,but it tells a gripping story of one's personal hell with Pinhead involved.HellraiserBloodline is the only one I really don't like,although it's quite interesting too,because you can see that post production was a mess(making it a Alan Smithee film in the end). "},{"Title":"Trash to some, a horror masterpiece to all those who know what they're talking about!","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"44 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have seen Hellraiser many, many times; but my most recent viewing of the film was different to the rest. It was different because this was the first time that I've seen the film since reading Clive Barker's novel The Hellbound Heart. The novel both enhanced my enjoyment for the film, and exposed some of its flaws. With the book, Barker really allows the reader to get inside the character's head, which ensures that the horror is more shocking. His descriptions are also a lot more macabre than what is shown in the film, and the way that certain things in the book are missed out/abridged shows some of the wasted opportunities of the story. This isn't really a criticism of the film, but rather of books being turned into movies on the whole. People often say that the book is better than the movie; and in this case it's true! Even so, Hellraiser is an absolute classic horror film, and easily one of the best of the eighties; not to mention all time. The plot simply follows Frank Cotton. Frank is a man in search of unknown pleasures, and in order to achieve that he buys a mysterious music box. This box does give out pleasure; but it's inflicted by a band of demons, known as 'Cenobytes' - and their idea of pleasure differs from Frank's! The story picks up when Frank's brother and his girlfriend, Julia, move into the house where Frank was taken...The main reason Hellraiser stands out among horror films is because of its themes. Barker weaves shades of love, eroticism and, of course, pain and pleasure into his tale of demons and scarred flesh - and this really makes the film. We can care for the characters and what happens to them because of what Barker puts between them, and it's always evident that this film is head and shoulders above the rest of the schlock-horror sub-genre. The special effects, particularly on the screen time surrounding Frank, are simply stunning and show how real effects beat all this CGI rubbish hands down, while also showing that a low budget can be overcome. The film is never gratuitous with its gore or effects either, and everything in this film is there because it has to be. This is what annoys me about non-horror fans - films like this are dismissed by them because they're too gory or stupid - but Hellraiser breaks the mould because it's a truly original story and the way that Barker implements a macabre love story amidst a plethora of shocking horror is extremely skilfully handled, and more than challenges many of the so-called 'A-class' films.A writer directing his own work tends to ensure that it will get proper treatment, and this is mostly true here. Some things have been changed from the book for no apparent reason (mostly with the characters of Larry and Kristy), but the only thing that really annoyed me was the ending. I suppose it's due to the time that it was made, but the ending feels tacked on to me. Barker's ending in the book was perfectly judged - just open enough to hint at more, while closing the story enough so that the reader is satisfied. Here, we have a schlock finale that is entertaining, but pulls away from the closed atmosphere that Barker has spent the film creating. This film differs from most other eighties horror films because of the fact that the actors are a talented bunch. You come to expect bad acting from this sort of film - but Hellraiser has none of it! The entire cast shine, with Clare Higgins making the biggest impression as the evil Julia. This was Clive Barker's directorial debut, and at times, it's clear that this is the case; but Barker makes the best of his locations, and while his camera sometimes feels enclosed; it fuses with the tragic music brilliantly, and all this helps the film to create that fabulous atmosphere so convincingly.Overall, I have pointed out a couple of flaws here; but I really can't bring myself to give this masterpiece any less than full marks. The originality on display throughout Hellraiser is astounding, as is the atmosphere and the performances pulled out of the actors, along with the fact that this film has entertained me many times and is still as good today as the first time I saw it. All of this ensures that Hellraiser will be an endearing favourite of mine for the rest of my life. If you consider yourself a fan of horror and haven't seen this; shame on you. Make sure you read the book, too! "},{"Title":"Evil in its purest form","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"46 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" HELLRAISER is the definition of horror ! I don't think there are much films who represent the genre better than this one. The story is original and horrifying, the make-up effects are flawless and very brutal, the characters get under your skin and the villains ( if I may call the Cenobites that ) will haunt your thoughts long after you finished watching this movie. Clive Barker is one of the most talented authors in the field of horror. He did a great job here in filming his own writings. He knows exactly where to put the stress, how to create the right atmosphere and when to attack the viewer with some great twists. Larry Cotton and his 2nd wife Julia move in to his parental house. It seems that Larry's brother, who was always a rather morbid person, has been there too but there's no sign of him. When Larry accidentally spills blood to the floor, something real strange happens. Because of the blood Frank, who was caught in the wooden floor, comes back to life. He escaped from hell and the torments of the Cenobites. Julia discovers Frank, who is still very weak. Because she always loved him and had an affair with him once, she promises to cure him completely. She brings home men for him, but it has to happen fast, cause it's only a matter of time before the Cenobites find him. It's Kirsty, Larry's daughter, who discovers this horrible secret. She steals the box and gets in contact with the Cenobites. As a sort of deal to escape hell, she gives her word that she'll take them to Frank...Like I said, this is pure horror. This is one of the rare films that makes you shiver and sweat. The character of PINHEAD, the lead Cenobite, grew out to one of the biggest icons in horror. In fact, he's the only who really deserves this status. He's pure evil, but ...fair. As strange as that may sound, he's bound to rules and he doesn't break them. You have to be in his world before he's a threat to you, but when you are there's no escape from his evil. When you may fire off quotes likeno tears, please. That's a waste of good suffering or we'll tear your soul apart you are EVIL, no discussion about that. HELLRAISER is praised everywhere. Even other big names in the genre declared this a masterpiece. Stephen King himself was very impressed as well. Clive Barker has done some other great works like NIGHTBREED and LORD OF ILLUSIONS. The also famous tale of CANDYMAN is from his hand as well. All recommendations if you liked this film, and it's hard to imagine that you didn't. Hellraiser was followed by many sequels. Hellraiser 2 is great as well and a logical continue of the story. All the rest are inferior, but still very entertaining if you're a big fan of Pinhead...like I am. "},{"Title":"Gothic, Gory, Romantic, Beautiful, Colorful, and Tasteful horror film. A Gem!","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"47 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Contrary to what one might conceive in their minds BEFORE watching this classic horror movie, it should be said that Clive Barker has delivered us a real gem of a horror story, packed with intensity, both emotionally, as well as physically. Hellraiser is about love, lust, pain, and pleasure. It's been called an otherworldly tale of pain and torture. It's been referred to as a grim, Gothic romance. Needless to say, it's gore following is much more in numbers than that of the Lord Of The Rings trilogy. Truly, this film is everything one see's it to be, from a romance, to a gore show, to a good ol' fashioned scare show. Either way, it's a fine film regardless. I might add, however, that it may come as a surprise upon first viewing. What is surprising, is the way it plays out very dramatic. Our characters are very down to earth, each with their own personal idiosyncrasies and inner demons, not to mention personal strengths. Each of them stands like a look at the different human desires, fears, joys, and sorrows. It plays out like a grim, Shakespeare play. A man and woman, Larry and Julia Cotton, moving into a home where memories dwell upon like haunting spirits. Larry is a charismatic optimistic gentleman, full of love and compassion for his wife, and his daughter, Kirsty. Julia is a human relic of baggage and fallen dreams, because she bears so many dark secrets, one of which is an affair with Frank, her husband's younger brother. Frank is alive, and replenishing himself after a rather nasty encounter with a Pandora's Box. Larry's blood, spilled over a hardwood floor, brings Frank back to life from an excruciating death, in one of the finest special effects sequences in cinematic history. Once Julia and Frank reunite, their love is more dangerous, and powerful than imagined. Together they conspire in the grand tradition of McBeth and Othello, to reign in pleasure once again. Enter Kirsty, Larry's daughter, and Frank's niece. A warm hearted, but determined soul who crosses paths with Julia and Frank before they can finish their diabolical plan. Kirsty eventually encounters the dark secret beheld Frank upon his death, a puzzle box. It brings pain, pleasure, and death. Creatures of darkness; the Cenobites, angels to some, demons to others, come to Kirsty when she accidentally calls upon their ghoulish powers. Once unleashed, they must take someone back, and Kirsty knows now, how Frank is back, and she intends to return him to his deathly justice, and save her family...The writing is just remarkable. Clive Barker has given us people, humans, planted in their own desires, and determinations, and he tears them apart with fear, pain, death, destruction, and total degradation. The Cotton family are the perfect example of purity, torn to shreds by hate, lust, and anguish, and he takes great glee in showing us all the gory details.The production is a real high! This is what the best type of films are made of. Real, gory, bloody human remains, connecting to each other in divine sequence, to create a 100% greedy man. The colors are plenty and gorgeous. The look of the blood, and the shine of the lights, and the way the actors are lit... It's just beautiful. The music of the film is brilliant. Composer Christopher Young chills the film, and drenches it with his dramatic variation of the main title, and the rest of the music contains harsh strings, brass horns, music box cues, and rhythmic cues that speed the pace up with action.Clive Barker is such a great writer and director, and filmmaker altogether. He has given us a great thriller that crosses the line between reality and fiction, in great taste and color, literally. It's no wonder twenty years later, the film stands on it's own, aside from it's sequels, and remains an ultimate horror classic to end them all...well some of them anyway. It's not the only horror film to portray itself intellectually, and it certainly has it's gore effect to an all time high. Still, it's quite a dashing and artful film, and always a treat to watch every time. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Horror Film Ever Made","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"35 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A lot of people on this site are moaning that HELLRAISER isn't all that scary . Well define  Scary  ? opening an electricity bill and finding that it exceeds your life savings causes my heart to miss a few beats but will anyone be making a horror film about someone getting a massive electricity bill ? I don't think so either and very few films have terrified me and the notable few that have scared me witless like THREADS , QUATERMASS AND THE PIT aren't strictly speaking horror movies . In fact the one thing that used to terrify was DOCTOR WHO and what's that ? A childrens TV show shown at tea time so let's not kid ourselves horror movies are scary!!!! SPOILERS !!!!What I absolutely love about HELLRAISER is that it's not really a horror film as such - It's a macabre love story with loads of subtext about how love and sex can destroy us and in many ways it can be viewed as an AIDS allegory ( 1 ) . Larry doesn't satisfy his wife in a sexual matter and it's this sexual inadequacy that leads to his death , Julia lusts after Frank which leads to her death , men who've just met Julia go back to her flat for some casual sex only to be murdered , while Frank lusts after Kirsty ( Who can blame him ? ) and it's this obsession that leads to his death at the hands of the Cenobites ah yes the Cenobites . A lot of people seem upset that the Cenobites aren't to the fore in this movie but it should be pointed out that they're the catalyst of the story not the focus . The story revolves around Frank and Julia's relationship and Julia's dissatisfaction with her marriage . In fact you could easily rewrite the story with Frank being on the run from a criminal gang instead of demons from another dimension and you'd still have the same story I will admit there are some flaws to the movie such as the bizarre dubbing but I should point out that this was done post production in order to make the characters more identifiable ( 2 ) to an American audience hence English characters speaking with Bronx accents which does make some of the performances laughable . Ironically the only performance which can be described as bad is genuine American Ashley Laurence as Kirsty , but hey she's gorgeous so let's not complain too much lads . Writer/director Clive Barker's strengths do outweigh any weakness , take for example the scene in the hospital where a nurse watches TV and it's not a TV show she's watching but a rose in bloom , and for me the greatest image isn't the murder and gore but the scene at the end where a photograph of Frank burns to a haunting soundtrack . Barker does get good performances out of most of the cast namely Andrew Robinson who isn't as good as he was in DIRTY HARRY but he'll never be able to top that and he is good as uber wimp Larry , Claire Higgins as femme fatale Julia and Sean Chapman as the human version of Frank. I thought Chapman might have gone on to become a big name after this movie but strangely not . Even stranger I thought Barker would have gone onto bigger and better things but for some reason I found myself disliking his other stuff and seems to have disappeared from film making all together and I can't say I'm all that upset HELLRAISER is a classic story on the themes of love and death . Such a pity someone wanted to turn the movie into a franchise ( 1 ) The same week HELLRAISER was released FATAL ATTRACTION topped the US box office charts . One can't help thinking HELLRAISER would have been better regarded if it came out a few weeks earlier since the subtext is very similar to the Michael Douglas blockbuster ( 2 ) HELLRAISER spent several weeks in the US box office reaching a peak of number three on the charts and taking millions of dollars ( Not bad for a movie costing one million bucks ) so the dubbing is probably justified  "},{"Title":"A nasty lil' auld box that'll give you pain or pleasure.","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"36 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser (1987) is a dark masterpiece from the twisted world of Clive Barker. Based upon his novel The Hellbound Heart, Mr. Barker takes us on a trip where people desperate for kicks search out for the ultimate thrill. A sleaze ball named Frank manages to get his oily mitts upon a gaudy looking Rubik's cube that he bought at a bizarre bazaar from a greasy moth eating merchant. Frank (never the sharpest tool in the drawer) gets more than he bargain for when he some how manages to open it up.A great horror flick that'll send legit chills up your spine. This film not only marks Clive Barker's feature length debut but it introduces the world (and pop culture) to Pinhead! If you don't know by now Pinhead is the coldest and coolest fiend to ever come across the screen in years. He only has an an extended cameo in this one but he'll be back in the latter films. I highly recommend this horror classic.Not only does this film has some scary elements but it has some classic lines.What's your pleasure sir?If you cross us your suffering will be legendary, even in hell!Come to daddy Frank's mac daddy line.Jesus...wept. "},{"Title":"More Urbane and Interesting Than Other 1980s Horror Movies","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser may not be an incredible work of horror genius, but it certainly is one of the more inventive and engagingly dark and twisted horror films of the 1980s, when horror films were almost all dull, poorly made, recycled, and absurd. Hellraiser's themes include sadomasochism, in an intriguing concept of the slasher figure in the story, which is a Gothic- looking antique puzzle box that summons ruthless demons to victimize the person in possession of it by subjecting them to a world of debilitating eternal pain. It also involves a femme fatale on the level of a chiller that does not involve fantasy, played brilliantly in an extremely acute performance by beautiful Clare Higgins. There is the layer of plot surrounding her that inhabits late-thirties, early-forties married and adulterous life with her almost frustratingly naive and unsuspecting husband, which is invaded by the devilish embodied soul of her ex-lover, brutalized by the demons of the puzzle box. Finally, at the core of the story is the pivotal character, as her fill of screen time patiently awaits to the point where she is revealed to be so, and she is the teenage stepdaughter, played by Ashley Laurence, one of the sexiest actresses I have ever seen. Everything from her voluptuous body to her scream-bloody-murder portrayal of the stepdaughter makes me wonder why her career never went any higher than this.So yes, the movie is more urbane than the vast majority of other horror films in that decade. It's even set in England. It's interesting that no one has an English accent in England, according to this movie, but nevertheless the locale serves the film with a dark atmosphere of sophistication and antiquity, which suits a story that surrounds an age-old puzzle box. This feel of the movie that I speak of is interrupted, quite inexplicably by beer-drinking, dirty-T-shirt-wearing American furniture movers, which I didn't know they had in England.Hellraiser is quite an enormous entertainment despite its 1980s-style inconsistencies that I suppose it just couldn't help but have. It's especially enjoyable during autumn, mainly during Halloween time. "}{"Title":"Classic Horror Movie, Pinhead Point","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is obviously the best Hellraiser. Nothing can beat the 1st scene when Pinhead and the Cenobites come in to view. It is simply some of the most powerful present day horror. The creativity of the hellbound world gives this movie a 9. With the low budget, it still maintains the vision of Clive Barker, the author who penned this original story. I believe that this movie and subject is at the apex of creativity instead of the boring slashers that have dominated horror movies in the 80's and 90's. Now, it seems we are getting the I know what you did two summer's ago and weird horror flicks like Grudge and the films that it cloned.Pinhead point--He should actually be called 9-inch nail-head because that is what is pounded into his head not little pins. "},{"Title":"One of the more original horror movies around.","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This surely is a very refreshing and original horror movie to watch. It doesn't has the usual formulaic ingredients in it, such as monsters or a murderous psychopathic serial killer on the loose. No screaming teenagers and no dark haunted places. All we have this time is a cube, that opens doors to hell and unleashes the bringers of pain; Pinhead and friends, who want to play with you forever.But even that story is being somewhat pushed to the background and it focuses more on a family, of which the wife falls madly for the the no good brother of her soon to be husband. The brother however messed with the cube and got stuck in Pinhead's hell of pain. He however managed to escape it but only in a skeleton form. He needs blood to slowly regain his body and asks the wife to kill for him. This is were most of the movie its 'horror' comes from. The movie doesn't get its horror aspects from its normal usual scare- or gross out moments. It's more a movie that works on its atmosphere and story development. Perhaps it's also due to the restrained budget, that simply forced the film-makers to be creative with the things they had at hand. The movie is no big Hollywood production and as a matter of fact it actually is an UK movie, that still got obviously aimed toward the American market as well though, in terms of its overall style.And even though the movie was low-budget, the movie certainly did not look that way. Also its effects such as its make-up and the effects used for the more gory parts of the movie are really great looking. The make-up of course helped to make Pinhead an horror icon-figure, though in this movie he isn't even called by the name Pinhead, which was only a name that got developed later for marketing purposes.The movie also features a great musical score by Christopher Young, that fits the movie really well. It's one of his more memorable works.A real original horror movie, that has grown into being a classic already.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Hellraising Horror","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Adapted by Clive Barker from his own story The Hellbound Heart this has long been a favorite among horror-film devotees. Clive Barker is an outstanding writer. In terms of literary style light years ahead of Stephen King. His awesomely unhinged imagination is given free rein in this tale of the darker side of the human psyche. Frank Cotton (Sean Chapman) is as immoral and perverted a scumbag as you could hope to find in the English speaking world. Ever alert to the potential for some new thrill (sexual or otherwise) Frank comes by a small carved wooden cube that just happens to be (in the right hands) a gateway to Hell. Not your normal run of the mill pit of hot sulphur fumes presided over by a horned Lucifer wielding his time-honored pitchfork, but a most unpleasant parallel dimension, home of the wickedly inventive Pinhead and his cenobite cohorts. As the series worked its way onwards, Pinhead (Bradley) became a retro cult hero much like Freddy Kreuger and was given increased screen-time! Frank ends up paying the ultimate price in his search for new pleasures and to his everlasting discomfort, inevitably discovers the real meaning of the film's tag-line He'll tear your soul apart. This leaves Frank's ex well and truly home-alone and she takes up with his wimpy brother Larry, crawlingly played by Andrew Robinson.Things might have worked out for Julia (Higgins) and daughter Kirsty (Ashley Laurence) had not Larry cut his hand badly and the blood run beneath the floorboards where Frank's decimated but undead corpse responds dramatically well to the corpuscled cocktail! Frank's gory resurrection is actually one of the film's highlights, aided and abetted as it is by a superb musical score from Christopher Young! Frank of course is a little miffed over Julia's dalliance with his brother and persuades her to bring him an assembly line of fresh meat to ensure his complexion is brought up to scratch. The demise of the first victim especially is quite shocking horror and on its own would have earned the film its R certificate. Without giving anything else away, it is left to daughter Kirsty to combat both Frank, her socially distasteful step-mother and Pinhead. It is the ultimate learning curve you might say. One hell of a lot goes wrong before it starts getting any better. Frank's second whirl on the block is distinctly gruesome. Kirsty who under normal circumstances would be left a gibbering idiot, survives to take on the sequel and a further appearance by her awesomely repulsive stepmother! You want horror? you want originality? you like blood on tap? you need HELLRAISER! For all the above though, Barker's CANDYMAN was still better! "},{"Title":"What more can be said?","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There has been much debate over this movie. As I've said elsewhere, the movies I find to be worthwhile viewing experiences are those that receive reviews at both extreme ends of the spectrum. Movies like Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind receive nearly 100% positive reviews and I find them to be sorely lacking in imagination and execution. Movies with uniformly poor reviews are generally very genuinely bad. Hellraiser, on the other hand, is a phenomenal accomplishment for a low-budget B-movie.Personally, I do not find this movie to be particularly gory. There are a few strong scenes, but the more unsettling parts of the movie involve no bloodshed at all. This includes Julia's betrayal of her soon-to-be husband.The trend in horror movies at the time that this was released was towards more realistic villains, usually the guy next door who was a little whacked. Hellraiser was prepared to introduce evil in a completely different form. Several reviewers have commented on how they have been confused about what exactly is happening in this movie. I find that puzzling, since the circumstances (and most of the Hellraiser mythos) is spelled out quite plainly in this first movie of the series.In general, the special effects are pretty cheesy, but the Cenobites are depicted very well. The images really stick in your mind. I have a replica of the LeMarchand puzzle box on my desk and I don't believe anyone has ever picked it up and asked me what it is. Everyone recognizes the box that calls Pinhead.The Anchor Bay release of this movie belongs in your collection.**** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Wildly overrated classic.","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"24 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ** out of ****In my time, I've seen hundreds of horror films and I think I have a pretty good firm grasp of what films in the genre are truly great, which is why I have to say that Clive Barker's Hellraiser is among the most overrated.  It suffers from too many drawbacks in the story, as well as Barker's own direction, and never quite lives up to its ability to deliver consistent good scares.  The story of Hellraiser is fairly in simple in technical terms.  A man, Frank Cotton, purchases a configuration shaped as a box and fiddles around with it, opening a dimension that lies between the depths of pleasure and pain.  Years later, Frank's brother, Larry (Andrew Robinson), and his wife Julia (Claire Higgins) move into the same house.  Larry gets a deep cut on his hand and the blood spills to the ground, which actually revives Frank (in a rather gruesome sequence).  He and Julia shared a past together and he convinces her to bring men back to kill so he can use their blood to bring his flesh back.When it comes to some shocks and jolting moments of suspense, Hellraiser has some well-done scenes.  There are some scares in the film, and the gore effects, which are in a gratuitous abundance, are quite impressive.  There are a few moments of startlingly effective imagery and some very suspenseful scenes, but Clive Barker does so many other things wrong I can hardly believe this movie is actually considered a classic by so many people.This movie is essentially about pleasure and pain, or so I think Barker would try to lead us to believe that's what this is all about.  Those ideas are given a ham-fisted presentation in flashback torture scenes.  Yeah, I see all the pain, but where's all the enticement of pleasure? In the novella, Frank was tempted with the possibility of sex (but in the most repellant manner). The torture scenes are all Barker really cares to show us when it comes to these ideas, basically featuring some people get ripped apart by chains. I suppose I can't forget the fact that people also talk about it, too.  The character Frank goes into these frank and quite dumb brief conversations about how he was bored and simply wanted to experience more and go to the limits, his words not mine.  I'm sorry, but this hardly sounds like a decent reason to do anything like this.  If he was close to death or something along those lines, I could almost believe it, but I could only scoff when he uttered those lines.When it comes to horror films, logical lapses can be accepted.  It's a lot easier to take such moments in fun-based horror films that are simply meant for escapism, but this movie's pretentiousness is overbearing.  Thus, it's a little hard to believe that nobody in the house could smell the rotting, maggot-infested corpses of three men.  It's also a little hard to accept the fact that Robinson's character never realizes just how repressed his wife is.  Sure, he notices she's got problems, but she's a murderous psycopathic bitch.  Barker gives the movie a dark and grim look, not necessarily a bad choice, but he likes to conjure up a lot of dark themes and taboos for the sake of just trying to make the movie look...well, different, dark, and offbeat.  The movie focuses on extramarital affairs, serial killings, and even incest and does all this just by simply tossing these odd moments on-screen without any care or background for it in the first place.  These characters' motivations for such odd behavior is never explained and they're simply way too evil to be taken as real people.The cenobites are only sparingly used in the movie, probably a good idea on Barker's behalf.  They're a little scary at first, but I felt a little goofy after awhile when I realized I was getting scared by a creature that likes to look straight in the air and speak in a dull monotone.  Yeah, I'm talking about Pinhead, the famed horror villain of the series.  Played by Doug Bradley, he's a little enigmatic at first but after a few moments, you really don't care what he is.  In the film, the cenobites appear to have the ability to transport around as is seen when they suddenly appear at the Cotton residence.  (Spoiler)  Yet, when they try to take Kirsty with them, they move towards her at a slug's pace and she simply uses the box to transport them back (speaking of which, I'm clearly certain the fat cenobite only fell through the floor).  That doesn't sound like the all-powerful demons we were prior shown.  Oh, and by the way, this visual lightshow in the finale is pretty embarrassing.    Ashley Laurence is the main character of this film, as well its first sequel.  She's a little wooden here at times, but is relatively okay.  Andrew Robinson is also not bad as the unwitting husband, but claire Higgins is absolutely horrendous.  Trying to act like a repressed woman turned murderous fiend, she just comes off with a terrible impression.  As for the rest of this franchise, I've only seen Hellbound, which is worse than this.  I sure do sound like I'm bashing Hellraiser, but as I said before, it does have its scares and jolting moments.  The only reason I give it as much a harsh criticism as it seems like I am is because of its beloved acclaim from horror fans everywhere, which it really doesn't deserve. "},{"Title":"A Most Misunderstood Horror Film","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love to read what others say about Hellraiser, but it never fails to amaze me, even in regards to people who love this film, how much many misunderstand it. People write on & on what great horror icons the Cenobites are, & yes this is true, they have made a huge impact to cinema horror, but the Cenobites are not what this truly intelligent horror film is about...no, not at all! This is a film about Frank & Julia. Frank will stop at nothing to find the next thrill, even if it means his physical & metaphysical destruction. Julia is the cool aloof wife of Larry, Frank's brother. Julia is seduced by Frank's dark & sadistic sexual aura, though that same aura lay dormant in Julia until Frank awakened it by seducing Julia before her wedding to Larry. I'll do anything, Julia desperately confesses to Frank to keep his affection. Little does Julia dream that in the future that will be exactly what she has to do to keep Frank, after he unleashes the Box, & its horror, the Cenobites. In what is truly an Oscar worthy performance, Julia (Claire Higgins) the aloof, but so far non-threatening wife transforms into the murderous, cold, calculating queen bitch, to resurrect & have Frank. To bad we've not seen more of her in other films.Yes, Hellraiser is about treachery in the family, the worse sort, deception & murder. Hellraiser is about blind love.(Spoilers) Larry's unswerving devotion to Julia, which makes him the last to know, & seals his doom. Hellraiser is about the tragic plight of Kristy trying to save her father. What could be worse than knowing a loved one is going to be murdered & you could not stop it? Hellraiser is about real life plausible situations that are better off left alone, the darkest part of the human psyche, to want something so bad you're will to sacrifice anything & anyone to achieve it, maybe even your self. Hellraiser aptly uses the theme of don't tempt fate (the Box), unless your prepared to be taken by it, as the Cenobites so profoundly demonstrates.So yes, the true monster of this story is ambition & want. The Cenobites are just a cataclysmic vehicle (a very disturbing one) to carry Julia & Frank to their just deserts in the end. Hellraiser made the Cenobites seem like ultimate bogeymen by giving them little screen time & keeping them mysteriously cryptic to the audience, something later films could've benefited from. Thus Pinhead & crew were much more menacing & potent in this first, & by far the best, most intelligent film of the series, & in horror cinema.... But again, it was Julia & Frank, & their ambition & want that were the true terrors here. Nothing is more disturbing & horrific than discovering someone(s) you love & trust will eventually murder you.Chilling! "},{"Title":"A great original horror film.","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The gruesome directorial debut from author Clive Barker. Frank Cotton (Sean Chapman) in some unspecified location buys a Chinese puzzle box from a mysterious man, who is always shown in shadow. The film then jumps to the attic in Franks house, somewhere in London. Sitting on the bare wooden floorboards surrounded by candles, he solves the puzzle of the box. Demons from hell known as Cenobites appear Pinhead (Doug Bradley), Chatterer (Nicholas Vince), Butterball (Simon Bamford), and a female Cenobite (Grace Kirby). Using hooks on chains they tear Frank to pieces, in pretty graphic detail. Franks brother Larry (Andrew Robinson) and his wife Julia (Clare Higgins) decide to move into the house. While moving in Larry slices his hand on an old nail sticking out of the stair case. He set off to find Julia who is in the attic reminiscing about the affair she had with Frank. Larry stumbles into the attic and drips blood all over the floor. This blood rejuvenates Frank, another impressively gruesome scene showing his body recreating itself, fingers forming, ribs attaching themselves, his brain being made and attached, you get the idea. He however is not fully formed and needs fresh human blood to make himself whole again. Julia discovers him in the attic and after some persuasion by Frank she agrees to help him, to bring him victims. things get even more complicated when Kirsty (Ashley Laurence) Larrys daughter gets involved, and the Cenobites return to take Frank back to hell.Written, based on his novel The Hellbound Heart, and directed by Clive Barker I think this is a very gruesome, gory, blood splattered film, but the characters and story are not sacrificed and together combine to create a truly original, startling and extremely effective low budget horror film that spawned various sequels. The effects handled by Bob Keen and his crew are extremely impressive for such a low budget film, sections of someones face laid out on the floor like a jig-saw puzzle, hooks ripping skin to shreds, skinless corpses, Franks various states of decay and re-animation, and the Cenobites themselves are well conceived and realized. One effect I found poor however was the monster who chases Kirsty when she opens a door to hell in her hospital room. Still, a very good job all round. The acting was fine. The script, written by Barker based upon one of his novels was good, it kept things moving along nicely and it stays away from any wise cracking one liner bad guys, popular in horror films at the time. He obviously wanted to make a very serious horror film, and succeeds admirably. Technically everything else is fine, photography, music, production design and editing. On the down side I thought the ending looked a bit rushed, 90% of the film is set in the same house which gets a bit dull after a while, a few things aren't really explained satisfactorily, like the creepy tramp who follows Kirsty around, but these are minor quibbles. A very impressive film, for those with the stomach, I really liked it and recommend it. "},{"Title":"One of a kind horror film by Clive Barker","Date":"15 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horror novelist Clive Barker is known for making some outrageously gross stories. And after two unsuccessful short films, Barker decided to direct his first theatrical film. Little did he know that it would not only be his most memorable film to date, but it would also become very popular. However, what amazes me is just how effective each component of the whole movie is. It is truly one of the great masterpieces in the horror genre of its time.Hellraiser (1987) is a film adaptation of Clive Barker's self-written novel, The Hellbound Heart. The story is about a remarried man, Larry (Andrew Robinson) and his daughter, Kirsty (Ashley Laurence) being caught in a web of terror. Larry's new woman, Julia (Clare Higgins), happens to be a secret lover of her husband's brother, Frank (Sean Chapman). Frank is a sexually deprived man who bought a mystical puzzle box called the Lament Configuration. When this puzzle is solved, it opens a dimensional portal to hell, where a group of terrifying individuals called the Cenobites, literally tear Frank's soul apart, limb from limb, layer by layer.To start off, all the actors do a great job portraying their characters. Robinson makes himself seem like the most humble farther a child could ask for. Higgins and Chapman show good chemistry on screen as well. Slowly over the running time, viewers will see the transition that takes over Higgins' character, as she goes from lonely, to shocked, to lustful. On the other hand, Sean Chapman as Frank gives a very good performance as the battered soul that he is. He too carries great lust for Julia and shows how desperate he is to have her again. It is amazing that Julia would even want to join him again!By far though, the character with the most guts in this whole film is Kirsty Cotton played by Ashley Laurence. For all the horror films that have been released, it is rare that audiences come across a strong female protagonist. For Laurence's first starring role, there's a lot of credit to be given to her for conveying her character so well. Not to mention the fact that Laurence is very attractive in this picture. And she's not a scream queen all the time either. Her brazenness by far surpasses many other female characters in other horror franchises. I did find her boyfriend to be rather unnecessary though. He didn't do anything the whole time during the film. He was always a step behind everyone else, so why bother even have him in the movie?What was definitely effective here were the atmosphere; credited to the music and the special effects used throughout the film which created hair-raising, skin crawling imagery. The musical score provided by composer Christopher Young did an outstanding job. Not only was his score creepy and engrossing but it also created a sense of tragedy. The tragedy was cued by the constant waltz time each tune had. Adding to that is Young's constant theme that the audience is reminded of when the camera is focused on the Frank and Julia. A memorable tune indeed.Lastly, the special effects is one the components prominently noted in Clive Barker's Hellraiser franchise. There is some stop motion animation but the real movie magic lies in the make-up department headed by Geoffrey Portass. Everything from the gore, to the Frank's resurrection, to the Cenobite make-up themselves is executed terrifically. The Lead Cenobite played by Doug Bradley is done so well, many people would say he was born for that role, which I agree. I also liked the look of the other cenobites; The Female, The Chatterer and Butterball. I would've preferred though if The Lead Cenobite introduced them in the film. Some newcomers may be confused to what their names are.Along with these characters are some of the most disturbing imagery used throughout any film. Some of it really is just bloodcurdling. Tearing skin off a human body may not be some people's cup of tea. There was also another scene that I found quite eerie but it was never explained to what it meant. This scene involves Kirsty with a background noise of a baby crying. It definitely made me feel uncomfortable, which was good, but I wanted to understand the significance of it and it never was explained. Along with that flaw was Kirsty's useless boyfriend which leaves me liking the rest of this movie a lot.Clive Barker's first film is a classic that should not be passed up. The actors, special effects and music work together to create a tragic cohesive story that is a fresh look at the horror genre. "},{"Title":"One of the most imaginative horror flicks of the 80's","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker's debut feature is one of the most original horror films of the 80's. Unlike many genre offerings from that decade this one is not formulaic at all. It's chiefly for this reason that Hellraiser is respected. Barker proved himself to be something of a talent and one who would end up directing very little else unfortunately.Hellraiser is a story about the occult but like no other film of that sub-genre. Instead of the typical demonic creatures you would see in many other films of this type, this one introduces the Cenobites. These denizens of hell are a good deal more memorable, and have a somewhat S&M styling that gives them added deviancy. They look highly original. Throughout the film there are a series of visually spectacular set-pieces. The look and atmosphere of Hellraiser belies is very modest budget. Barker and his team consistently make the most of their meagre resources and it's never obvious that this is so low-budget.The celebrated fantasy moments are well off-set by a story of a dysfunctional family. The characters are all well rounded and believable which again is not a typical aspect of an 80's horror movie. The performances are universally strong, including an atypically good guy role for Andrew Robinson who was most famous for playing the psychopath Scorpio in Dirty Harry.All in all, a quality production. And one of the most iconic horror flicks of the 80's. "},{"Title":"So human!","Date":"27 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't care about trashy special effect or any of that crap. All I care about is the story. Everything is there. Life, death, love, hate, betrayal, forbidden knowledge, mistakes... With this film, Clive Barker touched the essence of what makes us human. Through divine and demonic symbolism, metaphoric storyline and Faustian references he dares to walk the path of purgatory only few of them dared before (Goethe)...). He is one of my favorite writers, and although there are some deviations from the plot of the novel (some people might be annoyed because of that), it is still an excellent movie in its own format. I absolutely love and respect his work. I absolutely love and respect this movie. "}{"Title":"Come to daddy.","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This truly is groundbreaking horror from the highly imaginative mind of one Clive Barker. Hellraiser is one the best horror films ever made, let alone to come out of the eighties. It proves that slasher flicks don't rule the horror screen. There are other, better movies in the genre. The Cenobites are outstanding. They completely steal the show. Pinhead (played by Doug Bradley, a name that would become synonymous with Hellraiser), Female, Chatterer, and Butterball are awesome in all their gory S&M glory. Someone once said that if you assembled all of the horror icons at a dinner table, Pinhead would be the only one using silverware. After watching this movie again, that seems to be a very true statement. Aside from the Cenobites, Frank is an extraordinary sight to behold. Bob Keen's effects team has outdone themselves. The entire world that Barker has created astounds me. He's really pushing the envelope here. The dark imagery and the concept of the Lament Configuration are incredible. Why aren't more original movies made? Today they all seem to rip off the same concepts. Hellraiser is a completely original eerie experience. It's one of the few films I can think of that was unique and has stayed unique after all these years. There are a lot of opinions about the sequels. Mine is stop after Hellraiser II as II is the end of the truly dark nature that these films have (although III is certainly a guilty pleasure). If you haven't yet, see this highly exceptional horror classic immediately. It is undoubtedly one of my all time favorites. "},{"Title":"Powerhouse horror","Date":"5 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker's horror masterpiece stands alone as one of the greatest horror films of the last 20 odd years, and has lost none of it's pure impact and brutality.The initial moment the Nightmarish Cenobites and their evil leader Pinhead are seen and felt on screen, make Freddy Krueger, Michael Myers, Jason Voorhees and Leatherface look like a bad boy band.Evil and demonic imagery along with that feeling of dread don't ever let up, as you can feel that if you were ever to get a glimpse of hell itself, then the cenobites would be there standing by Satans side.All in all this film still tears most modern day horror films to shreds. "},{"Title":"Hellraiser The Movie Responsible For Ruining Me","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Frank spent his entire life traveling in search of fulfilling every pleasure he can handle...he reaches a point where normal pleasure just isn't enough for him, and he is offered an Arabian puzzle box that will open the door to lasting fulfillment...however, to his surprise, this comes in the form of pain and torment at the hands of the Cenobites, a set of demonic creatures from another dimension whose job is to inflict punishment so their 'victims' may realize the pleasure found in suffering, presenting the audience with a question if you desire eternal pleasure, would you accept it at the cost of eternal suffering?... the movie tells the story of a married couple who seem very happy, but the wife, Julia, holds in her heart the memory of her sexual encounter with her husband's brother, Frank... they have sex on Julia's wedding gown on the day of her marriage to Frank's brother, Larry, which was the first sex scene I ever saw when I was the tender age of twelve...this encounter festers a wound for excitement in her, until, when moving into a new house, Larry cuts his hand and bleeds all over the floor, supplying the source for Frank's resurrection...people ask, how did Frank get into the house?...since Julia has Frank already in the house of her heart, his corpse follows her wherever she travels, and it only takes a few drops of blood to bring this to life, as we see later on in the film...the angel of the film is Larry's daughter, Kirsty, who sincerely loves her father with a pure heart, a perfect antithesis to the false love Julia shows to Larry...Kirsty trusts her stepmother, but this trust is never reciprocated...another nice duality of character supplied between these two women...most people assume Frank, Larry and the Cenobites are the main characters, but the decisions and consequences of these two women form the crux of the story, and I applaud Clive Barker for giving these two strong female roles a nice script and solid direction to explore the deep issues their activities raise...eventually, Frank appears to Julia and asks her for more blood so he can escape the torment of the Cenobites and start to truly search for his perfect pleasure...he baits Julia with her memory of their sexual encounter, which hooks Julia into trolling for men in bars and bringing them home with her, where she brutally kills them, giving Frank all the blood he needs to become flesh...this presents a nice little lesson for all us men beware the beautiful woman who wants to bring you home and bang you...she just might kill you so she can feed the skeleton in her closet...ha ha ha&#x85;the progression between the first murder and the subsequent ones are very realistic...the first person she kills, Julia is very apprehensive and fearful...you can feel the conflict within her, as if some good in her conscience tries to drown out the lust within her heart...however, Frank is very persuasive, and the hammer falls...literally...as the murders continue, Julia begins to 'get the hang of it' and soon loses all morals...Kirsty begins to suspect something, and stakes out Julia, until she catches her in the act...the night when she is ready to tell her father, all hell breaks loose...literally...Frank needs a fresh coat of skin to cover his fully-formed figure, and guess who Julia chooses? Why, his brother, of course! Kirsty confronts them, but to no avail...she is quickly shipped away, when she just happens to possess the puzzle box...she opens it up, and out pop the Cenobites...please forgive the director for plugging in the weird creature traveling down the corridor of the Cenobite dimension...I think he was trying to show how Kirsty's curiosity is best left in her imagination rather than in reality...if only Julia learned the same lesson...anyway, the Cenobites are ready to take this girl into their arms to show her their pleasure, which is interesting, because she herself is a virgin character whose life is not ruled at all by pleasure, but by compassion...yet another dichotomy to Julia...Kirsty offers a bargain to the Cenobites (the devil?); she will lead them to one of their escapees, Frank, as an exchange for her own soul, which they accept...any deal with creatures with pins in their face I would say is suspect, but it moves the story along...the final confrontation between Kirsty and Julia, good vs. evil, doesn't end in the way most movies portray this epic struggle, but it is very satisfying...Frank ends up betraying Julia and kills her...since she so easily betrayed her husband for pleasure, it seems fitting 'Frank' would just as easily kill her when she became useless...much like her attitude towards her formerly living husband...Frank, in Kirsty's Dad's skin, finds his perfect pleasure in perhaps the greatest sin in the book raping his niece in the body of her father...a very disturbing thought, if you ask me, and a perfect end for Frank's character; for the Cenobites come, and take him away...and, just when you thought everything was okay, the Cenobites go back on their deal with Kirsty and try to take her soul...another betrayal, but what do you expect from a bunch of demons?...Kirsty plays with the box, cries GO TO HELL, which they do, and the movie ends with the man in the desert asking another victim, what is your pleasure? ...this movie is profound, with a great story, believable characters, believable acting...there are truly no slow parts in this movie, as it moves along quite nicely&#x85;this movie deserves more credit than it receives for its ingenuity, creativity, themes, and perfect conglomeration of all things that make movies great...may you never seek after pleasure for pleasure sake, for, after all, a great big guy with pins sticking in his head just might stick you with a bunch of spears and shred your skin off...I'm not saying; I'm just saying... "},{"Title":"tearing souls apart forever","Date":"27 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I should say that Clive Barker's Hellraiser is a pretty gross movie one torture scene after another. But it's still a horror classic! This is not your typical slasher flick. In fact, it's not a slasher at all no, this is much darker, with some truly ugly stuff. Clearly, the Lead Cenobite (Doug Bradley) - commonly known as Pinhead - has become as much of a horror icon as Freddy Krueger. I suspect that they had fun making the movie. As I understand it, for the scene where the creature crawls out of the floor, the filmmakers made a wax model, melted it, and showed it melting in reverse.So, I definitely recommend this movie. But not to the squeamish. Really fun. "},{"Title":"20th Anniversary edition(loads of great extra,very illuminating)","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" wow.this movie is truly an experience.love it or hate,when it's over it will probably stick with you for awhile.for me,i thought this movie was brilliant.it had a great story to it,with great characters.i guess you would call a it horror movie,but i would call it more of an experience. there are some gory scenes in the movie,and there are some scenes that are disturbing and even repulsive.but the gore and guts are done much more tastefully here than in most 'horror' movies.and there is actually a story that all of this fits into.i didn't find it gratuitous at all.there are some things in the movie that could certainly be offensive to some people.there is some religious themes that some people would find less than positive.and there a lot themes and images in this movie that i don't think had been explored much before,if at all.in my mind,the main villain in this movie(though i don't think he's really a villain in the usual sense) dubbed Pinhead(for obvious reasons)is possibly the most iconic(or at least should be)character of at least the last thirty years.that may sound like an exaggeration,but the other big name screen villains don't hold a candle to this character.there was just so much more thought gone that went into the character.the others,not so much.anyway,if you are able to throw away all any preconceived notions and see this film for what it is,i think you will get something out of it.what that something will be is hard to say,but it might be different for each person.this is all just my opinion,but for me,i have to give this movie a perfect 10,for being a true cinematic achievement. "},{"Title":"80's Icky Horror Royalty","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser is a late 80s horror movie that I remember seeing posters for when I was a kid, but back then there was not a snowballs chance in hell that I would have watched it cause I was a big fraidy cat back then. But now that I am all bearded up and after seeing on the shelf on the library I thought I would give it a shot. I will give Clive Barker this, he made a very creepy and gross film. The amount of blood and gore were still not fun to look at but the story and concept were interesting, and pinhead looks very ouchy? I know that is not a real word but it fits. All in all, Hellraiser is good for what it is, but it gave me no real desire to continue on in the series, plus, if anyone ever gives you a weird looking puzzle box, do yourself a favor and don't try and open it, just trust me on this. 2.5 Beards Out Of 5 "},{"Title":"Come to daddy.","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A website listed this a the number one sex horror movie. I don't know hoe they define sex, but there was only a brief showing by Julia (Clare Higgins), who was shagging Frank (Sean Chapman). We don't see Frank again until he looks like Imhotep in The Mummy. Unfortunately, he does not have Imhotep's ability, and has to rely on Julia to get him bodies.Ashley Laurence, who plays daughter Kirsty, gives us no joy. You would have to see her in A Murder of Crows or Triplecross for anything exciting.The film had some exciting monsters, and we will see Ashley return in a couple of more Hellraisers. "},{"Title":"Classic 80s Horror Introduces Pinhead to the World","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker's Hellraiser is a 80s horror classic with gore effects that still hold up today. It also introduces us to a new horror icons Pinhead and the Cenobites (sound like a band I use to know). I actually saw this movie when I was about 10 years old and can't believe how well the film has held up after all these years. Some of the movie hasn't aged as well though as in the ending.Julia is business woman who had a torrid affair with her husband Larry's brother Frank, a dark and mysterious world traveler. When Frank dies under suspicious and supernatural circumstances Julia and Larry move into his house (naturally). Larry also has a daughter, Kirsty, from his first marriage who now lives on her own. While helping the movers Larry accidentally cuts open is hand on a nail and goes looking for Julia. He finds her in the attic where Frank died. Larry's wound bleeds on the floor, which intern starts in motion the resurrection of Frank.A while back Frank had bough a puzzle box from a street vendor. Its like a Rubik's Cube, but if you solve it opens up a doorway to hell. The box summons the sadomasochistic demons known as the Cenobites, whose only pleasure is your pain. With Larry's blood Frank is able to escape the Cenobites and tries to reclaim human form. The effects used in Frank's slow regeneration are pretty awesome. He is completely skinless and looks like he'd make a good Body Worlds Exhibit. He needs human victims to able to continue the regeneration process and with Julia wanting her dead lover back helps him. She lures a handful of unsuspecting business men to their death. So where is Larry in all this? Completely oblivious and unaware that anything is wrong, so basically a typical 80s movie husband. Kirsty does get suspicious when she sees her step mom with another man. While at the house looking for her dad, she discovers the new frank and is able to steal the puzzle box. Frank ups his search for some skin and sort of reunites with his brother Larry. That's right Franks is now wearing Larry's skin and is out to kill Kirsty and reclaim the puzzle box.While investigating the box Kirsty accidentally summons the Cenobites and to save her own life she offers to give them Frank. The Cenobites Will tear your soul apart says Pinhead the leader of the group along with a female with her throat opened up. There is also Butterball and the Teeth Chatterer. As I said in the beginning the ending is pretty dated and done on the cheap, but the movie as a whole is a true horror classic. To date there are eight sequels out there all starring Pinhead. Anything after number three and you watch at your risk. "},{"Title":"By far a favorite","Date":"21 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film turned me onto true gore. That feeling you get when things just make you sick but you cannot stop watching. I guess it was the first exposure I had to that level of violence. I loved it. Pinhead and the voice he has is so radiating with evil. Not as easy task to pull off. Clive is amazing. I met him at a convention in Jersey a few years ago. The music in the film is more like ambient freaky drones. I dug that. Just the fact that you never knew if any of this was real of not give it that uneasy feeling. He never should have messed with the box man. Dimensions to hell are meant to remain closed. Especially if Clive Barker is directing because he will literally put you through hell. In a good way. Watch this film if you are new to horror and want to get a face melt. "},{"Title":"Suspense in Hell","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is certainly Clive Barker's Masterpiece. His 1987 film, Hellraiser is a really good example of how a late 80's horror film can work.Nearing the 90's, horror films started to go down hill. In 1991 and 1996, we got two really good thriller horrors, being SCREAM and Silence of the Lambs. This film however, was the last of it's kind to give us some good late 80's slasher craze which was still born and still very fresh with horror freaks.I won't go into the plot because I believe everyone should have seen Hellraiser by now, if not, well GO SEE IT! All I can say is that the concepts of the box is terrific. A new way to kill a slashing demon is always a terrific and creative concept and it works really well in this one. I also love the soundtrack suite which is haunting beautiful and dramatic in parts. The actors are superb and their characters are believable.Doug Bradley as Pinhead is the best and he knows how to give us a creepy killer which cannot be stopped. I dunno why in Revelations they got a different actor to play him. Doug is Pinhead, end of story.I also like the way the death scenes and plot are shown. The director takes it a little step at a time while as most directors just go full on with the violence and exploit everything. Clive actually took his time to tell the story and that's what made most of the ending sequences and starting deaths so intense. It all left us to the core suspense.Also, the 1987 film is the only Hellraiser film I have really liked. I've also seen part 3, 4 and 6. 3 was OK, 4 was dodgy and 6 sucked. The thing about the first film was that it had a dramatic fantasy to it, while being realistic, people were dying for real. The other Hellraiser films I have seen since then haven't really had the same impact but instead really try to rehash and be as shocking, doesn't work at all!?My verdict on this 87 classic is a 7.5/10.P.S I just hope they can get this right in the remake next year. "}{"Title":"Horror Royalty.  A brilliant and breathtaking Horror classic","Date":"12 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have been a lover of horror series' for a very long time. I love them, no matter how bad or good, the B-Movie the better. I guess I just love the whole returning 'evil' being, and the good guys that stop especially if its a re-occurring good guy (Donald Pleasance in Halloween for instance.) So I decided it was time to check out the Hellraiser series and I intend on watching all of them (currently there are nine.) I know I had seen the original two or three before but it has been a long time. What I forgot was that Clive Barker created a stone cold classic with the original Hellraiser. Incredibly gory, creepy, brilliant special effects without the guise of modern CGI. Brilliant beasts, and truly stunning cinematography. Its easy to see why this was a stepping stone for milking this series to straight to video. The killers are kept truly mysterious in this instalment and are definitely memorable in every way. A story about lust, infidelity and pain and pleasure is the core to Hellraiser and the squeamish should stay away because Hellraiser holds no punches! Newcomer Ashley Laurence is the young scream queen of Hellraiser. For a first time in a big screen production she is absolutely perfect. She embodies everything that a main female scream queen should and is easily right up there with Jamie Lee Curtis from Halloween and Nightmare on Elm Street's Heather Langenkamp. Long time character actor Andrew Robinson plays Laurence's father and new homeowner and husband Larry. He is straight laced, and almost dull (but this is the way his character is played.) He is essentially perfect in the role. Clare Higgins role is downright memorable as the unfaithful, and twisted wife and stepmother Julia. Higgins' performance can best be described as a truly terrific soap opera villain. She over plays it, and she adds the true B-Movie quality to the film but at the same time is the perfect nemesis to innocent Kirsty. Also basically new to the big screen is Doug Bradley who becomes and embodies the lead cennobite (the name of the beings from Hell). Of course we all know him as Pinhead although never referred by that name in the film. Bradley plays a dark mysterious, somehow seemingly regal leader. He commands respect on screen in his character which is a completely new element to the 'slasher' genre. Oliver Smith is the creature that escapes from the cennobites to come back to life. He does a great job under all that make up playing the disturbed and tortured Frank.This was a first for a lot of things and that includes Horror legend Clive Barker's first time writing and directing. No one knows Barker's twisted mind better than Barker. He obviously translates what his stories tell flawlessly to the big screen and its unfortunate he doesn't do more directing because this is brilliant. The world he creates is what Hellraiser is all about. It isn't even about the characters or the story but this dark and terrifying world that emerges from this mysterious box. Hellraiser is a horror staple and when you stop to look at the incredible work done on make up and special effects you'll see this was true brilliance in special effects and horror. An absolute must see for Horror fans!! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Dark and occult and just damn tasty.","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Now this is the stuff. Dark, brooding, Gothic-tinged occult horror, that's what you'll find here. This is another one I hadn't seen in years, and what surprised me here was just how much of this I didn't grasp back in 2006 when I first saw it. Hellraiser's cryptic, frigid exterior might seem tough to crack at first, but by the half hour mark, it will have immersed you in a wave of grungy, dismal horror unlike most anything you've seen before. The plot is dark and eerie, and the way it unfolds is just masterfully done.I don't think the ending was quite as good as it could have been, but Hellraiser is a very strong film that I'd recommend seeing if you haven't. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"You'll never be the same again","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For horror fans everywhere this was an exciting event. We had seen Michael Myers terrorize suburbia, Freddy Krueger haunt the dreams of youth, and Jason Voorhees make summer camp a living hell over and over. It was time for something fresh, something new and daring. And in 1987 that something came care of world renowned author/painter/director Clive Barker. If it wasn't for him we wouldn't have witnessed the truly bizarre and truly horrifying and, dare I say, strangely beautiful world of 'Hellraiser.' Pros An elegant and very haunting score. A very original concept. Solid performances from all involved. Some really impressive, and extremely gruesome effects. A lot of striking imagery, some of which will make your skin crawl. If gore is your thing, then you'll find plenty of that here. Writer/director Barker makes a great debut; the film looks good and he gets some awesome shots. The Cenobites are the most original and frightening monsters in a long time.Cons Some very unconvincing corpse effects. One really annoying plot hole.Final thoughts Since the 80s was nearing it's end, so was a big movement in horror the era of the slasher. Then this film came along and proved there's still some great and original ideas out there. Thank you Mr. Barker.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Still a classic!","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just watched this again for the first time in years and half expected to be disappointed.  But no, Hellraiser remains a true classic of the horror genre and is just as I remembered it. I can't agree with those who describe the acting as mediocre.  I found Andrew Robinson, Clare Higgins and Ashley Laurence to be quite natural in their portrayals (Robinson does ham it up a bit towards the end but even that's perfectly in character for who he's playing and at that point in the story). Some would complain about the characters being unpleasant but I think adults deserve some entertainment of their own without Leave it to Beaver representations of life.  The unpleasantness of Frank and Julia is in keeping with the EC Comics traditional horror feel to the story. The special effects sequences (particularly the resurrection of Frank) were still just as impressive.  If you have any passion for horror films I think there's something here for you, whether you're into the arthouse, gore or traditional horror storytelling approach or if you're looking for something unique or different. This is a dark and sombre film and there is a lot of gory effects and some surreal moments.  Clive Barker's direction and the hammer murders owes some debt to Pete Walker's 70s horror movies but much of the film is truly his alone.  The cenobites and the way corpses are resurrected are unique and innovative.  Christopher Young's musical score is an integral part of the film's grim baroque mood.  I would still recommend this to  fans of strong horror.  A justifiable classic.   "},{"Title":"One of the more original horror movies","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the more original horror movies. Not that this says much, as most horror movies are incredibly formulaic and predictable.A couple, with the husband's daughter, moves into an old house. Soon hereafter, the body of the husband's dead brother comes back to life, though not fully intact. He needs blood to complete his rehumanisation. The wife discovers him and agrees to find victims for him, for blood. Then the daughter starts nosing around...Fairly original story and solid direction by writer-director Clive Barker. Good special effects too, especially for 1987.Solid performances from Ashley Laurence, Andrew Robinson and Clare Higgins in the main roles. "},{"Title":"Made Great Use of Good Suffering!","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is twelve kinds of effed up. Back when horror movies were straightforward without being stupid; gory without being senseless; and freaky without resorting to cheap tactics (like jump scares-- God, I hate those).What am I talking about? The 1980's had plenty of those. Luckily, Hellraiser isn't one of them. Having recently read the novella from which this is based on, I can say that this is an almost totally faithful adaptation--and any changes in the movie are improvements over the original source material. That's a rarity for book adaptations, for sure--but then again, maybe it's because Clive Barker, the writer of the original novella, decided to adapt it on his own. I guess if you really want something done right, you gotta do it yourself.Also, they kept my favourite line from the book No tears please. It's a waste of good suffering!I am pleased... "},{"Title":"Pure Horror!","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the most disturbing and frighting horror films to come out. Clive Barker is so talent and directs from his own sick mind. Great horror movie, sick scenes, normal acting but sure the Pinhead is the most amazing! This movie is cult.It will always keep its place in horror history. It will scare the hell out of you. You will have new nightmares ). I very enjoyed this movie and I can watch it many times as well. For me this is the best part of all Hellraisers. Most bloody and the most sick one. 5 and 6 are also great but this my favorite one. Shame that I watched this after the parts 5 and 6. "},{"Title":"What a movie !","Date":"18 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just watched this movie for the first time (I know, I'm delayed) and I absolutely LOVED it! Classic horror right here ! Right amount of gore, right amount of scary. The characters are well developed and explained and it is not just another random, plot-less, slasher movie.The cenobites are terrifying in their own ways, and for a movie from the late 80's, it is done extremely well. It is a more effective movie then most horror movies nowadays, even with their improved effects. It would be interesting to see a remake of the original.. Belongs right up there with Halloween and Nightmare on elm street. Part sci-fi and part horror-you can't go wrong with that. So far I watched the 2nd and 3rd ones too, and they were done well, too. (Although not as amazing as this.) "},{"Title":"A classic in every sense of the word","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Upon moving into a new house with his family, a man learns that his wife's infidelity with his brother through their shared connection to a strange puzzle box that summons a race of demonic beings and tries to stop them.This is simply one of the greatest horror films of all time. The best example of this is the atmosphere which drips off here quite thickly, and it sucks you in as its present throughout the whole movie. From the simple like the lighting to the location of the sets to the general mood of the film, as well as the gradual realization of the horror to come in her adultery and the connection with the box itself, this one is incredibly suspenseful. That really sells the movie here with the film really offering plenty of solid moments to not only underscore the relationship but the mystery surrounding the box which really drives the film and the ever-widening part of it's legacy makes this quite a chilling tale when it's all put together with the brother's escape and his being chased. Even more comes from the regeneration scenes, as he comes back from a pool of blood in one part as basically bones with a little bit of skin and takes so long to come to form that it becomes even bloodier. From what the regeneration starts as and where it ends is a great highlight to a great scene. Even all the bloody corpses seen in here are pretty disgusting, being mangled and distorted beyond belief. That brings up the gore in here, and this film is incredibly gory so something like a simple cut on the hand is more like an opening to a geyser. The deaths are just as good and include some pretty brutal moments, specifically the ever-popular dismemberment by chained-hooks scene which is one of its more iconic images. Of course, one can't talk about this film without mentioning the Cenobites, which are introduced in here and are one of the best horror creations of all time. Demonic looking in nature, each one has a distinct look and personality that evokes particularly demonic and scary images yet are still portrayed as being cool and somewhat fashionable with Pinhead in particular getting the chance to spout off some legendary lines. The rest of the creatures are legendary and memorable for good reason, being the heart and soul of this movie. About the only thing really wrong here is the rather convoluted plot-line that takes a while to get all out of the plot, but it's still a little all over the place. It seems to tell three different stories and never really gives it much time to develop leaving this with some confusing moments, but otherwise there wasn't much wrong with this one.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Brief Nudity and several sex scenes. "},{"Title":"Clive Barker's Cinematic Charnel House Is a Thrill Ride For Fans","Date":"16 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Based on his grisly novella, Clive Barker's directorial debut Hellraiser is a crowd pleasing horror hit which inspired a slew of mostly inferior sequels and a host of imitations. A pair of lovers separated by death are reunited when the man's mutilated corpse is released from hellish captivity. Together they embark on a series of perverted murders orchestrated to strip their victims of their skin hoping to restore his humanity before the demonic cenobites discover he's escaped their eternal torment. The special effects are fun, especially the cenobites and the demon guarding the corridor leading to hell. It's a minor horror classic. "}{"Title":"An imaginative, frightening debut from Clive Barker. A landmark horror film.","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker came right out of left field to remind film-goers what a scary place hell can be when presented with imagination and originality. Hellraiser, based on Barker's own novel The Hellbound Heart, was so many things at once - a haunted house movie, a sadomasochistic fairytale, a family tragedy, a gory piece of Gothic - and yet it was like no other film of its decade, and touched a raw nerve with its all-new horror mythology, its elegant narrative construction, and its unabashedly dark unpleasantness. In short, these films remain classics, able to get under the skin and fill your gore fix.An imaginative, frightening debut from Clive Barker. A landmark horror film. , Barker produced a unique, imaginative, if not somewhat stomach-churning, work that has since earned a place in the annals of horror cinema. Clive Barker's deliciously warped imagination is on full display in this modern classic of horror. "},{"Title":"Low Budget Glory!","Date":"24 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There are movies which fails to impact us even with the most brilliant cast. And there are those that doesn't fail without any of the fancy budget.This is one of those films.Hellraiser is a masterpiece of horror films in the 80's. You have to see it to believe it. It is an art. This will show you that for making a masterpiece you don't always need big bucks. remember reservoir dogs? original Texas chainsaw massacre? or even pulp fiction?This could have made a better impact but it did not because of its genre. If you like horror then this should be on your list of must see films. It has a plot which is executed beautifully for its budget. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Lovecraftian Horror","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker's Hellraiser takes everything you find icky, disgusting, disturbing and puts it into a nicely wrapped package complete with a bow on top of it. However, it has some crucial ingredients that other violent movies mostly do not-intelligence and a respect for the audience. It's a deceptively smart movie which doesn't spoon-feed information to it's audience. Barker was involved in another such horror movie-Candyman which is equally superb.The film also has a very good final girl who actually does stuff to get herself out of trouble. Regardless of whether it works or not, at least this girl did something rather than stand like a prop being completely useless. This film even had the first appearance of an iconic horror villain-Pinhead who has a pretty short role and doesn't get to do much here but is no less menacing.The Cenobites could easily belong to whatever dimension Cthulhu crawled out of. The inspirations from Lovecraft and Poe are evident and Barker makes sure that the movie sticks to it's vision to the bitter end. The special effects for the most part are excellent, especially the gore effects although some effects towards the end are a bit tacky courtesy an ultra low budget.Regardless, Hellraiser is a true horror classic - scary, strange, horrifying. It also retains it's power to shock 20+ years later. Highly Recommended! "},{"Title":"Classic 80's Horror","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie, and the short story it was based on, is a condemnation of the soul less 80's yuppie sub culture. Here we have Frank, who has sought out all forms of pleasure, so much so that he is willing to venture into the world of the Cennobites. The Cennobites come from a reality where pleasure and pain are one and the same, and offer to show mortals who open their puzzle box the experience of ultimate pain through torture. Frank of course is human, and realizes too late that he cannot enjoy pain in the same way as the demons can, and is set on a path to try to escape from the Hell he has created. Clive Baker has always been one to condemn the consumer driven culture, and here we have the ultimate example of a hedonistic life style turned morality play. Frank gives in to the pleasure the box offers, his lover betrays her husband and gives into Frank, murdering men have a chance at another love affair. Pinhead gave up his humanity when he bored of torturing Jews and turned to the box, and each Cennobite is a reflection of their sin in mortal life. All in all this film is well shot, and the special effects bring found memories to an era where film makers had to put some creativity and work into their craft instead of the CGI craze we have now. The same way vinyl records have a warm charm to them, is the same way I look fondly on the splatter movies of the 80's, and the artists who contributed to the gore that fueled the nightmares of a generation. I see on Clives wiki that there may be a Hellraiser remake, hopefully there is not as every horror remake of the 80's classics have been very far departures from their forefathers. If Clive put's the same love and care he did into this so be it, hopefully he can bring the franchise back from the Direct to Video debacle that has become of this franchise as of late! "},{"Title":"We have such sights to show youuu.......","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" And indeed they do! Anyone who watches a lot of horror films knows that the 80's horror scene was dominated by the slasher genre and while some of those turned out to be quite good, after a while they just became the same old thing. Luckily, there were a few breaks in between the slasher madness, be it good vampire/ werewolf flicks (like Lost Boys/The Howling) or tales of such high strangeness, that they became automatic classics in their own right. Hellraiser was one of those. Released by New World Pictures in 1987, it was directed by a young writer by the name of Clive Barker who, although having little in the way of filmmaking experience, managed to make one of the most bizarre, unique, and imaginative films of any kind ever! It all begins when Frank, a degenerate looking for the next immoral thrill, buys a strange cube shaped puzzle box from a mysterious man somewhere in the Middle East. From there, it's all down hill as Frank solves the box and gets sucked into the strange sadomasochistic hell of the cenobites, beings who, in the famous words of their leader Pinhead, are explorers in the further regions of experience. Demons to some, Angels to others. But it doesn't end there, as Frank's brother, Larry, and his wife, Julia, soon move into the old family home where Frank is brought back through Larry's blood being spilt from an accident as some sort of horrific zombie/skeleton hybrid. Julia, in a bid to help her former lover (yes, she and Frank had an affair) agrees to help make Frank whole again by bringing him hapless men to suck dry and as a result, makes Julia more and more cold blooded. But they have to hurry because the cenobites don't like being duped! The plot alone should be praised for its originality and boldness, weaving together a story that incorporates the idea of pain as pleasure, horror, eroticism, extreme gore, and strangeness, all in the same movie! Clive Barker proved his worthiness to be included in the hall of horror masters by adapting his novella, The Hellbound Heart to the big screen through the use of well done cinematography, lighting and camera direction (it's all even more remarkable when one remembers that other than directing a few short films, Barker had almost no experience in the director's chair).Credit also must go to the makeup and special effects guys for bringing to life some of the most bizarre creatures ever, be it Frank the monster or the dreaded cenobites themselves, with their tight leather clothes, skin-crawling self mutilations/deformations and bad ass leader, Pinhead himself or lead cenobite as he's known here. In another actor's hands, Pinhead might have just been a cool looking monster and not much else. But in the hands of Doug Bradley, he's given a personality and charisma, thus making him one of the most memorable monsters ever. All the actors do a fine job here, be it Andrew Robinson as Larry; Clare Higgins as Julia, the wife from hell; and Ashley Laurence in her introductory role of Kirsty, Larry's daughter who desperately tries to save her father after realizing the horrible truth. And of course, what good horror movie is without an effective music score and we sure get here in the form of Christopher Young's beautiful and foreboding score. To sum it up, if you're tired of seeing the same old thing in horror movies and are in the mood for something different, take a look at this and while you're at it, be very leery of any shady characters who try to sell you a puzzle box because you just never know what you're going to find inside! "},{"Title":"Gory and creepy","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first thing that struck me was that the actors' performances was nothing to brag about, but I guess that wasn't the filmmaker's intention. Here the plot is in the centre, and this movie wouldn't be much without the magnificent special effects. The effects, the creatures and the make up, isn't only great, but they create the whole movie which now has the status as a cult movie. And they have made over half a dozen of them over the years.Accordingly, a classic horror movie with a pretty sick plot and a even more sick production design. This movie is very bloody and disgusting, and it all looks terrific with the superb effects, without any CGI involved. This is a type of movie that is suitable for Halloween, a movie you would want to see together with friends - not alone in the dark.Hellraiser is a bit strange and abstract, mostly because the female main character seduce the victims with sex. There is generally a strong sexual atmosphere in the story. That is perhaps not the most traditional theme for a horror movie, but surprisingly it works.A frightening movie - happy Halloween! "},{"Title":"Don't Get Your Soul Torn Apart!","Date":"20 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Years ago, when I first saw HELLRAISER, I was turned off by it. I found it to be a very disgusting, ugly, eye-poppingly awesome but still grisly tale. But more recently, something told me to give the film another glance. And this was after I read the novel it was based on called HELLBOUND HEART. Upon seeing it again, I've gained a better perspective on the film. I believe part of what turned me off years ago were the extremely adult themes going on. Clive Barker, both the writer of the novel and the director of this one, knows his stuff and is not afraid to show it. So the gruesome story is A reprehensible man named Frank has spent his life living for pleasure and manages to track down a legendary puzzle box, like Pandora's. By solving the puzzle, he opens a netherworld and unleashes a group of demons called the Cenobites. Who introduce him to a world beyond pleasure and pain. Some time later, Frank's brother Larry (played by the wonderfully loopy Andrew Robinson) moves into the old family house along with his frigid second wife Julia. As it turns out, Frank and Julia had an affair years ago. After Larry suffers a minor accident, his spilled blood manages to revive Frank in one of the most impressive special effects scenes. Frank, at first a weak gelatinous skeleton, convinces Julia to get him more blood. So her solution is to lure men back to the house with the promise of sex, only to butcher them mercilessly with a hammer. Of particular note, I still find the murder of the first victim very chilling. And maybe that is what's so disgusting and unsettling about it. Unlike most horror films, the death scenes have very little, if any, music accompanying them. And the gore is not there for titillation, but rather to show how brutal and ugly death can be. As you might imagine not all goes as planned for Frank and Julia (who seems to be emerging as Lady Macbeth.) Larry's daughter Kirsty witnesses one of the murders and manages to steal the box. And yes, she opens it which causes the Cenobites to arrive! From that point forward, I'll leave the rest up to you, gentle blood-thirsty viewer! From start to finish, Clive Barker shows that he is a capable director and story teller. Granted, his work isn't for everyone and most are VERY adult-themed. But for those who feel brave enough to tackle his work, here is a good jumping-off point. For anyone who wants the fear of Hell put into them, make this required viewing at once! "},{"Title":"A harrowing, incomparable, masterpiece that will never be forgotten.","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie has it all! This is a movie that I will always turn to for great entertainment, and although it isn't as scary now, as it was then, it will stand the test of time forever. It has great music, a powerful love story, a great cast, it has a mysterious tone to it, and it is filled with dark and nightmarish scenes that are unforgettable.Something that you don't see in a lot of horror movies is passion and love which Clive Barker manages to hit perfectly with this film. It is filled with the ultimate passion of a woman who is willing to go to any lengths to save her true love. And although it has a love story, that doesn't mean it won't pack great scares and intense gory moments for all of the horror fans.The casting was superb in this film and the acting was outstanding by all of the actors on the screen. Each one of them filled the screen with such passion and it really helps the audience get into the film. Clive Barker really manages to get the audience to react in this movie and keeps you on the edge of your seat. Overall, this film is outstanding and a great achievement for the horror genre. I would definitely recommend this film to horror lovers, but I would definitely keep it away from the children. Go Clive Barker!! "},{"Title":"A horror classic of the 80's.","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The 1980's were a very interesting decade for horror fans. It was during this period that the slasher films were dominating the box office, and audiences were tired of seeing the same old thing. Enter Clive Barker's Hellraiser, a movie based on written material that involves a mysterious box and the people behind the magic and terror of that device to anyone who touches it. Pinhead is a great horror character and pretty scary. The heroine of this movie, played by Ashley Laurence, is a Reagan-era version of the girl next door. The effects are much better than the CGI gorefests of the 21st century, and the music is pretty haunting. It was so popular that it spawned numerous sequels, and a 3D remake is on its way. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies in horror history","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Omg this a kick ass film I love it some of the more memorable scenes Just after Larry's hand get cut open by the nail the resurrection of Frank. Holyshit I love that scene as well the and of course Frank's demise at the end with all the chains and hooks. Other scenes such as where the cenobites come into Kirsty's hospital just the introduction is scary enough to tell you trouble is coming other scenes I love include Kirsty's nightmare of seeing her dead father its one of the most bizzar scenes but then again there's nothing normal about this film to start with for a directing and screenplay first timer Clive Barker did one hell of a job with this movie "}{"Title":"Opening The Box Is A Gateway To Another Dimesion HELL.","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am a die-hard horror fan. And Clive Barker to me represents the height of horror along with Stephen King and the undisputed master of the horror tale H.P.Lovecraft. Clive Barkers films have a freshness to them and are unlike anything I've seen before.I have also seen Candyman, Nightbreed, Lord of Illusions, Book Of Blood and the Midnight Meat Train, all of which are outstanding.But his true masterpiece is undoubtedly Hellraiser which spawned a long number of sequel films to it. The film is adapted from a story of his the Hellbound Heart.It is a story about Frank (played by Sean Chapman), a nihilist and selfish moral degenerate who has participated in every hedonistic pleasure, extreme experience and sexual perversion known to man, each time seeking a greater pleasure higher than the last. Jaded, Frank hears rumor of a mysterious puzzle box (Lemarchand's Configuration) which opens the gateway to a realm of unfathomable carnal pleasures. Frank tracks down the current owner of the box in Dusseldorf and obtains it through performing small favors. Frank manages to solve the puzzle while squatting in the attic of his grandparents' house, where he has set up an elaborate display of flowers and a jug of his own urine. A gateway opens and appearing from it are the Cenobites, a race of distorted creatures who practice an extreme form of sadomasochism centered around agonizing torture and mutilation. They see little difference between extreme pleasure and extreme pain and drag Frank, willingly at first, into their extra-dimensional realm, where Frank begins what he realizes too late will be an eternity of torture.Frank's brother, Larry (played by Andrew Robinson), moves his family into the house inherited by him and Frank after their grandparents' death. Larry is married to Julia (played by Clare Higgins), who had a secret affair with Frank a week before her wedding and has ever since lusted for him while staying married to Larry for the financial support he provides. Due to an accident, several drops of Larry's blood land on the spot where Frank had ejaculated prior to being snatched into the Cenobites' realm. This allows Frank to contact the physical world, at first only as a whisper, then as an emaciated corpse. Julia, hoping to rekindle their affair, promises to help him.While Larry is at work, Julia begins picking up men whom she lures into the attic and sacrifices them to Frank, whose body becomes more substantial and whose consciousness more stable with every sacrifice. Kirsty (played by Ashley Laurence), Larry's niece, suspects that Julia is having a series of affairs and begins to trail her. After sneaking into the house, Kirsty has an altercation with Frank and ends up stealing his puzzle box, knowing only that Frank has some form of extreme attachment to it. After the fight, she collapses on the street. Upon awakening in hospital, she solves the puzzle box and the Cenobites come. She makes a deal with them, offering to deliver Frank back into their control to spare her. The Cenobites reluctantly accept. Their leader, a creature called Pinhead warning her that if she tricked them, they would tear her soul apart.Kirsty leads the Cenobites to Frank, now wearing recently slain Larry's skin. Another altercation ensues, in which Julia is killed by Frank. The Cenobites wait until Frank reveals his true identity, then re-capture him and return with him to their own realm.The box is now open and Kirsty must find a way to close it before it is too late.Outstanding direction and script by Clive Barker. Thrilling music by legendary Christopher Young. Superb Cinematography Robin Vidgeon and creature effects by veteran special effects man Bob Keen. There are 3 more films to see after watching Hellraiser. They are in order Hellbound Hellraiser 2, Hellraiser 3, and Hellraiser 4 Bloodlines in which Pinhead is destroyed once and for all.There are 4 more sequels after the fourth installment but they are not as good as the original first four films,but are worth watching and owning if you want a complete collection. They are in order Hellraiser Inferno, Hellraiser Hellseeker, Hellraiser Deader, Hellraiser Hellworld. Overall I give Hellraiser 10/10 for ORIGINALITY. "},{"Title":"The best of Clive Barker","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Quite possibly, the most classic film from Clive Barker. A movie about lust, desire, deceit, pleasures, and pain. All rolled into a puzzle box, which opens a doorway to your most inner desire or frightening nightmares. On one end, is Julie, a bored housewife who had a premarital interlude with her grooms brother frank. And frank, who is not satisfied with a simple sin, instead solves the puzzle box which transports him to the Cenobites dimension. But through this, Kirsty the daughter of Julie's husband begins to see mounting signs that something is wrong, out of place and intends to find the answer. And in doing so, makes a deal with the Cenobites to let her go if she leads them to frank who escaped from their grasp. But as all deals go, not everyone keeps their end of the bargain. As with Pinhead and his little entourage of minions, they try to take Kirsti with them but her quick fingers and fast movements help close the doorway using the box. This was a fascinating film using all manners of emotions, evil or not. But to see the most famous Cenobite who used to be a British officer turn Pinhead, is always glorious. His tone of soothsaying his guests run chills down anyone's spine. A favourite of evil beings in the world of horror. Making this section of genre the most successful movies to date including sequels. "},{"Title":"The Hell of Human Nature.","Date":"1 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Much has been said about Clive Barker's 1987 magnum-opus, Hellraiser, and much of it has been true. The film is as beautiful as it is ugly, as hideous as it is intriguing, and without a doubt, will crawl under the skin of even the most desensitized genre fan. It's a film that is as much about the ugliness of death as it is about human nature and the evil that lurks within each and every one of us.In the film, Larry (Andrew Robinson) moves into a new house with his new wife, Julia (Clare Higgins), and daughter from a previous marriage, Kirsty (Ashley Laurence), without knowing that the soul of his seedy brother, Frank (Sean Chapman), is trapped within the house after solving a mysterious puzzle box. Once he gets a taste of the red stuff, Frank starts to take shape again, resuming his affair with his brother's wife and unwittingly opening the doors to Hell in the meantime while simultaneously introducing a gaggle of bizarre creatures known only as the Cenobites. The Cenobites are led by Doug Bradley as Pinhead, who, despite not being given a name until the sequel, cemented himself as a horror icon along with the Freddys and Jasons of the time and gets perhaps the best lines of the entire film. Clive Barker is truly a Master of Horror in his own right, and Hellraiser is a brilliant testament to that fact. Not only are the special effects grisly and, well, gross, but still manage to hold up even today, 23 years later. The film is grounded in solid performances by its cast, and especially in the case of Clare Higgins, are more than one-dimensional horror flick fodder. All of this is achieved, of course, with stunning visuals (gore aside) and a foreboding and cruel tone that just can't be beat. Even after all these years and seven sequels ranging from entertaining to mediocre, its impact has yet to be lessened. Hellraiser is easily one of the best horror movies of the 1980's, but also of all-time. "},{"Title":"Old School Horror Movie","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser. What would such a movie be about? That's what I asked myself when I was a kid. So I taped the movie on a VCR (my parents didn't know what they got at this time) and watched it alone and in the dark - and that's how it's supposed to be watched! Sure, if you see this with modern eyes, you may recognize some cheap effects, but hey, watch it, look over the cheap effects and you'll be happy you tuned into this! I must say, that in the 80's, you got a lot of horror flicks, like Friday 13th, Nightmare on Elm Street and so on. But this movie really got me. The story is the main point. It's not about a bunch of teenagers, who got to the wrong address. It's more about human relations and things we dream about (nightmares obviously included). The acting is o.k. If you watch this, you want to know how it ends (so did I) and if you like Clive Barker and his stories, you want to see it anyway. And, relating to the first four(!) movies, it's not repeating itself. I don't want to give any spoilers in this review, but this movie scared the hell out of me. Imagine you got a puzzle in your hands that can open the gates to heaven or hell - you don't know which - and you are able to solve it and it turns out to be, well, hell. What would you do? That's basically all this movie is about, but there is so much more... I must say for myself, that I can agree with all characters in this movie. I like all of them, they're build up like real persons, including the guy in the attic (you will see), who get's the box in the first place. So, if you want to see a real good horror flick with a story, that blows your mind - go for it. If you want to see some gore - go for it, too. If you are scared easily and don't want to see any horror movies at all - go home, lock your doors and hope, that Pinhead (sorry, in the first movie it's lead cenobite) isn't hiding below your bed!P.S. If there was any idea about the movie Hellraiser vs. Helloween - Pinhead would win!!!! "},{"Title":"hell raiser","Date":"12 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of my favorite! I love this film and every time I see it I get goodbums! its like the feeling when you See lion King for the first time. But when I see Hellraiser I feel it every time! Its a perfect classic and only risen why I don't give it a 10/10 is because of the effects in the end. I hate does old school Star Wars lightning stuff. Pinhead and Butterboll is the greatest ever of maskfx. With Freddy of course close up! But still I think Pinhead is more thrilling. Hes so cam. In the new Hellraiser films Pinhead has a more deeper and cooler voice but still he looks best in the old classic.I don't hope they remake Hellraiser because that cud actually pip up the first one!!!! So the kids don't see it because of the bad fx in the ending. But the story is so well told and the characters are so creepy. So please all you horror fans out there who haven't seen Hellraiser. Go and see it! "},{"Title":"The Citizen Kane of gory horror movies","Date":"12 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The 80s were a prolific time in terms of horror movies. Usually you had a memorable villain (think Leatherface or Freddy) slaughtering a bunch of nubile teens in tried and tested fashion. Genre defining though they were, these movies always followed the same well-worn modus operandi at their most basic level they were simple body count films. But one stood out from the pack Hellraiser.Based on the Clive Barker novella The Hellbound Heart, Hellraiser eschews the old stalk and slash routine in favor of something more cerebral. Even if it's just as gory and violent as the aforementioned films, Hellraiser has that very rare thing unseen in movies of this type intelligence. This is as far from a Friday the 13th re-run as you can get. The movie is extremely well crafted with intricate characters that have complex arcs all set against an interesting story. Clive Barker directs with a lot of panache and evident technique, and the film has an almost surreal art house quality about it. Barker clearly knows what he's doing. Compare how this was shot with other horror movies made at the same time and you will see noticeable differences. The movie has a lot of style and substance thrown in with some genuinely distressing visuals.It also has a very imaginative story line. Frank, a man with a rather dubious past, solves a mysterious puzzle box and is rewarded with a trip to hell where he's mutilated for entertainment purposes by three demonic beings called 'Cenobites'. However, after being resuscitated by his brother's blood, he uses his love starved sister-in-law Julia &#x96; who he had a past affair with &#x96; as bait so that she can lure horny men back to their house so that he can feed on their blood and become a human again. The only problem is the hellish Cenobites come looking for him and all hell ensues. Clad in leather the Cenobites themselves resemble mutated entities from The Matrix (and remember this was twelve years before that movie was even made) and just like that movie, this one also has a similar fetishist quality about it.Andrew Robinson, who plays Frank's brother Larry, has certainly done his share of menacing characters in his time (The Scorpio Killer in Dirty Harry for example). But he does a complete about turn here and is the very epitome of decency &#x96; surely the hallmark of any great actor when they can alternate between roles. Likewise, Ashley Laurence, with her acting talent and stunning good looks playing the role of his daughter Kristy, creates a more sympathetic and interesting character than all the expendable bimbos from countless horror movies. Meanwhile Claire Higgins plays it cold and calculating and is really effective as Julia - Larry's wife &#x96; the woman who sets everything on its downward spin.This is also the movie that gave us a truly iconic character to rival Freddy Kruger in the form of 'Pinhead'. Even though he is never actually referred to this name, Pinhead cuts an imposing and strangely tragic figure when we first see him with all those nails driven into his face. Doug Bradley invests his limited role with a lot of depth - another rarity. This is no idiotic knife-wielding thug we know instantly Pinhead actually possesses intelligence.The film has jaw-dropping effects it's full of astonishing scenes that still hold up today. Most appealing of all is as this was made before the CGI era, all the effects are done with animatronics, optical effects and reverse footage. The disturbing metamorphosis scene where Frank comes back to life is similar to the one seen in An American Werewolf in London in that we get a no holds barred, shot by shot transmutation of a creature in all its gory (and gooey) glory. Unlike that scene, however, which was over lit, this one is photographed with more a more effective and moodier lighting scheme. Gut wrenching though it is, the scene also has a strange kind of beauty to it. It's quite nice (if icky) to look at. Beauty in blood and guts &#x96; there are not many horror movies that can boast a contradiction like that.Hellraiser was clearly ahead of its time. Its influence on movies that came later cannot be underestimated. After all, this is the film that gave us the whole 'Torture Porn' genre at least two decades before the term had even coined by the media. Movies like Saw and Hostel owe a lot to it and could not have existed without Hellraiser paving the way first. Even though these movies are a dime a dozen now, this was something new in its day, giving us an unflinching view of bodies being mutilated and torn apart in gratuitous fashion. But even at that, there was always something more going on than just simple gore Hellraiser is about the desperate steps a woman will take to rekindle an unforgettable past affair.There is only one sticking point, though in a movie that's supposed to be set in England, why is it that all extras/supporting players speak with badly put on/dubbed American accents? There is no logical reason for this. It's a bad call in a film that does almost everything else so well.For the remake there's no question they will replace a lot of the practical effects we see here with 'state of the art' CGI. But will it look as good in twenty years? Probably not, but the original will still have the raw power it has today. That's the hallmark of any great movie. This has more ideas in ten minutes than lesser horror movies have crammed into their entire 80 &#x96; 90 minute running times. And while it may not be to everyone's tastes &#x96; least of all those with easily upset stomachs - Hellraiser remains a masterpiece of imaginative film-making, as brilliant and significant now as it was on its original release. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror movies ever made","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first ting that came to my mind about this movie when i bought the DVD...This is going to be a cheap bad horror movie.Just When I started to watch it i could relate to every character so well.I just loved how Kirsty acted in the hospital scene with the cenobites.Pinhead was so good..better than Jason,Freddy and way better Micheal myers.This movie is so so so interesting not just one typical horror movie with a guy with a mask chasing a big breasted girl.The movie is about a guy named frank opening a Chinese puzzle box that opened a gateway to hell and demons called cenobites came and killed him.One day when Larry(kirstys dad) and Julia where coming to live to franks old house.Accidentally Larry cut his hand and drops blood where frank was killed...later on frank came back to life.Julia and Larry were married but Julia and Larry's brother frank where lovers so when Julia discovered frank was alive he started killing other men so frank could be stronger.Then Kirsty found out was was happening so frank tried to kill her because kirsty took the puzzle box.Kirsty fainted and was taken to a hospital where she SOLVED the puzzle box.The cenobites came and she made a deal with them.....Watch it please. "},{"Title":"An atmospheric, sophisticated horror film.","Date":"3 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser is a remarkable film about two powerful sins greed and lust. The horror of the film does not come from the Cynobites, creatures who torture others to induce pleasure. The true antagonists are Julia and her lover, who constantly take advantage of and manipulate others. The effects are remarkable for their period and stand the test of time. Although the film contains a liberal amount of gore, it is not excessively disgusting nor gory just for the sake of being gory. It's just enough to make you feel uncomfortable without crossing the line of being distasteful. The designs of the Cenobites are both unique and eerie. The music also adds atmosphere to the film, creating tension for the audience. In contrast to other horrors films of the era, such as The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Halloween, and Friday the 13th, the monsters are not mindless slashers. This adds a level of depth not achieved in the films mentioned earlier. If you are a fan of horror, this film is a must see. After the film ends, it will leave you asking yourself many questions about the state of humanity, the afterlife, and the true meanings of pain and pleasure. "},{"Title":"Best British horror movie ever?","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The finest British horror movie ever made? Well, yes (even though there was American money behind it).This is Clive Barker's directorial debut, though you wouldn't know it, and the movie is based loosely on his own 'The Hellbound Heart' novella.The plot is thus - There's this box, see, called The Lament Configuration, and opening it summons a bunch of sado-geared demons from Hell called Cenobites. Their role is to introduce any who summon them to all forms of physical and mental extremity, pain, pleasure, torment, joy, in equal measure. Thing is, one of their victims appears to have escaped their clutches, and when he turns up in an old English house after having been resurrected by the blood of his brother, they are eager to get him back.Some outstanding moments really lift this above the norm - Frank's resurrection, the first glimpses of his skinned persona, the Cenobites' appearances - and Barker imbues the whole thing with a real sense of menace.Flawless and stylish, this is horror at its best. "},{"Title":"Explorers from hell","Date":"5 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Frank Cotten is a man whose general idea of a good time may be more then most people are into. He like's the mixture of pleasure and pain and he's willing to go all over the world to find the ultimate in that. Enter the box purchased off street dealer with no time for a manicure. I'm only surprised Cotton didn't get his free Frogurt from the man! Frogurt or not this is one of the all time horror classics. Pinhead and the cenobites are on a trip through hell and beyond dishing out their own brand of love to anyone Stupid enough to open the box. This movie is not just a hardcore gore-athon, Pinhead and the cenobites are seen for minutes in this movie while the rest of it follows franks accent into humanality. See he opened the box, got tortured but has remained alive in the floor somehow and once he's back his plans become clear-suck blood. The plot is good, the story is good, the gore is awesome and everything pinhead says in this movie is highly quotable. I was so in awe by this when i first saw it a few years ago, i watched it for weeks along with the sequel which equally blew my mind. Now this film series is another one that started good and ended bad. I think there are eleven hellraiser movies and Daved Bradly has played the spookster in all which is impressive but from what I've heard everything past 2 is crap. Thats another review though, as for this one i loved it. If your a fan of the genre then check it out you will not be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Creative, surreal and chilling","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've always found it interesting when authors enter the movie business. Clive Barker, adapting his novel for the screen has made something pretty neat here. With it's sights and sound of surreal and bizarre eeriness, Hellraiser becomes very chilling. I would imagine that by now, every die hard horror fan has seen this one at least four or five times, but if you haven't you probably should.Larry Cotton and his new wife Julie are moving into a new home. Unknown to them, Larry's brother Frank recently died there after opening a strange artifact unleashing evil spirits that took him to hell. Frank and Julie had a secret love affair, which still lingers in the back of her mind. But she is about to take a much bigger trip down memory lane when Frank comes back from the dead wanting to be with her again. Like most horror movies, Hellraiser goes bananas in the climax, but that is when all the artistic creativity and special effects come into play. Besides it is a fantasy, not just a horror. Either way, it's a fun picture. "},{"Title":"Hellish as Hell!","Date":"17 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Some films epitomize the term 'Horror', and Hellraiser of 1987 is definitely one of these films. Clive Barker's most famous and most brilliant film is doubtlessly one of the most spine-chilling cinematic experiences one can have. Even if he had made nothing but this movie, Hellraiser would be sufficient to earn Clive Barker the title of an absolute master of Horror, as this terrifying cult film has everything one could possibly desire in Horror. The film is extremely creepy and genuinely scary and maintains a terrifying atmosphere from the beginning to the end, the plot is ingenious, the makeup and gore-effects are as gruesome as it gets, and the Cenobites, above all the iconic Pinhead, are some of the most frightening creatures in the history of Horror cinema.The film already begins ingeniously, when Frank (Sean Chapman) purchases a cube which serves as the key to the doorway to Hell. Years later, Frank's brother Larry (Andrew Robinson) and his wife Julia (Clare Higgins), who had an affair with the sardonic Frank, move into Frank's old house. When blood is spilled on the floor of the room in which Frank has performed the rite to enter hell, the gates of hell are re-opened, releasing Frank from the inferno. The horribly deformed Frank, who consists so far of flesh and bones only, needs blood in order to regain his old body, and he needs it fast, before the Cenobites, horrible demons, take notice of his escape from the torments of their bizarre, sadomasochistic hell...There is no doubt that Hellraiser is one of the most terrifying Horror films ever made. The torments and gore effects are gruesome as hell, and the great setting and superb cinematography only improve on the film's creepiness. The probably scariest aspect of the film however, are the characters (brilliantly brought to life with incredible makeup), as well as the ultra-demented storyline. The character of Frank, the hell-escapee, is sardonic enough, but it is the bizarre and genuinely frightening Cenobites who stand out as some of the chosen few scariest Horror-villains in the history of the genre. Especially their leader (Doug Bradley), who is commonly known as Pinhead (even though only credited as Lead Cenobite) epitomizes the term Horror - even if the 'Chattering Cenobite' arguably looks even more terrifying. Beautiful Ashley Laurence makes the most lovable character as Kirsty, Larry's daughter from a previous marriage. Even though the gore is not the most important aspect of Hellraiser, some of it has yet to find an equal. The torments of the Cenobites, which include hooks attached to chains that tear people apart, are just plain horrifying. Hellraiser is a masterpiece in all regards, one of the most frightening films ever made, and an absolute must-see for all Horror fans. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant and still scary today","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I really enjoyed this horror. It is mind messing, scary and thrilling.You look at other horrors that were made in the 80s, for example, Nightmare on Elm Street, Friday the 13th. You can tell that they are dated and not scary today. This is still scary and really does mess with your mind today, like The Shining did.Pinhead is an awesome horror icon, he is the man of demons.Great story, still good special effects.The gore effects are even still really stomach wrenching and cringing. Great direction from Clive Barker, who also wrote the book. He is a genius for this.The only thing that is a bit dated in this is the acting, which is still OK. Doug Bradly's acting of Pinhead was very goodA lot of today's horror films I don't think are that scary, compared to this film. There are a lot of horrors out there today that are still scary today though.If you are a horror fan, I really recommend it. I thought it was really cool. "},{"Title":"Horror masterpiece","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, I've loved this movie since i was a kid, I think 5 years old. I clearly remember the first time I saw its cover I was so terrified, but, at the same time, so pleased to see it, to see that figure with its head fully covered with nails. Very, very good.Hellraiser is must-see for every person who says that like to see movies, not just horror movies, but ALL kind of movies. But someone could say there's a lot of blood, it's bloody violent. Yeah, I agree with these comments, but it's not something put on the movie just to scary or disgust, it is necessary for the story. I advise again if you still haven't watched this movie, a movie that I regard as the best horror movie of all times, go to a rent store and rent it, or better, buy it. I'm pretty sure that this movie deserves your attention.In my opinion, it's in the top ten of best movies of all times. "},{"Title":"It will tear your soul apart","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser is without a doubt something original, one part of the story we have human drama going on with a new family moving into a new house to start a new life, Julia the wicked stepmother would rather her husband's brother Frank than him and even killing for him, Kirsty the young daughter trying accept her new mother, Frank being selfish and selling his soul and Larry the father/husband being basically a good father and good husband and wanting everybody to get along not knowing what his wife is up to. The second part of the story we have bondage styled demons, a puzzle box which opens another dimension.Adultery, lust, murder, curiosity, pain and pleasure are the main dishes and even though the supernatural elements are presented very strongly, they never drown the core of what's going on. That's quite a feat, I still don't know how Barker pulled it off.Without a doubt, the strength of the film relies on Julia and Frank's relationship. It's when the film focuses on them and their actions that it is at its strongest. The subplot with the bug-eating vagrant also worked. He complements the film's weird aura and brings everything full circle. I also liked the role the Cenobites play in this flick. Their background players who are there to serve the story, not drive it. This story is about humans, not the history/past of blue demons. It works better this way.This film is definitely on top form the makers did a bang up job mixing elements of family life and demons from another world folded into one, and the gore is well and truly disgusting like skinless bodies, hammer hits to the head and heads ripped apart by hooks definitely not for ones with weak stomachs.The rest of the film is almost devoid of tension and the finale which is supposed to have you on the edge of your seat, betrays the first hour by going the light show way with some bad visuals (the vanquishing of the Cenobites, the hall demon).There are parts of this film that don't really make sense and Barker loses himself a bit in his over ambition and unfortunately the budget is not up for it.The acting in this movie ranges, (Andrew Robinson) Larry does fine as the husband/father really likable but not very interesting, Clare Higgins (Julia) plays the murderous bitch perfectly. Ashley Laurence is also really strong a perfect lead heroine and glad they bought her back for the sequel. Sean Chapman (Frank) was simply average and Kirsty's boyfriend not very interesting at all and rather pointless and wooden.The film is slick and a strong narrative and doesn't shy away from anything.All in all Hellraiser may not be tasteful, a lot of people will find this film simply unsettling, but if you're in a mood for something different then i'd recommend this. "},{"Title":"Why can't they make movies like this anymore?","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of those rare gems! Not to everyone's liking indeed. Made especially for the real horror fan who is always on the lookout for an original story, interesting characters (and fine acting) , creative and cool special effects. This flick is now a classic along with parts 2 & 3 and I sincerely hope they are neither remade nor updated - I guess they can't get any better than this - the mythos is rich and a myriad of very creative films could be made out of it - at least 1000 wonderful stories, exploring the cenobite universe and human frailty. I do agree that the sequels from part 4 on (although all interesting and intriguing) need to be improved/ remade for the real Hellraiser fan.Doug Bradley needs to be brought back to display his acting prowess and must be cast as Pinhead again, as he is the most human Cenobite of all, the richest and finest of all too. One of the icons of horror films.Unfortunately studios tend now to make faster, cheaper and (and I don't know why - fear maybe - to do something daring or shocking)clichd movies. Studios all work on a tight budget, very little time available,and so on. Curiously, the best horror movies were made this way - Halloween, Re-animator... So it seems to be that what lack studios today are creative gutsy people (say to the producer(s) let's not film it this way - but that way - at least try) I am also against fan club crossovers  Hellraiser X Prophecy, Hellraiser Vs Michael Myers,... as they will only be byproducts of great stories and characters - they can't be blended 100% as these great stories are totally different and deal with different subjects. Hellraiser hell definitely isn't typical catholic/ religion hell,and can't be. Michael Myers is the personification of human evil - not supernatural evil and Prophecy is based on catholicism and similar religions. Hellraiser, like many low budget films, is not perfect(because money always make a difference), but it is original, fresh, intriguing,daring and 100% creative, which alone deserves to be praised and to be seen. Recommended to horror movie lovers and people who enjoy different imaginative stories. "},{"Title":"The great beginning to a great horror series","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" HELLRAISER (1987) directed by Clive Barker starring Andrew Robinson, Clare Higgins, Ashley Laurence, and Sean Chapman plot Frank Cotton (Sean Chapman) is a man who seeks the greatest pleasures of life. He comes across the Lament Configuration, believed to open the doors of heaven or hell, he opens hell and is taken there and tortured by the Cenobites, Hell's minions. Later on, Frank's brother Larry (Andrew Robinson) and his wife Julia (Clare Higgins) move into the house. Julia had a secret affair with Frank and misses the night of passion she shared with him. One day, Larry is injured and his blood seeps through the cracks in the attic floors, and the blood brings Frank back to life as a skinless zombie. Julia helps Frank gain his figure back by bringing men from bars into the house to feed on. Soon, the Cenobites discover that Frank has escaped their grasp and Larry's daughter Kirsty (Ashley Laurence) is caught in the mix.my thoughts This is one of the most original and shocking horror films out there. It is a family saga and a gory horror movie in one.I loved the characters and the actors portraying them. Especially Clare Higgins as the cold and conniving Julia, Ashley Laurence as the cute innocent Kirsty, and Doug Bradley as the Lead Cenobite Pinhead, who is one of the most popular horror movie monsters ever created.I loved how in this film, the Cenobites were left lurking in the shadows while the movie mainly focused on the Cotton family. Loss, love affairs and hints of past incest are what makes this a very provocative drama/horror film. I also loved some of the directing techniques - mainly going back and forth to Kirsty solving the puzzle and a rose blooming on the television. Christopher Young also provided one of my favorite horror scores, which is tied with Pino Donnagio's work on CARRIE.This film isn't without flaws though - the subplot with Kirsty's boyfriend brought nothing good to the film, especially since he can't act surprised. I mean, he comes to his girlfriend's father's house to find her battling demons with a puzzle box - and still there is no expression on his face. The special effects also show that the film is on a low budget.Still, this is one of the greatest horror films of all time and they do not make them like this anymore! "},{"Title":"One of the classic horror films of the 1980's.","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An middle-class husband (Andrew Robinson) and his cold-hearted wife (Clare Higgins) moved in a dark roomy British house. They didn't expect that his half brother (Sean Champan) and her former lover is hiding upstairs in a kind of gelatinous/skeletal state. Soon this monster is forcing his ex-lover to lure unsuspecting men to the house. Because this beast could be himself again with the blood of his victims.Written and Directed by Clive Barker (Lord of Illusions, Nightbreed) made an grisly and stylish horror film, which it's based on the novel titled The Hellbound's Heart. The Novel is also written by the director. Imaginative Monsters, Terrific Make-Up Effects, Colorful Characters and Some Frightening Moments of Terror are the high-light of this One of a Kind extraordinary horror film.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (Also in Pan & Scan) and an digitally remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an running commentary by the the director. DVD also has an second commentary track by director, actressAshley Laurence and moderated by ScreenwriterPeter Atkins (HellboundHellraiser 2). DVD also has an featurette, still gallery and the original theatrical trailer. This nightmarish horror movie is well made and ugly fun all the way. Oliver Smith played Frank as a Monster. Memorable music score by Christopher Young (A Nightmare on Elm Street 2Freddy's Revenge, The Core, Murder in the First). Followed by Eight Sequels!, which the last four films are direct to videos. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Beautiful fantasy/ horror is still affective today.","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Certainly, one would figure pinhead the central character for the film Hellraiser, but he who thinks this because of what he sees will be enchanted by what the film really is. Pinhead is merely a creature, only viewed in vital moments of a twisted love story involving otherworldly torture. He is not even called pinhead, he is the lead cenobite, and he will tear your soul apart!The story has a strong narrative hold on a family, and the unresolved matters they have never approached. Such matters include drugs, theft, scandal, love, lust, and demonic dealings. Larry Cotton and his 2nd wife, Julia are happy, cozy, and ready to break new ground as they move into the new home. Unbeknownst to them, an unwelcomed family member is waiting, and so is the awesome force that sealed his fate in life, and in death. This film has more than demons and angels. This film has a plot. Julia helps frank after he narrowly escapes death. Slow, and sure, she feeds him blood, and the lust for life, love, and control takes over the both of them. Soon, Larry's daughter, Kirsty is involved, and the real nightmare begins. This film is more of a fantasy than anything else, as it plays on mystical elements like dreams, love, life, and death. Barker crafts his original novel, titles The Hellbound Heart into a fantastic mold of a supernatural plunge into a very messed up family. More so, this film is a tale of otherworldly pain and torture. Torture is not just the killing, it is the emotional state that Julia is trapped in, as she loves Larry...at first. Soon she is torn between real love, and the lust for pleasure, both physical and emotional. The cenobites take all the emotions, and play with them as though they were throwing a ball back and forth. Barker introduces hell as both emotional, and physical states of mind. No matter where the characters are, hell is what they get. Brilliant performances also highlight this one, with special effects that challenge even todays standards. Good Job Barker! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've been trying to find this movie at all my local video stores, today I found it.If you are a horror movie fan, you are in for a treat with this movie. The scares are constant, Pinhead is an excellent bogeyman, the Cenobites will chill you to the bone. No, this is not a teen horror flick 'Omgz0r, adults suck!!11one!' No, none of that. Pure horror at it's best.The gist of the story is, Pinhead is a 'Cenobite' which are say, creatures from hell. These creatures are summoned through a device, the device being a small 'puzzle box.' Solving this Puzzle Box will bring Pinhead and his cronies to you to give you the ultimate of pain and pleasure. One man does it, and cheats the system being brought back to life afterwards. Scares Ensue.Clive Barker deserves a medal for this movie. He is a genius. "}{"Title":"this is the plot","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In a northern London home an evil awaits under the floor boards. Frank Cotton, previously an American thrill seeker purchased a mystical box at a middle eastern bazaar and attempted to use the box to taste pleasures outside the normal realm of human sensation. Unfortunately, for him, to do so meant unleashing a collection of demons (the cenobites) back unto earth...Larry Cotton, his brother, comes to the house to stay with his demented wife Julia (who had formerly had a violent and passionate love affair with Frank) and his daughter Kirsty. Accidentally Larry cuts his hand and the oozing blood that drips from his hand seeps into the floorboards onto the remains of his dismembered brother Frank. The blood begins to replenish the remnants of Frank, breathing new life into his evil carcass, making it hunger for more. Larry's twisted wife Julia begins to feed into her lovers needs and lures new victims for the creature that is Frank to feed upon and replenish the blood he is missing to become a man again. He knows he must flee because the Cenobites are searching for him to bring him back to hell were he belongs.Kirsty gets trapped in the clutches of her disgusting uncle, fooled because he disguises himself in her fathers skin. Later once she has narrowly escaped, she becomes entranced in the box and begins to solve it, causing a parallel universe to open yet again. This calls upon Pinhead and the other Cenobites to our dimension. To save her life Kirsty attempts to make a deal with them, giving them Frank for her soul. "},{"Title":"Intelligent film works on all levels","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't get scared by movies, but if I could, this one would do the trick. As far as fright flicks go, this is the cream of the crop. A must-see for all self-respecting horror fans; I can't imagine anyone being disappointed.The best horror films, whether they rate high or low on the gore factor (and this one is about as high as it gets without pushing into NC-17 territory), work by engaging the viewer's most powerful, negative emotions. This one works overtime to evoke feelings of disgust, right from the get-go,focusing on the the mysterious peddler's filthy fingernails as he passes over that all-important puzzle box.Images like rats, flies, roaches, maggots,rusty nails, musty attics,and clear, slimy-gooey mucus/protoplasm stuff abound throughout the film. Whatever really makes makes you unbearably, squeamishly uncomfortable, it's probably in here somewhere, and not just in the visuals. The film touches on a host of disturbing, emotionally distressing themes, some fleeting, others more thoroughly. What's your personal sore spot? The death of a parent? Infidelity? Depraved sex? Creepy old houses? Hospitals? Incest? Being stalked? Personal betrayal? Necrophilia? Your family being threatened from someone outside? The fear of your own buried potential for violence, of going insane, of going to hell? Whatever it is, there's something here to gnaw at virtually anyone's rawest nerve- but better yet, it also provides eventual relief from all.The most fascinating element to me was the contrast between human and demonic evil. While the latter is the most horrifying, the former is by far th most evil. There's even a certain purity to the cenobites- they'll do horrible things to you, yes, but they won't lie; they have no reason to. I had the feeling that while the cenobites could not exist without human depravity, human depravity could very well exist without the cenobites, so who's the real monster here. There aren't too many innocent victims here, and most of the characters basically get what they deserve.I have only one gripe about this film- the blood. It's very, very, unconvincing- it looks like Smucker's strawberry flavored pancake syrup. With all the effort that went into making awesomely awful monsters, you'd think they'd gotten some halfway decent blood. Oh, well. "},{"Title":"Such Sights To Show You..","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Praise the Horror Gods for the existence of Clive Barker. His first film masterpiece HELLRAISER is the blast of hellfire the genre needed. The story Frank Cotton bought a mysterious box that opens doors. His brother Larry and wife Julia bought a new house. Serial killing must occur in order to maintain the status quo. Enter the cutie daughter Kirstie. Enter the Cenobites (a supernatural tribe of monsters).The resulta film you'll never forget. Barker created a special work here. He has horrific images sure, but there is a beauty to the visceral carnage that I can't put my finger on. Poetic Purgatory?The Cenobites are disturbing but very interesting the chattering teeth, the gross visages, the mystery of their realm... Pinhead is particularly odd- it's hard to not feel SOMETHING when you see the nails in his skull, which I heard represent rage.In any event this is neo-horror at it's finest. I have no qualms about labelling this film a definite classic. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest horror films ever!","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" HELLRAISER (1987)cast Andrew Robinson, Clare Higgins, Ashley Laurence, Sean Chapman, Doug Bradley.plot Larry (Andrew Robinson) and his new wife Julia (Clare Higgins) move into an old family manor. A couple years ago before their wedding, Julia cheated on him with his bad-to-the-bone and newly deceased brother Frank (Sean Chapman). When Julia discovers that Frank has escaped hell as a zombie and is hiding in the attic, Julia helps him get his body back by luring middle-aged men into the house and feeding him their blood, not knowing that hell's minions are after him. Soon, Larry's beautiful young daughter Kirsty (Ashley Laurence) becomes caught up in this mess.the goodThis is probably my favorite horror film of all time. It's a perfect Gothic horror film with a great story, interesting characters, great actors and bloody, messy gore.What else can I say about this film besides that its the ultimate in Gothic horror. "},{"Title":"Truly dark, wonderfully done gore-fest of delight!","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is a thin line between pleasure and pain. For some, they are one and the same. This film speaks of this relationship, and indeed, some deep baser need is surely aroused within the frames of this film. It makes itself heard within the human confines of the psyche not only on the graphic level, but on the level of primordial man.This endeavor was awe-inspiring on the big screen, and still holds that quality on the small screen. I find that it tests the limits of fear.It takes you to the gross-out without triggering the gag reflex. It horrifies you, terrorizes you, if only you can believe.The portrayals are not Oscar-worthy, but neither is the subject matter.I can't imagine Hollywood, even at its most open minded state, ever considering a true horror as a contestant for one of their most prized awards. If they snubbed Tombstone, then Hellraiser never had a chance.*LOL* That having been said, the portrayals are realistic and reactionary, and seem to be genuine. That's about all you could hope for in a movie as low budget as this was.The story, on the other hand, is another...story. It is about the highest creative show we horror fans have seen in at least a generation. Hellraiser has new monsters, a new darkness, a new face, but more than that, it has a new feel. This is not Nightmare on Elm Street. The monsters are more creative. This is not Halloween. The dread is more tangible. This is not Friday the 13th. The story is more solid. This is not the Exorcist. The monsters here would make all the priests run like h3LL! *LOL* If you have never seen Hellraiser, then as a true fan of horror, I invite you to turn off the lights, unplug the phone, grab a bag of popcorn and let yourself be taken to Clive Barker's Hell.We will tear your soul apart. It rates an 8.9/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Body vs Soul Body 1 - Soul 0!","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I usually detest gore, but this one has somethin to it. For millenia now, philosophers have debated on the dualism of mind and matter. Barker sets a new standard on what's real.I know most people don't want to see this as a deep study on western thought of the essense of the corpus, butthe point of the movie to me is this The body is real and the soul is nothing. Pain - the ultimate feeling - is the only thing one can ultimately cling to.  "},{"Title":"A Grisly Work Of Art","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Clive Barker has to one of the weirdest, most disturbing, and yet most imaginative film makers in history.  I mean, I've seen several of his movies including this one and Candyman(1992) which he co-wrote with director Bernard Rose.  Hellraiser has to also be one of the goriest horror movies to come out of the 80's.  The special effects here are horrific.  The scene where Frank comes out from underneath the floor is very gross and hard to watch.  The Cenobites, in my opinion, are the best part of the movie.  My favorites are Pinhead and The Chatterer.  The acting here isn't really all that good, especially from Andrew Robinson, whom I haven't seen in a really good movie since Dirty Harry(1971).  Hellraiser is definitely one of those movies where you either love it or you hate it.  I can't say that I really liked this movie because of it's mix of drama, (twisted, no seriously twisted) romance, and horror. Anyway despite Hellraiser's flaws, it's still a good movie to watch.  Hellraiser gets an 8/10P.S I do find it kind of strange that I am commenting on a movie about Hell and demons and stuff like that and that I'm also listening to P.O.D.'s song Alive at the same time.    "},{"Title":"It will tear your soul apart","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser is the story of a couple who move into a home only to find it is already inhabited by the husband's brother and bride's former lover.  Although he isn't quiet as she remembered.  Hellraiser is a stylish departure from the slash flicks of the 80's, daring enough to try something new in an era where it payed to copycat. Clive Barker leads us into a world of pleasure laced with pain and introduces us to a cult character (Pinhead).  Grisly and surreal, Hellraiser is a horror film with a brain and a lot of guts.  Check it out! "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser is still one of the best gore horror films of our time. OK it's not Argento but it's almost more subtle and some of it looks terrifyingly real. Great one liners put into a decent plot with disturbing violence, at least when it was released anyway. The Hellraiser series is one that looks at pain in a very different way. 2 and 3 probably dwell on this a bit more but the fact that pain can be pleasurable we have such sights to show you hasn't really been looked at in a horror sense like this before and I don't think it has really since. If you haven't read the book it's worth a look to read the scenes that would have given this film an X rating, unless there's a director's cut flying around somewhere??? "},{"Title":"Original, gory horror","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well I finally saw Hellraiser, and I didn't think it was going to be that great...but boy was I surprised!!! It starts out pretty slow, but the last half is gory, frightening, as well as perverted and bizarre. A couple, Larry and Julia, move into an old, eerie house in England which holds deadly and shocking secrets. Soon, weird things begin to happen. Well...it is kind of hard to explain. Plus, I don't want to give anything away. Just see it. It is a great movie, full of atmosphere, gushing blood, and frightening scenes.  "}{"Title":"Took me to Hell and back...what a ride!","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Clive Barker's Hellraiser is by far the best of this now tired franchise(Thank Hellraiser Inferno for that)and is one of the most original Horror films out of the last 15 or so years. Now before I start my review I'd like to say that this film isn't as scary as some say, so if you haven't seen this film and plan to I recommend you don't expect it to be really scary, but do expect it to be good.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!We begin with a man, named Frank Cotton, who buys an object called the lament configuration. The object is said to open the gateway to Heaven or Hell and bring you pleasure or pain. Frank chooses Hell...BIG mistake! Years later Frank's brother Larry and his wife Julia move into Frank's old home. Julia soon discovers the undead body of Frank(We learn they were lovers)and is asked to bring him blood to make him whole again. However, his niece Kirsty(Played by the lovely Ashley Laurence)discovers their plans and runs off with the box. She opens it, releasing the cenobites who attempt to take her back with them, but instead make a deal with her. She promises to lead them to Frank if they leave her alone and she keeps her part of the bargain...but do they keep theirs?Great story, good acting, and effects. ***1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Timeless Horror from the 80s!","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The most captivating element of the first Hellraiser movie is that it succeeds in being timeless.  Its special effects wizardry extends beyond the cheap illusion of animatronics but is also not weighted down by the modern components of CGI.  (Which can detract as well as add to a film's credibility)The film is disturbing in its exploitation of gore and vulgarity...but when one considers the subject matter...that is, being cast into Hell, you should expect to find the most disturbing and visually disgusting aspects that run along with it.The one element that makes Hellraiser rise above its contemporaries is that the Cenobites are not the antagonists of this film.  They are merely there to carry the plot along and to provide some gruesome and horrific details in response to the actions of the other characters.  The true antagonists or villains of the film are Frank and Julia Cotton.  Julia's infidelity and Frank's deviant behavior is what paves the way for the Cenobites.  Larry is the victim and Kirsty represents the victorious youth that refuses to yield to the corruption of her forebearers.  IMHO, this is what makes Pinhead and his brethren stand out above other such notables as Jason Voorhees, Freddy Kruger and even Michael Myers.  He is the trickiest of movie monsters, because he does not hunt or stalk or prey upon his victims.  He is only there because someone else wants him to be.  I beleive that THAT is the true horror that is signified in the first film.  Barker showcases the literal characterization of personal demons.  Pinhead said it himself...It is not hands that summon us...but desire.   "},{"Title":"A turning point","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  NO SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEW!Hellraiser is definitely one of THE modern-classic horror films, no less than Halloween, Friday the 13th, Scream, and Stephen King's best.Like all of those, Hellraiser marks a horror turning point.  In this case, that point is a sympathetic, even provocative, connection of the genre to what might be called underground sexuality.  The entire premise of Hellraiser is allure of the forbidden, and the eventual difficulty in distinguishing pleasure from pain, excitement from fear.  (And after all, doesn't that say a lot about the horror film & fiction genre as a whole?In more mundane terms, Hellraiser has also been highly influential visually, and one can see clear echoes of it in later films like Jacob's Ladder, Dark City, Edward Scissorhands, The Cube, and Event Horizon (the last two of which might as well be considered unofficial sequels of Hellraiser - in the former, people are trapped in a menacing giant puzzlebox of sorts the surface designs of which are reminiscent of the Hellraiser box, while in the former the gateway to a hellish other dimension is a sphere that looks like it was made by the same force as created the Hellraiser cube - and there's even some common dialog! See if you find it - there's only a word or two difference, and the creepy invitation is delivered almost exactly the same way.)Subculturally, the fetish/gothic/industrial scenes have taken a major clue from the Hellraiser series antagonist-cum-antihero Pinhead and his Cenobites (and secondarily from his ironic alterego of sorts, Tim Burton's Edward Scissorhands).  Pinhead is a PIB (people in black) icon.  You'll see Pinhead costumes at fetish balls, fetish art like that of Michael Manning shows obvious Cenobite influences, the fetishwear displayed in publications like Skin Two often looks like it was designed for the demons of Hellraiser, and what's a darkwave party without a styrofoam mannequin head full of toothpicks and painted to look like Pinhead (for the hors d'oeuvres, of course)?Influentiality aside, is it a good movie?  Absolutely.  The acting is first-rate for a production of this  funding level (and better than many far more expensive films), the actual horror really is pretty scary, and in a creepy, subliminal way as well as sudden-shock, in-your-face way.This alone sets it apart from about 90% of other non-B horror films (and 99% of B-movie horror films).  You can thank original author Clive Barker for that.  The sets are not only believable but imaginative.  The multi-continental cast lends a worldly and less parochial sense (contrast the Scream series; it's almost retch-inducingly way American). Hellraiser's characters are absolutely unforgettable, and amazingly they are ALL simultaneously repulsive and sympathetic, from Frank and his needy desperation combined with heartless viciousness, to Kirsty and her innocence (which is both annoying and grounding), to the Cenobites and their juxtaposed sinister menace and righteous hedonism, their mixture of exploratory fascination and loathsome outright psychopathology (not to mention their conflicting present selves and ultimate origins, which you don't learn about until Hellbound Hellraiser II.)  And the whole fantasy meshes well with our culturally-derived notions about the dangers of black magic, the tricks inherent in a deal with the devil, and the sexual yet torturous nature of Hell.  On top of all that, the plot is solid, the pace just what it should be, the very slight humor breaks needed but subtle, and the premise of Hell as a dimension or sidereal alternative reality is a wonderful modern take on the Underworld, far more plausible than a Dantan subterrain.The only points worth criticizing would be the special effects. Some of them are downright hokey by today's standards.  When the film was made they were all passable, but imperfect.  This could eventually be improved be a Star Wars Special Edition-style overhaul, replacing the cartoon electricity and rubbery muppet minions with (or overlaying and improving them with) computer-generated effects.  Others will disagree of course, but they have the existing version of the film to satisfy them.If one can suspend disbelief of the somewhat lacking special effects, Hellraiser is a fantastic and disturbingly enjoyable film, the influence of which is certain to be felt for decades to come. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wow!! This was a good horror flick. The acting and plot is good. This movie gets better every viewing. If you want a movie that will scare your socks off, Rent Hellraiser. better yet, buy the movie. This is one Horror movie you should not miss. It's the BOMB baby.I give this film 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Pinhead lives!","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Few horror flicks impress me nowadays and ever since they labelled I know What you did..... as a horror movie,I felt disgusted.It's nice to look back on the 80s and see movies like Hellraiser which can certainly chill a few frigid souls.For all those Clive Barker fans out there,this is a must see! "},{"Title":"A great movie from Clive Barker.","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   From the imagination of Clive Barker comes one of the best horror movies ever. Hellraiser is a psychological horror movie with lots of dark fantasy elements. In my honest opinion, Hellraiser is GREAT!!! "},{"Title":"Not for the weak minded","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can quite understand why this movie is not that appreciated by the hardcore of horror movie fans. It's too complex compared to most of the others. Don't get me wrong, I do love splatter-horror movies too, but Hellraiser is not one of them. You cannot watch it just once and say Well, that certanly was a waste of time. You must take your time to actually consider the deep emotional aspects of the characters. I myself hated it at first, but I gave it another chance. Another unusual twist is that the 'monster' could be reasoned with. How many horror movies has a bad guy like that? This is something I think a regular horror fan would consider a disgrace. Hey, most of the time they don't even speak! So if you hated it Give it another chance, "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of the art","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I strongly disagree with most of the foolish and rushed opinions of most of the veiwers. Hellraiser is a work of art in the genre, during the era of repetitive and utterly predictable slashers with extremely flat characters Clive Barker translated his disturbing novella The Hellbound Heart to screen with a few minor changes.  The film shows that there are limits to pleasure and pain and crossing those boundaries leads to dire consequences. The villains are cold and heartless, not out for revenge but in a desperate act for pleasures and life. The cenobites are relentless and very well acted and give an eerie feel to the film, characters such as these make film history, the visual effects are excellent and the filming is beautiful and grotesque at the same time "},{"Title":"Visually stunning, acted badly","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With this cult classic, you get the feeling that Clive Barker didn't really care about Andrew Robinson or Ashley Laurence's characters, and their parts are wooden because of this. The three other main roles (Clare Higgins, Oliver Smith, and Doug Bradley) are strongly played due to Barker obviously caring about the roles. Aside from that, this is a superbly filmed horror movie, showing that Clive Barker, when he gives himself a good enough script, can rival the horror greats. "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is terribly boring and not a single character has likable traits. This movie is very shallow on suspense, it is mostly about this family moving into this new house which is the most clichd movie concept I have ever heard of, nowadays. I really don't understand a damn thing about this stupid movie. The villain isn't even at all scary looking he looks more like an escaped mental patient who fell asleep at his construction job! I think the whole concept seemed good but it turned out to be a long boring film! It's kind of like the shining where the concept seems fine but it is a complete bore! Overall I give the film a 0 out of 10 for being the most boring and over clichd film I've ever heard of. Movie, I will tear your soul apart! "}{"Title":"W.I.T.H. is going on?","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Just watched Hellraiser for the very first time--mostly in preparation for one of my favorite bad movie podcast commentaries. While watching it I kept asking myself over and over, What the . . .? and Why did he . . .? and Why did that . . .? and How in the world did that just . . . and on and on. I find it's a common complaint I have with Clive Barker movies. It's like you know the movie's being made by someone who, if they were at a party telling you about their recently written fictional story, would speak half of what he wants to say in his mind and the other half out loud. Since HE understands it all so well, he doesn't bother with trying to explain it all to us, because he unconsciously thinks we can all read his mind. Why a puzzle box? Why does it do what it does? How does Frank know about it if no one else has opened it (it was meant for him, after all, and no one else, according to the mysterious seller)? Where's the pleasure part of pain and pleasure come in? How are those disgusting creatures angels to some (if they're demons to someone like Frank who seems to have been on a quest for ultimate pain)? Does the box reveal different things if opened or closed a different way (seems to, but why and how, and where)?Was the house they were moving into and/or buying a house the husband had once lived in? Sounds like it was. After all, they didn't seem at all surprised to find that Frank had been living there (and why did they never ask each other about Frank, and where he might be now, why he was living like a bum, and when he'll be coming back?). And the most niggling question of all, why does the main family, and all their friends, keep referring to that mangy, dirty, dingy, moldy, stinky, dark, gooey, yucky house as A Great House! and A Terrific House! and You've got to see it to believe it! What alternate world is everyone living in there? Weird!!Some great and creepy special effects spotted along the way, and somewhat watchable for that reason, but no other. "},{"Title":"This movie sure dose raise Hell","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Seen this again last night, one of best horror movies to come out in the 80'sAn unfaithful wife encounters the zombie of her dead lover, who's being chased by demons after he escaped from their sado-masochistic Hell.This movie as some bloody moments but stand out the the most was really nasty gory death scene at the end of the movie, that make pinhead and his friends look scary.The acting in this movie was outstanding from everyone in the cast.I think this movie great, however I found Hellraiser 2 even better then this movie. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant in all aspects.","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If I could describe this film in only two words, they would have to be something along the lines of sheer brilliance. Complete originality shrouds this entire film. The meaning behind, the box and all of the temptation along the way. I am one of the souls who has also experienced what the world has to offer! The cenobites are some of the creepiest things I have ever seen. I am a man in my mid-twenties and these things still creep me out when I watch this alone at night. Hands down, do not pass this one up! *** Keep in mind that it is gory at times, if you must close your eyes to get through it, don't give up! It is worth it, I promise. *** "},{"Title":"One of the scariest horror films to emerge from the 1980s!","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" HELLRAISER is such an awesome piece of work! It's a real treat for horror fans & remains one of my top ten favourite horror movies! Unlike a lot of horror films, HELLRAISER wastes no time in getting to the action! It manages to grab the viewers attention almost immediately, as we see a man (FRANK COTTON) buying what looks to be a harmless musical puzzle box from an Asian Man at a small store, upon opening it, Frank is literally torn to shreds & the room he is in, is suddenly transformed into a torture chamber, full of chains & body parts strewn about! (A word of caution, don't watch this movie, before, during or after eating!) Unlike the latter sequels that followed this, Pinhead (Here dubbed Lead Cenobite) & his cenobite followers barely have any screen time, in fact they are mere window dressing to the films real story. The special effects by BOB KEEN are really fantastic here & some of the best to ever grace a horror movie, including the Frank monster, who is seen is several stages, first as a dry husk of a corpse & then a half bloody one & then a bloody, skinless monster, his resurrection from under the floor boards is a real fantastic piece of work!. The gore is good & plenty but never gratuitous believe it or not, since it actually serves the films story. We see rats twitching in a death spasm, as they have been nailed to the wall by Frank, who at one point even skins a dead rat! various victims are bludgeoned with a hammer, a nail ripping through a hand, a head is ripped in half along with the rest of the body that is torn into by hooks & chains, a person literally pulled apart by hooks & left strewn all over a room, a steaming bloody corpse, maggot infused rotting corpses also lie about. The cenobites themselves are very well done & articulated, a really colourful cavalcade of monsters, who are adorned in black leather, with sewn up wounds, nails encrusted into their flesh & their bodies pierced, they spend the early half in the shadows, before coming to light in the latter half of the film. What I really liked about HELLRAISER, is that at a time when the otherworldly monsters were considered the main villains & their human counterparts the good guys, HELLRAISER does a radical shift in tone, by making the human characters, (in this films case FRANK & JULIA) the real monsters of the piece & not the cenobites! Unlike a lot of horror films of it's period, HELLRAISER has a very fresh & original plot for a horror movie. It's main story is not about monsters, but rather infidelity, murder, hedonism, excess & temptation & back stabbing the ones a person loves or pretends to love, in order to fulfil their own desires, no matter how much it may hurt others or manipulate them. The character of Frank really stands out, he's a rather disturbing character, who's lust for sex is never quenched or satisfied to his fulfilment, & shares a very sickening attraction to his niece Kirsty, that is quiet disturbing. The acting is very well done here & the score by CHRISTOPHER YOUNG is absolutely fantastic! CLIVE BARKER making his feature film directorial debut, really amazes one with his fantastic knack for directing (Written from his own novel, THE HELLBOUND HEART). his vision is fierce & unrelenting. What's worth noting is how some element of Barker's novel was changed for the film version, Larry was originally called Rory & Kirsty was a co-worker of his, the Wall Crawler demon seen in the film, was known as the Engineer & Frank's opening the portals of hell at the beginning, sees him get sexually massaged by some faceless female cenobites, what's notable here, is how the engineer name, the faceless white designs of the cenobites, seen on the cover art & described in the novel, all turned up in HELLRAISER INFERNO. The film is almost unbearably suspenseful at times, such as scenes where Kirsty investigates the house while no one else is there & then winds up being caught in a room by the skinless Frank, the scene where she is visited by the cenobites in a hospital, being chased down a long dark labyrinth by a wall crawling demon, trying to escape the sadistic Frank in a twisted game of cat & mouse, after she has murdered her dad & step mother & the cenobites attempting to take Kirsty back to their world at the end & her final fight with the Wall Crawler, that wants the box that is in her possession. HELLRAISER also sports some creepy moments, more particularly a dirty bum that seemingly follows Kirsty around & is revealed at the end to be a terrifying demon. Indeed HELLRAISER is a near perfect horror film, that barely has any downsides to it, which is a rarity with a lot of horror films especially in all my years of reviewing horror films, in fact in my eyes the only downside this film has is (presumably at the behest of the studio) a potential love interest is introduced for Larry's teenage daughter Kirsty, in that of Steve, this character adds nothing to the film, feels forced in, is not interesting & thankfully Barker doesn't seem to like this idea either & spends very little time on it. To me it's nothing more than a forced & watered down love story that could so easily have been written around.All in all, I highly recommend HELLRAISER to any horror fan who hasn't seen it yet! It's a very worthwhile horror movie, that is never boring & always manages to keep one watching, as it engrosses them into it's well written & captivating story. Followed by eight sequels, starting with HELLBOUND HELLRAISER II **** stars "},{"Title":"Hellraiser","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Astounding and groundbreaking horror from Clive Barker about a family destroyed by what a puzzle box summons. Extremely gory and graphic, but exciting and thrilling also.   "},{"Title":"The Kaballah of Hellraiser","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" (Words have been compromised to pass the spelling censor.) The three designs evenly distributed on Pinhead's (Doug Bradley's) Hellraiser puzzle box represent The three forbidden secrets of the sacred mysteries, which is always a tour through the Underworld, Hades, Sheol, the Bardo and also known as Hell. You will notice that first a central button is pushed. This face represents the witchcraft secret revealed especially on pages 170 and 171 of The Adventure of Self Discovery by Dr. Stanislav Grof and available from www.heliotrope.com .Pain and pleasure indivisible, it replaced LSD. You cannot enter the Underworld without the golden bough ( Vogel stimulation with the Vegas nerve), but, The road to Averness is easy, Virgil, in his Aenied. William Morgan was killed for revealing this secret. Second, two things spread and a finger is stuck in the gap. This represents the alchemy secret revealed in the earliest posts of Dr. Lahunkun in groups.yahoo.com/group/alchemy61/ . There you will learn how to make an opposite polarity cancellation reactor, which the ancients called a shekina. Dr. Wilhelm Reich was killed for revealing this secret. And, third, the circle was traced all the way around by a finger. This represents the sorcery secret, that there are other probability time lines that can be contacted, visited and used by taking advantage of the fact that the polarity cancellation equals the natural logarithm of the probability relationship. Did you ever notice that TV and movies about time travel always propagated that if you, messed with the past it could be disastrous for the world. First of all, you can't go back on your exact time line, like to meet your actual past self, for, the quantum probability wave crests prevent this by clashing. This is solid quantum mechanics. The propaganda that time was only one line for everybody was a lie, and it's denial a secret. But, we complained enough that Scientific American, in it's May 2003 article The Multiverse confessed that there are multiple time lines; and, the mutiverse is so infinite, for example, there has to be a real Pinhead somewhere, sometime, on some probability time line, in a multiverse' that has everything. And, each probability is repeated infinitely. Sorcery is probability manipulation. For example, rituals by manipulating probability distributions change time lines. Rituals are not witchcraft. There is no real witchcraft without Vogel stimulation. If with but the faith of a mustard seed you say to this mountain move it shall be moved. I knew a girl who bragged about the incredible bad luck she had. The more people who believed her the worse her luck became. It pays to control our speech. Rituals are sorcery. Dr. Franz Ludwig Boltzman was killed for revealing this secret, and THEY put S = k Lyn W on his gravestone. In Hellraiser II, Hellbound, we saw that Hell is structured in stone. Who builds in stone? What is a builder in stone called? THEY consider these secrets to be THEIR exclusive privileged property. THEY dare claim a monopoly on Hell! Recreational and entertaining place to visit, but you wouldn't want to live here. In Yahoo's Alchemy 61 you will learn how to explore the Underworld like us, explorers in the further regions of experience; demons to some, angels to others. The earlier posts of Alchemy 61 provides you with many other related sites. We have such sites to show you. "},{"Title":"Classic Hellraiser","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you are a film lover of horror, blood, gore and sexy scenes with just bare muscle and blood, this picture has it all from beginning to the very end. The story is something like a Pandora's Box which has a puzzle to solve and if you twist the blocks the wrong way, all Hell breaks loose. Even if you should get injured and have a loss of blood on the floor, you can be certain some one or SOME THING will smell the blood and desire a great deal more than you can handle. There are plenty of wild looking characters from a Pin Head to real nightmare of faces that all look like the devil had something to do with their facials! ENJOY "},{"Title":"While not necessarily a great horror movie by the usual criteria, Hellraiser is a truly exceptional addition to the horror genre.","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yes, Hellraiser is gory, perhaps even overly so. Yes, it's full of blood as well as a fair amount of sex. Yes, the story is questionable at best. And yes, the acting was awful from a lot of the cast, but Hellraiser is nonetheless one of the most distinctive horror films ever made. Despite all of its numerous flaws, Hellraiser succeeds because it is so different from the typical slasher horror film, a subgenre that was created almost single-handedly by John Carpenter's 1978 classic, Halloween.Clive Barker comes up with some of the most original and fascinating (as well as probably the most recognizable) characters in horror history with the Cenobites, particularly Pinhead. Everything about this character (as well as the other cenobites, but to a lesser extent) just radiates pure evil. The grey/white skin color, the hellish leather costume, the voice, the nails driven into his head, his EYES, all of these characteristics combine perfectly to make-up the most original and sinister horror characters in decades. Not only all that, but there is not a single other character out there who even vaguely resembles him, and this is extremely rare. This is one of the things that makes him so overpowering, no one has ever seen anyone like this before, nor has anyone come up with anything like him since. However, despite the breathtakingly fascinating and frightening cenobites, there is little to be said for Hellraiser. The gory make-up of Frank, as he slowly comes back to life, was amazingly convincing and sickening (with the exception of the primitive reverse motion photography), but the story and the acting were both mediocre. The story concerns a man who spends a ridiculous amount of money on some sort of evil puzzle box in search of the ultimate sensual experience, and instead he is dealt hell by the Cenobites, who respond whenever the box is solved (why this is true is not revealed until part III). His previous lover, now married to his brother, tries to bring him back to life when her new husband accidentally bleeds on the wrong wooden floor, beginning the process of bringing Frank back to life. Now Julia, Frank's former lover, is faced with the challenge of feeding Frank numerous victims in order to complete the process. This sickening love story is rather difficult to believe, seeing how I feel that no human being on Earth would fall in love with something that looked the way that Frank did early in his resurrection, regardless of how much they loved him when he was alive. Neither Andrew Robinson as Larry or Claire Higgins as Julia were very convincing, although they both delivered much better performances than did Ashley Laurence, who comes forth with probably (HOPEfully) the worst performance of her forgettable career. This was obviously her movie acting debut, she made that clear in every forced and annoying sob that escaped her mouth. There is not much to be said about the story, acting, or even the direction (an area in which I expected more from Clive Barker, having read many of his books, despite the fact that this was his directorial debut), but Hellraiser is a horror film that is not soon to be forgotten. It deals with the very human issues of greed, indulgence, and even loyalty. However, this is not the type of film you watch if you want to learn a lesson in any of those areas. Because of that, Hellraiser works best as an all-out gory horror film, the kind of movie that you would watch with your buddies late at night just to have a good time. It is not a film for all tastes (despite its morbidly appealing cover), many people will surely dislike it. But anyone who is even remotely into scary movies should not miss it under any circumstance.  "},{"Title":"terrifying movie","Date":"25 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The plot of the movie has a man named Frank buying a puzzle box that opens up a portal to another dimension when opened, summoning demons who come and take who opened the box to be subjected to sadomasochism. Frank opens the box and he is killed and taken by the demons. Frank's body is resurrected later by blood from a man named Larry. Larry's daughter Kirsty comes across the box and takes it. At a hospital, she opens it, unintentionally summoning the demons who come for her and she makes a deal with them to give them Frank so they'll take him instead of her. Maybe. The demons take Frank back but still come after Kirsty and she sends them back with the box. The movie is extremely disturbing and scary and children should be kept away from it like it's the plague. "},{"Title":"Clive Barker's classic best Hellraiser slasher horror flick of the 80's, a True Masterpiece!","Date":"19 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser (1987) is Clive Barker's cult classic best horror slasher flick in the series from the 80's. My favorite film will be definitely this one. A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) is my favorite horror slasher flick, but Hellraiser is not behind him, is definitely my second favorite horror film in the horror slasher genre. This film is very scary and I seriously love the main heroine Kirsty Cotton (Ashley Laurence). I love her character for been such a decent human being, who found out about her father been in great danger and what her step mother is doing with her uncle behind her back. This flick was released the same year that A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors come out (another horror film that I love). This horror awesome film is based on Clive Barker's novel The Hellbound Heart, which he also wrote a script for the film. I am not the biggest horror film fan like are other people, I definitely hate Halloween (1978) and the series franchise because I always have nightmares. But Hellraiser is different and it is similar too a Wes Craven's A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984), which both of the genre are decent. I read somewhere that Clive Barker and Ashley Laurence don't want to talk about Hellraiser anymore and that is very sad. Doug Bradley's character Pinhead is a decent true horror icon that I love. I love Hellraiser to death and in the series franchise the first Hellraiser is my number 1 horror film.You set me up, bitch! Plot An unfaithful wife encounters the zombie of her dead lover; demons are pursuing him after he escaped their sadomasochistic underworld.The plot about the film is simple, it is entertaining, fast paced not boring and goes really fast. It is well edited, the special effects are beautiful and acting is very decent. Andrew Robinson did an excellent job portraying his character Larry Cotton. I really love him in this movie. Andrew Robinson also portrayed Scorpio in Dirty Harry (1971) and he also played Detective Monte in Stallone's Cobra (1986) a year earlier, before he went to star in Hellraiser. Ashley Laurence is very beautiful, gorgeous and touching, smart intelligent horror heroine. Clare Higgins as Julia Cotton was awesome as the main villain, Sean Chapman as Frank the other villain was also great, but the most that I love in this film is Doug Bradley as Pinhead.In the opening scene we found a man who opens a puzzle box with portal of heaven and earth and the Cenobites pulls him and his soul in the hell and hooked chains emerge and tear him apart. Man and wife move into an old house and discover a hideous creature - the man's half-brother, who is also the woman's former lover - hiding upstairs. Having lost his earthly body to a trio of S&M demons, the Cenobites, an accident causes some of Larry's blood to spill on the attic floor, which somehow triggers Frank's resurrection. To complete his resurrection, he requires more blood which Julia provides while Kirsty discovers Frank's puzzle box which leads her to meet with the Cenobites. On the end of the film I turn's out in to a battle of fits, when Kirsty finds out that the Cenobites will not hold up to their deal, but they are double crossing her and they will tear her sole anyway apart. With the help of the puzzle box she fights for her life and her survival, while she defeats the Cenobites.I got yesterday this film on Blu-ray and I seriously wish, I would have watch this movie as a teen. Like I said this film is a cult classic is far way better than John Carpenter's Halloween and far way better than a dozen Texas Chain Saw Massacre films and way much better than any Friday the 13th movies. I will rather watch this films than those horror film I mentioned. I haven't saw all Hellraiser movies, I only got six movies on Blu-ray and this is the second time I have watch this movie.Overral Hellraiser is a horror slasher classic, that is based on Clive Barker's book The Hellbound Heart. This movie is a cult classic and definitely one of the best movies ever made in a horror slasher genre from the 80's. I really wish there would be movies like this today, but sadly they aren't. Hellraiser get's a perfect 10 by me. I have enjoyed this film and I love it to death.Hellraiser is a 1987 British horror film written and directed by Clive Barker, based on his own novella The Hellbound Heart. The film spawned a series of sequels.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio New World Pictures Starring Andrew Robinson, Clare Higgins, Ashley Laurence, Sean Chapman, Oliver Smith, Doug Bradley, Nicholas Vince, Simon Bamford, Grace Kirby Director Clive Barker Producer Christopher Figg Screenplay Clive Barker Based on The Hellbound Heart by Clive Barker Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 33 Mins. Budget $1,000,000 Box Office $14,564,027 "}{"Title":"S&M On another level","Date":"6 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Kirsty Cotton Who are you? Lead Cenobite Explorers in the further regions of experience. Demons to some, angels to others.It puzzles me that a movie like Hellraiser is so underrated. Everyone has heard of the franchise and Pinhead, but for some reason this movie has been left out on many Classic Horror movies lists. Despite not having that much psychological suspense, it still remains a solid movie in my eyes. Sure, the acting is a bit wooden and the very few special effects are plain bad but it's nothing that'll ruin your experience. It seems that the make-up artists've enjoyed themselves with Hellraiser as the results are absolutely astonishing. The Cenobites, with their alien- like appearances, look like they came straight out of your nightmares, only to cause you even more nightmares. Clive Barker's grim and raw Body Horror, Hellraiser, remains an unsung movie that every Horror fanatic should see. You could say it's S&M on another level. "},{"Title":"Pushes the boundaries of life, sex and death.","Date":"24 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser at its Hellbound heart is a story of love, longing, obsession, lust and the abject boredom and the familiarity of marriage. This is a dark family saga that is more akin to Shakespeare and Macbeth than The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. The stars of film may be the briefly glimpsed Cenobites, throwing hooks on chains and obeying the steadfast rules of their leader 'Pinhead' (or as the credited Lead Cenobite), but for me the real stars are Larry, Julia and Frank; their secrets, and how Julia will do literally anything for her man. Just seek out this film and the box.A classic 10/10. Clive Barkers Masterpiece of Passion , desire, pleasures, and pain. Is the ultimate Desire. "},{"Title":"Hellraiser broke rules","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After the glut of slasher films in the late Seventies and early Eighties, featuring more or less the same baddies - masked men out for slaughter in the name of implacable revenge - Hellraiser was, for me at least, a revelation. I mean, I can still remember seeing Hellraiser for the first time, and there are very, very few films about which I can say that. I was about to start secondary school, and my friend Ben told me about a free midnight showing at the movie theater near my house. So it's the middle of the night, and I think to myself hell, it's free - why not? And then the movie starts. A man buys a mysterious puzzle box from a stranger in a foreign country. The stranger says Take it, it's yours. And the man walks away. Then the stranger says It always was. . And then the puzzle box opens up and hooks fly out of it and tear the man into pieces.And this film does work and does still hold up to the extent that it does because the film isn't really about the Cenobites - it's immediately about Julia, Frank, and Larry, the things we do for love (the novella was called The Hellbound Heart), and the price we pay for desire (Frank betraying Julia to get a crack at Kirsty, for example). More distally, it's about the corrupting influence of the box as it comes into other people's lives. To the extent that the film is about the box and those it encounters, it works more effectively in a multiple-film framework because you can tell all kinds of stories within that, and I think that's why the film opens and closes on scenes of people acquiring the box. But that's not the direction in which future films would go. Future films would, instead - at least for awhile - focus on the Cenobites as franchisable characters "},{"Title":"Audiences had no idea what hit them in 1987 when Hellraiser hit movie theater screens.","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Audiences had no idea what hit them in 1987 when Hellraiser hit movie theater screens.As everyone knows now, this film turned out to be a launching pad for the one element that has remained constant in all of its sequels Pinhead, essentially the leader of the Cenobites, played with theatrical relish by Doug Bradley. Though he and his cadre have only a few minutes of screen time here, his pincushion face and dark eyes were enough to make him the literal poster Hellraiser boy for this film and its mascot in all future installments. With that in mind, newcomers may be surprised at the darkly romantic tone of this first film, which plays with tropes like the evil stepmother and doomed lovers.Apart from Bradley, the most valuable performers here are definitely Laurence, a very likable heroine at a time when good final girls were in short supply, and Higgins and Robinson, who have fun with their roles for reasons that can't be expounded upon here without spoiling the finale. (Robinson's final line was improvised on the spot and remains one of the greatest moments in late '80s horror.) It's also a visually striking film with lots of bold lighting, inventive makeup designs, and nifty production design, all supported by a memorably barnstorming music score by the great Christopher Young (a New World favorite stepping in when the studio rejected an early submission by British group Coil). Unfortunately New World's involvement led to a few unfortunate issues, namely the imposition of atrocious, disturbingly flat American dubbed voices on Chapman (and his skinless incarnation played by Oliver Smith) and Hines, which sound absolutely awful and flat. Few viewers noticed the tinkering, however, and the film became a big hit despite a lot of critical grousing at the time like Roger Ebert's half-star review that posed the question, Who goes to see movies like this? What do they get out of them?Hellraiser Not surprisingly, Hellraiser has remained a popular title on DVD and stayed in circulation readily since its original VHS release from New World.A Pure Clive Barker Vision A Classic. "},{"Title":"Impressive achievement in Horror","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's the story of a puzzle box, but not just any puzzle box. This one, when worked open, brings forth creatures known as cenobites that will spend a long time putting the puzzler through the full range of pleasurable pains. When Julia (Clare Higgins) and Larry (Andrew Robinson) move back to Larry's old homestead Julia begins to remember the passionate affair she had with his brother Frank (Sean Chapman). Little does she realise that Frank is residing in the house in spirit after his encounter with the cenobites, he just needs to find a way back. Larry's daughter Kirsty (Ashley Laurence) gets herself embroiled in the situation when she ends up toying around with the puzzle box that causes all of the nastiness.A very gifted horror writer and director, Clive Barker makes his directorial debut with 'Hellraiser', a disturbing and creepy film. As a director though, he's only done 3 films including 'Hellraiser', Nightbreed and Lord of Illusions, both movies made in the 90's. As a horror writer though, some may declare him a little sick in the head, or just a little looney, but he's actually a very gifted man. Sure some of the stuff he writes is twisted, but it's brutally artistic and beautiful, the man is a legend in the business of horror. This movie though is actually very twisted, it's one of the craziest and creepiest horror movies I've had the time to check out lately. The film isn't bent on gore or endless nudity to satisfy us, but on pure terror, the gruesomeness of the movie is enough to make anyone feel a little off balance.So, here we have Clive Barker's directorial debut, which has now become a cult classic. "},{"Title":"Criminally overlooked  -This is horror Film making at its finest","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser has a relatively simple premise. Frank, presumably unsatisfied and unsated by earthly pursuits, desires the ultimate in pleasure/pain and ventures into a sadistic realm via a small, golden Rubik's-like cube. He is torn to pieces within five minutes in an empty room and his still-living remains are re- assembled by a demon that came to be known as 'Pinhead'. His name is a giveaway. Cut to Frank's brother, Larry, and his reclamation of the family's old house. We know that Frank's wife, Julia, had an affair with Frank and it's that physical experience of utter abandonment that has consumed her to the point of (some may argue) unreasonableness via a number of murderous hammer blows. Blood is spilled and Frank's soul physically sprouts from the floorboards in a make up effects extravaganza that, in its time, was an eye watering special effect. I mean, this guy rebuilds himself, vein by vein, muscle by muscle, in front of our eyes. It's a startling creation. Julia has to lure men to murder them in order to get Frank to feed and to become physically human again.Claire Higgins as Julia does a superb job in convincing me that the love and ownership of a man - now only in her memory as he starts to regenerate from the bones up &#x96; is so powerful that she would pretend to seduce strangers and then reign down on them with a hammer. It takes some skill to make this stuff work. Ably abetting her in his enforced ordinariness is her husband played at first with a straight nice-guy goody dad 'can't stand the sight of blood' vibe by Outsider favourite Andrew Robinson. The fact he gets a chance to do what he does best in the last act of the movie is a delayed treat. Robinson, of course, was the sniper in Dirty Harry and the venal but secretive Garak in Star Trek Deep Space Nine. He does creepy in his sleep and is especially good at illustrating with very little, the joy his characters get from being utterly sociopathic. Doing an admirable job whilst swathed in eerily convincing skinless body stages is Oliver Smith playing Frank resurrected. Rounding up the acting talent is a nod to the 80s ideal of young and sexy (big hair!) is Ashley Laurence as Kirsty, the daughter (importantly the step-daughter to Julia). In some ways she has the hardest part playing 'us'. She does what we'd do if confronted by the horrors she runs into &#x96; scream and run away. Well, that's what I'd do. Her grounded and honest performance. The plot is engaging, the acting is excellent, and the camera work is astounding considering the budget, but it is in imagery that this film excels. The cenobites, lead by Pin Head, are makeup marvels. Pin Head has rightly become an horror icon and Doug Bradley's portrayal, particularly his voice, is perfect for the powerful, amoral demon. When he says We have such sights to show you, I find myself wondering how extraordinary those sights would be, and how horrifying. The dangling chains, hooks, and blood add to the atmosphere. On top of all that is Christopher Young's majestic score. "},{"Title":"What can be said about Hellraiser that hasn't already been said? It's a classic film","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker's quite the peculiar guy. The man has a thing for writing, for one, but the ideas he comes up with, in writing and elsewhere, are certainly 'out there'. I didn't know what to think when I first saw HELLRAISER (other than the fact that I will never go near an S&M bar), but it was certainly a departure from the norm. It was quite a trip.What can be said about Hellraiser that hasn't already been said? It's a classic film.The first Hellraiser film has always reminded me of a sort of European soap opera, with skinless bodies and cenobites from hell. The whole thing plays out like a terrifying nightmare that seems all too real. It really frames the 80s quite well and serves as a definite example of cultural zeitgeist. An example of a man who has grown weary of the pleasures of earth and toys with the things that simple shouldn't be touched.Clare Higgins is amazing as Julia, and the character of Frank is well played as well. With that being said, I thought Ashley Laurence's' Kirsty to be very annoying. She really gets on my nerves, but she was better in the sequel perhaps because she was young and the character represents the sweet virginal innocence. Unfortunately today's mainstream audience might not be able to see how effective the film really is due to some outdated filmmaking. "},{"Title":"I must say that Hellraiser is still one of the best horror films ever made in my book.","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Whenever there are discussions about some of the most iconic horror films and franchises, it's notable that Hellraiser and its various sequels may be mentioned, but usually towards the end of the list. The degrading quality of the franchise is something of a trick though as the original Hellraiser is not only spectacular, but it still retains significant impact. Clive Barker's directing debut is a whopper of a film (it helps he wrote it too) and there a plenty of things to admire about this low budget masterpiece of atmospheric weight and horrific and meaningful gore. At its foundation, Hellraiser is a film about domestic fracturing. And honestly, on its bare bones this story has been done before, but it's the details that make this story worth it. Character relationships, like the unusual connections between the step-mother and uncle and how the daughter is treated, make this film a little more human then what a normal story about opening the gate way to hell could have been if the focus was on the Cenobites and their arrival. It's these details with the characters, along with some stellar performances, are what make this tale so impactful and still very personal proportions.Oddly enough, for a film crafted in 1987, Hellraiser has aged like a fine wine that allows its little nuances to only get better with time. Many films date far too quickly, yet Hellraiser to this day still packs as much punch as it was the first time I saw it. Clive Barker and company do a lot of great things on this film, including character development, flow, set designs, and of course the horrific special effects, but what makes Hellraiser such a great experience is the little things. Like the quick and precise editing, the bombastic classical and creepy score, or even just some of the sound effects like the chiming bells in the back ground of the coming Cenobites. intense horror story with stunning special effects and atmosphere out the yahzoo.I must say that Hellraiser is still one of the best horror films ever made in my book. It's lasted the test of time and even though some of the special effects and clothing may seem dated (although I would argue the return of Frank is one of the coolest ideas and creepiest scenes I have ever witnessed) this film is one that will last on the books for its universality and its unabated boundaries. "},{"Title":"Clive Barker's directorial debut Hellraiser","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker's directorial debut Hellraiser. Based on Mr. Barker's novella, A Hellbound Heart, Hellraiser first opened our eyes September 18th, 1987, in theaters both throughout the United States and the UK.Clive Barker's his debut film, he directs a horror befitting of his own truly twisted tale. The practical effects, despite the budget, are fantastic. The gruesome creations, including the now iconic Pinhead, are masterpieces of horror. Pinhead and the Hellraiser franchise would go on to stretch to nine films, a comic series and make a cult star of lead actor Doug Bradley. Whilst the Hellraiser franchise never matched the financial and mainstream popularity of bigger horror juggernauts like Halloween, A Nightmare on Elm Street or Friday the 13th the increasingly-iconic image of Pinhead has bled into the public consciousness and the pinned-being remains a titan of the genre to horror fans. Despite the immediate recognizability of main antagonist Pinhead to casual film fans - many of them have not seen Hellraiser film - let alone could not connect Pinhead to the Hellraiser series.Upon rewatching the later Hellraiser films, something bizarre struck me - and that was actually how little Pinhead and his fellow cenobites feature in the series. Whilst audiences thrive on seeing the chaos caused by Pinhead's genre counterparts like Michael Myers, The Tall Man and Freddy Krueger, Pinhead remains a little-used device in the Hellraiser world.These gruesome beings are villains you've never seen before. Barker has not regurgitated the hockey-mask baddie or the knife-wielding psycho. He has created sado-masochistic enemies that are creepy beyond hell. They chatter their teeth as if a constant breeze is blowing. One, nicknamed Pinhead, looks like an acupuncture session gone horribly wrong. Another one looks like a pile of gooey skin.How the Cenobites fit into the movie is left a mystery. This is frustrating, but probably the right move on Barker's part. Knowing the chapter headings, rather than all of the details, keeps them scary and mysterious. Plus, there needs to be room for a sequel.The performances are all fairly well conceived, with Higgins being the best of the bunch. Ashley Laurence's Kirsty, Larry's daughter from a previous marriage, is probably the worst of them, but then again her lines of dialogue are the cheesiest.The special effects for a low-budget horror film from 1987 are impressive. They're not quite on par with John Carpenter's The Thing, but they rank as some of the best in the genre. Frank's reemergence from the zombie state is believable and gruesome.Hellraiser, almost 29 years after its original release, hasn't aged much. It may not scare the socks off genre fans, but it will impress with its originality and dark, dark twists and turns. "},{"Title":"Clive Barker's Cult Classic Horror Masterpiece","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's interesting to watch the Hellraiser films evolve, from the human monsters (Julia and Frank) of the first film to the Pinhead-centric narrative of Hellraiser III Hell on Earth. Clive Barker's Hellraiser is still an incredibly potent horror picture an intimate study of a nightmarish scenario, with much to say about family and sexuality. The box, when solved, opens a doorway to the world of the Cenobites &#x96; a world which will be fleshed out more thoroughly in the secrets, but within the context of Hellraiser remains largely mysterious.Kirsty's opening of the box summons the Cenobites. 'The box. You opened it. We came', Pinhead tells Kirsty upon their first meeting in the hotel room. 'It's just a puzzle box!', Kirsty protests. 'Oh, no', Pinhead tells her, 'It is a means to summon us'. 'Who are you?', Kirsty asks. 'Explorers in the further regions of experience', Pinhead answers, 'Demons tot some; angels to others. You solved the box; we came. Now you must come with us; taste our pleasures'. Recognising Kirsty's fear, Pinhead tells her, 'Oh, no tears, please. It's a waste of good suffering'. A Classic Film series Open The Boxes if you dare to a world of pain and pleasure. "}{"Title":"What's your pleasure?...","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You can't be a horror fan and not be familiar with Clive Barker's Hellraiser movies. And as a horror fan chances are that you will enjoy them - the first few movies at the very least.The core of the story of the Hellraiser franchise revolves around a mysterious artifact - an intricate puzzle box - which is said to be able to grant people what they desire the most. But it comes with a price, a terrible, terrible price. And it is guarded by the vile Cenobites.The warped mind of Clive Barker really came up with something wonderfully morbid and disturbing when Hellraiser was first unleashed upon the world. Especially the Cenobites, they are grotesque but interesting at the same time.In the first movie Larry and his wife Julia moves into Larry's old family house. The very same house where his brother Frank tried to unlock the puzzle box and was sent to Hell. An accident causes Larry's blood to be spilled on the floor, bringing back Frank from the dead. But in his flayed and fleshless state of being, Frank needs the blood and flesh of the living in order to regenerate his own body. But no one escapes Hell that easily.For a 1987 movie, I will say that the effects still hold their own today, having withstood the test of time. Especially the rebirth of Frank and his transformation back to fully human. And the Cenobites, lets not forget the Cenobites; they were just amazing.With this now classic horror movie the World saw the likes of Doug Bradley like never before and he instantly became a horror legend, just as Pinhead became a horror icon.I grew up with these horror movies along with other horror franchises, and I love them even today and make frequent visits back to them. If you are not familiar with Hellraiser, shame on you. Then I would strongly recommend that you sit down and watch it, perhaps even do a movie marathon of the series. "},{"Title":"Stands out as one of the finest horrors of its era","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Upon its release in 1987, Stephen King was quoted as saying, about Hellraiser, I have seen the future of horror, and his name is Clive Barker. The backing of such an icon of horror is high praise indeed, and the fact that Hellraiser still holds up today, 28 years after its release, is a testament to the quality of Clive Barker's hellish vision, based on his own novella, The Hellbound Heart. In an era full of horror movies fronted by broad, almost comic villains, and audiences preferences leaning towards bland American slashers, Hellraiser took a stance as a serious piece of work - rich in atmosphere, disturbing in tone and visually arresting - the foundations on which horror classics are built.Contrary to popular belief (and his over-exposure in the - currently - 8 sequels), Pinhead (Doug Bradley) and his entourage of grotesque Cenobites remain in the background for the majority of the first instalment. The plot instead focuses the grisly fate and gradual re- birth of thrill-seeking scumbag Frank (Sean Chapman), who, in seeking the ultimate sexual enlightenment, purchases a mysterious puzzle box from a Chinese man which opens the gates of Hell when solved. Frank manages to do so, and is impaled by hooks and dragged into a world of torture, mutilation and degradation. Some time later, Frank's brother Larry (Andrew Robinson) and his second wife Julia (Clare Higgins) move into the home previously inhabited by Frank. While moving furniture, Larry cuts his hand on a protruding nail, inadvertently bringing Frank back from Hell and igniting his gruesome re-birth.The plot treads carefully between being mysterious and plain confusing. There are no attempts made to explain just why Larry's blood brings Frank back into the real world and what exactly Frank was hoping to achieve by experiencing Hell, but these small details become insignificant in the wake of such visual splendour and immersing atmosphere. It can also be forgiven for some soap-opera dramatics as Julia's previous infidelity with Frank is exposed, and her manipulation into bringing Frank bodies to feed on while her suspicious step-daughter Kirsty (Ashley Laurence) keep her a watchful eye. Hellraiser employs a slow, careful build-up, so when the true horror springs into life near the end and the Cenobites rear their ugly heads, it is all the more effective for it.Now a fully-fledge horror icon, Pinhead and his cronies are a strange manifestation of deformed monsters and bondage fetishism. They arrive with skin pinned back in various abominable positions, parts of their face and torso pierced with all manners of tools and devices, and all twisted beyond the point of no return by their experiences searching for the ultimate pleasures of the flesh. Part BDSM nightmare and part body horror, Hellraiser's climax is still one of the most disturbing things ever filmed without being particularly scary. Despite its narrative flaws and wobbly plot explanations, Clive Barker's film stands out as one of the finest of its era, spinning a complex and dark mythology around a low-key plot, with the uncanny ability to creep under your skin and stay there for a significant amount of time afterwards. "},{"Title":"Hellraiser","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This low budget 80s horror film is a lot better than it sounds. Its themes are not particularly original the accidental resurrection - Dracula has done that a few times; the need to feed on blood or human flesh to complete that resurrection - something done to greater effect in the 1999 film The Mummy; and invaders from the netherworld. Nevertheless, put them all together with some special effects, and this isn't a bad effort, even if it does take place almost entirely in one house.The bad guy is Frank, who is abominable in death, and wasn't much better in life; his mistress - the wife of his brother - becomes his willing helper, luring no fewer than three unsuspecting men to their deaths on the promise of a bunk up. Needless to say, the third one goes wrong, and here we identify the true damsel, the daughter of Frank's brother; his helper is actually Frank's second wife, for whom the transformation from serial murderess to wicked stepmother is a stroll in the park, but our damsel is not the swooning kind, and thwarts the powers of darkness all but single-handed.Sadly, the ending provides a hint to the sequel, which although not inevitable was clearly on the cards, as indeed was the franchise. "},{"Title":"A man escapes from a group of sadistic beings called Cenobites, and seeks the aid of his lover to restore him back to a full human form through blood.","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first time I caught a glimpse of this movie, Pinhead was the most memorable. Now that I have seen the movie in its entirety, it still manages to entertain. The premise is like a convoluted love story with gore sprinkled on top. The relationship between Clare Higgin's character with that of her lover is intriguing. She seems to want to escape from her past but cannot resist helping him even in his hideous form. Higgin's performance makes the character complicated, and interesting. You can feel her troubles. Another standout performance is by Doug Bradley as the Pinhead. Every time he and his team come out, there is a feeling of tension because you know something bad will come. Even if he only stands there and talk, you know you don't want him around in the neighborhood. The story itself is not scary, but the theme is dark. The story and performances by Higgins and Bradley greatly lift the material. Ashley Laurence's role as the daughter caught between the events is perfect. The character is not a saint but we still root for her. I think the true horror of this story is knowing nothing is going to end well for anyone involved. While the character Frank is supposed to be the villain, you can still sympathize with him when you see the Cenobites coming. In short, the story works because we fear for all the characters despite their flaws. P.s. the special effects looked great. I still love those effects over CGI. "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Horror Films Ever Made. An Excellent,Scary,Terrifying And Unforgettable Horror Classic From Clive Barker.","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser is one of the greatest Horror films ever made,an excellent,scary and unforgettable Horror classic that combines terrific direction,a fine cast,great special effects and an amazing score. All of those elements make Hellraiser Clive Barker and Horror movies at their best.Based on the novella The Hellbound Heart by Clive Barker,Hellraiser tells the story about Husband and wife Larry(Andrew Robinson)and Julia Cotton(Clarie Higgins)who have moved into Larry's childhood home. While there Julia discovers the skinless but alive body of Frank Cotton(Sean Chapman,Oilver Smith)Larry's brother and Julia's former lover who has escaped the clutches of monsters called Cenobites who exist in a puzzle box that when opened unleashes pain and Horror. Frank decides to use Julie to help him get some blood and skin which leads to terror and chaos.Released in 1987,Hellraiser is a brilliant and unforgettable Horror film that was the directorial debut of novelist CLive Barker and was the movie that introduced Barker and one of the all-time iconic characters in Pinhead to the world of Horror. During the time when Slasher movies were all the rage,Hellraiser was released and gave audiences something different and also gave audiences one of the most original,imaginative,twisted and bizarre Horror movies of all-time and one of the finest genre films of the 1980s. Hellraiser is a truly depraved but incredible work of Horror that is like a nightmare coming to life that is ugly,bleak and is a movie that offers no salvation for viewers and puts viewers who are watching the movie through hell and back. Hellraiser is unique because it was the film where S&M was combined with Horror and Fantasy showing viewers a frightening world where somethings are turned on it's headtorture is fun,pain is good mixing together with themes such as murder,death,sex and lust. The scares and terror in Hellraiser are nonstop and they don't happen with jump scares but with the horrific things that the characters go through. The movie is also scary because of the atmosphere which is surrounded by darkness and dread that hangs over the movie like a tightrope and never stops until the very end and when you watch the movie you will feel like no one is safe in any way shape or form. The blood and gore in Hellraiser is effective,brutal and will make you sick to your stomach with it's harshness and will give viewers nightmares for years because it's not just blood and gore for the sake of blood and gore it's there for a reason and makes an impact. Despite Pinhead being on the poster and being the face of the Hellraiser franchise the movie is really about the human characters and the things they go through as well as their interactions with one another and how they deal with the chaos going on in the film. Most Horror movies are never without memorable monsters and in Hellraiser the memorable monsters come in the form of Pinhead(in this film he listed as Lead Cenobite)and the Cenobites. While the Cenobites are only in the movie for a short time(5 to 10 minutes)they add to the movies nightmarish tone because what sets Pinhead and the Cenobites from other Horror villains in the first Hellraiser is that while they are not really good they are not always evil they are Demons to some,Angels to others. The Cenobites come from this puzzle box that is dangerous for the owner because if you open it the Cenobites appear and use chains and hooks to inflict pain or pleasure to the person who owns it which is terrifying and creepy. The Cenobites also have a look that is unique with black leather and different looks with their facesthere's Pinhead,one with no eyes and big teeth,one with a hole in their throat and a butterball with sunglasses. Pinhead and the Cenobites are classic characters you will never forget as long as you live. The ending of Hellraiser is fantastic and is filled with thrills,terror and lots of surprises that will leave viewers on the edge of their seats. A terrific ending.The cast is great. Ashley Laurence is outstanding and beautiful as Kristy,the heroine of the film. Andrew Robinson is wonderful as Larry Cotton,Kristy's Father. Claire Higgins is terrific as Julia,Larry's cheating Wife. Sean Chapman is great as Frank Cotton,Larry's Brother. Oliver Smith is superb as Skinless Frank/Frank The Monster,the villain in the film. Doug Bradley is brilliant and frightening as Pinhead,Lead Cenobite,one Horror films all-time great characters. Nicolas Vincent(Chattering Cenobite),Simon Bamford('Butterball' Cenobite)and Grace Kirby(Female Cenobite)are terrific as the other Cenobites. Robert Hines is decent as Steve,Kristy's boyfriend.The direction by Clive Barker is amazing and stylish,with Barker giving the movie a solid atmosphere and stunning look that is frightening and eerie. Great direction,Barker.The score by Christopher Young is outstanding,epic and iconic and matches the tone of the movie perfectly. Sensational score,Young.The Special and Practical Make-Up Effects are terrific,realistic and well-done. Amazing Special and Practical effects.In final word,if you Horror,Fantasy or Clive Barker,I highly suggest you see Hellraiser,an excellent,terrifying and unforgettable Horror Classic that you will never forget. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A horror masterpiece","Date":"4 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This a great movie. It is very scary. I can think of scarier movies. Hell raiser III hell on earth is scarier. Hell raiser the blood line is also scarier. But still this is a very scary movie. It is one of the scariest movies made before 1992. A box with supernatural powers open a doorway to hell. Demons come thru it. This is a very different movie. This movie has a great story line. It also has great acting. This movie also has great special effects. Hell bound Hell raiser II is a good movie but this one is better. Hell raiser inferno is pooh pooh. Hell raiser hell seeker is pooh pooh. Hell raiser deader is pooh pooh. Hell raiser hell world is pooh pooh. But this one great. It is a must see. "},{"Title":"We have such sights to show you","Date":"19 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a fine example of a movie with virtually no budget (by Hollywood standards) that makes the best of whatever is on hand and ends up creating a superior and rather unique horror film. The first assault comes from the fine music score. From the very first opening credits, Christopher Young seems to be channeling Dominic Frontiere (original Outer Limits) as he imposes somewhat beautiful melodies that are entirely surrounded by a haunting and sad halo. When you hear this music the next time you watch this, that feeling of anticipatory dread and anxiety creeps up your spine. You know what you are in for if you watch this again, but you can't help yourself. This movie is smart. Watching it is like trying to open your own puzzle box (Lament Configuration). Each scene reveals more horror that messes with your head but doesn't reveal too much. You are shocked by what you just experienced, feel repulsed and yet compelled to see more. You find yourself wanting it to take it to the next level. Pain and pleasure. Much of this can be attributed to the very intelligent editing. You end up believing you see more than what is really there. This makes the movie work wonderfully and shores up the dismal budget by making the entire project larger than the sum of the parts. I have heard that this was rated X when it first came out to theaters. There is a sexual theme here but this is far from a sex movie unless you call 'f**king' with your head a form of sex. If this was ever rated X it would have to be because of the frequent graphic violence that by today's standards is not all that bad. The special effects could be made better with a more comprehensive budget, but it probably shouldn't. It has a charm all its own. And yet, the presentation is key. There is a reason for the violence. The individual is, after all, asking for it voluntarily by trying to open the puzzle box. Thus, you don't feel that the Cenobites are necessarily all-consuming monsters since they wreak their own brand of sadism on those who are essentially requesting it. This seems to play out up until the end of the movie when Kirsty at first appears to be allowed to leave the scene when she manages to return escapee Frank back to the Cenobites. This is not for your eyes But as she makes her way down the stairs she is obstructed by one of the Cenobites who tries to back her up the stairs and back into the room. Perhaps Kirsty made the mistake of hanging around too long as she watched Frank's final shredding?? Or perhaps this is the movie that keeps on giving... I have scene it numerous times and would advise not watching it from a television broadcast. They have a nasty tendency to cut the the more graphic scenes which I find entirely necessary to realize the point of the movie in the first place. Who is this movie for? You have to be kind of bent in the head to watch this and appreciate it. Obviously not for those with sensitive dispositions or are prone to innocence. This movie can corrupt and you may never think the same afterward, but you will be entertained nevertheless. "},{"Title":"Not Very Scary","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't get scared easily and this film from the supposed master of horror didn't change much. The positives are that it's a unique concept, it has great practical effects that were definitely worth the effort, the acting is okay for a horror film and that's about it. Despite having a unique concept, the film does feel very basic and mainly relies on you being scared by blood and gore. With the villains of the film being the givers of pain and pleasure, they could have done a lot more with it, maybe even show the characters being put through some torture, but I don't mean have them castrated or branded, I mean psychological torture, because that's what sticks in people's mind. I'm not sure if I'm explaining what I mean very good, but the point is, if you're not afraid of gore (And this is 80's gore, the gore that looks fake) then you're probably going to hate this movie. If you are afraid of gore, I'd suggest you give it a try, just don't have high hopes "},{"Title":"Wickedly Cool Gore/Frightfest, 80's Style!","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser did not get good reviews from most critics but was loved by horror fans. I am not a big horror fan, but this is one of the best horror films I have ever seen. It is rare that a horror movie is legitimately good or scary. This is not legitimately good, but it does a good job in putting scares into half of the people that watch it. The other half will think of it as a so bad, it's good movie. It is really cheesy with over-the-top gore and death scenes and over-acting. Luckily, it does not cross the line between fun and stupidity. Some of the monsters and special effects are funny. After a while of letting them soak in, you start to take them more seriously. The story of a magic box that unleashes demons sent to torture people is a good concept, as people believe real ouija boards really do unleash evil spirits. A playboy manages to escape the clutches after blood from his lover's husband drops on his remains, letting him slowly come back to life. The whole concept is very interesting, but as an 80s horror movie, you can't expect greatness. Like Friday the 13th and A Nightmare on Elm Street, the main killer kicks ass. Pinhead (played by Doug Bradley) does not make any kills (he lets his goons and death instruments do the work), but he is as scary as Jason and Freddy. Also like the two other movies mentioned, the style is 100% 80s. All that was missing was headbands, Michael Jackson, and Miami Vice. Other than that, you get the feel of the decade with the hair styles, general looks of people and general 80s film look. The general 80s film look is good, which is probably what sets it apart from the other movies. I'm giving it a 9 for being fun and memorable. "},{"Title":"A Gothic horror classic!!","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser is a film that strays from the usual horror slasher craze of that time and delves deep into Gothic horror, Sadomastic torture and a truly terrifying look into hell.The film tells the story of a man named frank cotton who opens a mysterious puzzle box and is immediately torn apart by Pinhead and the cenobites, His brother Larry and his wife Julia move into his old house and it is revealed that she had an affair with frank and when Larry ends up cutting his hand, Blood start dripping down and brings frank back as a rotting corpse, Julia helps Larry rebuild himself before the cenobites find out he escaped, Larry's daughter kirsty finds out what is going on and now must stop frank and the cenobites who are now after kirsty.The acting isn't the best but is good overall, Andrew Robinson is good as Larry and Claire Higgins is great as Julia, The performance of Ashely Laurence as kirsty is really great and a very likable character, Doug Bradley as pinhead the lead cenobite is very intense and creepy and perhaps his best performance in the franchise next to bloodline.The special effects are top notch and show how powerful practical effects can be, Overall hellraiser is a classic horror film and my second favorite in the series behind hellbound, Highly recommended!! "}{"Title":"Best of the Best","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There are some horrors that though they don't reform the genre they do have a lasting effect on it. HR is like that and there are many reasons for it. This film can't be and no one has even really dared try copying. No one had the guts to do it. The horror genre was in the midst of its slasher film era when Clive Barker decided to adapt to the screen his 1986 book The Hellbound Heart. The stories style didn't fit at all with the trend of the movies coming out at the time. Amongst Freddy's, Jason's and Michael Myers's antics Hellraiser hit the movies that knew no humor and no irony. With precise and merciless effectiveness it showed the viewers what a real horror, filled with monstrosity and terror is like. In an unknown country in North Africa Frank Cotton buys an antique puzzle box. Back at his house in England, he solves it, gets skewered by hooks and demons called Cenobites appear. Everyone's favorite Pinhead makes everything disappear so when Frank's brother Larry Cotton (Andrew Robinson) in with his second wife, Julia Cotton (Clare Higgins) won't know Frank died. Larry cuts his hand on a nail and Frank uses this blood as nourishment to partially regenerate his body. Later, Frank (Oliver Smith) convinces Julia to help restore him to his full physical form. Its Barker's first feature direction it could best be described as an S&M love story wrapped in a horror, with sexual frustration and family tragedy in its center. There is the constant dissonance of pleasure and pain. The Cenobites aren't the enemy here yet, they're just doing their thing &#x96; which is unstoppable and not over-emoted and in your face but damn scary with their creepy appearance and cause you barely know anything about them, so they represent the fear of the unknown. The real evil of course is man desires, sex, murder. It's one of the most gut churning love triangles ever to be brought to screen and the participants are perfect at self-destructing. Special mention must be made of Christopher Young's music. Barker himself said that Young brought the most to the film out of all the crew and listening to his music you really can't disagree with that assessment. Just like the writer-director he went against the grain and unlike films of the time he didn't have synthesizers instead he got a huge ass orchestra and made dark, beautiful, Gothic music that was at once creepy and strangely uplifting. And you'd be hard pressed to find something similar. With all its afore mentioned virtues Hellraiser wouldn't be half as strong without the fantastic effects that is enjoyable by today's standards too. The legendary mask-maker and fx guy Bob Keen had a bunch of opportunities to excel in this film and it just elevates him to a whole other level that he had a laughable million dollar budget to pull it off. But the best horror of the 80s in opposition to a lot of its counterparts today and then wasn't born from money but from excitement, will and creativity. And that usually brings its return Case in point The movie made 15 times its budget. Doug Bradley's utterly creepy main Cenobite Pinhead became one of the most iconic characters of the genre and Hellraiser has cemented its place amongst the greats of horror. 10/10 https//www.youtube.com/user/Videodromeblog "},{"Title":"Freakish horror icon Pinhead","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is actually a frightening horror flick with some really creepy and messed up design that comes from the mind of Clive Barker. And actually made Pinhead, who Clive Barker didn't want to name Pinhead from the beginning became another horror icon. This is actually based on a book by Clive Barker called The Hellbound Heart so the author became the director of his own story (which in a way is kinda cool). The plot revolves around a guy named Frank who wants extreme pleasure in his live and comes across a person that claims a mystical box can provide that. When he messes with the box it sends him to some sort of freakish dimensional hell and gets tortured by these monsters called the cenobites. His unfaithful wife has a relationship with some other guy. However Frank manages to escape, but as a zombie form and in order to get to his human form back he needs to consume other humans. So when he manages to come across his wife, he convinces her to kill people so he can consume them. And the daughter of the guy she is having a relationship behind her husbands back tries to investigate what is going on and finds something way more than her suspicions were. This is actually a graphic and gratuitous movie that doesn't rely on CGI, but more on props seeing how this flick was made in the 80's. The special effects with the props and design isn't that bad and is actually comes off more creepy than some other horror movies that use a lot of CGI. Even for a horror movie that is from the 80's it has it's shock factor mainly because of the visuals from the mind of Clive Barker. A lot of people claim the first two Hellraiser movies are the ones that are worth seeing for people that like horror movies. And I guess I can see why, because the build up which has symbolism of indulging in pleasure (although the build up may come off as kinda slow at times) and mystery with the freakish and creepy visuals makes this one stand out when it comes to the horror genre. Even if the build up is a bit slow like I said, but for a movie from the 80's I can tell why it had the capability to scare the crap out of the viewers. I give this one a 6.6/10 because the visuals adds a lot to the concept and premise.6.6/10 "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Explorers in the further regions of experience. Demons to some. Angels to others. This quote summarizes the film as a tale of sexually hungry individuals go to extremes to cap off their urges. Clive Barker is nothing short of genius. His sexually driven imagination and thirst for gore and blood turns this film into the perfect concoction. Barker's imagination also paved the way for some of the most well-known characters in horror such as Pinhead, who was portrayed by Doug Bradley. Overall, this movie is undeniably the best in the franchise and a MUST SEE! "},{"Title":"Clive Barker is a creative genius!","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Larry Cotton (Andrew Robinson) and his wife Julia (Claire Higgins) have just moved into a new house in the city. Unfortunately for them, Larry's sadistic brother Frank (Sean Chapman) has just escaped from Hell and is hiding out in their attic. Julia previously had an adulterous affair with Frank, and eventually goes upstairs and finds him as a skinless and vulnerable zombie. Frank needs to feed on human flesh in order to regenerate and become whole again, so Julia agrees to lure unsuspecting men up into the attic to become Frank's lunch. After this goes on for a while, Larry's daughter Kirsty (Ashley Laurence) comes to visit and accidentally discovers what Julia and her undead uncle have been doing. She also discovers the puzzle box - a mystical device with the ability to open doors to other dimensions or planes of existence. She steals the box from Frank and flees, unaware of the power it contains. After collapsing and waking up in a hospital, Kirsty accidentally solves the puzzle box and summons the Cenobites - four demonic beings from another realm that are obsessed with sadism and torture. When the Cenobites are informed that Frank has escaped their clutches, they are less than pleased. Time to raise some hell! Where Clive Baker (who directed this movie and wrote the book it was based on) gets his ideas, I will never know, but the man is a creative genius and master of the horror genre. This is one of the most unique and original movies I have ever seen with some of the most interesting creature designs as well. Pinhead the Cenobite leader, brilliantly played by Doug Bradley, quickly became a popular horror icon and star of the series that followed. Bradley made the part his own and will always be the one and only true Pinhead to me. But as great a character as he is, I prefer him to play a background role like he does in this film. It's just better that way. All the other actors here do a great job as well, except for Robert Hines (who plays the pointless character of Kirsty's boyfriend Steve) who really has no business being in the movie at all as he brings nothing to the story whatsoever. Sean Chapman in particular owns as the S&M obsessed Frank. He plays a great antagonist whose actions set in motion the events of the movie. Aside from having a very compelling and intricate story, this movie has some of the best visuals I've ever seen as well. The numerous glimpses of Hell (which we see more of in the sequels) are simply superb as well as the monster makeup of the various creatures that inhabit it. I've never seen Lucifer's Pad depicted in such a vivid and imaginative way. I could go on and on about how this movie lives up to its reputation as one of the greatest horror films of all time but I'll end this review buy saying that anyone who enjoys fantasy films with great characters and special effects should check this one out. "},{"Title":"Written and directed by Clive Barker; the best of the Hellraiser series.","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Frank Cotton buys a puzzle cube in the Middle East from an East Asian man. This was nice and ominous. Later, in a private place of his choosing, Cotton manipulates the cube, opening it up, and gets a visitation that he may or may not have expected.We jump forward in time. A couple unlocks an 'old homestead' which has been empty for some interval, and has the associated musty smell. We're in the UK, and the people entering are Larry and Julia, a middle class white couple. It's been empty for close to a decade. Larry is Frank's brother; the house belonged to their mother. Larry supposed that Frank needed a place to hang out, or lie low, perhaps. There is a lot of twisted religious art left behind, which Larry intends to sell off.Larry and Julia have moved from Brooklyn (Larry is American) back to England, where Larry has landed a good job and Julia should be more at home. Larry suggests Kirsty have a look at the place. Julia seems to have reservations, and she finds pictures of her being intimate with Frank. Larry and Kirsty (Larry's daughter) talk on the phone. He's not happy about her getting a job; she's not happy about living with Dad and Julia.So, in 13 minutes, we've got all sorts of things that could go wrong. Demonic influences, marital infidelity, teen-aged rebelliousness, and a cuckolded husband who has been doing a slow-boil for who knows how long. Let's not forget rising damp, insect infestation, and other vermin leftover from Frank's stay in the house. Then there are the movers who are trying to hit on both Julia and Kirsty. Great moving day all around. Just to add some straight up pain, Larry cuts his hand badly while helping the movers. His fallen blood awakens something, to the notice of the viewers, but not the characters, who scoot off to hospital.Just to add to the mix, Frank shows up. Well, something that claims to be Frank, anyway. The hideous half-formed creature asks Julia to provide sacrifices so that his return can be complete. Larry's blood brought him just so far, but he needs more to make a full recovery to being the old Frank. Julia decides to provide 'Frank' what he wants.The rest of the film is about the rather harsh consequences of that decision.Does anyone survive? -----Scores------Cinematography 7/10 Netflix showed this in 43 aspect, even though the film was recorded in 1.85; this always means visual content has been deleted. I hope to see this film again in its full aspect.Sound 10/10 The music by Christopher Young was effective for engendering various atmospheric moods. The actors were miked well enough.Acting 8/10 Quite liked the performances of Clare Higgins, Andrew Robinson, and Sean Chapman.Screenplay 10/10 Great story telling. Manages to convey suspense and consequence as many modern films do not.SFX 7/10 SFX from 1987 look a bit dated in 2014. However, the SFX still work well to convey the threat of the 'other' (the Cenobites) and hideous damage to the body. "},{"Title":"Bizarre 80's Horror Film!","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker's 1987 horror film stars Andrew Robinson, Ashley Laurence, Claire Higgins, Sean Chapman, Oliver Smith and Doug Bradley based on his novel, The Hellbound Heart. This begins with a man, Frank (Chapman) who buys a mysterious puzzle box. He opens it becoming mutilated and is sent to a dimension in hell. Soon, we meet Frank's half-brother, Larry (Robinson) and his wife, Julia (Higgins) who have just moved into an old house where Frank was staying. We also meet Larry's daughter, Kirsty (Laurence) who has just moved into her own place. When Larry accidentally cuts himself, his blood drips onto Frank's body fragments underneath one of the rooms and Frank is resurrected. Julia discovers Frank and we learn that they were lovers before she married Larry. She helps frank to become whole by sacrificing a few people for their blood. Ashley eventually learns about Frank and finds the box that unlocks the doorway to a parallel dimension in hell where she must send him back. Smith plays skinless Frank and Bradley plays Pinhead, leader of the Cenobites (Soul Harvesters) who search for Frank. This is a bizarre 80's horror film with gruesome effects and good score by Christopher Young I recommend checking out if you like horror. "},{"Title":"The story is intriguing, the rest is junk.","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Much to my surprise, I am not as angry with Hellraiser as I assumed I would be. It might be easily dismissed as a just another disgusting, gory cycle of cinematic oblivion if I weren't forced to admit that it tells a story that I found interesting. That's not to say that it tells it well, or that this is even a good movie, it's only to say that it is mounted on an idea that I found mildly intriguing. That's good news, in a way, when you consider that most films in this splatter genre are so null and void that while you're watching it you find your mind wandering to other things besides the movie. This movie is only slightly better than that.Hellraiser begins with a box, a metal Rubick's Cube-looking device that, when turned a certain way, apparently opens a portal to a dimension not a million miles removed from something that might be mistaken for Hell. As the movie opens, it claims one poor soul, named Frank (Sean Chapman), who has his flesh and bones ripped apart by hooks and chains and will spend the rest of the movie trying to get them all back together.What follows are some spoilers. So be warned. Enter Larry and Julia Cotton (Andrew Robinson and Clare Higgins), a couple whose troubled marriage is held together only by mutual tolerance. In the corner of this unhappiness is Kirsty (Ashley Laurence), Larry's daughter by his late wife. They buy a house that was once Larry's childhood home. Larry is Frank's brother, and unknown to him, the brother's remains are hidden somewhere in a room on the house's third floor. Unknown to Larry, Julia and Frank use to be lovers. When Larry cuts himself by accident one day, his bloods seeps through the floorboards and the gelatinous remains of Frank begin writhing around.For reason that I am unable to explain, Frank needs Julia to bring home fresh victims so that he can . . . somehow use their bodies to reform himself. Every time she brings home a new man, Frank's body becomes more and more reconstructed. I missed how this works, exactly. Is he stitching flesh back on? Is he ingesting the flesh? Is there some transference of psychic energy and flesh? I'm not sure how it works. Either way, Frank's condition is tied to the metal puzzle box, and there's some business with some leather-clad demonic punk rockers from Nether Regions who want Frank to pay for escaping their capture.As I say, the story is intriguing. The movie was written and directed by novelist Clive Barker and it plays very much like a story from one of his books. Yet, it fails o a basic level. This is one of those horror movies in which all the characters are basically slow learners, especially Larry who never catches on that his brother's flayed and bloody corpse is living in a room upstairs. This house is not exactly a sprawling mansion. And doesn't Frank's corpse give off an odor? I don't know.** (of four) "},{"Title":"A Good old fashioned horror","Date":"31 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser may not be the most brilliant movie out there, but for the horror genre, it's definitely one of the best. I rate my movies in 4 categories; Cintemography, Film-making, Acting and the overall experience. Cintemography The visual presentation in this movie is average to positive. The house that the movie takes place in isn't the best suited for this movie, except for the room, but it isn't bad either. When we meet the cenobites, then the cinematography gets superb. Seeing Pinhead and all his allies in their torture room is pure genius. 18/25Film-making The film making is great in this movie, the dramatic camera angles make the most of the terror that the movie is trying to produce. 20/25Acting The acting in Hellraiser is only great in some parts. Only the cenobites, and Frank, show true talent for acting. The father,step-mother and daughter are trying to hard and don't show anything decent. Of course where they fail, Pinhead, his gang and the zombie Frank make up for it. 18/25Overall experience I quite enjoyed this movie, it was a change from the usual modern garbage they call a horror that most people are accustomed to. This is a unique movie, and you should definitely see it. 20/25Overall score 76/100 "},{"Title":"Never capitalises on its greatest assets","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The remains of a man rise from the dead and is aided by his sister-in-law to regenerate his body. However, he is being chased by demons who want to return him to their hell.A modestly budgeted horror with memorable cult impact, fantastically realised by writer, director Clive Barker.It's sadomasochism, blood and gore influenced many films to follow.The music complements the claustrophobic atmosphere and adds to the films tension. 80's poor lightening visuals aside the practical effects are excellent, including skinned, pinned and mutilated people.Surprisingly it's Kirsty Cotton's (Ashley Laurence) fight against her uncle and stepmother that is at the core story. Lead Cenobite 'Pinhhead' (that the series is synonymous for) is calmly played by Doug Bradley and has very little screen-time, yet leaves an impact. There's great characterisation executed admirably byAndrew Robinsonas wimpyLarry,Clare Higgins as adulteressJulia andSean Chapman as power hungry Frank.Hellraiser is creepy, bloody and eerie. It's just a shame that neither this or any of the sequels capitalise on its greatest assets, that is Frank and Pinhead. "},{"Title":"unexplained but original","Date":"25 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The story is original, with a newly invented villain. It is told superficially, with many elements that could be well explored to enrich the film being ignored. But, although much of it goes unexplained, the villains are cool. The makeup effects are pretty mixed some are great (the skinless bodies), but some aren't (hooks in the skin). The cenobites' makeup are also very nice. The special effects are OK to an 1987 movie. The soundtrack wasn't much present, contributing little to the movie. The acting is poor overall, pretty artificial. And the characters weren't demanding they are plain stereotyped good guys/bad guys. I recommend it, since it's a classic. It's not bad overall, I guess I just expected more. I'm still about to check the follow-ups that may enhance the experience with this movie. "}{"Title":"Decent horror but not as scary as it's hyped up to be.","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First of all I think they should have come up with a better title because the Cenobites aren't even from hell but rather a dimension resembling hell. I thought the movie would be a lot scarier. It ended up being really cheesy and almost funny. There were a few times when I couldn't help but laugh. Don't get me wrong there are a few scary and nasty parts such as a guy walking around without any skin. But I still thought it was a great horror movie I remember being in my early teens and thinking Clive Barker was the most morbid person in cinema but I guess I was wrong. He really isn't that messed up. The plot is decent, but the acting and dialogue are both bad. But I must say I was impressed by the make up and special effects. "},{"Title":"Succeeds in delivering gross outs.  Fails at delivering scares.  Pinhead is a wimp.","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker's classic about an unfaithful wife (Higgins) who must bring her dead lover (Chapman/Smith) human-sacrifices to recreate his body that was the sodomized into little pieces by Cenobites, S&M demons from Hell. But his escape from Hell soon leads the Cenobites to Earth. Solid story delivered by a talented cast. The film satisfies with gross outs, but the Cenobites are too wimpy to deliver any scares. Ooh, there's a guy with pins sticking out of his head&#x85; how scary! All in all, the lead cast, the solid story and the gross outs make Hellraiser a definite worthwhile horror film. Pinhead (Bradley) is credited as Lead Cenobite, as his name wasn't coined until the sequel Hellbound Hellraiser II.*** (out of four) "},{"Title":"Hellraiser (1987)","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The 1980's was the most interesting and funny decades in horror, with newer technology, improved special effects, and more reliance on shocking visuals than mood. Though a more serious and discriminating fan than myself would have found it silly, I found even the lesser movies amusing on one level or another. Toward the mid-80's, the slasher genre kind of died a slow, horrible death. The idea that sex would doom you to death from any one of an assortment of lame killers in masks of all sorts (a clown mask, a gas mask, a hockey mask, etc) was replaced by fears of aliens landing from outer space (Critters, The Borrower, The Blob remake, Killer Klowns from Outer Space, etc) and weird mutant monsters of all shapes and sizes (Child's Play, Pumpkinhead, Scarecrows, Leviathan, Neon Maniacs, etc). Then we got the devil scared back into us with religious horror films such as 1987's The Believers, 1984's Children of the Corn, 1988's The Seventh Sign. And this s&m horror film about the sexualized, purgatory-like dimension between heaven and hell where cursed people dare to travel to test their endurance for an eternity of pleasurable suffering.Hellraiser, from gay cult-author Clive Barker, was a low budget horror film with sophisticated performances by the seductive, vampy, goddess-like Clare Higgins playing the glamorously bitchy 'Wicked Stepmother'-from-hell, and Sean Champman, her bad-boy lover who transforms into the elegant and brooding Oliver Smith (covered in unbearably repulsive makeup and goop). The plot is interesting. Because it's a series of ideas arranged in a way that suggests the writer has no idea why he's writing this way. I haven't read any of his stories, but I'm told they're pretty loopy. And that he often writes without knowing the meaning behind what he's writing. The primary lead character is Julia, the stepmother. She has had an affair with her stuffy husband Larry's rebellious, black-sheep brother Frank, and as the movie begins, she and Larry and moving back into his old family home. Which is also the place Frank last inhabited before he mysteriously disappeared. Skipping ahead, Frank returns but isn't human, and as he hides in the disgusting, dirty attic, he guilts the sexually frustrated Julia into cruising bars for lonely men to bring back to the house for Frank to feed on, using their blood to grow him new human body parts.I wish I knew what was interesting about that. If anything, I applaud the film's ability to make any of that seem sophisticated. But it does. The dialogue is decadent and often deceivingly poetic. Which kind of presents a problem, whenever a character has to curse or say something crude- it doesn't feel authentic. Until those moments, the movie is using the gruesome special effects and monster designs to do the job of being crude so that the movie doesn't have to make the characters stupid. Not that it matters much. When the score's strings start to swell and row, you're just waiting to see what happens next. It's very arresting. One of my absolute favorites is the very long and breath-taking scene where we meet the secondary lead character Kirsty - Ashley Laurence - and follow her as she walks all the way from an industrial harbor port to the upstairs in her father's house, on a gloriously breezy and overcast day. This movie wants to be quite ugly and gritty, but there are a lot of moments that defy that ambition and look damn good! Another favorite of mine is the gorgeous outdoor bar where Julia meets her first victim. Yet another is a brief sequence with Kirsty and her father in an oriental restaurant. For a low budget movie, the quality of the lighting, cinematography, location shooting, etc, truly look impeccable.Inevitably, a film like this would have a few flaws. This is Barker's best film but the flaws are first-time-director mistakes. Like, a completely out-of-place closeup of Kirsty looking very intensely upset being edited into the sequence of her walking up to her father's house. That's out of place because she is smiling in every other shot of her in this sequence. That is unquestionably the biggest error in the movie. The others are simple awkward slip-ups that could have been smoothed out with alternate takes. The film slides around all throughout in terms of how professional it feels. It's more plot-driven than just a gorefest, so professionalism is definitely an important consideration. The ending feels a little long in the tooth. Did anyone else think it was silly for Kirsty to have to open and shut the puzzle box every time she had to send one of the Cenobites away? That got on my nerves like repetitive actions can for some viewers. Also, there are some images that just aren't all fans might crack them up to be. Especially, that ugly big orange worm. God that damn thing was ugly. Why was it there at all? This isn't Labyrinth. Also, the design of the twist-face corpse was too much like those from John Carpenter's The Thing. And... why does it look like those rats are eating pureed bone fragments?Overall though, the film's a winner. It makes you think. Gives you many images and situations you've never seen before in the genre. And manages to have a real grace to the way it combines the more classy elements - like Barker's amazing monologues for Frank and Pinhead, the famous lead Cenobite character (and would go on to become a legend in the horror hall of fame) - with the grotesque (for the most part). There's a lot of talent and flair for photography and mood (in spite of the pretty amateur special effects). The music mainly works, though it's a bit overly orchestral and formal for my tastes. Could have experimented a bit more. Much like writer Clive, I imagine, with this storyline. But, I'll let him take care of his own inner demons. "},{"Title":"Great Story, Great Gross-out","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Barker's Hellraiser holds no punches when it comes to the disgusting meter, but that's just an aside to a riveting story inhabited by intriguing characters.The always phenomenal Andrew Robinson, character actor extraordinaire, leads a cast of the damned, the innocent and the two-faced.Right from the beginning, when Frank is encircled with candles as he begins to open his new puzzle box, we instantly know the ride will tear us apart and rock our world.Though made on a small budget, the special effects are disgustingly amazing and add tremendously to a tale that put Pinhead on the map as a horror icon. In regard to said effects, the only reason this exceptional horror tale scores a 9 out of 10, is because of the cheesy electrical effects scratched into the film due to lack of cash.Enjoy the experience in its beautiful ugliness, ask yourself if you'd play with the puzzlebox, and get ready to quote Doug Bradley's Pinhead every chance you get. "},{"Title":"A horror classic","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There were a lot of horror films in the 1980s, some of them brilliant, some of them not, but there's none quite as good as this effort from Clive Barker.In Hellraiser we have the definitive horror movie for the time. All the staples are here good special effects, nudity and sex scenes, evil being punished, haunted houses, scary montsers and a larger than life villain to terrorise people through VHS covers.But Hellraiser is also surprisingly well made, the scenes that are supposed to be disturbing are. The effect is not ruined by over done dialogue, inappropriate score or bad acting. As a matter of fact there is barely a scene in the film lacking the desired atmosphere of surreal dread.The story is simple enough. An unfaithful wife encounters the zombie of her dead lover, sans skin, who's being chased by demons after he escaped from Hell. He seeks to kill people in order to return to his full human form and escape hell's lackey's, the cenobites, led by the terrifying Pinhead.Doug Bradley, playing Pinhead as he would through countless sequels, brings a calm menace to the character in the very few scenes he is in. The fact that we rarely see Pinhead, and never for long periods, makes him all the more terrifying.The kills in this one are not creative or fun, they're simple and disturbing, but not so over the top as to make the film enjoyable.There is nudity, there are sex scenes and graphic violence, but this is the best example of 80s horror you will find. "},{"Title":"True, original and brilliant HORROR","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker gave the world a great flick when he realized HELLRAISER. The story is totally unique, original and interesting. It's more than enough to entertain throughout the running time. The effects are fantastic too (except maybe the sparkles from time to time, but hell, it was 1987...), especially the sequence of Frank's return. It's nearly perfect and done without the pansy CGI of today. This was done in good old fashioned handcraft and it's beautifully horrible. The actors don't have to do much (and they don't) to make their figures fascinating since all the leading characters are unsurpassed in their complexity, at least in the horror genre. They are all pretty crazy and somewhat insane but the way they interact is utterly believable and keeps the viewer on the edge. The cinematic look of HELLRAISER sent more chills down my spine than any other horror flick so far. The Cenobites and their hound are impressive designs and pieces of art themselves. Pinhead definitely deserves his place next to Freddy, Jason and Michael. His iconic look hasn't been surpassed by another creature in my knowledge and this is a rare thing in the age of the guy with a long knife and a messed-up family. HELLRAISER is great. It's the HEAT of horror. A neat, slick and fine story, matching look and memorable creatures. Forget about crap like HOSTEL or HOUSE OF WAX and watch this jewel! "},{"Title":"High marks for being genuinely scary, if horrifically gory at times","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" To be facetious, this is the story of the proto-Rubik's Cube which was never mass-produced due to safety concerns and legal issues. It was designed to add weight to pleas by the owner for others not to play with their Rubik's Cube when they were out of the room. The Rubik's Cube which was actually manufactured had no such dire consequences for unauthorised people playing with your toy.Similary, one could also see this movie as a cautionary tale for children who insist on playing with their gran's knitting set despite her expressly forbidding them to do so. Just see what happens when gran catches you!When I saw this in the cinema years ago it was a genuinely frightening movie-a Hellish voyage into fear and dread. Hence the high rating.There are strong horror images in this movie-it's like a human abattoir at times, and the scenes of what happens when someone plays with the Rubik's Cube (when they've bloody well been told not to!) are quite confronting at times too.The strength of this movie is the scenario it evokes and the creatures/barely human things which populate this Hell.If you've had nightmares in which monsters chase you, well, this could be more of the same, but better.If you haven't had nightmares in which monsters chase you...sweet dreams...while you can! There have been a slew of sequels to this movie. I've seen the second one, and if not the one after, then the one which was supposed to wrap up this franchise. Within the last year I could have sworn I saw a poster in a video shop for yet another sequel. Can't really be stuffed watching any more of them.The first in this series is highly recommended by me but none of the others, really-the ones I've seen that is.Based on a story by Clive Barker, who has a solid reputation for the horror genre and who has expanded into video games recently (Jericho).Some other horror movies I recommend or have reviewed here Halloween (original version) The Exorcist Evil Dead II In the mouth of madness The Shining "},{"Title":"This must be love","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker is an amazing writer. Who pens great horror books. Unlike another Horror writer that I wont name Clives ability to bring his work to life on the screen is much to his credit. I first saw this when it came out and it has stayed with me ever since. I was again lucky enough to buy a copy and watched it last night. This movie is still as scary and as mind-blowing as it was when it first came out. The story revolves around Frank, a hedonistic man who women are attracted to in droves. He works on the maxim Treat em mean...keep 'em keen Flashback of him arriving wet and sexy to his brothers wedding, he seduces the bride whilst she prepares, wedding dress draped on the bed. She is now obsessed yet continues with the service and marries the safe and boring brother. Well the choices we make. Frank in the meantime has purchased a puzzle box which possess much more than he anticipates as he plays with it in an attempt to get it open and to experience all that this box has inside. Well he gets what he wants and much much more, this includes getting torn to pieces, with hooks and chains argh! In the meantime Julia and Larry return to England and move into the house where the puzzle box was opened. Blood from Larrys hand spurts whilst Julia is having fantasies about Frank. Larry finds Julia in the loft and blood falls on the floor. The blood then raises the reconstituted Frank, who needs more blood to become fully himself again. Julia discovers him sans flesh and still manages to want him. She gets him more blood by seducing men and bringing them into her house and bashing them with a hammer. Meantime Larrys daughter sees Julia enter the house with a strange man. At this moment I have always wondered why, when they look around to see if anyone is watching, they don't notice the person that is watching. Kirsty becomes the heroine by giving up Frank to the Cenobites, after a period of time in which she is taken collapsed in to hospital where she opens the box and confronts the Cenobites herself. Later she returns to save her father but is she too late? Well watch it! Do you want me to tell you everything? If you like Red then this is the movie for you, because this picture has red on you in buckets. "},{"Title":"I was impressed but I was left with wanting more","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker knows how to make a gruesome horror movie but with an added psychological approach which many horror movies of that time (1987) lack entirely. I have more questions than answers for this movie because it left me very confused and I found it difficult to branch everything together while trying to figure out detailed aspects of the movie. Maybe upon more viewings will I have a better understanding of what is going on but I thought it was a pretty good flick for its time and it still sends waves to this day. Doug Bradley's portrayal of Pinhead was pretty good, albeit brief but good. I would recommend this to any fan of horror films (I personally ignored this movie for a long time but after a while I felt compelled to watch it) and I have no regrets none-what-so-ever. Check it Out! As long as hooks don't freak you out that is! "},{"Title":"A horror masterpiece","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When i was 14 i saw the Evil Dead and it made me the horror fan i am now. I love the films savagery and gore. When i was 16 i saw Hellraiser. And i didn't know what to think of evil dead anymore..... Evil Dead will always have a place in my heart because its my first but h Hellraiser is something else. Like the Wickerman it showed you could bring a level of artistry to a horror film. The film has moment that are both beautiful and terifying. It has a brilliant oft- ripped off score by Christopher Young that showed horror scores could be more than just synthesizers. It showed me that a film could have an original plot, dark themes And Gore! What more could you want? And every time i watch it i fall in love again, with the genre and with this film. Clive Barker.. thank you. "}{"Title":"Hellraiser","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i first saw this movie when i was 9 years old and i can tell you the images in that movie still stay in my mind to this day. I don't know whether to get off on them or look down upon such abhorrent behavior. Hellraiser is a 1987 British horror film exploring the themes of sadomasochism, pain as a source of pleasure, and morality under duress and fear. It is based on the critically acclaimed novella The Hellbound Heart by Clive Barker, who also wrote the screenplay and directed the film. Hellraiser opens with Frank Cotton purchasing an antique puzzle box. Rumored to be the gateway to a realm of unimaginable sensual pleasure, this box also requires the surrender of one's soul. Once Frank solves the puzzle box, he enters another dimension populated by Cenobites, sadistic demons clad in black leather. Hooks fly out of the puzzle box, tearing into Frank's flesh and rending him. Frank is condemned to an eternity in this other dimension, experiencing simultaneous pleasure and torture. It is a fear of mine to wind up with a spouse like that, but i guess that type of stuff only happens in Hollywood "},{"Title":"A Needle in a Hay Stack","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In a genre that is all about style over substance, a genre where you'll be lucky to find character development beyond a character losing their virginity, we have something that is rare in the genrean intelligent horror film with a strong plot.Even classic horror films like Halloween(1978) and Texas Chainsaw Massacare(1974), as good as they are, won't receive any praise for their plot, and that's not a bad thing. Too much of a plot can hurt a hinder a horror film(Lost Souls, I am looking in your general direction) Fourtanately Hellraiser pulls it off. I won't take time to get into plot details as by now there are more then enough other places to find that out.As is another part of horror films, acting is generally ranged from mediocre to bad. Fourtanately we get mediocre from most of the cast with 2 exceptionsFrank, who is played convincingly enough by Sean Chapman, with all the malice and ambition required. Douge Bradley shines above all as the legendary Pinhead, who has minimal screen time. He portrays Pinhead perfectly, as the menacing yet fair and quite intelligent being who is only out to do his job.One thing that I love about the film is how the story plays out like a Shakespserian tragedy, with the fatal flaw of a main character setting him out to achieve a goal, which ultimately sends him and those around him spiraling into self destruction(sure Frank's not someone of high class like most Shakespearian tragedies but it's close enough) Frank's fatal flaw is his desire. His desire to experience new sensations caused him to be brought down to hell. His desire to come back caused him to enlist Julia in murdering people so he can absorb their blood, with the Cenobites ultimately coming back for him and taking him down as Frank gives the famous line Jesus Wept The effects seem dated compare to today but they still get the job done. Considering the budget for this film, they did one hell of a job, although the effects at the end are less them impressive(though no fault of Clive's, like I said low budget) This movie also uses a highly fitting musical score. Notice the music during Frank's resurrection scene. It's not a soundtrack that will go down in cinematic history like Psycho or Halloween but it is a cut above the majority of horror films. This film does have it's share of tense and scary moments. The film does a pretty good job of creating tension, and the presence of the Cenobites alone is pretty damn intimidating.So if you're in the mood for something that rises above most, hellraiser is a good pick.9/10 "},{"Title":"A tale of pleasure, pain, angels and demons","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have always had a certain sympathy for horror genre. Since little, i get some scary fun with that horrible fictitious characters. Of course, i heard about Hellraiser. When i watch that man with needles (Or something like that) in his face, i was scared. In this time i have never seen the original movie, in T.V always give to me the sequels... not more. At least, after 5 or 6 years i found Clive Barker's Hellraiser (Believe me, found a title like that in DVD that have subtitles is not so easy as it seems). Since little i think that was just other ridiculous movie that only that wants is just show ugly scenes to win some good cash. I was so wrong. Clive Barjer's Hellraiser is not only one of the best horror movies that i have ever seen (Other movies that i love of this genre are too Brian De Palma's Carrie based on Stephen King first book and Murnau's first Bram Stocker classic Dracula adaptation Nosferatu), Hellraiser is at the same time, one of the best movies that i have ever seen.This amazing tale told us the key to the most infamous human desires through a rare box. This box is a kind of puzzle, that, when it is resolved, open a gate to a labyrinth of confusions, where is the horrible and recognizable Cenobites (Oundstaning scary characters). This creatures are that angels to some, demons for others that give to any human been that open the box the most horrible and deeper sensorial experience, in all the meanings pleasure and pain. One of the Cotton's family solves the mystery of the box, as you know, he disappear for that special facts. His brother,Larry, and his wife (Who is the lover of the missing guy) goes to the same old house. Larry's daughter, Kirsty goes sometimes to visit her dad. But in the house something is happening, in the attic appears strange sounds. Julia, Larry's wife, discover something horrible and macabre but she will unite with it. Kirsty suspect something... suddenly, she discover not capable for your eyes. Clive Barker's Hellraiser is not a regular horror movie. Is an excellent movie. The story, based in a short story by Clive, is so captable that takes you to that hell and makes you feel the real horror in your own flesh, like if the Cenobites take you to a sensorial experience. The characters are good defined and the performances are great (Ashley Laurence is outstanding as Kirsty). I really believe the effects and the music is so catching... i just have to say this This movie is awesome.Clive Barker's Hellraiser is a marvelous horror fantasy that makes you think (Few horror movies do that.. just think that this one and The Exorcist). The human been have desires, not of spirit or soul, desires of flesh, of feel that carnal desire. And the human been can even sold his soul for feel that pleasure. Clive Barker's Hellraiser is a tale of angels and demons, pleasure and pain, sadomasochism, monsters, death and desire. Is good horror movie with an awesome message. I must repeat it... what horror movie do that? *Sorry for the mistakes. Well, if there any. "},{"Title":"A Great British Horror Movie","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Many people I come across hate this movie...I can't see why...I have been a Clive Barker fan for a good long while now and have liked Hellraiser ever since...It's great mix of gore and great storyline keep you hooked (Pardon the pun there).I won't go into great detail about Hellraiser because if you are about to watch this movie for the first time, it's best to go in without knowing nothing at all...It makes it twice as interesting.Doug Bradley is great as the Cenobite leader Pinhead, a role he reprised for the next seven sequels (Yawn).May I suggest if you do have the great urge to watch the set then please avoid anything over Hellraiser Bloodlines...The rest are pap. "},{"Title":"Twisted and Unique Horror Film, Unlike Anything I've Ever Seen.","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser is a unique horror/thriller that has been hailed as a classic of the genre, and I think it deserves that title. The plot concerns an unfaithful wife, Julie (Clare Higgins), who is visited by the zombie of her husband, Larry's (Andrew Robinson) brother, Frank - a lustful man whom she had a love affair with before his death. Unfortunately, Frank has a connection with the Cenobites, a group of demons from hell that he escaped from and has been chased by ever since. Frank also holds a lamented puzzle box that can release them onto earth. Frank sends Julia to kill random men so he can gain more life , and she willfully does so. But when Kirsty (Ashley Laurence), Larry's daughter (and Frank's niece) realizes what is happening, she finds herself caught up in a bloody battle between the forces of good and evil, to try and save herself from the demons.One of the strangest horror films of the 1980s, Hellraiser is unlike any movie you've ever seen or likely will see. Written and directed by Clive Barker, who helmed the story that the 1992 classic Candyman was based on, brings a refreshing and genuinely frightening story to the screen. I can confidently say that the plot to this film is so much unlike any other I've yet to see, which makes it a very unique and pleasant surprise. The storyline takes a while to get going and builds up during the first 45 minutes or so, and then after that all hell breaks loose (literally) and things start to get really insane. Sex is a main theme in the plot, and has a strange connection with death, which is a consistent element in the story. It's a little strange but it works. To go along with the splendidly original story are some very memorable (and very spooky) scenes, and some unforgettable lines. The performances were good, everyone involved was above average I'd say. Nowhere near perfect but far from horrible. Ashley Laurence is the main heroine and she plays her debut role surprisingly well. Clare Higgins and Andrew Robinson are the estranged husband and wife, and are also very good. Doug Bradley plays his now-legendary role as the leader of the Cenobite demons, and was later crowned the name Pinhead, which has become a notorious horror icon (along with the puzzle cube). His role is terrifying and he plays it with a cold, calm demeanor which adds to the villain's scariness. The makeup effects in this film were quite amazing, all of the demons are unique and very creepy looking. Another notable thing is the gore in the film. Most of the gore isn't a result of killings, but of transformations from rotting corpses, and the grisly monster/creatures from hell (oh, and let's not forget those hooks on chains!). The CGI effects are a little dated, but this wasn't a major problem. The movie ends in a satisfying way, leaving it open-ended for the many sequels that followed.Overall, Hellraiser is a weird and wonderful thriller that is perhaps one of the most original horror movies of the decade. Not only did it bring a breath of fresh air in the genre, but it spawned one of the most infamous horror villains of all time. Clive Barker is really an imaginary genius, seeing his works can easily verify that. I definitely recommended this movie to horror fans, it's one of those classic 'must-sees'. Granted, it's not a movie for everybody (some people may not enjoy it, and I suppose that's understandable), but it's a film that you've got to see it at least once. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Clive Barker's classic","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker is a horror mastermind with Salome, the Forbidden, Nightbreed.Hellraiser is one of Clive's masterpieces, the plot is original with a Box called the Lament Configuartion and once it's opened it will take you beyond the limits with pleasure and pain. The Cenobites are creatures that live in the Inferno (The labyrinth inside the box) and love pain.They rip people's flesh with hooks attached to chains, the plot sees a man named Frank who has opened the box and is torn apart by the Cenobites. His soul is trapped within the walls of the Box until when his brother Larry and his Wife Julia move in to the house.Juila has had an affair with Frank and is still obsessed with him, so when they move the bed up the stairs Larry cuts his hand on a nail. His daughter Kirsty tries to talk with her step-mother Juila but she's too busy remembering Frank.So Larry enters the attic where Juila is and spills his blood on the floorboards and as they go out to get stitches for his hand the blood seeps into the floor resurrecting Frank since he was killed there.Frank then needs Juila to bring men to the attic and kill them so he can drain their blood putting more flesh in his bones making him look human again before the Cenobites discover that he has escaped from their world.It's not long before Kirsty runs into Frank but escapes with the Box and solves it causing the Cenobites to find her, but she makes a deal with them. If she brings Frank to them then they can't have her flesh.Meanwhile at the house Frank kills Larry and wears his face to look like him. After Kirsty discovers this she runs into the attic and Frank gives out who he is causing the Cenobites to come and tear him apart.But the Cenobites want her too so she gets the Box and closes it causing them to return to the Inferno.Hellraiser is a great horror classic that introduced one of the greatest horror icons. Pinhead although he was called the Lead Cenobite in the first film.A true horror classic by Clive Barker. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A must see for any true horror fan","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser is one of the best horror films that you will ever see, but fair warned be ye who enter here...Hellraiser is a superb piece of what I would call true horror; this is not a tale of angst ridden teens chasing each other for some asinine reason or other, nor is it the kind of schlocky horror which was prevalent at the time it was made (e.g. Elm Street series, Friday the 13th series etc). This is much rather a film that will make you think as well as cringe, and leave you asking just who the real monsters of the film are. And trust me, you won't be able to answer that one easily.Hellraiser delves into the realms of sadomasochistic horror, set against the backdrop of a suburban household, inter-weaved with a subplot of adultery and revenge from beyond the grave! (excuse the clich...) Hellraiser's tone is exceedingly dark, with virtually no relief from an overwhelming sense of oppression present throughout the entirety of the film. If anything the poor quality of film used enhances the dark and brooding atmosphere, with the majority of the budget obviously spent on the costumes and effects of the protagonists of the film. There is one instance of exceedingly poor special effects, with one of the monsters seeming more comical than scary, but one has to forgive this as Hellraiser was made almost 20 years ago and what may have seemed cutting edge at that time is sadly less than impressive in the modern day.Hellraiser provides a truly chilling experience, with the viewer left feeling uncomfortable throughout. Whilst it may not appeal to some viewers of more slasher style films, this is what a true horror film is supposed to be disturbing, unsettling, and taking the attitude of less is more when it comes to violence and death. "},{"Title":"Hellraiser","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Made in 1987 by Clive Barker, was a low-budget British horror film. Based on a novel (also written by Clive Barker) The Hellbound Heart. It explores the aspects of sadomasochism, and the mystery of a puzzle box that when opened release demons that torture mortal souls for all eternity. As well as exploring the turmoil of a family whose lives soon go from average and mundane to a nightmare of murder betrayal, revenge, and punishment.The story is centered around a golden puzzle box said to be the doorway to an unfathomable world of erotic pleasure that would last all of eternity. To be delivered to it's opener by the cenobites considered to be angels who will deliver you your wildest dreams.The story describes the downfall of a man named Frank Cotton. Who upon finding the legendary puzzle box discovers the pleasures spoke of were to be of horrible sadomasochistic torture by creatures called cenobites. A group of horribly mutilated humanoid figures bound in leather with distinguishing deformations, such as those of Pinhead whose mutilation consists of pins that have been hammered through his flesh into his skull in a grid pattern and six open wounds on his lower torso seen through his leather outfit.The story continues some time after Frank's disappearance, during which, his brother Larry and family move into the old desolate house. Then a few drops of blood from a small accident causes Frank's body to begin regenerating from the residue left of him under the floor boards. His heart reforms and begins pulsing and the bone and organs of his body return, but he lacks skin and flesh. Julia, who was his lover while engaged to Frank's brother Larry, succumbs to Frank's pleas, and agrees to help him. A broad portion of the story centers on the sexual tensions between Frank and Julia and Frank's ability to use his previous relationship with Julia to persuade her to murder for his rejuvenation with promises he'll be with her. She begins seducing men at singles bars, then luring them up back to the house up to the desolate attic room where Frank waits to drain them, so it provide the blood needed for his body to regenerate, thus allowing his soul to escape the cenobites.In this review I won't give away the ending. I'm not so cruel as to deny you the pleasure of seeing the film for yourself. As a person who loves the magic behind film I can honestly give my approval on this movie which stands above all other horror films made during the 1980's.I feel this film is powerful in describing what we fear. I also believe it does something other movies of the genre cannot. What it does is create a world too horrible to imagine beyond the dry concept of death. In Hellraiser it goes beyond death which would be a good thing compared to the endless torture you'd face at the hands of the cenobites. And in my opinion serves as a more intellectual film than many others of the same genre.Enjoy the film. "},{"Title":"The Horror Movie That Re-Made Horror","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker took horror to another level with his early novels and the movie Hellraiser. Philosophically similar in some sense to the work of Anne Rice, Barker's rhetoric puts the horror inside of us, inside very human characters. Their flaws which in turn lead to their horrific outcomes are very human. This is a very different notion than most of the work of Stephen King who often portrays the common man going up against the dark forces like in The Stand, Salem's Lot, and IT. However, the closest works of King's to Barker's are probably Carrie and The Shining where the evil lurks not without but within.What lurks inside Frank Cotton is almost as terrifying as the cenobites he encounters. I only wish Barker had explored this aspect of Frank's character a bit further in the film, showing the lengths at which the character goes to obtain the pleasure box.The original story, the short novel The Hellbound Heart, speaks of Cotton's addiction to pleasure at all costs, going from town-to-town, country-to-country, continent-to-continent to satisfy his constant appetite. Whenever he finds pleasure, mostly through sex, he says It's never enough. The theme of addiction is ever-present in the story. Frank hears rumors of a box that will open up another dimension in which inhabit a race of beings that know all about ultimate pleasure. When Frank finally acquires and opens the puzzle box after having gone over many lands and seas to find the box and relinquishing a small fortune to obtain it, he is terribly disappointed. The creatures an altogether different definition of pleasure, one which is summoned by opening Les Marchand's Box, the so-called cenobites, have inextricably linked to pain and suffering. The excruciating pain then followed by an end to the pain is what makes the pleasure so sweet. The cenobites cobble up Frank from his bedroom and take him to a horror-filled alternate dimension.The wife of Frank's brother, Claire, wants to re-experience the wonderful sex she had with Frank.They had a brief affair before she married his brother, Larry (Rory in the novel), who is opposite in almost every way to Frank. Larry has repressed sexuality and a revulsion to blood.Through a freak accident in which Larry's blood spills onto the floor of the bedroom, the same place that Frank had opened the puzzle-box, part of Frank begins to reemerge, the bedroom giving birth, and the blood being a doorway for Frank. Claire discovers him and agrees to give him more blood to bring him back. Claire becomes the other monster of the story as she brings victims to the half-made Frank who uses their blood to become whole again after the cenobites un-sewed him the first time around. Frank's addiction led him to his original ripping and Claire's addiction to Frank leads to her horrific actions.A much more disturbing and darker look at human nature. Some have called Clive Barker the writer of cerebral horror. "},{"Title":"Among The Top Horrors Of All Time","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just re watched this again last night, and am happy to report that it has stood the test of time, and puts most recent horror films to shame. Why it's being remade, I do not know, but hopefully if Clive Barker is actively involved with the project, maybe it has a chance. Others have reviewed the plot, but I'll just say that the first three films in this franchise, stand head and shoulders above most of the other horror franchises, and if you have not seen this film yet, go out and buy the DVD right now for Halloween. The effects are gruesome as well... Hell, and I which more current horror would use this film as an example of what horror should be. "}{"Title":"It's alright","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It was AMC for part of their Halloween movie Marathon and I finally had the opportunity to watch it. IT was a film that I had always been too scared to see because I anticipated it being horrifying as it had always been described to me as such.While not horrible, it's not necessarily all that scary. It's incredibly gory, but even the gore is campy and bad by today's standards. It's still not something to watch if you're faint of heart.That being said, watching the movie was not a waste of time. I enjoyed it, but it was not at all frightening. More of an interesting theme in a movie. The premise of the film is indeed interesting and the film was worth watching for that purpose. I'd say definitely watch it, but do not expect to be utterly terrified. "},{"Title":"Submit.","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first time I saw this, I was suffering a 104 fever on my mum's couch. Despite my intense misery,I couldn't help but get caught up in the story, and I was able to forget my pain for a while. I must admit that I have never really liked the ending,too silly for me. I was in awe of the Leader from the moment I saw him, predatory grace incarnate. He was beautiful. The lack of skin is a key point, illustrating the ultimate truth about each soul. Nothing can be hidden here, the only illusions are those of the ego. EXPOSURE is the greatest terror most people can fathom, but it is the function of Hell and its keepers to torment each soul with its own faults and wasted potential. This is done without malice, at least from the Cenobites. They go about their work with a lack of compassion that is truly the only mercy they can show. Theirs is not a task of punishment, it is one of refinement.The heart of this film is not fear of the Cenobites, it comes from the question it asks each of us... would you have the will to refuse Them when They came for you? To finally know, once and for all, what your true heart is, and to be only that perfect thing, forever, no matter what it cost you? If your answer is Yes, watch this film and try again. "},{"Title":"Classic Horror","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Talk about a classic. This has got to be one of the best stories of hell ever. The Centibites are all major cool, Clive Barker has got to be the master of atmosphere without over doing the atmosphere. It has the right amount of creepy atmosphere and story substance, I do wish we got to see more of the Centibites in this one, but there are many sequels to see more of them in. But this is the one that started it all. The other Centibites, BUTTERBALL and CHATTERER are both major league cool. The cast does a great job and the dialog is creepy. The effects were major league impressive and all the creature effects are impressive, even the GATEKEEPER. I give HELLRAISER...8 STARS "},{"Title":"Sadomasochists From Beyond The Grave!","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Joe Cool Review Hellraiser(1987)Starring Andrew Robinson as Larry Cotton Claire Higgins as Julia Cotton Ashley Laurence as Kirsty Cotton Oliver Smith as Skinless Frank Cotton Doug Bradley as Pinhead(credited as 'Lead Cenobite')Plot A masochist, Frank Cotton, opens up the doorway to Hell and is ripped apart...literally. Some time later, Larry & Julia Cotton move into the house that Frank was killed in. What we don't know until later is that Julia and Frank decided to have some relations, before she was to be married to Larry. Larry's hand eventually spills blood on the attic floor, enabling Frank to come back to life as a skeleton with some vital organs and flesh. He needs more victims, and Julia will do anything for Frank, so she brings him victims. Let's not forget Kirsty, who loves her daddy and despises Julia, and oh, those cenobites are here too, don't worry about them. They're kind of mad that Frank escaped them.Openers Hellraiser, and the series in general, is a very strange animal. The original Hellraiser is certainly one of the more bizarre films you will ever see. Maybe not in execution but the concepts and characters created originally by Clive Barker(and have taken on a life of their own due to the many sequels, comic books and overall cult status Pinhead has achieved) are certainly out there. Hellraiser was definitely a film that marked me. Instead of the slasher films I was used to, Hellraiser was a different world and a complete different type of horror. It's fantasy horror. You can see the fantasy elements in this movie at it's core. I think maybe Clive Barker really wants to be a fantasy writer more than anything, but he just has a knack for horror in general.The Good Ashley Laurence looks like she's been through hell at the end of the movie. Which she has but I mean she acts the part. The acting is *not* a strong factor of these movies, and so if you get a competent actress it will make it worth it, and Ashley does a good job as Kirsty in that regard. The movie's fantastical nature was toned down here due to budget(but they more than make up for it in Hellraiser 2) so they focus on makeup. The makeup effects are astounding. We have a skinless man, and of course the cenobites which are in full costume and have various effects. Pinhead, whose name is self explanatory. The female one with her throat ripped open and stretched out. Butterball, the fat one with his eyes sewn shut. And the Chatterer...eyes are also shut and whose mouth is stretched so far open that whenever he tries to talk he just..well..chatters. I can't even imagine the hard work that went into it and so I applaud them. The story too I liked. Not necessarily the script but the story is very original and bizarre. Doug Bradley is good as Pinhead for the first time here, not phoning it in like he would be in later sequels and not hamming it up like he would before that. We'll tear your soul apart is still a classic line.The Bad The ending felt like it was attached with a staple gun at the last second. After a dark dreary movie, which is essentially a very sick and twisted love story, we get a light show for the obligatory big finish, and the budget didn't allow it so we get a really *bad* light show. Not to mention how are we supposed to believe that a girl can send back all the demons of hell in the span of not even ten minutes? Really felt like they were given the wrap it up gesture and had to hurry to finish the movie. Also, the acting from everyone else is VERY melodramatic. Claire Higgins in particular. No more I can't bear it! Who talks like that? She sounded like she belonged on some soap opera or something. The script and acting are not this films strong suit.The Ugly This movie contains an intense final 30 minutes filled with blood, violence, and more blood..did I mention the blood? Skinless bodies, hammer blows to the head, bleeding walls, bodies being ripped apart, skin tearing, knife wounds... this is such a bloody bloody film. Gorehounds will love it. Those with weak stomachs may not.Final Verdict Don't go into this expecting cinematic masterpiece. Hellraiser is what it is, a horror film about masochists, demons and puzzle boxes that open the door to hell. And on that note it does a decent, if very flawed, job of it.Rating ***1/2 of ***** "},{"Title":"Still tearing souls apart twenty years later...","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first time I saw Hellraiser was on a crummy VHS tape, I was about twelve years old, and I had more of an appreciation for violence or gruesome special effects than I did storytelling. If you had asked me then, I would have said that Hellraiser was a bore, a collection of great gore surrounded by seemingly interminable exposition. As a man, however, I am able to appreciate its subtlety. This does not mean Hellraiser is a great, brilliant film, but it does mean that it has a lot more merit than what Ebert gives it credit for. That said, just as I have said with countless other films, if you have only seen Hellraiser on VHS, you have not really seen it at all. This is one film where seeing the points at which steel enters flesh, or ink marks skin, is really appreciated. Anchor Bay have outdone themselves on the DVD, which is especially mesmerising to behold on a Plasma TV of a hundred and six centimetres. Stephen King was right. Clive Barker is the future of horror, with all the usual clichs and stupid devices nowhere to be seen.Based upon Barker's novella The Hellbound Heart, Hellraiser is a story of how far we will go in order to achieve satisfaction, and what it will cost us if we go too far. Unfortunately, the first error Clive makes is in the lack of detail he goes into regarding Frank's first encounter with the cenobites. Granted, he was limited to a very small budget, but The Hellbound Heart's description of the moment when Frank realises his grevious mistake is far more satsifying in the end. Not that the first images we see of the cenobites aren't satisfying in themselves. Barker's decision to join the opening sequences to the rest of the film with the classic image of Doug Bradley in full makeup resetting the box was one of the smartest made during the 1980s. As Frank is driving his sister-in-law to murder men so that he might rebuild himself, one perfectly understands his motivations for this truly despicable behaviour. And therein lies the true key to building a compelling antagonist. We are repelled by Frank because we know we might do the same in his position.Fortunately, Ashley Laurence gives us a protagonist we can like. During the opening scenes, we cannot see her as anything but an ordinary twenty-something girl. Towards the end of the film, we see an ordinary twenty-something girl who suddenly finds herself in a very messed-up situation. Her attempts to bargain with the cenobites are almost painful to watch, and for a good reason. She never breaks character, even in the most uncomfortable situations, which makes it all the more a shame that she only seemed to resurface for a sequel. Sean Chapman and Andrew Robinson round out the circle as the brothers around whom the novella revolved. While the good brother as Andrew portrays him is never quite developed enough to make one care about his fate, Sean develops Frank so well that one almost wishes he could escape the fate that he has brought upon himself. When Andrew suddenly takes the walk on his character's brother's wild side, such is the nuances of the acting on display that one immediately realises what has happened, and is even shocked by it in spite of how telegraphed it is.Which brings me to the real star of the film. Doug Bradley, a friend of Barker's from high school plays and the like if you listen to the audio commentary, was offered his choice of roles on the production. Had he not been offered the cenobite with the most lines, he has more or less said, he would have chosen the part played instead by Andrew Robinson. And that would have been a waste of such great talent. Where other film killers were either mute or too prone to mistaking themselves for comedians, Bradley gives us a monster who is so matter-of-fact. When he indulges in humour, it becomes refreshing due to how dry it is. You have to really be listening to him to get it, thus the film rewards the audience for paying attention. Bradley has since gone on to perform in a seemingly inordinate amount of sequels, including the masterful second episode, but he is never in finer form than is the case here. When he tells Ashley Laurence's character that he will tear her soul apart if she is trying to pull a fast one, the words ring in the memory like being told one has cancer.Special mention must be made of the various effects. Whilst the special visual effects, particularly at the end of the film, are strictly low-fi, the makeup effects throughout the rest of the film are so brilliant they make the film almost as much as the performances of Laurence, Chapman, Robinson, and Bradley. Sure, the pillar of wood with the chains and bodyparts nailed to it was a bit silly, but you will never notice it amidst all the suffering the rest of the film displays to us. When Andrew Robison improvised the line Jesus wept, I just had to laugh. Take it from someone who has regularly suffered the psychological equivalent of what goes on in Hellraiser Clive Barker really knows how to put his characters through pain. And that is the great advantage that the first two Hellraiser films have over those that have followed. The audience cares enough about the characters that what becomes of them is truly satisfying to watch. It could even be argued that everyone in the film, from Frank to Julia to the myriad of strangers, gets exactly what they deserve.For these reasons, I gave Hellraiser an eight out of ten. If nothing else, it is a great example of what can be done on the cheap. "},{"Title":"Barking Mad Horror","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser is a great movie. Made on a shoestring budget, the fine cast, imaginative production design and superb script rise above its failings. Set in America, the film is clearly shot in the UK - Cricklewood in NW London, to be precise. There is some truly ropey animation in the closing scenes too, but these are small criticisms.Clive Barker now has a good reputation as a horror maestro. Almost unknown in the mid-1980s, he adapted his novella The Hellbound Heart into a film script and that was where his career took off.Hellraiser does what any effective horror movie should do, lining people up for gruesome deaths and making the audience wince with guilty pleasure as they watch. What it also does is provide its characters with motivation and emotional depth. Hellraiser actually has a plot, an increasingly rare device in the horror genre.Ignore the fact that this movie is almost 2 decades old and watch it. It's a classic. "},{"Title":"Highway to hell...","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Andrew Robinson stars as an oblivious New Yorker who moves in with his English wife, to England to escape the city pressures, too bad that his wayward brother's house, still has his body just looking for blood to reanimate him. So when a bad cut happens, he is back and looking to get the flesh to bring him back to life. Ashley Laurence is the teenager who discovers the viscous secrets that the house and puzzle have to offer. I must admit that I read the novel after watching this (Years later), only because I don't read as much as I should. I know i've read more books than most my age, however I just never got around to reading Clive Barker's original work until way after I had seen the movie. I however really enjoyed the movie, it's gory and very surreal. That isn't even describing how demented and mean spirited it is. I remember seeing this in a crowded theater when I was 16, it was always interesting to watch gory stuff in a suburbanized theater because people often times walked out and many people walked out with pale faces. It's an experience I remember due to the fact that my usual experiences with city theaters had people walking out as if nothing happened, I saw Ten To Midnight in my local Chicago theater and nobody was phased. At the time Hellraiser was the new standard in gore and it took just one year to be outdone. (It's equally enjoyable sequel) and so forth, I don't think you'll ever see a more skin crawling film. This is not for those who find hooks getting ripped into flesh hard to stomach. For me and to this day I find this great macabre entertainment. This one is a classic and Roger Ebert was way off.* * *1/2 out of 4-(Very good) "},{"Title":"Chilling,Scary, and Disgusting?","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser seemed to redefine where horror films could go, and where we draw the line on how writers translate their most detailed thoughts onto the screen. Not very often does the writer of the book direct the movie, and even just for that reason this may be an interesting film to watch because you feel like it's a first generation experience. Now onto the details. The movie is extremely gory, so don't have a full stomach. Also if you get nightmares easily I'd suggest watching it in the middle of the day as opposed to late at night for the first time because you might have trouble getting that out of your head. I will say young Ashley Laurence completely makes Hellraiser, 3 times more watchable then with a lack of her. She's by far the best actress/actor on the film with the rest ranging from average to a little cheesy. Don't let that turn you off because the film has other good things, mainly the special effects are quite effective (for an 80's movie you probably won't notice the technology setback). For example the sequence when the body comes up out of the floorboards and starts getting muscle and bone slowly; this movie has it's memorable horror moments for sure. I.e. the Cenobites and the director's portrayal of them as enjoying the suffering of others in a place without rules or 'limits' to what pain you can endure at their expense. People get ripped apart by chains wieled from these creatures minds, body parts and organs hang from wooden racks that spin and through giblets on the walls. Also this movie has some added disgust showing complete adultery and hinting at maybe worse things - something this movie continually does throughout. Another memorable moment is when Ashely's character opens the box that opens these gates to Hell (the cenobites) -the walls heat up, light filters through cracks in the woodwork of the walls, and a hallway opens from a fissure in the wall. As she walks into this new hallway (WHY?) it looks like something out of an underground prison, and baby screams can be heard. About 30 ft. into the hall something is just there when the camera goes there, it's a ugly 'hallway creature' that holds itself up with rear arms that is totally unnatural. Cheesy moments include flowers blooming on television sets to try to give some kind of mood/symbolism that doesn't work. Also Ashelys (basically the main character)father/mothers dull attempts to hide the truth from Ashley lead to a almost unbelievable distance between her and her parents....can't she tell that somethings up?? Good grief. and that happens a few times. Most emphasis is on her affair with her husbands brother Frank, and how he is resurrected from Hell by her killing men she meets in town. He basically uses their body to regenerate his...sound pretty? It ain't. and neither is this movie. Basically its designed to push what you're used to seeing in a horror movie. For that its a must see for any horror fan, but probably isn't watched by the general audience well. "},{"Title":"Great Gorrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrre","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i was 8 when i saw this film and i was disturbed. Then a few years later i loved it and i started loving all of the films of its genre. Well not all of them but most of them. Hellraiser is a great film because it bares this secret within the cube which can open the gate, the gate to Pandora's world of everlasting suffering. Very nicely done with the psychological interweaving of adolescent and puperting teenager thoughts and experiences. Then the gore is just awesome if you like gore. Of course if you don't, you don't, and that's fine. But for all horror lovers there is brilliance in the goring because it is personally custom made for the individual. So each victim gets its one personalised death... "},{"Title":"Campy fun","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A man and his wife move into a London house in an idyllic neighborhood. Much to the woman's shock, up stairs in the attic, she finds a deformed demon who is looking for human sacrifices to complete his body. The kicker is that he is her husband's brother AND her former lover. Added to that, the man has some more powerful demons pursuing him after he cheated them out of a deal.This is one of those campy 1980s horror films that has become a cult classic. Others like Re-Animator and The Evil Dead are other examples. What makes this one interesting is that the original author, Clive Barker, is not only at the helm of this film version, but he also wrote the screenplay. It doesn't happen often and it is nice to see what can only be called the author's true vision on screen. Well maybe, not fully true since the production was packed with limitation, many of which are apparent, but fans of gruesome horror should find this a very entertaining movie.There are some truly sickening scenes of unholy forms of torture to go along with the supernatural story line. B-movie style sex comes also with the package! Fun! If you have the taste for that sort of thing. 7/10Has both R-rated and Unrated versions. Both contain violence, gory imagery, and sex. "}{"Title":"Just discovered Hellraiser, and voicing my opinion","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hey guys, I'm new to IMDb, but not to horror movies, which is probably why I didn't find Hellraiser the horror masterpiece that everyone claims it is. I do think it's good, but its not what I'm used to. i was raised on slashers like Hallowen and Friday the 13th, so the idea of an acupuncturist from Hell who's summoned by a demonic Rubix cube was weird. the only real reason i liked this movie and saw its sequels is because its completely different from anything I've ever seen before. you know, besides Candyman, another Clive Barker classic that was just weird. and this would be me filling up space so they let me post the comment that is ten lines long. "},{"Title":"Hellraiser 1-5 Reviewed","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies of all time. It has a lot of gore. My favorite cenobite is Pinhead. This is such a good movie. If I were you I would rent this right now! My favorite Hellraisers from best to worst is Hellraiser1, Hellraiser2, Hellraiser3, Hellraiser4 and then finally Hellraise5. Hellraiser1 is rated R for gore, language, and brief sexuality. Hellraiser2 is rated R for brief language, gore, and brief nudity. Hellraiser3 is rated R for strong violence, language, and some sexuality. Hellraiser4 is rated R for strong horror violence, gore,language and some sexuality. Hellraisers5 is rated R for gore, language and sexuality. Rent all these movies because they are all good. So,I hope you like these as much as I do. "},{"Title":"A Barker Masterpiece","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is truly one of the classics in Horror and one of the bloodiest ones at that, considering the production year ('87). Clive Barker does a very good job at directing this as he should considering that it's based on a book of his (which I unfortunately haven't read at this time, so I can't comment on how good an adaption it is.) The whole idea of a puzzle box acting as a gateway to a Hellish dimension is very good and at the time original if not a bit H.P. Lovecraftian.The story also holds up nicely if somewhat surreal and the acting is splendidAndrew Robinson does a formidable job as Larry Cotton; the thrilled owner of an inherited house. Clare Higgins is probably the one that does the worst of the main characters with a bit stiff performance as Julia Cotton; the wife with a semi-dark secret. Ashley Laurence does a very good job as Kristy Cotton; the daughter that gets caught up in the nightmare. Sean Chapman and Oliver Smith do a good job of bringing Frank Cotton/Frank the Monster; the somewhat adventurous brother, to life so to speak. And finally we have the best performance and the one that really bring this series to the fore, Doug Bradley as Lead Cenobite (Pinhead, big applause); the chain wielding Master of Pain and leader of this delegation from hell. If you haven't already seen this then I can only recommend it, it's the best one in the series (at least of the ones I have seen, which is 1-4, but I don't expect the last 4 to be better). If you're a Horror fan then SEE THIS, it's an absolute must in any horror fans collection. I give this 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Put the slashers away?","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" At its best, horror is one of the most subversive and confronting of film genres, able to tap into our deepest reservoirs of fear and anxiety and bring them oozing to the surface. Yet in the deeply conservative period of the mid to late eighties, horror's well ran bone-dry, as Hollywood proved unwilling, or unable, to break free of its own tired formulae, bombarding viewers with an endless succession of sequels and diminishing returns. In a little under ten years there were four inferior follow-ups to 'A Nightmare on Elm Street', a staggering seven sequels to 'Friday the 13th' - and every other horror director seemed to be just going through the motions, slavishly mimicking these long-expired franchises for all that they were (or, more to the point, were not) worth.Yet just when the world of horror had become oversaturated with moronically buff teen victims, unstoppable heavy-breathing slashers and undead paedophiles delivering sub-Schwarzenegger wisecracks, a young English director named Clive Barker came right out of left field to remind filmgoers what a scary place hell can be when presented with imagination and originality. 'Hellraiser', based on Barker's own novel 'The Hellbound Heart', was so many things at once - a haunted house movie, a sadomasochistic fairytale, a family tragedy, a gory piece of Gothic - and yet it was like no other film of its decade, and touched a raw nerve with its all-new horror mythology, its elegant narrative construction, and its unabashedly dark unpleasantness. In short, it was - and remains - a classic, able to get under the skin not least because for over half the film one of the main characters has none of his own.Larry (Andrew Robinson) moves back into the old family house with his frosty wife Julia (Clare Higgins) after his wayward brother Frank (Sean Chapman) has once again disappeared from the scene - but far from merely skipping town, this time Frank has opened the gates of hell with a mysterious box, and his soul has been taken to the outer limits of pleasure and pain. After Larry's hand is injured while moving furniture, a splash of his blood revives what remains of Frank's body, buried under the floorboards. Desperate to reform himself bodily (if not morally) with more blood, the skeletal Frank enlists the help of Julia, with whom he had once had a passionate affair, and she is soon enticing strangers into the house for him to suck dry. Yet when Frank's attention is attracted by Larry's pretty daughter Kirsty (Ashley Laurence), she is forced to cut a dangerous deal with the infernal Cenobites, once-human guardians who want their escaped ward back and will raise hell to get him.Full of images that instantly entered the nightmares of the collective unconscious - the puzzle box that opens a path to eternally exquisite torment, Frank's body rebuilding itself sinew by bloody sinew, and the Cenobites themselves with their radically pierced and surgically altered bodies (including their iconic and eloquent leader, who would be dubbed 'Pinhead' in the film's many sequels) - 'Hellraiser' is a horror film not to be missed, even if some may find the exotic pleasures which it offers to be cruel torture.PluspointsEverything Negative pointsEhm? to short? "},{"Title":"Great Adaptation","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the most disturbing films of the 80s, Hellraiser managed to transcend the mindless teen slasher flicks of the day to become one of the most hailed horror films ever.Adapted from the 1985 novella, The Hellbound Heart, Hellraiser tells the story of a family menaced by otherworldly demons who consider your pain their gain. Fully decked out in the whole S&M regalia, the demons (which include Pinhead and Chatterer, among others), are truly terrifying. There are minor differences that were lost when the novel was adapted to the screen, such as the moving of the Kirsty character from close family friend to daughter. Also, in the novel the demons weren't quite as colorful or descriptive as in the film.If you really liked this one you should definitely move onto Hellbound Hellraiser II, which many consider to be superior. "},{"Title":"One of the most original horror films","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the best and most original horror films. It still holds up well, aside from some cheesy opticals. What makes it so rich is the layers of the plot, its partly a well-acted chamber play, not unlike Bergman, dysfunctional family relations, and a surreal Lynchian nightmare. There is a motivation to the gore and violence here, thanks to the rich characters (many become fully fleshed out so to speak). The limited settings enhance the claustrophobia, still, larger vistas are hinted at and wisely left to the imagination. The cenobites have to be the most striking horror characters created for a modern film, and the first encounter with Pinhead is unforgettable. Back to Bergman, upon watching Cries and Whispers, I noticed some parallels, a dying relative trapped in a room, Erland Josephsons as the doctor, his menacing entrance and cold, ice stare reminiscent of Pinhead. Chris Youngs score is very effective throughout, my favorite moment are the aggressive pounding rhythms heard when Julias murdering spree gathers momentum. Its a pity that the sequels have failed to deliver like this one, although Hellbound have one or two striking moments. The Hellraiser comics could have supplied intriguing material for a sequel or two. One can only hope the franchise shapes up although the chances seem slim after HellraiserDeader and others. "},{"Title":"Greatest horror ever made.","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The most shocking thing about this film was its low budget yet amazing graphics and oddly enough Pinhead in the credits its called lead cenobite the film is scary,entertaining and leaves you craving for the rest in the series most movie monsters scare you while ripping people to shreds and making you jump the cenobites scare you just by being there and its that atmosphere witch leaves you feeling uneasy and on the edge of your seat you end up rooting for the cenobites Pinhead will easily become your favourite monster ever and the way it builds to the climax with the cenobites is fantastic the other films cant match its greatness but there fantastic as well if your into a nightmare on elm street or Friday the 13th you'll love/have to watch this film. "},{"Title":"Good Horror","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I wasn't expecting a whole lot out of this flick when I rented it, but as soon as chains stared slicing into people's skin and pulling their faces apart, and some decent slaughtering started up, I knew it would probably be a fun ride. Lots of gore, and pretty original! Well, at least if you suspend your disbelief far enough to believe that no one in an entire house would notice the peculiar events that start to take place. But who cares? It's a horror movie that stars a guy named Pinhead who tortures people with hooks and chains! Who even cares about the plot, when you've got this psycho waltzing around in some hidden world unlocked by a cube puzzle? Leave your mind somewhere else, and let the freak show begin. "},{"Title":"Scary as hell","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie back in 1987 when I was a kid, and again recently in 2005. It was brilliant then, and it is now. It was scary as hell. I recommend this movie to lovers of terrific horror movies like the Exorcist 1973 version, The Omen, and Dawn of the Dead. Clive Barker's original story, and characters are classics, such as pinhead, chatter-mouth, and a horrific looking female demon from the depths of hell. This movie reminds me of some of my worst nightmares. I suggest getting a box of popcorn, some candy, and sit back and relax and enjoy this scary gem of a movie. Rent this movie with your significant other, and you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Horror Film!","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is my absolute favorite horror movie. It is a great movie. Great acting, script, directing, costumes, characters and photography.********* Spoilers Ahead **********Frank Cotton, is a criminal who one day stumbles upon a puzzle box which turns out to have been in his family for years. He is very desperate to figure out the equation and open it, yet he has no idea about the misfortunes he is about to bring upon himself. When he does open it, he is taken into hell by demons and made their slave. Then when he meets up with Julia his brother's adulterous wife whom he had an affair with he persuades her to kill other men for their blood to make him whole again. Kudos to the cast, crew, and filmmakers. Two Thumbs Way Up! "}{"Title":"Grisly, Disturbing, Unsettling. An ultimate horror film **** out of 5","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker's Hellraiser is a definitive landmark film that is an absolute must for anyone who calls themselves a fan of horror.I have admitted that Hellbound Hellraiser II is by far my personal favorite in the series, but I will whole heartedly admit that this original film is without a doubt sicker and more grotesque than anything that proceeded it.There's just something that makes one gag when we see a cenobite piecing back together a face that's been ripped apart.Hellraiser delves into the regions of pain and suffering unlike any other film and the cenobites themselves are the probably the most interesting and mysterious of all horror creations. "},{"Title":"The Original is Still The Best","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ah, the 80's were a magical period for me. Fresh out of high school and over 18, I can see any film I wanted without parental guidance. The horror genre was at it's peak. Filmmakers were finding new ways to gross out the audience. Novelist Clive Barker directed one of the most disturbing horror films around, Hellraiser. Disturbing not for its gross out scenes, but for it's subject matter.Larry and Julia Cotton (Andrew Robinson and Clare Higgins)move into an old house once occupied by Larry's deadbeat brother, Frank. They appear the happy couple, but are far from it. Julia is an ice queen, and only one man thawed her outFrank. Her and Frank had an affair many years back and she still wishes to be with him. She gets her wish in spades when Frank returns, although not looking too good.Seems that Frank likes to dabble into REALLY dark things. His hobby led him to a mysterious puzzle box. As they say, curiosity killed the cat. In this case, Frank's curiosity literally gets him hooked and skinned, sending him to the depths of hell, where the creatures called the Cenobites (The leader who will be forever known as Pinhead for obvious reasons)delight in bringing pain and pleasure to those who call them. Frank manages to escape, brought back by the blood of his brother (Due to an accident while moving). Unfortunately, not all of him is back. Frank appears to Julia and tells her that they can be together if she helps him. This would require bringing Frank human sacrifices that he can drain.2 things put a dent in their plans Larry's daughter, Kirsty (Ashley Laurence), who grows suspicious of Julia's behavior, and the Cenobites, who are none too pleased at Frank's escape.There is A LOT of blood and gore in the film, but the underlying theme of necrophilia is even MORE disturbing than the gore. After all, Julia is doing all of this to be with her dead lover (And notice what she does when she's with skinned Frank. CREEPY!).But it's the Cenobites that steal the show, especially Pinhead (Doug Bradley, in a role that has gained a huge cult following). They REALLY enjoy their job!There has been many sequels to this film (All of them featuring Pinhead), but the first is still the best of the bunch. "},{"Title":"First-rate","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Larry and Julia Cotton move into a new house. But Larry's brother (and Julia's secret lover) Frank has been there before them. An accident results in blood being spilt and dripping through the floorboards, where it revives the dead Frank. Before long he reveals himself to Julia, tells her the only way to restore him from a rotting corpse-like creature is through more human blood. So Julia entices lecherous men into the house where they become prey.This was the beginning of a first-rate series involving the demonic forms known as cenobites. This film is well-written and genuinely creepy. Julia is both alluring and terrifying as a hammer-wielding man-killer (apparently, after this film was released a lot of husbands were making certain they always locked up their tool-sheds!) The cenobites are interestingly-designed, are original creations. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Shocking","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker's Hellraiser is really a shocking horror-movie, full with gruesome images, tons of gore and hideous creatures, which will make you flinch while watching the movie. It is faithful to the novel, of which it is based (The Hellbound Heart) and has very interesting ideas and, I believe, strong message about the errors of humanity, about cruelty, about life and death. The atmosphere in the film is very dark, it is not exactly scary, but the viewer feels uneasy during the whole movie. The film has his low points,though. It is quite slow-moving and if you have read the book (like me), boring. Also the images in Hellraiser are too gruesome, I think. I have watched many horror-movies, but nothing I have seen, including The Texas Chainsaw Massacre movies matches the nastiness of Hellraiser. I think that sometimes there were needless cruelty shown. However, like it or not, I must admit that this is a must for horror fans. "},{"Title":"What an amazing film!!!!","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I will try not to give too much away for those who have not yet seen this classic of the genre, although the real question being raised by the reviews already here is exactly what genre this film belongs to?? Sold the world over as a horror film, this for me falls more into the not generally recognized genre of macabre fantasy for that is really what this is.So genre taken care of, lets deal with the movie itself. Can anyone who reads this say that they have seen an '80's horror film' that was more original than Hellraiser?? If they can, can they tell me what it is because if it exists, I ain't never found it. What you have in Hellraiser is an excellent storyline, peppered with the most brilliantly chilling lines such as No tears, please. It's a waste of good suffering from Pinhead (credited quite low down as Lead Cenobite) and I thought I'd gone to the limits. I hadn't. The Cenobites gave me an experience beyond limits... pain and pleasure, indivisible from Frank.I think one of the things that mark this above any of the contemporary horrors of the time is that it was adapted from Clive Barker's novella, by Clive Barker (note that the best of the Steven King adaptations were adapted by King himself) and also by directing it himself, Barker made sure to retain as much control over the script and final product as possible thus ensuring some other writer or director didn't end up producing their take on Clive's story, instead what we get is Clive's own, slightly disturbing, vision.The sequels were on the whole (with the exception of Hellbound Hellraiser 2 and Hellraiser 3 Hell On Earth), an uninspired, unimaginative and unbelievable pile of unmitigated tat (ok, I know what you're thinking, but I enjoyed no.3) but the first still stands as a true classic of it's time and type that is still to be bettered. Whilst I have yet to find the horror film that scares me, this is certainly one of the most visually stunning (despite the obviously low low budget) and imaginative horror films this reviewer has had the pleasure of seeing. And not just in the Horror (or Macabre Fantasy) field, Hellraiser still stands as one of the best films I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Gross, not too scary","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If Stephen King is the most recognized horror author of recent decades, then Clive Barker could arguably be pulling up to second place. A British author, playwright and artist, Barker endeavored to add screenwriter and director to his resume with his 1987 horror film debut, Hellraiser. While it has undoubtedly integrated itself into horror pop culture with the character of Pinhead, the film itself is not the strongest piece of horror cinema ever created, largely owing it's shortcomings to Barker's unusual predilections for gore and his not quite robust ability as screenwriter.Based on Barker's novella The Hellbound Heart, Hellraiser isn't the textbook example of strong plotting. It opens in a market somewhere in the continent of Asia (I guess) where an individual is purchasing a wooden puzzle box from a street vendor. The individual is named Frank Cotton (Sean Chapman), and he returns to his family home to uncover the mysteries of the puzzle box in a strange sance of sorts. The outcome is that the puzzle box shoots chains from it's enclosures and rips Frank to pieces, and apparently has opened a doorway to Hell (maybe). Hell features creatures that dress-up like they had a bad accident on the way to an S & M party, known as Cenobites, that seem to take great joy in ripping people limb from limb. Mind you, I am guessing at a lot of this. Some time after Frank buys himself a one-way ticket to eternal damnation, his brother Larry (Andrew Robinson) moves back into the family home with his wife Julia (Claire Higgins) and is visited by his daughter from his first marriage Kirsty (Ashley Laurence). Julia is obviously not supremely happy in her marriage, and upon discovering Frank had recently lived in the house, it brings back memories of an affair she had with Frank shortly before her marriage to Larry, but while still engaged. Shortly thereafter, Larry sustains a cut on his hand and bleeds on the floor of the room that Frank was in when he opened the puzzle box, and somehow, this blood is used by Frank to rebuild himself into some shadowy form of himself, sans skin and most of his muscle mass. Julia discovers Frank and, apparently still hot for him, agrees to help him by picking up men in random bars, bringing them to house while Larry is away at work and killing them so Frank can harvest their blood to rebuild himself. Kirsty discovers this fact and manages to grab the puzzle box during a confrontation with Frank and opens it to Hell, where she makes a deal with the Cenobites to save her soul by offering up Frank's, whom they are not aware escaped from them (they apparently need a better inventory system).Hellraiser requires that viewers take a lot of things for granted. Barker had not apparently mastered the art of ensuring his audience is not supremely confused by events on screen at the time he wrote this screenplay (or it was butchered in editing). How exactly does Frank rebuild himself from nothing? Is there some kind of essence in the room, has he not gone entirely to Hell? Why are the Cenobites not aware of his ability to escape?If all it takes is some bleeding on a floor where the person was last in corporeal form, then you would think that victims are escaping left and right. What exactly is this puzzle box and why are people seeking it out? They are apparently not aware of what awaits them when they solve it.For those who have weak constitutions, Hellraiser is not recommended viewing. It is full of some of the more grotesque imagery in a film I have seen (although it pales in comparison to audacious scenes that were crafted for it's sequel, Hellbound Hellraiser II). This film is wall to wall gore and violence, so if that bothers you, time to give Hellraiser a pass. Hellraiser makes it appear that Barker is fascinated by violent bloody imagery, but that doesn't make the film scary, merely grotesque. There is very little suspense in Hellraiser, it mostly exists to show us some freaky stuff and move on. Some of Barker's imagery is creepy at times, I give him that, but for the most part, what we see on screen isn't exactly frightening.Hellraiser isn't a total loss, but it's hardly a masterpiece and it would take a few films before Barker would begin crafting some stronger screenplays. Hellraiser is good if you like make-up effects gone mad or sadomasochistic imagery, but for a good scare, there is not much to see here.  "},{"Title":"Flaying tonight!","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ticked off at the lash-ups that ensued when his stories were adapted for the screen (the mediocre Underworld and Rawhead Rex), author Clive Barker decided he could do better himself.It was 1987, the year after Stephen King had humiliated himself by making the same decision only to cough up the supremely moronic Maximum Overdrive, but Barker didn't just do it better &#150; in adapting his novella The Hellbound Heart as Hellraiser he crafted one of the most bizarre, ferocious and perversely erotic British horror films ever.It all starts with a puzzle box, the enigmatic Lament Configuration which opens a portal to Hell and calls forth the cenobites, mutilated S&M demons led by Doug Bradley's iconic Pinhead who give their jaded summoners the genuinely novel experience of an agonising slow death before dragging their souls downstairs.Frank Cotton (Sean Chapman) is taken by the self-styled 'explorers in the further regions of experience' until his big brother moves in with disgruntled wife Julia (the wonderful Clare Higgins) and a chance splash of blood offers Frank a grisly way back.As well as the heady, gore-spattered atmosphere of the film, Hellraiser works so well because Frank is such a human monster, grinning like a flayed death's head as he pulls on a cigarette and weasels around Julia for the help he needs.Unfortunately, Barker took a back seat after this and the sequels began the inevitable slide into parody.  "},{"Title":"Bloody disturbing fun!","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've been watching horror films ever since I can remember. The first one I really remember seeing was Halloween 2. I was 11 when I saw this film and it was the first horror film that really creeped me out after being desensitized by modern horror films (pre-1987). I remember lots of controversy about Hellraiser and it's sequel Hellbound Hellraiser II about the amount of gore, sex, and violence and the MPAA wanting to rate them X (before NC-17). I can't believe my parents took me to see it! The acting is decent, but a little wooden. Some of the special effects are pretty silly, like the yellow and blue bolts of electricity (they were borderline-bad back in 1987), but they remain effective and aren't too distracting as some effects in the third Hellraiser installment. I remember, even at eleven, that the scariest parts of the film weren't with the cenobytes, but the scenes with Clare Higgins who plays Kirsty's wicked stepmother, Julia. She's cold, distant, calculating, sly, and evil. Uncle Frank is also menacing, but I wouldn't say he is as evil as Julia, but the incestuous feelings toward Kirsty are enough to creep anyone out. I also liked the fact that the films is not quite all-American or British. It makes the movie more accessible to both countries, while keeping that 'this-might-be-anywhere' feeling (like Willy Wonka--where the hell did that take place?). As an adult, this movie is still pretty shocking in it's gore and violence, but not as scary. "},{"Title":"It's the first hellraiser!","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Larry and Julia move into the home Larry grew up in. What he doesn't know is that Julia is been having an affair with his brother, Frank. What they BOTH don't know is that Frank is dead meat, living underneath the floor of a bedroom. Well, he was dead meat anyway...Frank originally was taken inside a box by the so-called Cenobites, who know the highest pleasures and deepest fears. He comes back to life with the blood of others, so Julia lures unsuspected men into the bedroom, kills them off so Frank can live again.But daughter Kirsty knows there's something fishy going on and checks out the mansion (and the box) herself...Gruesome but pretty cool first hellraiser, although not living up to the second one (hellbound), which I saw first. Still a classic in it's own way though. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Not the best horror, but a rare original","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERSWhenever someone is asked for their ultimate horror monster, the odds are that their first answers will be Michael Myers, Freddy Krueger or Jason Vorhees. These evil beings who would walk around killing people, have stared in many films each in series which have slowly gone downhill with time (to such a degree that Freddy's last, and Jason's previous two were both more satires of themselves than anything). The same is true of the Cenobites in the Hellraiser trilogy. Whilst this first film was dark and creepy, with a decent plot, the following five were awful.In the very first Hellraiser movie, we are introduced to Frank Cotton (Sean Chapman or Oliver Smith depending upon state of decomposition) who, upon messing with a magical little golden box, is tortured by the Cenobites, masters of pleasure and pain. Desperate to escape, Frank is given his chance by a freak accident suffered by his brother Larry (Andrew Robinson). Returned to the real world in a half reconstructed state, Frank convinces Larry's wife (and Frank's lover) Julia (Clare Higgins) to help him to recover and escape once and for all from the Cenobites.Whilst Hellraiser is an original idea, it's by no means the best horror film ever. Compared with more extreme horror's like recent classic The Ring (2002) and the influx of recent zombie movies, Hellraiser is mild and irrelevant. This does not make it a bad film however. This film is a well constructed, gruesome little piece which screws with your mind and is likely to give a lot of people nightmares. Clive Barker is arguably in the top three horror writers of all time (the others being Wes Craven and Stephen King perhaps) and his other major series, Candyman (1992) is another brilliant well constructed idea. If anything, Barker is a thinking man's horror film creator.Perhaps the best thing about Hellraiser compared with most alternative horror series is that it requires a decent performance. Whilst Doug Bradley is the only consistent actor throughout the series (playing head Cenobite Pinhead), in this first piece, Andrew Robinson and Clare Higgins perform well as Larry and Julia Cotton, Higgins in particular showing how Julia's character changes as she flexes her morals more and more for Frank.To summarise, Hellraiser is not quite your typical horror movie. Adding an element of thinking to a gore filled piece, Barker has created a well thought out film. It's not the best, personally my preference is for the early Friday The 13th movies, but that doesn't make it a bad film. For a film which is gut renching, yet simultaneously makes you think, watch Hellraiser. If however, you just want blood and obscure deaths, your better off with a different series. "}{"Title":"They Shall Tear you're Soul Apart!!!!","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Fish hooks Driving in people's skin!Sex!Graphic and horrific violence! Lots of Gore! Demons! HELL it's self!!! Only Clive Barker could imagine something like this! This is beyond anything you could imagine. Beyond any nightmare you could dream. Beyond any terror ever felted! It is HELLRAISER... All those things that you're gonna see are... very, very, very scary and disgusting.I have only one thing to say... RENT IT !!! And you're nightmares shall come true.My rating 10(excelent) Rated R for strong graphic violence and gore, sexuality and language.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser is possibly one of the best horror movies i have seen. Clive Barker succeeds in making a totally original story. The characters aren't the generic horror movie characters that you get in most slashers. They have real flaws and could easily be real people. The Cenobites are great villains too. They don't show up to much in the movie, but when they do, they kick ass. They definitely wouldn't be as scary if they had been in more scenes, and because they don't show up much, there is a mystery behind them, something that the later installments of most horror franchises don't have (Nightmare on Elm St. comes to mind). The Cenobites should just stay in the background of the story. The FX in this movie are great to. Barker is good at just disgusting the viewer, and the FX in this movie do just that. Hellraiser is definitely one of the best horror movies i've seen. so go rent it, buy it, steal it. it doesn't matter, just see it.  "},{"Title":"Still my favourite horror film","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   From the opening sequence straight through to the films finale, this film held my attention. It still stands as my favourite horror film after many, many repeat viewings.Highly recommended for anyone with an interest in the genre and in particular as an example of how good 1980s horror could get. The special effects are amazing, especially as their was no CGI at the time and the makeup on the cenobites is stunning, somewhere between beautiful and hideous. Pinhead is an icon of 80s horror and this is the film where it all startedHighly recommended, although extremely gory in places.  "},{"Title":"Just when you thought it was safe to play with a Rubic Cube....","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  No doubt some ancient Chinese legend is behind this which ties in with the Christian vision of Hell,the Book Of Revelations or whatever. Interesting special effects which look more realstic than computer generated ones. The story is just an excuse to build something around the Horrors and it reminded me in parts of the Amityville Horror series. And I would say another influence here was the paintings of Heironymous Bosch where all manners of hideous torments are shown in graphic detail. A few dumb lines which should have been left out....what was Jesue Wept supposed to mean? The video case quotes Stephen King as having written I have seen the future of horror and its name is Clive Barker is I suppose meant to be taken seriously. Needs watching at least twice and i don't know whether this is a problem with video transfers but the sound is too low in places and you miss the dialogue "},{"Title":"demons bestow pleasure on those who ask for it!","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  what is your pleasure? be it pain?..and your wish shall be granted if you dare to solve a small cubic puzzle-box of uncanny origin.This film is dark and disturbing with a great convincing cast. The visual effects and atmospheric vision assembles this into a natural classic of all horror films. What i like most is its very well timed and put together in sinister detail and tells me Clive barker really took his time on this project and got almost exactly what he wanted or could manage.I think the problem with all the others just like any other sequal is the obsession of more more more..buckets of blood and gore plus monsters as it were resulting in loss of suspense and lost sense of mystery. timing and originality like hellraiser will always be remembered. remember my little furry freinds..history remembers those who dare to be different! "},{"Title":"Clive Barker's directorial debut film is a classic!","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As a huge fan of novelist extradorinare Clive Barker's horror novels as well as his fantasy novels as i wish they were all made into movies or at least into mini-series on cable. His mind is so amazingly imaginative and visceral in it's descriptions of how far the human soul can dwell in debauchery and to the ends of the earth a masochist will go for the ultimate in pain and pleasure. As this describes your 2 center evil characters in the film Hellraiser. Amazing acting from British veteran actors Doug Bradley and Claire Higgins. Juila makes an all-time villianess rememebered in this and it's sequel Hellraiser 2 Hellbound and i'm just sorry she wasn't used as a cenobite in any of the less-better sequels that this Grandaddy of Horror started. If the rest of the sequels could be as good as the first and the 2nd. This is a must-see for any true Horror Fan conisseur. **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Clive Barker's Absolute Masterpiece","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To me 'Hellraiser' is the exception of a movie being clearly better on film than on paper. Having read the book, the movie is definitely superior, mostly because it was directed by the original writer Clive Barker. He had the chance to improve his own work with this movie, making it the only horror film since 'Carrie' that is worthy of the characterization cinematic literature.The images, nightmarish. And they're still strong after all these years. You see, at an age where computer effects were still at their birth, everything had to be photographed. The blood, the skins, the chains, the hooks, it all looks real.This is one of the best of its genre, among 'Rosemary's baby', 'The Shinning' and 'Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1978)'.10/10 "},{"Title":"We have such sights to show you!","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a truly remarkable horror movie. Although difficult to watch, especially twice, when youve realized how mean and groundbreaking it is. The story is like Ingmar Bergman combined with the most sublime horror. Very surprising. A truly astonishing vision. Clive Barker is a most remarkable and visionary person. Although a movie like The Ring (Japanese version) is more convincing, this movie really astonishes on its own term. It is the STORY behind which is so truly amazing, and you bring this out of the experience - that is, you remember the vision long after having seen this movie. The sequal is not bad either, although the story is a bit worse. Many further sequels are completely useless though.  "},{"Title":"One of the best Horrormovies of the '80s","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Maybe one of the most original Horrormovies of the '80s. What Clive Barker created here is just astonishing. With little money he created something of his own book, that looks much more than it actually is. The makeup FX are just great, better than in many Big Budget movies of that time. The violence is so disturbing that I couldn't believe that the ratings board let him get away with it. I mean, how many other movies do you know that are rated R in which you can see skinned people walking around, people being pierced and torn apart by hooks and demons which look like they are coming from some SM studio? But beware of the German version. it is cut down so that you can sometimes hardly imagine what's happening, and that destroys much of the athmosphere of this movie. The only thing that isn't very good is the pacing of the movie. The book was straight in that way, but the movie lacks something of a structure. Maybe it is just too short to give it the depth of the book. And the ending, unlike the ending in the book,  is somewhat unsatisfying. But neverthless this is one great movie which never gets boring, which can disgust you but always fascinates you in the same way. A true piece of art that you have to see for yourself and have your own opinion on. "},{"Title":"But If You Try To Trick Us...","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  We Will Tear Your Soul Apart. (I love that line.) Why do so many great and important movies and series hail from 1986-1987? Wall Street, Salvador, Manhunter, Edge Of Darkness, Crime Story. Maybe the stars were in alignment, maybe it was the bull market of the eighties with it's abundance of money, but this is another of these gems.Hellraiser is one of British horror writer Clive Barker's most successfully adapted novels. Spawning many sequels, the first is still the best. The story is simple enough. Larry and Julia, and Larry's daughter Kirsty (Ashley Lauren) move to a new home in London's Docklands, once frequented by Larry's estranged brother Frank. Frank, an intrepid searcher of forbidden pleasures, has mysteriously disappeared, but left behind a puzzle box with strange powers, that can move on their own. The box summons a strange breed of creatures, the Cenobites, who are demons to some, angels to others (yes, you heard it here first), that once had the same desires as Frank had. Which is as far as I'll go.The Cenobites are a big part of what makes this movie. Pinhead, the freak in charge, has some great lines. There is a bloated guy, a woman who had her throat slit and goes around talking with gargling noises... Watch out for Mac Fleetwood as old Satan himself.Even if the movie can get slowed down in places, it's worth it. The biggest disappointments are the sequels, none of which explore the really interesting creatures, the Cenobites themselves, which is a shame. As Clive Barker is a literate person, the theme of this movie is of course not only the creatures, but the horror that springs from the mind of man him (and her-) self. If you haven't seen this classic horror movie before, it is highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Demented Enough","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you are looking for more gore and a little classic horror look no further.  Welcome to the mind of Clive Barker.  His books and movies are both demented and graphic but are always worth the watch if you like horror movies.  I'm not saying that all the sequels were as good as this one but two of them were not so bad. I won't give you a rundown of the plot b/c you can already access that.  I will say if you have time and love good horror films then check this out.  You must be ready for a story with your gore in this film though. "},{"Title":"Original, Scary, Grotesque Horror Film","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   Not much to say. This is a must see for horror fans. This is definitely not your typical slasher - not at all your scream rip-off movie. A classic - and arguably one of the best - fantasy horror film made to date. Gory, frightening, mythological, and well-thought-out. Although the hook-in-skin effects (you'll know what I mean when you see the movie) are a little lame, the rest of the effects are great. Story is excellent.   My only negative comment would be that the story seems to be a little lost in the film (I guess provoking you to go read the book The Hellbound Heart, by Clive Barker). Meaning, the story is very rich and some parts of it do not get completely told in the film. If you haven't seen it and like horror movies - go rent it.   "},{"Title":"A classic to this day....","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I like horror movies this one has to be my favorite. I was really freaked out by Hellraiser II though it was not only gory, but scary too. Claire Higgins is just wicked in the both of these movies and she's really good. Doug Bradley aka Pinhead didn't have a major part in the first one, but left an impact in my mind. This movie was at the time and is still today stands out because I haven't seen another movie quite like this. I wish that movies would go more into this concept and that Barker would make more movies off his books. The History Of The Devil (Dylan Baker did an excellent job as the devil in the audio version) would be a really good movie concept one of Barker's best. This movie is scary, solid storyline and really good acting. A bit ahead of it's time, but well worth watching. Read the book too if you get a chance.   "},{"Title":"Gory classic","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I though this movie was mind-numbing and gory. I thought it was scary when I saw the edited TV version. You should see the Birth scene of Frank Cotton. Clare Higgins was appropiately evil and icy. I became a fan of Andrew Robinson after seeing this. Great makeup effects "},{"Title":"Solid horror flick","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For a long time I've been dying to get my hands on the original Hellraiser, and now that I finally did I was quite satisfied.  Though it's by no means a great film, it makes its mark in the beloved genre.  I can't say I was scared during any moment of the film, but I did find it disturbing.  The violence and gore is amazingly graphic, not just for its time.  Clive Barker definitely created some great visuals.  One of my minor criticisms deals with the story, which is good enough to hold my interest, but could've been a little richer.  And the characters are for the most part underdeveloped.  I understand horror films are more about entertainment than aesthetics, but I like to be able to connect with the characters in the story, so I can better feel their terror.  The acting ranges from good to awful.  Doug Bradley is outstanding as Pinhead, but he doesn't have much screen time, despite the fact that his face is plastered across the video cover.  But the performance that really stood out was by Claire Higgins, who is delightfully fiendish.  I always appreciate it when an actor treats a role in a horror movie in the same respect as that of a Shakesperean drama, and that was definitely the case with Bradley and Higgins--both brilliant English character actors.  The performances by Andrew Robinson and Ashley Laurence are uneven.  Laurence expresses sufficient terror with her facial expressions, and also happens to be very attractive, but some of her verbal outbursts are a little cheesy.  The actor who plays Ashley's boyfriend is extremely wooden and nearly lifeless, but luckily he only has a small role.  Not surprisingly, Clive said in the commentary that he wasn't happy with his part.  And just as a side note, the commentary on the DVD is great and very enlightening, despite the fact that Clive's mumbling is sometimes hard to understand.  My score  7 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"Cult classic of the late 80s","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Great horror film. Gory and violent, the special effects are terrific, even for today. No CGI used here. The acting is good, and the story is pretty cool. When it came out in 1987, the story was totally new, not some warmed up stuff we had seen a hundred times before. And even after such a long time it is still fascinating. This is the best film of the series, Hellbound is okay, but don't watch the other films, they are just boring. I gave this 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"good, gory, but gets to slow...........","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie had some great gore, very good effects, and good acting, but it has poor lighting, it gets slow, and is very dull. But still, I like to watch it for its cool monsters and gory moments.  Three and-a-half stars out of five. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is my favourite horror movie of all time,and it is one of the most over looked.It has a very original story and excellent characters,one of the greatest horror movies of the eighties.The special effects look incredible,and are very gory.I recommend this movie to any horror movie fan.If you love this film you should see the secound hellraiser film Hellraiser 2 Hellbound.Skip the rest of them though, the only good ones are one and two.If you are a horror fan and haven't seen hellraiser go out and see it... NOW!!! ****out of **** "},{"Title":"WICKED HORROR MOVIE","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the best horror movies that I have ever seen. It's creative and gory. The whole concept of hell is based on a simple box. it is full of possibilities and parts of this movie just make you want to cringe. LOADS OF BLOOD! This movie was totally awesome and Pinhead is twisted. I rate this movie 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":" Julia, you must feed me human flesh","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ashley Laurence is harrowing as Kirsty in this genuine horror film. The following cast is delightful. The costumes are rare. One of the good flicks of the genre, Hellraiser will raise Hell with the viewer. 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Great Great Movie","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The whole series is great.  I am a Pinhead fan 4 life.  You have to look into your inner darkness to get enjoyment in the movie.  The movie is taking S&M and B&D to it dangerest end.  I only wish that the ending was abit better than what it was but overall I loved the movie. "},{"Title":"a real horror shos!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  oooo, my man it is fraitening to death! if u like horror movies u must see it! such a big amount of blood, original characters, deep imagination of the author- all these makes this film a bit special even if u want. remember not to bring children, cos i saw one falling on the floor and crying during the movie myself. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror movies around (possible spoilers).","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser was the genre that introduced the infamous Pinhead.Hellraiser(the original) is the best one (and most frightening) in the entire series.There is alot of story,suspense and gore to satisfy a horror fan of any kind.The story involves a family of three moving into a house in mid London. There is Julia(the stepmother who was having an affair with her husbands brother Frank),Larry (the father),Kirsty (the daughter) and Frank (Larries brother who is killed in the opening of the movie). There are all these characters who hide some sort of secret.The house the family move into is the one where Frank died,but they don't know where he is.One day while moving in Larry cuts his hand on a nail and goes to the basement and the blood drips from him and brings Frank back to life.Julia encounters Frank and agrees to kill for him so he ca come back to life and escape the cenobites.Soon things go from bad to worse and end up in gruesome results.Hellraiser without doubt is one of the best and most sharpest horror movies around.It seems to have every element anybody can possibly want.It contains violence,gore,suspense and a storyline which is so thickened it will draw you in,the best part to the film is the mystery of it all.The one thing you will wander about in the movie is the scene before the credits,who is the next person buying the box,thats what we don't know and that's what we find out in the sequel.Hellraiser is a great movie,if you miss this,you have no idea on what you're missing out on.I rate 5/5. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You don't wanna miss this classic flick! It is probably the best horror film of the 80's, excluding perhaps The Howling. It has it's titles etched in the stone of film history, along side the best horror flms ever created. I believe it gives Halloween, Phycho, or Night of the Living Dead (The classic one mind you, the updated version is first rate trash- the shoney's or friday's of the horror movie world) a run for their money.I first saw this in theaters when it came out. For a movie which was born during the heart of the mpaa's horror gore crackdown of the 80's, it was surprizingly (and refreshingly may I add) shocking. The skin was cheaply fake, the Pinhead screentime short; but seeing Frank/Larry Cotton (Robinson) groan out, Jeeeeesssssuuuussss Weeeeeepttt and give a sadistic chuckle before being literally ripped apart by Pinhead and his cetobite gang, gave me a chill I hadn't experianced since The Texas Chainsaw Massacre.Others may remember Barker's vision come to life in Jihad magazine- cult trash that lasted no more then a month, in which dozens of cetobite freaks gathered, plotting ever on to unleash hell on earth. I, like many others, was simply drawn by the trailor's intense presence.This movie is excellent, injecting you with countless emotions- a rollercoaster ride which contains just the right mix of tasteful plot development, sex, and gore. If you're not squimish, don't skip this one. It's brothers however, rank somewhere alongside Friday the 13th part 8- painfull to watch, terrible to say the least. Part 2 is ok as 80's sequals go, and if you must have more Pinhead, don't skip this one either. Three doesn't do the first film justice. The fourth is a little better, keeping the box as a key point to the Legacy, which is shattered by the fifth. It is amazing to me how a director dared to touch the Hellraiser series after this mess, whithout fear of never directing again. It is so bad, commenting on it's details would be a waste of time. Put simply, it was the Halloween 3 of the Hellraiser saga. Shun it, and forget it. The sixth was better, but was no treat. If another sequal is dug up from the annels of hell, it better be the last. Evil NEVER dies, but fan's interest does. But who knows? If Jason can escape hell to reach the depths of deep space to murder on, or Halloween can be ressurected again... and again, then Pinhead can be dug up, repainted, and refilmed. Even if it's kin are tasteless, and not very entertaining, the first is and always will be- One of the best. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of film making","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser.Sick, twisted and brilliant. Those are the three words I would use to describe this masterpiece of dark horror by Clive Barker, the man who Stephen King calls `the future of horror'.Those of a faint heart should keep away but those of us who can stand intense and horrific gore and gut-churning effects will be rewarded by a film that explores the very depths of human depravity. This isn't a movie about monsters, about a puzzle box or even about a guy with nails in his head; its about debauchery, incest and sex. The story, at its core, is a family saga and the puzzle box, named the Lament Configuration, is only a tool.When Frank Cotton escapes the clutches of the Cenobites, explorers in pleasure and pain, he seeks the help of his brothers wife (and his ex-lover) to bring him the blood he needs to be brought back to life. She uses sex to entice men to the house where she feeds them to Frank so that she can be with him again, towards the end of the film she sleeps with him whilst he wears his brothers skin! It is the relationships that drive this film.Still, the hero is around in the form of Kirsty Cotton, son of Larry and niece to Frank. She doesn't trust Julia, her step-mother which leads her to uncover Frank and meet the Cenobites. She gives the audience someone to root for and is well portrayed by Ashley Lawrence; her chemistry with Andrew Robinson as her father is readily apparent.The Cenobites, when they do appear, have a strong and terrifying image and the Lead Cenobite (later named Pinhead) is the ultimate in father figures; stern and to the point. The Cenobites aren't evil, they simply do there job and this is where the fear comes from; they are completely indifferent to you or your pleas.At the end of the day this is a well directed, excellently acted and all round intelligent horror film. 10 / 10. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Eighties Horror Classic, Despite Some Flaws.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (WARNING These comments contain some spoilers considering the movie is fifteen years old.)Like the novella, The Hellbound Heart, that inspired it this film was wonderfully creative and captivating while at the same time morbidly dark, horrific and repulsive.  What was accomplished with such a modest budget is simply amazing, especially considering the limited experience Clive Barker had as a filmmaker.However the movie lacked the eloquence of the novella which probably explains why some were disappointed at the relative lack of sophistication.  If you had read the book first you may have well expected Mr. Barker to work his poetic style of writing into the screenplay more than he did.Still, compared to its' eighties slasher flick peers, Hellraiser is high brow with an intelligent story and a surreal presentation reminiscient of Phantasm.I think the worst mistake was dubbing the actor who played Frank Cotton.  Even if his accent is a little hard to understand, I can't imagine it being less effective than the obnoxiously wooden Godzilla-esque dub over that replaced Sean Chapman's natural voice.  I would love to see the British version someday as this unfortunately added an element of cheap cheese to the film that wouldn't otherwise be present.Frankendubbed aside, I found the performances to be adequate while mostly falling short of great.  Some of the dialogue definitely left something to be desired.  It's also somewhat silly that the toughest and smartest person of anyone in the story is a 17 year old girl.  Not that I have a problem with an intelligent 17 year old girl being the heroine, but she was the only one with any common sense.  She all but slapped the Cenobites around while crafty evil Frank was at their mercy.My only other complaint is how poorly the death of Julia was handled.  Not only did she die way too fast, but she looked long dead right afterwards.  Perhaps it could be viewed as an artistic device considering the surreal nature of the film, but it definitely stands out.As much as I elaborated on the flaws, there was far more that I loved about Hellraiser.  Without the Cenobites this story would have been extremely creepy but they added to it an extra entertaining dimension of terror.  What was explained more clearly in the book was that Frank was convinced he was opening Pandora's box rather than Pinhead's.  It was well enough left out as even someone as foolish as Frank wouldn't have sought what he ended up getting.The Cenobites brilliantly represented the unknown as horrific sadomasochistic demons from beyond.  It's a shame that sequels were made, but it's a bigger shame that those who made them failed to realize that the less we know about these demons the more we fear them.There was just so much to be afraid of in this movie- numerous hideous Cenobites, Frank, Julia, and even a creepy evil eyed insect ingesting bum that Larry's daughter frequently encountered.  They all should have known better than to mess with Kristy!I loved the special effects!  Be sure your stomach is sitting well with you before you watch as Hellraiser is relentlessly gory.  At the same time, it manages to effectively convey the theme of the book- mankind's obsessions with pleasure.  I highly recommend both the film and the book for any fans of horror. "},{"Title":"one of the genre's finest","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is acclaimed horror/fantasy novelist Clive Barker's directoral debut.  His first (and quite successful) attempt in the film medium resulted in a horror frenzy and the establishment of a new horror icon a character that viewers affectionately dubbed Pinhead.This film is far from flawless, but it is one of the genre's finest.  It was released in 1987, when the horror genre was dominated by mindless and degrading FRIDAY THE 13TH and NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET sequels.  This film firmly reestablished what a real horror movie should be.  Nauseously graphic and at times sensually compelling.  Barker taps into our souls and presents an eroticism through his portrayal of violence.  Death has never seemed so sexy.A cast of unknowns all perform well and a beautifully eerie score by Christopher Young builds an incredible atmosphere.  Writer/director Clive Barker's specialty of unique (and sometimes outright bizarre) characters along with a unifying mixture of sex and violence are all showcased in this film.A stylistic and sensual horror movie to mark the film debut of a horror master.  The Titan of Terror rules.  Welcome to his domain. "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was very good,the plot was never overshadowed by the gore or special effects.Pinhead was very intimidating here.Although some of the effects are at times lame,this is an overall good film.If you're looking for a lame movie to laugh at,avoid this,but if you want a decent,or at least sensible horror flick,get this!But ignore two,although I haven't seen 3 yet! "},{"Title":"Horror semiclassic","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A wise man once said, If you want something done right, do it yourself. After being displeased with previous film adaptations of his works, horror novelist Clive Barker did just that. Hellraiser is not a masterpiece as some claim, but it is an intelligent, well-crafted horror drama. One remarkable aspect of the film is the strength of its domestic conflict infidelity, loveless marriage, and the conflict within stepfamilies. As I recall, another reviewer boldly stated that these plot elements are strong enough to sustain their own film, without the supernatural aspects. He may be right.It is amazing how effortlessly the everyday drama of the Cotton household blends with the fantastic situations that soon crop up. Much of the credit for this belongs to Clare Higgins, whose honest reaction to the situation makes the devilish goings-on more credible. How would people truly react when confronted with the otherworldly? Hellraiser may provide the answer.Kudos, too, to the technical work, aptly done despite budget constraints. Frank's resurrection scene makes astonishing use of old-fashioned special-effects technology. It would not have been nearly as effective with CGI. The Cenobite designs are excellent, as is the makeup work done for skinless Frank. Notice that the violence, as graphic as it is, never seems exploitive. It's just *there,* unlike other 1980's horror films where the object is just to show as much gore as possible within time and budget.Hellraiser has held up very well over the last fifteen years. True, the pacing is somewhat uneven, and some of the ending seems pretty throwaway. Nonetheless, the film has offered us some of the most truly horrifying, bizarre images in fright cinema.*** (out of ****)Released by New World Pictures  "},{"Title":"A near-masterpiece of eighties horror","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  During the eighties, cinema's two most prominent categories were teen movies and slasher/horror movies. Of the latter category, many were derivative, formulaic clones of other, better horror movies, quickly exhausting the genre with their tepidness, which is why it was such a relief to have viewed Hellraiser (although the glut of sequels tarnished the original's image), a film which must be remembered as a near-masterpiece of eighties horror.Hellraiser depicts the story of a man and his wife, Julia and Larry, whom upon moving into an old house, discover a horrifying secret lying within its walls Larry's half brother Frank, whom also happens to be Julia's former lover. Having lost his earthly form to a quartet of demonic beings, the Cenobites (Pinhead, Butterball, The Female Cenobite, and the Chatterer), he is resurrected by a drop of blood upon the floor. He eventually forces Julia to bring human sacrifices to the house so that he may complete his body, but the Cenobites are not happy about this... As you can see, the unique storyline behind Hellraiser is one of the many aspects I enjoy it so in addition to the actors (namely Doug Bradley Pinhead) and Clive Barker's direction, this film being both his debut and the theatrical adaptation of his novel, the Hellbound Heart. He provides fantastically morbid and gothic imagery that really accentuates the mood of the film. The eerie score, provided by Christopher Young in accompaniment to the direction, acting, and storyline really crafts quite a wondrous cinematic gem. Unfortunately however, Hellraiser is not without flaws, although these complaints are minor. The pace can at times be lethargic (I admit to checking my DVD timer once) the gore somewhat too graphic (Why must I be squeamish?), and it begins to lose momentum during its second half, yet I still adore Hellraiser for providing eighties horror with a fresh slate. I definitely recommend this film.Grade A-  "}{"Title":"A Classic Piece of Horror","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I first Saw this Movie when I Was a Kid, and Didn't Think too much of It. I Told myself it was Just Another Average Horror Flick, No More, no Less. It wasn't Until  Pulled it off My Movie Shelf about a Few Weeks ago that I Enjoyed It. Why? Because the Plot is Kind of Hard to Get Used to and Understand. But once you do, You'll Love It!!!First off, I Don't think it Would right for Someone to Not be Informed on How Gory this Film Really is. It is Brutal. This is not the Kind of Stuff that will make you Want to Puke, but Rather the Stuff that Could make you loose your Hunger. For Some People that's Bad, to others it's Good. To Me, Some of the Gore Could have went. I own the Rated Version, and It would not be Something to Watch with Grandma, so I Can Imagine what the Unrated Version must be Like!But The Gore Still Does not Ruin how Much of a Masterpiece this Film Really is. The Originality, Setting, and Plot already make it a Film that Most People will Enjoy. The Sequels are Superb too! Just as Good, if not better, Than the First! Anyway, This Film is Really Spectacular. Many of the Scenes Made me Just not want to Talk. I was Frozen.Clive Barker, as You May Already Know, has Given us Classics such as Candy Man. He Delivers the Same type of Stuff Found in Hell Raiser and Candy Man in All of His Films. Very Scary. The Ending Should make you Wish for 15 Sequels to Come out.        10 out of 10People who Enjoyed this Film Might like Puppet Master, Halloween, Nightmare on Elm Street, A, Friday the 13th, Child's Play, as Well as Other Horror Movie Classics.   "},{"Title":"Hell was raised!","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Of all the modern day horror films I own as well as those that I watch, this film by far is one of the best. Next to The Exorcist, its one of the few that really scare me. Hellraiser tells the story of a very selfish & greedy good-for-nothing name Frank Cotton. This man has got to be the sorriest person ever! He squanders his inheritance & even has an affair with his brother's wife on the eve of the wedding. Frank is not only bored with life in general but he's also a very malevolent person which makes him a prime candidate for the Cenobites. When he opens the puzzle box, he gets more than he bargained for. Upon his brother moving back into the family house, when blood is accidently spilled into the floor, Frank comes back. He & his sister-in-law start killing men for their bodies to bring Frank back so he can deceive the Cenobites. This film is good for several reasons. For starters the plot & the special effects which will blow you away! Its also a thinking man's horror film. I believe this film has a moral in it as well as a social commentary on how we as humans think we can control everything in & of this world. Just about everyone in this story pays a price for what they do. For anyone that loves gore, atmosphere, good acting & writing as well eye-popping special effects, this one has all these elements & then some. True horror buffs consider this film the creme ala creme of horror films.Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"This is not for your eyes!","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have seen the future of horror fiction, and his name is Clive Barker...-Stephen KingI may hate Stephen King, but I have to agree with what he said.  Clive Barker was and potentially still is the future of horror, and Hellraiser was a true horror masterpiece.  The story is about a woman who seduces men and kills them to bring her lover back to life.  The catch  her lover opened a puzzlebox known as the Lament Configuration, which calls upon the Cenobites to bring him to hell and push the limits of pain and pleasure.  When her stepdaughter Kirsty learns about the dead uncle walking around in the attic, Kirsty runs away with the puzzlebox that Frank owns, and when she opens the box, the Cenobites come for young Kirsty.  Kirsty is able to cut a deal with Pinhead and company, a deal that says she will bring her uncle Frank back to the Cenobites instead of taking her.  This leads to a thrilling ending that opens the door for a sequel.Clive Barker, who also wrote the story that eventually became Candyman, creates a film that gives A Nightmare On Elm Street a run for its money.  Barker's Pinhead also becomes one of the most recognizable villains in horror, just like Nightmare's Freddy Krueger, only Pinhead and the Hellraiser series aren't as commercially successful.  Hellraiser also features a great heroine character in Kirsty Cotton, played extremely well by Ashley Laurence.  She is discarded later in the series, however, which was what Nightmare did to its top heroine, Nancy Thompson, who was played masterfully by Heather Langenkamp.  The two films have several similarities, and while Hellraiser will never get the recognition it deserves, it turns out to be one of the best horror flicks in modern history.Hellraiser earns ***1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Horror movie makers could learn a lot from Hellraiser. Great film.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Good Points This lovely little stroll down Horror Lane sports something that incredibly few movies seem to possess...an original story line.  Sit back and let this one burst into your brain 'cause you're not in Kansas anymore, kiddies.  Hellraiser is so amazingly horrific it defies comparison. And of course, having come from the mind of the Master of Horror himself, Clive Barker, it's no wonder that, in spite of its none-too-extensive budget, the original Hellraiser is one of the best horror movies I've ever seen.  It's strength lies in its compelling story and juicy makeup effects. The Angel of Death has nothing on the Cenobites.  One look at these twisted demons will send sane people scampering under their beds.Bad Points After each bad point of Hellraiser, there's an understood ...but that's because they didn't have the money to do better. Masterpiece of Horror that it is, admittedly the acting and directing are nothing special, which is a shame because, in the hands of a truly talented director, Hellraiser could have been magnificent.  I believe the only cracks in the movie are budget-related with one exception Who was the idiot who came up with the idea of dubbing over the voice of Sean Chapman (Frank Cotton) with some other dude in an attempt to give him a darker presence? Some people may not notice, but watch closely when he talks.  His mouth doesn't quite match up with the words in a few places.  And if that doesn't convince you, rent something else with Chapman in it and you'll see that Cotton's voice is not Chapman's.  How utterly cheesy.Bottom Line Regardless of a few smudges, Hellraiser is one of the few genuinely fantastic horror movies we poor mortals can hope to rent. Barker is a master storyteller and the filmmakers did a decent job of bringing his hellish vision to the big screen.   "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Horror Films of all time.","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For one thing, this isn't one of those lame slasher movies they had back in the 80's, this the kind of movies that need to be named as One of the best horror/thillers of the 1980's. This movie has gore and scenes that'll make you want to jump out of your seat and hide behind the chair, then it also has a plot. It starts out as a simple box then all of a sudden, some ugly people come out and destroy everything in sight, simply Clive Barker's best. This film deserves 3 1/2 Stars "},{"Title":"creepy","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What can i say about Hellraiser that hasnt been said before? IT Has to be one of the most disturbing and frighting horror films to come out of the 80's. Clive Barker directs from his own story with excellence..The saying We'll tear your soul apart..has to be one of the creepist quotes from horror films..If you havent seen Hellraiser then prepare your self for a great horror film. "},{"Title":"The box of many passages....","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser is a geniune horror film with the many great one-liners. Pinhead and his band of cenobites are neither evil nor good. They have only one job and Pinhead makes it simply thus To inflict suffering. Frank would soon find out that this box gave not only pleasure, but pain and suffering. Of course there would be a lot unanswered questions, because Clive Barker was not a very good director. This would be even better if he had done what was supposed to have done, and even yet, this movie is a horror titan. This movie plans to rip your soul apart..... "},{"Title":"My quintessential horror movie","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First, I think that this film is unique in that it blended strong gore elements that had been hitherto reserved to Italian splatter movies with a standard Hollywood-style overall appearance. Although from what I have gathered it is to be considered a low-budget movie, I think it doesnt look like one, whereas Italian gore flicks of the late seventies/early eighties always had that laughable, cheesy look all over them, preferably topped by great disco music... Hellraiser is probably one of those movies they dont make anymore, because normally you cant have movies that signal they are sort of mainstream (as this movie does, in my opinion), but which then go beyond the limits of what an average audience considers to be normal. The sequel Hellbound is evem more extreme in this respect, I mean the non-edited X-rated version... Hellraiser 3 and 4 (both made in the nineties) are much tamer, I think, and the fifth part is said to be even worse in that respect.Hellraiser 1 also had to be edited in one part, where Julias first victim is originally seen to say Please, please,with blood pouring from his mouth, before receiving the final death blow... I guess that was too hardcore for an R-rating (my comments are based on an unrated version from the Netherlands, as nobody in his sane mind would dare to watch a German edited version of this film ;-))))))))) There are very few other examples of movies I know that fit into this mainstream quality with more than R-rated violence-category. The only other examples I know (apart from Hellbound) are the uncut versions of Re-Animator, Dead Pit and (from the Action genre) The Punisher, all of them made in the eighties... That said, I must also admit that I have a very intimate and personal relationship with this flick, because I had to wait several years after its release in order to be admitted to see it (again, German laws are much more severe in this respect than in the US). It was one of the first horror films I ever saw, and thats why it stuck in my mind. I probably wouldn`t hardly notice this film if it was released today (Im now 28 years old). The first impressions are usually the ones that have the strongest impact on you. For example, I was really a bit shocked to see that nowadays Ashley Laurence doesn`t look like shes 20 anymore, Clive Barker has grown a beard,Christopher Young composed a wishy-washy soundtrack for Set It Off, and Doug Bradley is nearly fifty, although as Pinhead he looks good as ever (hee hee...). Therefore its pretty hard to swallow for me that another commentator remained completely unimpressed by Hellraiser... I also think that Andrew Robinson and Claire Higgins deliver top-notch performances that go far beyond anything you usually get in horror movies. Julias transformation from an insecure, sexually frustrated person you feel sorry for to ice-cold murderer is pretty convincing in that every person is born good but may turn evil under certain circumstances... These comments are rather personal and will probably confuse anyone who reads them, but I also want to add that, the way I see it, this film was part of a creative phase in Clive Barkers life which also delivered the Books of Blood and the Damnation Game novel to the world. After that, he turned more esoteric, I am presently at pains to finish Imajica, which, I am sad to admit, features very artificial, unconvincing protagonists and is bluntly written (at least that`s what I think, okay?). But in the eighties, Clive, as you all know, was considered the future of horror, and rightly so in his novels from that time, and also in Hellraiser, you find that certain degree of sickness many people can`t cope with. Perhaps, this was really a historic phase in horror between the It all should take place in your imagination-era of, say, Alfred Hitchcock, and the boring, digitally polished stuff from the nineties and the new century (From Dusk till Dawn, Scream, oh geez, yaaaawn, but then again, Im almost 30, ain`t I?). Ill check out Hellraiser 5 at any reasonable chance I get, and Im definitely looking forward to seeing Ashley Laurence again in Hellraiser 6, but, judging from the way the Hellraiser series has developed over the years, I fear the original feel cannot or will not be recaptured... "},{"Title":"A true horror classic on many levels","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser captures the viewer in a macabre world of torture, eroticism, and thrills.  Clive Barker skillfully directs this masterpiece with a razor blade.  Giving us characters beyond the scope of our imaginations.  If one could offer a different viewpoint of hell..this would be the one to fear. The story begins with `the box', an interknit cube told to offer heaven or hell but instead delivers pain.  Larry and Julia (actors Andrew Robinson & Clare Higgins) are beginning a new life in a home where Larry's brother Frank once occupied.  In turn of certain odd events, Frank (whom escape from the hellish world and returns as a skeleton like corpse) in forms Julia of his strange tale and they soon re-kindle their past love together.  Julia must kill others and feed them too Frank so that he may continue.  All along Frank fearing the return of his hellish captures the `Cenobites'.  In the meantime Larry's daughter Kristy (Ashley Laurence) stubbles across `the box' and releases the Cenobites.  And soon enough the plot thickens to one hellish catastrophe. Overall, this film contains stylish costumes, beautiful sfx, and interesting characters.  Barker has given us an awesome tale which one should be afraid of.  I grant this film a `10' do to the fact it's proven itself to be a masterpiece of horror. "},{"Title":"They'll tear your soul apart!","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Perhaps one of most dreadful and appalling of horror films of Clive Barker, Hellraiser, seems to be one of the finest film of its genre. The diabolic combination that furnishes the key of the story, carries in that zone where the maximum pleasure derive from the maximum pain, into a metaphysical handle populated by the monstrous figures of the Cenobites, almost Great Priest of a new religion. Bodies tear asunder, bleeder blood and delirium of meats and skin massacred in the name of the supreme ecstasy. Which the movie results rather suggestive and torbid is out discussion, permeated by a kind of perverse amorality, it is one of the most original example of the horror films of those years. Dark in the scenes, claustrophobic as enough for make uncomfortable the easy chair of the spectator. The movie of Barker takes risks in meander that pulls result difficult to follow, but it perhaps stays quite in this, its unrepeatable charm. "}{"Title":"Without doubt a Horror Classic","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hellriser, is a flim that should become a Bible, for the making of Horror Movies. Whilst it is definatly not one for the faint hearted or seqemish...Hellraiser delivers on several fronts. 1 That the Centobites (Pinhead and Company), are to empathise the story than carry it. 2 Barker has kept their appearences to a minium, however when they appear they ethier tear their victim apart, or remind them (in Kirsty's case) that a victim has been promised to them, and they had better deliver.3 The transformation of both Frank & Julia. Frank's regeneration, is site to behold. In Julia's case turning from an unsure and unhappy women into a scheming evill mistrist is excellent. 4 An excellent score, and more than enough dred here, if watching it at night, with friends. 5 A must for all Horror movie buffs, and FORGET THE SEQELS - 2,3,4(Bloodline),5(Inferno) and now 6...please.Just see this one. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"one of the best","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  truly magnificent; clive barker is a genius; this is the ultimate tale of terror;something for every horror fan; a story you won't soon forget;this is also probably the only hellraiser movie where pinhead gave some memorable quotes like we will tear your soul apart and the cenobites, demons to some,angels to othersanyway i'd might also recommend this as an adults only horror flick10 of 10 "},{"Title":"100% Horror Movie","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Shining, The Blair Witch Project, The Exorcist, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre all have thousands of fans claiming them to be the scariest movie of all time. The trouble is that these films focus on true horror rather than the popcorn style horror of I Know What You Did Last Summer and Scream so are some what of a dissappointment when you actually see them and are not scared. Hellraiser on the otherhand is a mixture between both which makes it stand out as one of the greatest horror films of all time. You jump numerous times whilst watching it and afterwards find it very hard to get out of your head and you get the feeling this could happen to your family. Hellraiser may not be the greatest film ever but it is 100% horror with the added bonus of lots of blood and gore. "},{"Title":"We will tear your soul apart!","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is considered by many to be Clive Barker's best film and it is not hard to see why. Frank Cotton has acquired a chinese puzzle box which offers the gateway to either Heaven or Hell. Unfortunately, Frank chooses Hell and he is torn apart by hooks. After a mysterious figure picks up Frank's remains and re-sets the puzzle box, we see Frank's brother, Larry, move in with his wife, Julia, and his daughter, Kirsty. When Larry injures himself and spills blood on the floor, Frank comes back to life in skeletal form. He confronts Julia ,who he once had an affair with, and asks her to supply him with bodies to feed from so he can be whole again. Julia agrees and brings home several victims and kills them with a quick blow to the head with a hammer.Kirsty meets Frank and runs off with the puzzle box. She then opens it and it unleashes 4 evil demons called the Cenobites. They are about to take her to hell when Kirsty says that she knows where Frank is and is willing to lead them to him if they leave her alone in return. They agree to this and Kirsty goes back home to warn her father. But Larry isn't the man he used to be. I'm not going to reveal anything else so if you want to know what happens, go see this film. The cast do well with their roles but in particular, Andrew Robinson as Larry and Doug Bradley as the lead Cenobite who is also known as Pinhead. The Cenobites themselves are perhaps the most sadistic and evil characters in the history of film as they thrive on pain and discomfort. The film is also quite gory especially when people are torn apart by hooks. Some of the special effects do look a little dated nowadays but the film is still good. Overall, this is a film worth checking out as is the sequel which I have also reviewed on the site. "},{"Title":"Everything a horror movie should be","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let's see, what should a good horror movie contain? Atmosphere. Scares. Gore. Suspense. Out of those, what does Hellraiser have? All of them. Hellraiser is pure horror. No comedy, no crap, just horror. It's plot is pretty wild, but it gets it told very well. It's extremely scary, the first appearance of Frank scared the hell out of me. It's effectively atmospheric, too, as almost every scene is set in an unsettling, dark place. And is it gory? Mouth-wateringly. Lots of great special effects and one hideously brilliant scene where a man is ripped apart by chains. OK, it's got a bit of bad acting, it's not that well-written, and it isn't The Exorcist, but it's a very entertaining and wild ride that all horror fans should take. 8/10. "},{"Title":"A Whole New Hell for the Chosen Ones.","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To the best of my knowledge, Clive Barker  is the one who can be credited with pioneering  the idea of hell+paradise. According to Barker,  hell is not your average general-purpose sink  for sinners. No, sir, it's something designed  for the exclusive pleasure/torment of those  who like to dabble in forbidden S&M practices.  So it all looks pretty optimistic in a  way if you ain't much into leather, you've  got nothing to worry about; the other way  round, if it just happens to be your cup  of tea, you've got nothing to worry about  either, because then you are guaranteed  to spend the eternity in the hellacious  company of the Cenobites (demons to some,  angels to others) who's got such sights to  show you that you'll say along with one  of the characters I thought I'd gone to  the limits. I hadn't. Overall a properly  sick and disturbing yet truly imaginative  and thought-provoking picture. Recommended  as a popular illustration of shrink classics. "},{"Title":"Well those englishmen can do it!","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a classic horror film in the likes of what other englishmen have done, like Bram Stoker with Dracula. This is not merely a gore dumb horror flick. No it has an epic story with a mystery cube that contains powers from hell, the cenobites. It is sort of adventure horror film about a man seeking heave and finding total hell.The acting is good, I liked everyone and the female lead GIRL looks pretty too and the direction is good too, I mean what do you expect from the writer himself. The best thing yet is the music it is so cool.There is one complain though that I have, except those stupid commercials on TV f..king up the film and the feel. It seems the movie is cut, or how does the stepmother end up lying in bed with the cube?????????? Explanations please.All in all GOOD, rent part 3 it's the only one in the series worth to look at (YET).8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Demons to some, angels to others","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is one of the most original horror films of the late 70s and the 80s. At a time where the horror genre seemed no longer to be able to produce anything original we got a pretty inventive movie.It was original because it didn't focus on a maniacal killer or any zombies, not even the persons are the most essential thing in this film. More important are certain themes in the film like wishes and desire. The story evolves on a psychological level rather than on a physical. It's fundamentally different from almost every other horror film I've seen so far. The atmosphere that is present throughout the whole movie should be described as unsettling, it is not scary in the conventional sense.For anyone who is not interested in the story there are still several gore-effects that are excellently done. The five Cenobites are very interesting creatures but they hardly appear which makes Hellraiser even better and more mystical.My major complaint about this film are the characters. They were rather unpleasant to watch and I didn't find myself rooting for any of them.Overall one of the better horror films, refreshingly different from the rest.My rating 7/10 (watch Candyman if you liked Hellraiser) "},{"Title":"Gory fun","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is great. This movie gives the viewers scares, and disgust. That is what makes for a good horror movie. The movie doesn't get into boring dialog and stupid stuff like that to make it longer and the acting is great. The movie is about a puzzle box that can summon up demons from Hell and as one man learns its not as cool as it sounds. This movie is not just another Friday the 13th and stupid slasher flicks like that. Its a original story and I give it a 9/10 "},{"Title":"my favorite movie","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser is my favorite horror movie. It has good acting, and special effects. You really don't know anything about the Pinhead until the second Hellraiser. This movie is really scary. It has lots of gore in it. I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good horror movie and likes Clive Barker's works. "}{"Title":"One of the best movies in the 80's","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the best movies in the 80's. This is my favorite horror movie. Clive Barker is brilliant. This is one of his best works yet. It had some good effects. The acting was good. In this movie you really don't know that much about Pinhead until the sequel. Overall I loved it. It had gory special effects and the music is really creepy. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes Clive Barker films, and likes a really good horror film. "},{"Title":"a horror masterpiece","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This my favorite horror movie. It is scary, and gory. They have a lot of good special effects in this movie. In my opinion this is a masterpiece. Clive Barker did a good job on this movie. The plot was very original. The Cenobites are original. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good horror movie, and wants to be scared. "},{"Title":"gory, perverted, brutally violent and scary.","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i remember seeing this movie when i was 13 and it literally freaked me out to no end. this film is so unique in it's subject matter that noone else has tried to imitate it with the exception being the obligatory sequels.Clive Barker brought some of the most unique, perverse, and disturbing images to the screen and in a decade of countless Halloween and friday the 13th clones, this movie along with Re-animator and Evil Dead 2 was a blast of fresh air. it showed that new images could still be brought to the life in the horror genre and you didn't have to have teenagers being slaughtered right and left to scare or freak out people.i've always found it surprising that the MPAA was so relaxed with this movie. (the sequel was slapped with an X and had to be substansially cut to get an R.) as far as i know the only things that had to be trimmed were the scene of julia's first victim and uncle frank being literally ripped apart at the end. this is by far one of the goriest and explicitly violent R-rated horror films to ever get released in my opinion.the plot is original and Clive barker wisely doesn't show the cenobites a lot until the last half or so of the movie.the only thing that brings this movie down is the sometimes uneven acting. the low budget sometimes rears it's ugly limiting head at times, especially near the end. but on a whole the effects are grotesque and realistic.(while the second film has it's moments, the third and 4th film unfortunately spelled the end for this franchise.)if you want to be scared and genuinely freaked out, rent this movie and watch it in complete darkness. you won't be disappointed.rating8 "},{"Title":"My kinda Romance movie!","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie, in my opinion, is the greatest romance story ever told. I mean, would Scarlet have killed men, so Rhett could grow skin? I didn't think so. Clive Barker is definitely a horror great. Romance as well. I suppose I'll go with the third movie, seeing how I'm not a really big Romance fan, no matter what form it's in. But this is more than just you're average kissy flick! "},{"Title":"This is what the genre should be","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's perfectly understandable that this might not be everyone's cup of tea... it's gory, uncomfortably sexual, and paints an unremittingly grim portrait of human nature.However, whether you like it or not, Barker captures the deepest longings of the human heart in this film.  It's Faust taken to our everyday reality What would you do for love?  Power?  Pleasure?  Happiness?  The illusion of any of these?Barker takes this admittedly borrowed theme and around constructs a story of such magnitude and moral complexity that it demands repeat viewings.  For example, in this film it is very easy to hate Julia.  But when one considers her desperation, her feeling of entrapment in a marriage that she knew was a sham, she becomes another victim.  One could easily point the finger of blame at the Cenobites as well, yet they are just doing their job and have no evil intent.Indeed, at the heart of this film is an age old ethical question should we strive to be happy or to do what's right?  Since this is a question of concern to rational beings in general, it's worth everybody's time to see it once.   "},{"Title":"An unforgettable horror movie!","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Clive Barker has been one of my favorite horror writers for a long time. His short stories and novels are amazing.Hellraiser is an unforgettable movie about love, passion and death. I've seen many horror movies, which are good, but Hellraiser is perhaps the best I've seen so far. It's powerful, twisted and different. If you like horror movies, watch Hellraiser!If you've already seen Hellraiser and loved it, watch Hellraiser II Hellbound. It's also a good movie.  "},{"Title":"A Most Original Horror Film","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I remember seeing this one in the cinema when it came out, and it was terrifying. It is one of the best modern horror films ... very creative and original. Awesome storyline, but I do have to admit that the characters are dry and the acting isn't exceptional. Pinhead was more frightening in the original because his appearances were limited. In the sequels, Pinhead is the main character and there it is possible to have too much of a good thing. See the original, skip the sequels. "},{"Title":"A Mixed Experience","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have conflicting emotions about the 1987 horror film, Hellraiser, based on British writer, Clive Barker's novella, The Hellbound Heart.  While the basic concept is fascinating -  involving unfortunate people who open puzzle boxes akin to a Pandora's Box From Hell, thereby unleashing a motley crew of demonic denizens called Cenobites to plague them - and the makeup and special effects being highly effective, if not horrific; the film's incoherent storyline and relentlessly grim atmosphere made viewing a somewhat mixed experience. Perhaps it was the film's utter lack of humor (recall Freddy Kruger's wit), pervading cynicism and sense of despair thatsubliminally discomforted me the most. Hellraiser is not a particularly frightening film, but it is an effectively gut-wrenching, gruesome one.  With a better script and a few deft strokes of levity, it might have become a genuine horror classic; nevertheless, in spite of it's shortcomings, it has managed to attract a dedicated cult following. Hellraiser's cult status, arose mainly due to it's outstanding character, Pinhead, the Head Cenobite (played superbly by Doug Bradley).  Pinhead is unspeakably cruel and takes great sadistic pleasure in tormenting his victims.  I even think that he might have a dual sadomasochistic element within him, as he too was once human and suffered the same torments, and seems to empathize with his victims in a perverse sort of way, i.e., he enjoys the scenario precisely because he can re-experience his own previous suffering vicariously, and at the same time, still relish the hellish pain he currently inflicts upon them!  Very twisted if true! The multiple pins or nails that protrude from his face and bald head are stark, grim reminders of the the agony he once endured. Hellraiser is not for the squeamish, or those who have depressive maladies - if any film conveys an unremitting picture of eternal gloom and doom, of suffering and damnation, it is this one. Paradoxically, Hellraiser is entertaining to the extent that it appeals to  perverse, sadomasochistic elements that lie deep within the bowels of human nature.  Gruesomely repulsive on one level, yet morbidly fascinating on another. Perhaps the redeeming value of Hellraiser is an educational one, that is, it presents atheists and other secularists who  discount traditional notions of Hellfire and Brimstone, with the distinct, thought-provoking possibility that a different, far more bizarre kind of Transdimensional Hell might exist. "},{"Title":"An Instant Classic","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser or Clive Barker's Hellraiser is an excellent horror film. If I were Clive Barker I would race a the chance to get my name in the credits of this film. Clive Barker directs and writes this film based on his book The Hellbound Heart. This film is about a simple (or thought simple) puzzle box that Frank gets from a wierd man who we find out is some sort of guardian of this box or something but sells it to unleash the demons or just sells I guess.Thanks to Clive Barker we have a classic film with a very serious villain with no comic relief (but none is needed). Many people enjoy Pinhead's one liner's like We'll tear your soul apart and Oh please, no tears, it's a waste of good suffering! Pinhead also tends to enunciate most of his words or phrases. Plenty of gore, violence, and drama. A nice music score also.This film is not for the weak stomach so don't watch this and eat your lunch or else you'll be scrubbing your lunch off the carpet (if you have a weak stomach).Hellraiser does somehting that most trendy horror films and slasher films rarley do, scare you!Clive Barker is a wonderful writer I also like Candyman. "},{"Title":"Shiver Me Timbers....","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Whoah!I'm only 16 i promise myself i've seen Hellraiser when i was like 8.Now 8 years on i've watched it and come to my senses...GROSS this film is,disgusting,intrigue,dirty,dark and SCARY...But i love it!This film is Hardcore for all you horror fans out there.Clive Barker proves he's the king of horror and i adore his work,i've seen the sequels....But back to the main thing,this movie must have been a HELLRAISER at the movies in the late 80's.I wish i was old enough to remember. Well anyway very good film,some good special effects,and some special DEFECTS,but it still proved good.7 out of 10  B- "}{"Title":"The most chilling movie experience I've ever had!","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this film many years ago after hearing friends talking about it. When I saw 'Pinhead' for the first time I realized I was watching a type horror film I had never seen before. The plot is nothing too special, its the typical monsters from hell setup with the damsel in distress, of course everyone thinks she is nuts, until they are killed off. This film shows Barkers visionary as a director, you must remember at the time there was so much cheap horror such as Nightmare on Elm Street, Holloween and Friday The 13th. Many people consider Wes Graven or Steven King as the horror film kings but for me it has to be Clive Barker.Never less than totally committed to scaring you to death!!! "},{"Title":"A rude, slow, shocking and violent film, about love, pain and pleasure.","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser is, without a doubt, a movie that serves as a divisor line and changed the conception about how to make terror movies. It is already one of the most unpleasant and depressing works accomplished. Clive Barker directed this horror drama in 1987, and it caused an enormous commotion and polemic around the world, the critic got divided in terms of their view of the film some applauded the courage of the plot, others detested the film and it had its exhibition prohibited in some countries. But Hellraiser is not a common horror, stuffed with special effects and touching moments. It is a slow, difficult, bloody, grotesque and almost unbearable film, a horror thriller which goes acquiring psychological proportions, above all through a character, Jlia (Clare Higgins, a great English actress). She is, without a doubt, the star of the film, she is the main element of  Hellraiser  as a lacking and seductive woman, who will do anything to help Frank, her lover without skin. Jlia doesn't hesitate in killing men and offering them as food to Frank. Hellraiser is a film that is not recommended to sensitive people but with certainty it is one of the largest and best horror films, a small masterpiece! The characters are three-dimensional and really dramatic, and it is worth of note and very special the scene in which Frank, without skin and ugly, is hidden and looking at Jlia and his brother making love. Scenes as this one shows that Hellraiser, besides being a frightening work, is a film that talks about love and loss, is a film that explores the characters' psychological aspects, although it is exceeded in the violence.The merit of the film resides in the talented English actress Clare Higgins, who passes to the public the whole pain and despair of a woman who  will do anything to alleviate and ease the man she loves ... "},{"Title":"Clive Barker Proved himself as the true king of horror when..","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Clive Barker proved himself as the true king of horror when he directed the movie Hellraiser, he showed all of us true horror fans that Stephen King only writes children`s books when you compare them. Sure the film has some awful effects, but when you think about the budget you will see that Mr. Barker pulled off the impossible, and besides that is not the most important, he made a whole new genre of horror.And please remember that this is his first major film. Doug Bradley Also made it crystal clear that you don't have to wear razors on your fingers to be scary. So people who haven't seen this movie yet,run, run, run to your local video store and see what the Norwegian film classification has banned! enjoy! "},{"Title":"Drama, Horror, Suspense, Intrigue","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Clive Barker's Hellraiser is an interesting, thought provoking horror film that also has an undercurrent of drama.  Frank Cotton, an adventurer of sorts, buys a strange puzzle box in the Orient and takes it back to his home in England.  When he manipulates the box a certain way, his body is torn apart by hooks commanded over by S & M demons called Cenobites.  Months later, Frank's brother Larry and Larry's wife Julia move into the house and when Larry cuts his hand on a nail, dripping blood all over the floor boards of an upstairs room, the blood reanimates Frank who returns as a skeletal like monster who needs blood to be whole again. The surprising, shocking, horrific ending nicely sets up the later sequel HellboundHellraiser II, which is even better then Hellraiser.Hellraiser is Rated R for extreme graphic violence, graphic gore, mild sexuality, brief nudity, and for some adult language. "},{"Title":"If not for the end...","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  On my self-created chilli-pepper scale of horror, this movie is definitive habanero. Clive gives us a truly shocking and revolting picture of love beyond the tortures of Hell. The only problems with the movie are its too long, too drawn-out endgame wherein Barker defeats the power of his demons unnecessarily (why DOES Kirstie have to send them back to Hell? why CAN'T we end the movie at Frank's hooked-to-the-hilt line of Jesus wept and cut to black? or at max show Kirstie close the door and run out of the house?), and barely-decent characters like Kirstie, her boyfriend, and her father to some extent. Higgins and Bradley make up the difference, and the special effects and a sight to be seen. A horror movie anyone who cares about horror SHOULD NOT MISS, but I would suggest stopping it before Kirstie gets her hands on that stupid box.LEAVE PINHEAD ALONE! Let him be powerful, Clive. Please, I'm begging you here. And tell the half-wit who wrote the second movie not to kill him off. That completely stinks, Clive. I can't believe you went for that.  "},{"Title":"A modern classic","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  How could anyone not appreciate this film?  It has a very original idea, great acting, and lot of gore!  Plus, it is spooky as Hell.  Pinhead, played with perfection by Doug Bradley, leaves an everlasting impression on you that will never, ever be forgotten.  His character cannot really be compared to other villains in the horror genre, because he is so unique.  His dialogue is excellent, delivering creepy one-liners that are not funny, but just plain COOL.  There are 4 Hellraiser films to date, the first two being back-to-back.  Parts 3 and 4 are the weakest films in the series, but have their good points.  The original Hellraiser, however, will always be remembered for being a film that had such a diverse concept brought to the mainstream.  Great film, enough said. "},{"Title":"The reference by which all horror films will be judged.","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser is one of the best Horror films I've seen.  The plot is interesting, the characters unique and the tension is electric.  I thoroughly recommend this film to everybody.  "},{"Title":"amateur actors and some fascinating creatures","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Frank Cotton purchases a puzzle box in the middle east. He solves the box and it opens a portal to the Cenobites who are demons to some and angels to others. They are sadomasochistic explorers to the depths of pain and the edges of pleasures without differentiating between the two. Frank's half-brother Larry decides to move back into his childhood home despite his new wife Julia's objections. It's been years since he has been in the house and they find Frank's belongings. She starts to have visions of her affair with Frank. Larry's teen daughter Kirsty decides not to live with her stepmother. Larry accidentally slice open his hand and the blood drips on the floor. The blood resurrects Frank who surprises Julia and commands her to harvest more blood so that he can be fully restored.The acting is amateurish. Ashley Laurence is doing little more than a forgettable pretty damsel. More is required for Clare Higgins but she doesn't really deliver much. It's hard to tell if she's a victim or a co-conspirator at first. The most interesting characters are the Cenobites and their leader Pinhead. There are some fascinating aspects of this horror but it's not scary at all. The problem is that the human characters are not compelling enough. "},{"Title":"Impressive!","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I decided to sit down and watch this movie because I have seen almost every single sequel-spawning Horror/Slasher movie. Child's Play, Friday The 13th, Halloween, Nightmare on Elm Street - The lot. What I got isn't exactly what I expected (although to be fair what CAN you expect from a premise like this) and out of all of them - This is my second favourite behind Halloween.The story - Years ago Frank gets a box that when he opens - it transports him to what some may consider to be Hell (although I don't think they ever really call it Hell, except in the title - I could be wrong). Some time later his brother, Larry moves in with his wife Julia and after cutting himself accidentally and bleeding on the floor in which Frank was transported - He is able to regenerate but he needs more blood before the Cenobites (Demons, basically) discover he has escaped. The only person who knows about it is Julia who seduces men and gets them killed while Larry is at work.Larry's daughter, Kirsty stumbles across it after Larry says Julia has been acting weird (I refer to it by first name terms because it's revealed Julia isn't Kirsty's mother) and she also unwittingly opens the box and the Cenobites emerge but Kirsty makes a deal with them, if she gives them Frank, they'll let her go.Well in terms of how this movie gets it's horror across, I have to say that while it does build suspense and to it's credit it does that extremely well there is also a lot of Cronenberg style imagery in it - the kind that's still gross and graphic even to this day and while I am not a fan of that genre I will say this method does actually work.For a standard horror movie it does have it's share of dumb moments but surprisingly the acting is very good (I'm almost contemplating to watch the sequels because of the cast members making a reappearance). I also like the lighting and cinematography as well as the visual effects. This stuff is made to be the stuff of nightmares and while in terms of creature design and other things like the gore the effect is good.If there is anything that I should tell people so they don't get let down (this isn't necessarily a complaint) it's that Pinhead has about 10 minutes of screen time. I mean when he's on screen he does have some pretty good screen presence but then again so do all the other monsters in this movie. In this movie at least I don't find Pinhead that memorable of a bad guy.In my personal opinion as far as horror movies go this one is definitely one that's worth it. In my opinion, it has some good acting, good directing and some actually rather impressive visuals. I'd say if you're a horror fan and haven't seen it already and you think this is your sort of thing - I'd say check it out. "},{"Title":"They'll tear your soul apart","Date":"14 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When Frank buys a small box that promises to provide the opener with unimaginable sensations he can't have imagined just how agonising they would be. As he opens it, in his mother's old house, hooks suddenly pierce his skin and he is torn apart! Some time afterwards his brother Larry and his wife Julia move it; as they do so two things happen; Julia remembers the time many years before when she slept with Frank and Larry badly cuts his hand on a protruding nail&#x85; the blood hits the floor and Frank starts to come back together. Julia is shocked when she finds him; he looks hideous; he said he needs more blood if he is to fully recover and he must get it before the Cenobites realise he is missing; they are the creatures that tore him apart when he opened the box. Julia once promised she'd do anything for Frank and it turns out that includes killing for him! One day Frank's niece finds him and takes the box; will she be any safer than he was?This 1980s British horror shows its low budget fairly often but that doesn't matter as it is still pretty shocking; the effects may not be perfect but they look more real than CGI would have been if the film was made now. I had thought that the Cenobites would be the evil monsters here but the real evil is Frank; in fact the Cenobites get surprisingly little screen time compared to Frank. The only well known actor in this is the always reliable Andrew Robinson who does a good job as Larry, Ashley Laurence who plays his daughter is perhaps the more important character and the more interesting as she is the one who will ultimately confront the Cenobites and Frank. Over all I'd say this is a decent film and probably a much see for horror aficionados; just be warned it is pretty gruesome at times. "}{"Title":"Clive is a true student of the macabre. Hellraiser is a genuine Horror classic that has withstood the test of time.","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" (Credit IMDb) Clive Barker's feature directing debut graphically depicts the tale of a man and wife who move into an old house and discover a hideous creature - the man's half-brother, who is also the woman's former lover - hiding upstairs. Having lost his earthly body to a trio of S&M demons, the Cenobites, he is brought back into existence by a drop of blood on the floor. He soon forces his former mistress to bring him his necessary human sacrifices to complete his body... but the Cenobites won't be happy about this.(Some major spoilers, just a warning)What's to say about Hellraiser that hasn't already been said? It's a magnificent piece of Horror cinema, and rarely will you see anything so wonderfully artsy. Unlike quite a few horror films, Hellraiser doesn't just throw in gore for the sake of gore, there's a point to it. It has some of the most gruesome scenes I've ever laid my eyes on; they still pack a punch today. What many people fail to realize is that Hellraiser is also a Gothic sort of love story between Julia and Frank. While it may not be very sympathetic, it's certainly tragic, and memorable. The lengths Julia goes to please him, and get him blood for his body clearly shows the adoration she has for him. And the tragic turn at the end it takes where Frank deceives her, is saddening to watch. Aside from Kirsty's idiotic boyfriend, the characters are all memorable. The flashback scenes involving Frank open the box are frightening and unforgettable. In the later sequels, the filmmakers made the mistake of making Pin Head into a pop-culture phenomenon like Freddy, only Pinhead isn't meant to be that way. Here he is in all his sadistic, creepy glory, and that's the way it should be.One of the things that really make Hellraiser is its incredible score. It's so profound, so powerful. I would really rank it as one of the most defining horror scores in history. They really don't make them like this anymore, nor would they take the chance on doing so. The rumored remake that is supposed to come about is a shame, but it will not tarnish Hellraiser's greatness. Hellraiser will forever remain a classic in my books, and it's almost a perfect Horror movie in my eyes. Beautiful, scary, and saddening all in one. It combines all of the perfect Horror elements, even adding in a love story. Performances. Andrew Robinson plays a nice guy for once, and he pulls it off. He's likable and ordinary, kudos to him for pulling it off. Claire Higgins gives a classic performance as Julia. She's intimidating, but also vulnerable. She isn't exactly the most sympathetic of characters, but her saddening eyes couldn't help but be endearing to me. Ashley Laurence, quite possibly the greatest horror heroine since Nancy of Nightmare on Elm Street, and Laurie of Halloween. She is the perfect protagonist for Pinhead, and they clashed beautifully with one another. She's strong willed, and very easy to like. Her legendary performance ranks up there with one of Horror's finest. Sean Chapman is creepily effective as Frank. His unforgettable voice also helps. Bottom line. Need I say more? Classic, classic, classic! You're a fool to call yourself a Horror movie fanatic if you've yet to see this movie.9  /10 "},{"Title":"Get Hooked on the 'Box","Date":"24 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love how (soon following) Doug Bradley was billed as The Lead Cenobite. It makes sense from what I've been told about the background on Hellraiser, or the short story it's based on The Hellbound Heart. This movie, unlike the other slashers surround it (A Nightmare on Elm Street, Friday the 13th, Halloween, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, just to name a few) wasn't supposed to be the Artist Soon to be Known as Pinhead.My guess is Barker wanted to go beyond Freddy, Jason, Michael, and Leatherface and make an intelligent horror story without relying on a wise-cracking, machete-wielding or babysit watcher to slice/dice the idiot cardboard teens. Fans later apparently missed the message and Pinhead came out of the shadows. (I'm just as guilty; I love the character of Pinhead. But, at least I still liked this origin movie the best of the Hellraiser series.)I concur with true Barker fans, especially after watching Red Dragon. It's not about Hannibal Lecter at all, though they splashed Anthony Hopkins all over it. Why? Well, fans wanted him, they wanted to increase box office and it would be his last stint as Hannibal the Cannibal. But, to me it ruined the movie as that's not what the source material intended. Heck, Hannibal was in, like, 4 pages out of 464!Alas, sticking with the film at hand Bravo. Aside from some cheesy lightening effects amongst some buck fifty door creatures &#x96; all probably due to the low budget, it was a highly effective up'd ante from the typical irony-laced/Twilight Zone fare with loads of plot twists, character development, background, suspense and a surprisingly large number of characters &#x96; all important &#x96; for such a small film.After Frank (Chapman) summons demons with a puzzle box (loved the box) and disappears, supposedly for good, his brother, Larry (Robinson) and sister-in-law, Julia (Higgins) move into his house. Immediately we're treated to Julia's extramarital affair with Frank in very spicy flashbacks.Meanwhile, Larry's trying to connect with his daughter, Kirsty (Laurence) who's (not very) oddly unfavorable of Julia. Meanwhile, after a deep cut, Larry splashes blood on the very floor of the very room his brother disappeared in and it gets sucked up and becomes an insect version of Frank. Meanwhile, Julia sees her chance of getting her ex-lover back and is willing to go the extra mile, for lack of a better term, to bring back Frank. Meanwhile, Kirsty investigates and inadvertently summons the very demons, or Cenobites, who are just as confused as she is on why they were called &#x96; generally they're called for pleasure through pain.There's more meanwhiles but I've probably spoiled enough. Suffice to say, it's a gory good time at psychological warfare between the innocent, the guilty and the deserving.And it's brutally gruesome. Not by today's standards, 23 years later, but I'm sure it was near the top of the list from 1987 backwards. One positive about the gore they didn't just rely on that, as most slashers/torture porn does since. This had one, uh, hell of a story here.That said, it wasn't perfect; there were a lot of plot holes including a quick wrap up in the last third that made Kirsty the thrown in heroine who could unconvincingly solve the puzzle in a few heartbeats and bargain these big baddies, lead by Pinhead. This is when all others, who actually know about them, actually call upon them, can't outmaneuver a flying hook. Also, they did a good job of introducing the Cenobites, but spent so little on them, it begged for a sequel, or more, to explore their storyline.Furthermore, it almost seemed like the creator, Barker, was anti-Christ as there were plenty to mock Jesus, even going as far as reference him in a quote from the Bible at the most inopportune time. But, in their defense, I think they did a good job of showing true evil, whether be it from the walking sadomasochistic demons or worse, man. It's hard to watch, but so was The Passion of the Christ. Both films show the true evil of men; they didn't sugar-coat/Sunday School what lies beneath our skins.It's definitely 1980s. It's a good start on the Pinhead legend. It's for gore fans or for people reminiscing about the 1980s horror franchises. And it's a recommended for a more thoughtful look at pure evil. "},{"Title":"Please, no tears... it's a waste of good suffering","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker, the last man in the known universe you want telling your children bed-time stories, grants us a look into his mind and imagination. Is it disgusting, nasty, violent, gory and bloody(arguably excessively so)? Without a doubt. Is the writer/director, who also penned the novel(which I haven't read, so I can't make comparisons, though I understand that it follows it closely) and made up the concept, a sick, twisted human being? Probably, yes. If you don't think you can handle this movie, you're quite likely to be right. It's gruesome and graphic. But... and this is important... it is *not* phoned in, done by people who did not care whether or not it turned out good(and not just profitable), or one of the recent aptly-nicknamed torture porn flicks. This is rather well-done, and it's impressive that the dear Brit had such a handle on film-making, having only done two shorts before helming this. In addition to being disturbing and grotesque, this manages to provide a genuine, well-told story, an original idea, nicely developed characters, several of whom we can care about, and suspense that is expertly crafted. This is truly terrifying, and the last half-hour is to be experienced by anyone who considers themselves a fan of horror. Be it those based on atmosphere, or the more direct, visceral ones. With maybe one exception, there is not a single jump scare in this that does not pay off. The pacing is good. Acting is great, the performances are almost exclusively convincing. The tension of this is thick. There are immensely memorable lines of dialog in this. The special effects are mostly well-done, and tend to hold up well, even today. While I have not yet watched them all, the sequels, if not without attractive qualities and the occasional interesting take on the franchise, never reach this level after this one. I recommend this to fans of the genre and the medium. It will tear your soul apart. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Still one of the most innovative horror films around","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What Clive Barker's directorial debut lacks in budget, it makes up for with sheer, unbridled imagination. Hellraiser celebrated its 20th anniversary last year, and it plays just as effectively now as it did in 1987. Not since George Romero used rural America as a playground for a flesh-eating zombie epidemic (in 1968's Night of the Living Dead) has the familiar facades of our suburban landscape been ripped apart with such invasive ferocity. The crux of Hellraiser is the American Dream gone wrong Larry Cotton (Andrew Robinson--Dirty Harry) and second wife Julia (Clare Higgins) move into an inherited house, where Larry's brother Frank (Sean Chapman) tinkered with a mysterious puzzle-box that unleashed a sadomasochistic group of beings called the Cenobites (led by Doug Bradley's iconic Pinhead); Julia had an illicit affair with Frank, and when Larry spills his blood on the attic floor, it resurrects the grotesque, skinless brother. Hellraiser adheres to an internal logic (think David Lynch with less pretension) all its own, and is quite inviting in its own awkward displacement--the performances are a little off-center (especially in reaction scenes), which only adds to the unconventional tone of the plot. And Barker's own affinity for torturous imagery (including some spectacularly gruesome scenes of hooks piercing flesh) acts as an extreme contrast to the facade of normality that quickly disappears from the Cotton household (the attic room becomes a abattoir for Frank's bloody sustenance); and the Cenobites become the confirmation of the family's transgressions, waking proof of a reckoning, and shatter the illusion of a soul's safety in an afterlife (in the film's most chilling line, Pinhead proclaims his ability to tear a person's soul apart). While some of the electronic special effects (and fashions) are pretty gnarly by today's standards, Hellraiser is fearless in what it does accomplish--a perversion of normalcy that does, indeed, raise hell. A must-see for all horror fans. "},{"Title":"A splatter S&M horror classic!","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is a certain type of flavor that Clive Barker has in his horror films that similar movies do not. Among the books and movies, you can feel something larger in the background. It is a darker world that is encountered, with an unmentioned nightmarish beginning. The protagonist is not really the center point.Hellraiser starts off with a man named Frank, who obtains a mysterious puzzle box in the orient. As soon as he uses at his home in England, chains come out of it and hook into Frank. The room is changed, and otherworld dimension beings called Cenobites appear. They change the box back to it's original shape, and Franks body, a shredded mess, disappears.Frank's brother Larry moves in with his wife, Julia to the now abandoned house. While moving a mattress, he cuts his hand. He goes upstairs where his brothers soul resides, and the blood falls on the floor. The blood then revives Frank, who slowly through out the rest of the film, starts to recover his flesh and guts. But he needs blood to do that, lots of it. That's where Julia comes in.Larry's daughter, Kirsty, who becomes an important part of the plot, finds out what Julia is doing to supply blood to the skin-and-bones Frank unsuspecting men who are there for sex with her. She kills them one by one, and Frank uses their blood for nourishment. Larry, on the other hand, has no idea that this is going on.With a low budget, Hellraiser does a good job. The Cenobites, especially the main one Pinhead, are incredible looking baddies, with obvious sadomasochism tones. When they show up, you know there's no way out, and there is little one can do but feel the pain they are about to deliver. Andrew Robinson as Larry and Clare Higgins, Julia play the parts unusually well. But it is Oliver Smith, who plays the skeletal Frank (after death) that really is a horror house make up effect.There are some scenes that don't work, such as Kirsty running around the house with her boyfriend; his emotionless face shows no acting skill whatsoever. The story tells us nothing about the box, the origins of the Cenobites... so many questions left unanswered. Sure, these questions are briefly answered in the sequels, but none of them had the impact of this first entry.Still, Hellraiser remains a top choice for the horror selection, a classic that delivers the gore in a neat S&M suit with a good story to boot. "},{"Title":"The horror opus which is hellraiser","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just got hellraiser free in a newspaper. And my mum (who reads a lot of Clive Barker or Stephen King material.) said that she saw it in the cinema with my dad when it first came out. She said i can only watch it with my own descretion because it was supposedly really gory.I wasn't scared at all when watching hellraiser but it was an excellent film and the gore wasn't that bad normally i love films dripping with gore but this was pretty tame gore wise for me.The thing that made hellraiser was the story and the special effects despite the low budget. This film to this day is a horror masterpiece. And Clive Barkers best if you're looking for gore then look at another title like braindead but Hellraiser has gained enough reputation to be the most respected horror movies ever.JEEEEESSSUUUUSSSS WWWWWEEEEPPPTTT "},{"Title":"Hellraiser (1987) ***","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Don't ask me how I never got around to seeing this until now, even though I did see both HELLRAISER 2 and 3 in the theaters (both of which did little for me; maybe that's why) but I felt it was about time I got to this modern 'classic'. I thought the original was very interesting and creepy, though what I really liked most about it was the character of the middle-aged Julia (Clare Higgins) and how she is the instrument by which all the mayhem occurs. Higgins was the best thing about it, and it was a nice change of pace to see an adult becoming the center of the story rather than another typical teenager. The ironic thing is that the sinister Pinhead and his sillier fellow demons were the least interesting ingredients to me here; and their appearances were kept to a minimum for this first hurrah, which I think actually benefited the film. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Not that great","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Not That Good I wasn't really looking forward to seeing this film, expecting to see a cheesy violent and stupid old horror film. I had a nice surprise realising that this is in fact an intelligently made horror film. I've seen my fair share of horror films in my time and i know what I'm talking about when i say this one is very unique. The atmosphere is very creepy, the famous 'cenobyte' demons are very original and give a nice chill to the film.However the acting was very trashy, the cenobytes only appear in the film for about 10 minutes and near the end. Instead we get this stupid storyline at during the bulk of the film about a man asking his wife to kill people for him so he will become whole again. This part is stupid because its appalling to watch the very fake kills and the stupendous acting.I was glad that this film was intelligent and not cheesy. But it was not a great film altogether. The best bits were all near the end.I rated it 4. I gave it that because of its creepy atmosphere and some nice original villains. I didn't rate it higher because most of the film was (altough clever) very hard to keep focus on the film (i nearly stopped watching it because it was so trashy) "},{"Title":"Poor.","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't understand why 'Hellraiser' is so highly rated as a horror film. I think it is the lamest excuse for a fright flick you can get. It is just boring and lacks any real scares, poor attempts at scares include the use of violence and gore and the alleged star of the show Pinhead is about as scary as Fireman Sam!!! The Cenobites look like fat things from a Viz magazine and some of the acting is just awful. Personally I enjoy horror films such as Elm Street and Scream but Hellraiser is just totally pants. If you're looking for a genuinely scary horror film go for 'Nightmare on Elm Street' or Scream but Hellraiser should be avoided a very poor attempt at a fright flick. "},{"Title":"Overrated Horror Misfire","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Clive Barker's directorial debut is a fairly dull and one-note piece of schlock, enlivened only by some enthusiastic gore and an interesting concept of what devils and demons might look like.A writer and his wife move into a huge house in the English countryside, where the wife's former boyfriend still exists in some sort of half-alive/half-protoplasmic state.  He had been like this since he tried to back out of a deal with the Cenobites, a race of sadomasochistic demons led by Pinhead, who may or may not be the Devil.The concept is somewhat intriguing, but nothing (and I mean NOTHING) happens.  The movie is one big yawn with some decent splatter effects thrown in here and there to keep the audience awake.  Doug Bradley is effective as Pinhead, and Andrew Robinson does well in the lead role, but Barker's screenplay and direction are both leaden and the movie just lumbers along at a maddening pace.  The only reason this movie has become such a fan favorite is because of the pathetic state of horror movies at the time.  At a time when horror movies were more often than not actually comedies with gory special effects, a semi-serious movie was welcomed with open arms by fans wishing for some meat in their horror cinema.  Unfortunately, HELLRAISER has withered with age, though that didn't stop it from spawning its own brainless series of lame sequels.Worth a look, don't get me wrong, but nowhere nearly as good as its reputation would suggest. "}{"Title":"Painfully Average","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To the bulk of my friends this is one of the greatest horror movies ever made. My opinion differs at a huge tangent.That's not to say that this is a total failure. Clive Barker is true visonist and knows how to make a stylistic film. Nearly every shot in this film is beautifully done and, towards the end, helps to build up the tension that leads to the anti-climax of the century.This is a film that relys entirely on gore for its scare tactics and, in my opinion, that does not make a good horror film. The greatest horror films are the ones that use psychological effects to play with the viewer and, ultimately, scare the hell out of them.This is where the film falters as, with every psychological scare tatic that is use, the film makers thought it would be scary to finnish them off with the most outragous gore i've seen.This is Clive Barker's best film but this is out of a career of disturbingly awful films so that's not saying much. All in all there are a few good moments in this film but it is purely gore driven and, in the end, a man's entrails spilled across the floor does not make a scary horror movie.3/5 "},{"Title":"Boringgggg!","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEAD! At my local video store, I saw a DVD entitled Boogeymen. It had selected scenes from a handful of horror movies. One of the scenes was from Hellraiser. From seeing a guy get hooked and stretched out I though it might be a good movie. On my next visit to the video store I rented Hellraiser. Through most of it I read a magazine. It was so slow and boring. You barely even see the stupid Cenobites!!!! The whole movie is about some guy trying to regenerate by getting this woman to kill for him! Reading other reviews here and elsewhere it is said to be Excellent! Best Movie! There was no gore except for the Uncle Frank character and the hook stretching scene. This movie really sucked. Waste of money! "},{"Title":"Grim and grimy...everything a horror film should be","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Let's make this clear from the outset HELLRAISER is a classic. A low budget British movie, packed full of gore, torture and grisly images, it sounds like just the kind of film that gets made and then disappears only to be rediscovered by horror geeks some twenty years later. Not so. There's something about HELLRAISER that stands it head and shoulders above the rest, and that thing is the presence of writer/director Clive Barker. Barker brings a level of originality and visceral intensity to this film that raises it to the heights of similar fare like Wes Craven's A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET.The story is overshadowed by the presence of Pinhead and his fellow demons, each of them an S&M-influenced being who delights in causing pain and suffering. However, the main thrust of the film isn't actually about Pinhead and pals at all; instead, it's about the ultra-creepy and depraved character Uncle Frank and his destruction of an otherwise ordinary family. Uncle Frank is truly one of the most sickening and twisted creations in cinema and the thought of him hiding in that attic room is enough to give anyone chills, I imagine.In any case, this is a solid and eventful film; it's action packed, fast-paced and witty with it. The characters (especially the ones you love to hate) are well observed and the horror comes thick and fast, presented in a matter-of-fact, in-your-face fashion. Barker is just happy to get stuck in and get on with it, and it works. Yes, this is a film of the 1980s, so watching it today it feels a little cheesy. The rubbery special effects are dated &#x96; especially that upside-down demon, clearly pushed about on a trolley &#x96; but there's something endearing about them these days, and I'd still take them over CGI replacements. As an exercise in pure horror and skin-crawling revulsion, HELLRAISER works a treat. "},{"Title":"Without a Doubt, One of the Key Horror Films of the 1980s","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A young woman (Ashley Laurence) faces of against her wicked stepmother (Claire Higgins) and her uncle Frank, who recently returned from the dead. Throw some demons from hell into the mix and you have got yourself a nightmare incarnate.I have seen Hellraiser numerous times, on VHS, on DVD, on Netflix streaming and now (thanks to Anchor Bay) on glorious Blu-Ray. There is really nothing anyone can say about this film that has not been said over the past twenty-five years Clive Barker is an amazing writer and through Hellraiser he became an amazing director. I do not know anyone who has seen this film that was not left with a positive impression.The effects in this film are great, perhaps second only to John Carpenter's The Thing. How they were able to create Frank's body piecing itself back together, I have no idea. The effects in Hellraiser II are similarly good, but the original stands head and shoulders above the rest.This is also the film that introduces us to Pinhead (Doug Bradley), easily one of the most iconic faces in horror. Only Freddy Krueger and Jason Voorhees are his equals as far as 1980s horror goes (with Michael Myers as an honorable mention)... and I am hard-pressed to think of a single 1970s or 1990s character that compares. Pinhead is in a league of his own, and it is Bradley's stern performance that sells this character.Hair historians can look back on this film and study the hairstyle known as the permanent wave. For some reason, everyone in this film (besides Frank) decided they needed to have a perm. By the second film, this is thankfully corrected (and Clare Higgins' appearance improves dramatically because of it).You have probably seen this film by now, but if you have not -- see it! Anchor Bay's Blu-Ray treatment will give you the best picture and sound imaginable, so if you do not already own it, this is a fine time to spring for a quality copy. Those who already have the DVD may not be ready to invest in the Blu-Ray just yet. I would, however, recommend the Anchor Bay box set. Although I think it has some flaws -- I would have liked to see more discs in here -- the packaging really makes the purchase worthwhile. The box itself, whether used for storing your DVDs or not, will look impressive on your shelf. "},{"Title":"Horror classic","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser is a film that I recall seeing when I was seven years old. Clive Barker was a rising talent in Hollywood and made a great first film. Ashley Laurencw( who early in her career looked like a low budget Heather Landekamp) gives a good performance as the films' heroine and Andrew Robinson is always good. The villains played by Sean Chapman and Claire Higgins give a shocking performance as the brother and wife of Robinson's charcter who had a tryst back in the day . But ther eal star of the film is Doug Bradley as Pinhead who used to haunt my dreams as a child and if I ever see the box I'll run. "},{"Title":"Raising Hell, part 1","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ladies and Gentlemen, meet Frank Cotton - he's a sex addicted sensualist and expert low life. In his quest for the ultimate sensual experience, he tries to solve what turns out to be a puzzle box from Hell; solving it introduces him to the chains of Pinhead and the Cenobites, a punked out group of otherworldly sadists. At first it appears that Frank is completely destroyed by the Cenobites, who kill him via mutilation before re-setting the puzzle box for the next victim. But then Frank's mild mannered brother Larry (Andrew Robinson, you may remember him as the obnoxious Scorpio Killer from Dirty Harry) and his 2nd wife Julia (Clare Higgins) - with whom Frank had a tryst - move into the house where Frank died by the Cenobites, and when Larry cuts his hand on a nail, some of his blood drips onto the floor of the room where Frank died and Frank is resurrected in an ugly, not quite whole again body, thus freeing him from the bowels of Hell. Frank then seduces Julia into bringing men into the house so that he can kill them and feed off their flesh and blood to make himself whole again before the Cenobites come looking for him.Then Larry's daughter Kirsty gets involved, unlocks the box, tries to cheat out the Cenobites by leading them to Frank, only to find Frank has killed her father, skinned his corpse and is now wearing Larry's skin as a kind of suit, the Cenobites tear Frank limb from limb again then try to get Kirsty, but Kirsty manages to use the box against them. But is it really the end or just the beginning?Dark, moody, broody, and groovy in its own odd way. Followed by a never ending slew of sequels. "},{"Title":"The Lion, The Witch and the Spandex Wardrobe.","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The original Hellraiser, though far from high art, is actually quite literary by the standards of latter-day horror. The basic story (ripped off a treat visually for the 1992 Mexican movie Cronos) concerned a lamentation puzzle box that brings four `demons', or Cenobites as they're known here, back from Hell. It's sequels diluted the format by taking one of the four (Doug Bradley, here notably credited only as `lead Cenobite', but later Christened `Pinhead') and attempted to turn him into a `Freddie'-like wise-cracking character. The idea that Pinhead could hold a film without the other three is ill-judged. Pinhead is there to deliver exposition as he's practically the only one that can speak (The token `female Cenobite' can, but prefers to hiss like a cat for some bizarre reason), but it's left to the two real stars &#150; Chatterer and Butterball &#150; to scare. The second film, which was good yet overambitious, saw the death of all four Cenobites, reduced to their human forms. The diabolical Hellraiser III Hell on Earth saw only Pinhead resurrected and nondescript Cenobite lackeys introduced to back up this all-new, all-punning creation. The fourth attempted to bring a level of seriousness back to the series, but by then it was too late. The initial movie may go too far some times in it's crass symbolism (a flower opens on a tv screen as Kirsty emerges from a coma), and the excess of gore and sexual tone do tend to kill off any evident horror. Horror, by my definition, is psychological, something experienced with the mind, whereas the smatterings of sex scenes are watched with the libido, causing a serious rift in viewing attention. When the Cenobites do finally appear (after Kirsty has been fiddling with the box, causing a C.S.Lewisian-breach in a hospital wall), they do scare, a primal fear somewhere between fear of torturous damnation and fear of bondage. Again, the `less is more' appearance of the quartet was a lesson not learnt in later instalments, as was the slow pacing of this debut.As with all horror movies, there are the serious flaws in logic that have to be overlooked to maintain enjoyment of the piece. As well as the traditional `lone female goes upstairs to investigate creak', we also get the `lone female's husband who is so niave he not only not knows she is having an affair but is also unable to smell the vast collection of rotting corpses she's got lined up in the spare room. (The quickest way Hellraiser could have ended is for Larry to have said `I'll go in the spare room and give it a lick of paint'. A brand-new house and he NEVER thinks to look around?). The other major flaw is that whenever someone fiddles with the lamentation (Pandora's) box they instantly get graphically torn to bits in a flurry of hooks, chains, and tomato sauce. Yet Kirsty always gets her chance for a nice talk first, a `please don't rip me to shreds, Cenobites, I was hoping to be in the sequel'. Pinhead will tear your soul apart&#133; unless you're the central heroine, then perhaps you can have a nice chat, put your feet up, a nice hot cup of tea&#133; At times an unpleasant and unnecessarily gory film, Hellraiser still pleases as one of the better late 80's horror features.   "},{"Title":"certainly not bad, not any kind of horror classic, not by a long shot.","Date":"15 April 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of those genre movies which I somehow passed by or missed as a younger person, which is strange since I watched almost every horror-slasher-whatever series back when I was ready for all the blood and guts and killings and dumb teens and memorable monster-movie killers from the 80's. Maybe I'd heard that it was not very memorable compared to the others, or that the Pin-Head man on the video cover was kind of lame and not effective. Turns out the words I heard were kind of correct, even as this has its moments and is both two things at once extremely dated in its 80's settings while providing some gruesome practical effects and certainly 'unique' designs.If anything it's less to do with the typical slashers of the period and more akin to EC horror comic books (I thought of this as being like a feature-length episode from Creepshow - this is a movie that involves a torrid love affair from the past that comes back to haunt Julia (Clare Higgins) who moves in to the house where her husband Larry's (Andrew Robinson) brother Frank used to squat in... oh, and she had an affair with him years before. But as it turns out Frank is, uh, a puddle of goo due to a magic box that has made him die via beings from another dimension or hell or other (I wasn't clear from where, point is they're gnarly demons that Tim Burton thought were probably too garish), and Frank needs blood in order to regenerate his flesh.The movie could have even been a comedy; the premise reminded me of a much more garish, black-death take on like Little Shop of Horrors. The whole scenario is rather nightmarish, but it's not your typical slasher; it's more about when the next big murder will take place by this mulletted would-be femme fatale for this regenerating bloody-man-thing, and how soon the husband or his daughter. There's imagery related to Jesus Christ (he's literally hiding in the trunk, his statue I mean), and Barker, as director, is all about style. This is a pure style over substance movie - what substance is there, the actual story and characters, is fairly weak/standard, though it's livened somewhat by Andrew Robinson (you remember him as Scorpio in Dirty Harry, right?) There are many shots early on of gruesome bugs and roaches and filth, and then from there you also have the demons themselves, with them all being done with practical effects.But what starts early on as seeming impressive - the highlight of seeing the first time that Frank starts to regenerate from a tiny drop of blood into organs and lungs and skeleton into something resembling an anatomy figure on a textbook cover - gets to be into a laughable horror show spectacle in the final act. It's here that Barker just lets rip with the grotesque house of horrors (literally, it's in a house and there are a lot of horror-creature images), and while the creativity is there, it's also not very compelling or scary or frightening. The young actress Ashley Laurence does her best, but by a certain point just seems at the mercy of the oddness of what the script has her doing, specifically with the 'MacGuffin' that is also pictured on the cover.The original Hellraiser must have some kind of reputation among modern horror fans and enthusiasts, but whether it's people who like it legitimately or based on the many sequels it looks better in retrospect I'm not sure I know at this point. It's entertaining as being a slightly more serious version of what one might see in an Evil Dead movie. Barker certainly packs on the nightmarish s***, but it's at the cost of a lot of story logic and decisions by characters that make little sense, and in the last ten minutes it's all over-the-top madness (still bumped up thanks to Robinson, I must add). At times it's shot and acted like a Lifetime movie, and other times it recalls the Romero/King style of a wild horror fantasy extravaganza. So it is what it is - and, again, very 80's. "},{"Title":"Hell awoken","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clive Barker had a couple atrocious movies made in his name (Rawhead Rex, Underworld) and decides to end the carnage and try to bring one of his stories to life personally. This gave rise to the iconic Pinhead and made Clive Barker very much a household name (if he wasn't by then). Based on The Hellbound Heart the story had great potential, albeit putting any Clive Barker movie on the big screen is of high risk, as the poetry and literary flare of this writer is way ahead of any else in the genre.Clive Barker is to horror what Iain M. Banks is to sci-fi... an unhinged reservoir of invention, make-believe and limitless imagination with an astounding use of the language to boot. It always seem slightly awkward that such a talented writer delved in the horror genre, but he did...Personally I hold Hellraiser as Clive Barker's second biggest on-screen success closely following Candyman, but the movie 20 years onwards still packs an immense punch and should be required watching.Frank Cotton (Sean Chapman) is in constant search of thrills and adventure. During one escapade he purchases a small cube from a dealer somewhere in the Moslem world. Unswayed by the consequences he opens the cube thus opening the gateway to pain inhabited by the Cenobites - by some held as devils, by other as angels...Some time later his brother Larry (Andrew Robinson) and his new wife Julia (Claire Higgins) move into the derelict house, where Frank was last alive. Larry's daughter Kirsty (Ashley Laurence) decides against living with her father and stepmother renting a room in town with her boyfriend. A chance accident at the house awakes the past and frees what remains of Frank from his prison...The greatest success of this movie is being gruesome while being tasteful at the same time. The gore is present and will make you cringe and despite the retro feel to the movie it is light years ahead of most modern horror films. Holds well despite the time passing by, albeit some special effects are in need of an emergency update (hence maybe the remake planned for 2011?). That said all the monsters themselves look just as good and impressive as ever and Pinhead really will make you want to run.The acting is nothing of note, but at the same time does not detract from the guilty watching pleasure. The movies main flaw (as with most screen adaptation of Barker's) is its lacking script, which goes awry somewhere in the last 30 minutes. The motivation of the Cenobites takes a hit by the lack of build-up and Barker really should have focused more effort on presenting the 'otherworlders' and what makes them tick. Some of the lines sold by Pinhead and his posse is just weak scriptwriting. More sinister and complex actions of the evil they represented would really benefit the movie. This movie really is more like a 'introduction' to the Cenobites, hence can't really be surprised several sequels were panned out in the subsequent years. Molding several of them together would really make one hell of a movie... "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of the macabre!","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A fellow by the name of Frank (Sean Chapman) has brought home with him an unusual puzzle-box that he bought in a foreign country. He tries to solve the puzzle-box but it has bizarre powers to unlock another dimension where a ruthless gang of S&M demons named Cenobites lead by the dastardly Pinhead (Doug Bradley) who are into pleasure and pain kill then torture Frank. Several years later, his brother Larry (Andrew Robinson) with newlywed wife Julia (Claire Higgins) as they move into Frank's house as it may seem disgusting at first but could be fixed perfectly later on. When Larry spills a little bit of blood no thanks to a small accident on the floor, Frank is brought back from the dead as a skinless freak as he was the former lover of Julia from along time ago. Now Julia must try to help him become whole again by seducing and killing off other men to use their blood to make him free of the curse that he is suffering. The daughter Kirsty (Ashley Laurence) discovers what horrible secret that her mother is hiding in her house and makes a bargain with the Cenobites.Scary, gory and masterful blend of horror and fantasy from the imagination of Clive Barker! it uses elements of H.P. Lovecraft, sexual perversion and the occult to create one of the most original and unique horror movies of all time. It also really pushed the limits of gore and violence for it's day even with torture and it's subject matter which nearly got this movie an X Rating. It's still a disturbing and atmospheric movie that still has it's fans to this day as Pinhead has became iconic as Freddy, Jason, Michael or Leatherface. I love how they did the creature and Cenobite effects, they were quite well for their time including the special effects as this movie even though the acting isn't really there. Christopher Young's score is chilling as it adds to the mode, this isn't for the faint of heart but a true must see for horror buffs. "}{"Title":"For real -- don't go in the attic!","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember seeing previews for the Hellraiser movies when I was a kid and being scared by them then. Watching this movie by myself for the first time, I found it retains the frightening elements that stood out to me in the past. Hellraiser is equal parts spiritual/psychological/contemplative horror and gore. The highlights of the film are the Cenobites -- minions of hell and purveyors of sinister, dark pleasures beyond the threshold of mortal perception. The movie begins with Frank, a guy on a mad quest for said dark pleasures beyond the human realm of perception, who purchases a strange box and naively summons the Cenobites to appear. Frank disappears and his brother, Larry and Larry's wife, Julia, inherit the house. Of course, the box is still present, Frank isn't quite dead in the typical sense, and hideous hi-jinks are bound to ensue. Hellraiser set a benchmark when it came out, with a new standard of mainstream horror and gore. Several scenes had to be edited or cut out of the film to receive an appropriate R rating for theatrical release. But it is not merely a gore-fest, but features psychological and dark spiritual elements that are far more curious and horrifying than any of the violence. Indeed, merely these psychological elements would have been enough to scare the viewer, but combined with the excellent make-up and dusty atmosphere the movie becomes a very vivid, intoxicating experience. My main qualm with the whole movie was how the film paced so slowly in the middle and focused so much on the family members, yet never really exposed very much about them. We don't see much about the dynamics or quality of the love triangle between Julia and Frank or Larry. We do understand how they are linked in theory, but it's so impersonally displayed -- they might as well be silhouettes. The same goes for Larry's daughter, Kristy, and her relationship with her stepmother.This detracts from the movie because it is a fairly lengthy film (almost 2 hours) which takes place mostly in one dimly lit house. And though the demonic Cenobites (the lead one being the famous recurring 'Pinhead' character) are the notable centerpiece of the film, they appear sparingly -- though to great horrific effect when they do.This is notable of the first Hellraiser film, the only one completely written and directed by Clive Barker the Cenobites are not typical character villains, but horrific spiritual entities that lay beyond our sensory perceptions. Their ghoulish power exceeds mere evil; they are deep, authentic arbiters of the desire realm. In this sense, Hellraiser distinguishes itself from its contemporary horror films -- typical slashers, torture porn and suspense-horror. The Cenobites are not really villains because they are beyond human and have no hunger for victims. They answer and assist those who summon them, whether or not the summoning is intentional. In fact, the most disturbing facet of these characters is how mesmerizing and intriguing they are, how potently ugly they are, and how easily the viewer is pulled in while they're on the screen. That infatuation is genuinely scary.The later films would fail to capitalize on this subtle-yet-sophisticated brand of horror and degenerate into average or above-average supernatural-slasher films. But the first one is fairly true to Clive Barker's literary vision and features amazing special effects. Even today the hideous, gory make-up and sinister creature designs are steps beyond anything else in film. This is a truly dark film, one which takes cues from H.P. Lovecraft and may have inspired the brilliant Japanese animation, Berserk. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Larry Cotton, (Andrew Robinson) and his wife Julia, (Claire Higgins) move into a new house after inheriting it from his brother Frank, (Sean Chapman) which is a complete mess. At first reluctant, Julia quickly takes to the house, and when they move in, daughter Kirsty, (Ashley Laurence) makes a surprise visit. During an accident while moving, Larry gets a cut on his hand that bleeds profusely, causing Frank to become reborn. When Kirsty stumbles on a secret about Frank, the Cenobites, lead by Pinhead, (Doug Bradley) appear to her and demand that she bring them Frank, who has escaped their grasp. When Kirsty returns home to complete her task, she discovers a threat far more vicious than the Cenobites.Gruesome horror film devoid of cheap humor, goes right for the jugular instead. It features a fascinating premise and terrific special effects, but a slow mid-section almost stops it right in its tracks.Unrated for Extreme Graphic Violence, Sexual Situations and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Possibly the greatest gorefest I've ever seen!!!","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is one of the most amazing horror films ever made. The music is great. The gore is some of the best I've ever seen. What I like about it is the camera does not flash away the second there is some gore, nor does it move and shake like Cloverfield. It just stays there, straight and steady, showing you every bloody, grisly detail. The make-up was very well done as blood and exposed flesh glistened in the light and looked very realistic. The scenes where hooks were tearing flesh were enough to make you cringe. The pools of blood and melted bodily fluids were great! It was amazing! Such a dark, Gothic mood to the film. I look forward to exploring the rest of this series as I am a fan of Clive Barker.See my profile for my rating philosophy. "},{"Title":"Cliver Barker is a Horror Master","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Larry Cotton and his second wife Julia decide to move into his creepy Victorian childhood home that's been seemingly deserted for years Upon moving into the house, Julia starts to have erotic sexual visions of Larry's brother Frank, who was the last one to live in the house Larry only knows that Frank disappeared some time ago, which is in line with Frank's bad boy reputation. Larry doesn't know that Frank met his end thru a mysterious puzzle box, and that Frank's desecrated remains still reside in the heart of the house The puzzle box is an ancient treasure that holds the power to summon demon angels that hold the key to the ultimate experiences of pleasure and pain; indistinguishable levels of pleasure and pain A moving accident that cuts Larry's hand causes his blood to seep into the floor of the house, which gives new life to Frank. Frank's reanimated physical being secretly convinces Julia to help him rejuvenate himself. Julia brings unwitting accomplices into the home in an effort to being Frank back to his earthly, sinfully sensual and sexual being The Cenobites, the demon angels of the puzzle box, learn thru the grapevine that Frank has managed to regain flesh and blood The Cenobites, who need to keep up appearances, set out to recapture the flesh and blood of one of their most revered victims, Frank  This isn't an easy movie to explain. In fact as I was writing this review I thought how ridiculous the plot really sounds. But on the big screen this movie works, and for the most part, it does make sense This is one of the best horror movies ever made. Clive Barker doesn't hold back anything in this movie, as he unabashedly tells a tale of the search for the ultimate experience of pleasure and pain; usually my typical weekend The demon angels, the Cenobites, are perhaps one of the horror genres most liked and well known horror characters; and certainly make this movie the popular shocker that it is Hellraiser special effects are good and bad. Most of the effects are very well done. Apparently the production ran out of money and some of the effects suffered because of it. This is a major criticism of the film, touted by morons that couldn't begin to understand the agonizing film making process. The film is unfairly criticized by people that don't understand artistic ingenuity and that can't think outside of the corporate box "},{"Title":"Raisin' Hell","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of those movies that I haven't seen in a while, but before I viewed it, I loved it and I thought the acting was top notch, it was really bloody and it was scary. Now, after I've seen it at this age, I can say that it doesn't have the same effect on me as it did before, but it still was a good movie. It's about a deranged man who was supposed to be trapped in a puzzle box, but somehow escaped and now he must feed on other humans to sustain his body. His previous girlfriend helps him out in leading men into his trap. The problem is, the being that inhabit that world want him back and will do anything to get him.What I want to mention, that should get some credibility, is the excellent set design and general dcor the movie. It's a fantastic blend of fantasy scenes and Gothic decorations, with a bit of a S&M touch to it. Specific sets that should be noted are the attic of the house (A great example of Gothic style), the set with the turning blocks of wood and chains (a great example of S&M meets Gothic design) and the hospital sequence, which is a great example of horror fantasy. It's one of the things that really stood out in this movie that I don't think many people notice.Now to brass tax; the horror and the gore is so overdone in this movie that it's practically blinds the movie from anything else, but that's exactly why I love this movie. There are so many great scenes where there was an excessive amount of bloody violence including people getting pulled apart by chains, skinless people eaters and a strange room with skin and chunks of meat nailed to wooden boards. Aside from the gore, there were some scary moments in this film that include that thing between the walls of the hospital, that sequence creeped me out a bit. Even the Cenobites had a pretty freaky design, mostly Butterball and Chatter. Even with the unnecessary amount of blood and guts, it's still fun to watch.Overall, this was a weird and wild ride that is both strangely erratic and horrifically Gothic and gory. It's one of those movies that you expect to have a lot of production value and revolutionary set pieces and animation, and though it's not it still blows you away with some pretty good sets and a whole lot of blood and guts. With the acting aside and the complicated plot, this movie is not all that bad and is perhaps one of my favorite movies. I would recommend this movie to anybody who loves Clive Barker for one, and to those who love a good gore film. However, this is not a horror film that suits every horror fans fancy, but you have to like the genre. As for me, I still love this movie aside from the cheesy acting and excessive unnecessary gore. "},{"Title":"Not just another boring slasher","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I first heard about this movie, I thought Oh great, another rival for Jason Voorhees, Freddy Krueger, Michael Myers, Candyman and Leatherface. I could not have been more wrong. This movie was something new, something fresh. There was an actual storyline to the characters instead of the one-dimensional ones of most 80's and 90's slasher flicks. I actually got to know about Larry, Julia, Kirsty, and Frank Cotton. They were more like PEOPLE rather than fodder. Also, the villains were not all one-sided and all conspiring to kill the protagonists together, there were 2 different parties hunting the protagonists down. The whole deal with the Lament Configuration was original and fresh also, not many other movies have the same kind of background. The only bad thing was that the story seemed to run dry at times and things got a little tiresome, but don't let that stop you from watching this movie. I highly recommend it to 80's and 90's horror fans. 8/10 "},{"Title":"We have such sights to show you!","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Positively one of the very best horror films of all time is Clive Barker's Hellraiser. The imagery on the screen is bone chilling and will make your skin crawl, the characters he creates are absolutely terrifying and his image of what Hell is like will change your point of view on the subject forever. Every actor/actress in this film puts on a brilliant performance. The film centers around a man named Frank Cotton who makes a 'deal with the devil' in the film's opening sequence purchasing a mysterious Japanese puzzle box which opens the gateways to Hell. Seeking new pleasures, he solves the puzzle and is torn to pieces by the now legendary character Pinhead (played brilliantly by Doug Bradley) and his legion of Cenobites (demonic creatures from the pits of Hell). A few months later his brother Larry and his wife Julia move into Frank's deserted home along with Larry's daughter Kirsty. It is soon revealed that Julia had a sexually charged affair with Frank on her wedding night and when Larry cuts his hand open during the course of the move, the blood that seeps into the floorboards brings forth life, from a strange looking cocoon from Hell underneath the house,in the form of Frank. Frank is only partially alive though as he is seen as merely bones, blood and rotting flesh tissue. Julia encounters him and agrees to procure 'victims' for him in order to help make him whole again so that they may escape before the Cenabites realize that Frank has escaped their clutches. Kirsty begins to become suspicious of her stepmother's bizarre behavior and begins to investigate the situation. Soon she discovers Frank hidden in the attic, now a bloody mess of tissue, muscles, nerves and flesh but nearly complete except for the skin. Kirsty barely escapes the clutches of Julia and Frank but manages to steal the puzzle box. She solves it and summons the Cenobites, striking a bargain with them by promising to deliver Frank to them in exchange for sparing her own life and helping her to save her father from Julia and Frank. She is too late however as she returns to the house, only to discover that Larry has been murdered and Frank has assumed his identity and wishes to murder Kirsty and have sex with her (in that order). A strange and unusual yet powerful ending results when the Cenobites come for Frank which winds up setting the scene for the inevitable sequel (it has been said that writers had already begun work on the sequel even before filming on this one had completed). The sequel Hellbound Hellraiser 2 is actually very well done, fans would be well advised however to skip all of the rest of the sequels. Hellraiser is a highly recommended for all fans of horror and the occult...it will change your life forever! Warning This is an extremely gory film and is NOT for the weak of heart! "},{"Title":"Freaky","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie first when I was 8 years old. It started off me second favorite horror films, and it dared to be different. Pf course its still a splatter punk horror film, but the English know how to scare. Clive Barker did an excellent job with the story, the casting was magnificent, I love the cinematography, and the SPFX were great for its time. All in all, a very scary movie. I'm 21 years old and the cenobites still give me nightmares. I took two classes in high school that involved movies, Mystery and Horror and cinematography course. I did a project in both classes (different of course) on this movie and its sequels. I received a perfect grade. In mystery and horror, my objective was to scare the pants off of my classmates and really gross them out. This movie worked. My fellow classmates still tell me that they have nightmares about Hellraiser. And in Cinematography, i did a project on sequels and how sometimes they can be better than the original. I won when I showed them Hellraiser, Hellraiser 2 Hellbound and Hellraiser Inferno. "},{"Title":"Hellraiser (1987)","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser isn't a bad film,but it isn't a good one neither.The film is very strange. The plot is strange,but interesting. It tells the story of Frank Cotton,an evil man trapped inside a puzzle box from hell. His only way to return is to have the blood of people. But the title character Pinhead is after him,and his demons are after him.He doesn't get much screen time for all the fuss about him. The film is very bloody,and disgusting at times,even for a horror film fan. Though it has it's enjoyable moments. See it for fun,though be warned it isn't a slasher like film.For horror film fans only,I wouldn't recommend it to people with weak stomachs.It is okay,nothing special.It has a good story but falls short2/4  "},{"Title":"You must understand the story...","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I realize each person has the right to their own opinion, but this movie has a much better story then is being described here. It's not just like Oh, I touch this box and then my skin gets ripped off. The box is sought out by people that have a taste for pain. One line in particular, Angels to some, Demons to others. sums it up. Frank, the man that get's pulled into hell by the puzzle box, doesn't just come back and suck peoples blood. He escapes from hell when drops of blood fall on the residue left behind by his body after his experiences with the puzzle box. What occurs after that is one of the best sequences of reanimation from a cellular level to a humanoid form of skeleton and muscle that has been done in any horror film to date. My opinion is, if you watch horror movies just to see someone get killed or see an ugly monster, you probably won't appreciate the Hellraiser series. But if you like to get involved with the monsters and identify with the victims, give it a watch. You may like it a little more then you want to.  "}{"Title":"Yes, I have a puzzle box! (Spoilers included!)","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am smitten.When this movie first came out I did not go to the movies to see it. The United States promotion of it really was awful. That was a big mistake. I fell in love with this film, and to me this is the best Clive Barker film to date.It is for mature adults. It has adult themes and adult situations, it it very suggestive (about S&M) and with that has a raw adult edge. This film is sharp, well written, engaging and yes, can be titilating for some.Hellraiser takes one of the oldest stories in the world and really gives it a more twisted kick in the keester. No kiddie stuff here although subsequent Hellraiser films went 'commercial'. (Or as I call it now, the Pinhead franchise.)Horror fans will like this film. Mature Adults may like this film. It is full of gore, sex and indecision. Clive at his best, I say.Make no mistake, this film is about family. Yes, family. A father who loves his daughter. He wants to marry a woman his daughter doesn't warm up to but fakes it for this woman makes her daddy happy. A man who loves another woman who was unfaithful on their wedding day with...his brother. A brother who has lived his life on the edge of perversion and found a way to experience of that as harsh as it would come to him...through hell and its feeders. He pays dearly for his cross into pain and pleasure but by accident is brought back by the blood of...his brother. And what does he do once he's back...the same old things that sent him where he should have stayed in the first place! To come back, he re-seduces the wife of his brother by asking her to kill for him and with each kill..SHE glows for she is lusting for this man, her husband's brother, not knowing he's NOT the same! Brilliant story.This film is NOT for everyone, not for every horror fan either. But it is a well done, well paced, well written, a very adult horror film.And yes, I have a puzzle box replica. Why? Because...curiosity kills the cat. And sometimes it can be one heck of a way to go.  "},{"Title":"Uneven shocker","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A man buys a box from an enigmatic local vendor. He gets home, opens it and gets sucked into a strange, ultra-violent world where pain IS pleasure. Some time later, this man's brother (and family) move into the house where this happenned. The brother has an accident and spills blood on the floor. The floor absorbs this blood and the mess of a man left from the previous satanic experiment is resurrected...Thus begins one of the most influential but uneven shockers of the 1980s. On one hand, the film has some truly frightening moments (the wife's discovery of the resurrected but decomposing brother) and some completely gratuitous ones (the opening sequence where the brother gets tortured is the epitome of abundance- surely when scaring people, less is more?). The acting is truly shocking too- the fact these people have not had big roles in any other watchable movies since this, speaks volumes. It comes across as a slightly voyeuristic experience- it is frightening but a little too bloodthirsty and full of cheesy b-movie actors and dialogue to be called a classic. The 1980s remake of The Fly does what Hellraiser is trying to do, far more effectively. If you want a powerful horror experience of the same era, watch that instead. Unlike Hellraiser, it also possesses some depth. "},{"Title":"Stop.... Hammer time!","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  So there's this guy that plays with this box and ends up getting torn to pieces by metal hooks on the ends of chains. People get hammered in the literal sense of the word. Pinhead arrives only to disappoint. More deaths by hook. Got it? All kidding aside, this movie really hasn't aged too well. Some of the acting is kinda wack and it's not as scary as I remember it to be. Some of it still works though like when the Cenobites appear and when Kirsty enters a small section of Hell in the form of a long hallway with a nasty surprise at the end. I don't know why exactly but it just doesn't hold what it once did for me. the movie is definitely worth a look, if only to see just how twisted Clive Barker's imagination truly is. This movie gives a new definition to the term skinless frank. Rating *** out of *****.  "},{"Title":"Hellraiser and sequels beat Freddy and Jason","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  From that summary, most people are already angry but I'm sorry, I think Hellraiser is way better.  Some of a Nightmare on Elm Street was good like the ceiling incident but that quickly wears off.  The Hellraiser series slowly reveals more and more about the Cenobites but with Nightmare on Elm Street and Friday the 13th, Freddy's and Jason's stories are know and the rest of the series is just hacking and slashing people. "},{"Title":"***","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A three dimensional Rubiks cube opens the doors to either heaven or hell. When a man buys it from a pawnshop, the puzzle slaughters him once chains with hooks at the end rip him apart. Soon, his old mistress and husband (who turns out to be his brother) move into the house where his bones are hidden. Soon, he awakened piece by piece from blood and flesh. Yet, he still enters a terrible fate when the rubiks cube summons cenobites from the gates of hell. Overplotted to be sure, but entertaining. The gore is unecessarily over-the-top, but the story makes sense and offers some surprises. "},{"Title":"...Jesus wept","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wow, what is there to say about Hellraiser? Well, it's pretty freaking twisted for one thing! I saw this movie at the very tender age of 5 (don't ask) and it haunted me for years afterwards. I recently rented and watched it again after not seeing it for quite awhile, and while it is a bit slow moving, it is still very creepy and very well made. All the actors in this movie are really good, and you really get to hate certain people. The relationship between Frank and Julia is really what makes this movie what it is. I won't go into details or ruin it for you, but boy, that's one sick relationship. Rent this movie expecting everything and anything. The last 20 minutes not meant for the faint of heart. "},{"Title":"ha ha ha","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  what the Hell(raiser) are all you people on about?This movie was not a master of the horror genre, and there is no way it was suspenseful.  True, it did have a lot of potential, but there were a few scenes which completely ruined it ****SPOILERS****The scene where the woman hits the man in the back of the head as hard as she can with a hammer and he turns around and says 'ow', rather than dying.The scene where the daughter is manipulating the box which will send the demon back to hell and the demon stands right in front of her and says 'dont do that' rather than actually stopping her.The scene where the husband is talking to the wife and then suddenly the camera zooms in on his face and he dramatically says 'OH S**T' before continuing as usual.And that stupid thing in the wall in the hospital on rollerblades, wtf was the point of that?****END OF SPOILERS****I am a big b grade movie fan, but i borrowed this as a serious horror movie. It has a great atmosphere, but the story was dragged out way too much, simply because of the above scenes.  It is impossible to take this movie seriously when hilarious scenes like these are popping up.  And because these scenes are few and far between, the rest of the movie doesn't appear as serious horror, but a bore-fest. "},{"Title":"Looking for art in all the wrong places...","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Horror movies are designed to be awful. These films rarely have any award goals in mind -- they're churned out by studios and carried by distributors because there's money to be made in scaring the pants off people. To critique such a movie on plot or acting does about as much good as complaining to McDonald's that there are no bananas on your hamburger. In other words, the product was never designed to support that feature.Some horror movies are less awful than others, and Hellraiser fits into this category. By virtue of being written and directed by the prolific horror/fantasy novelist Clive Barker, this is as close to a thinking man's horror flick as the genre will probably ever venture. This means there's a plot -- there's a reason that things go bump in the night of Hellraiser, and unless you're paying attention to more than the blood and gore, it won't make any sense at all.You'll have to see the movie yourself to figure it out. It's not rocket science. Ultimately, you'll learn (a) don't cheat on your husband and (b) just because it looks like a Rubik's cube doesn't mean that it is a Rubik's cube, so don't touch.  "},{"Title":"Looks good, but...?","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...there's just not much to it.  You get the impression Clive Barker is trying to aspire to his own hype (deserved or otherwise).  So he not only makes a horror movie, but a horror movie with a serious plot that explores deep, significant issue.  Well, no.  The Cenobites are truly chilling, the imagery is incredible (and will get better in the next one), but at the heart of it all it's a movie about a bunch of unlikable characters that run around and get killed.  Not even Andrew Robinson and Ashley Lawrence can pull this one off. "},{"Title":"A hellishly good horror.","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's been over twenty years since I first viewed Hellraiser, when a friend of mine insisted that I watch it, claiming it to be one of the goriest films he had seen (and this being the UK in the 80s, with hysterical newspapers heavily promoting film censorship, it probably was!). I duly took myself to the local flea-pit, but remember leaving feeling rather unimpressed.Two decades on, and I thought I'd give the film another chance (it only seemed fair, since I had met star Ashley Laurence at a convention in the interim, and was VERY impressed with her!).And the good news is that, over the years, my tastes have obviously matured (just a fraction) this time around, I enjoyed the majority of Clive Barker's twisted directorial debut much more, although a rather weak ending does spoil what I would now consider to be an otherwise pretty remarkable film.The gorgeous Ms. Laurence plays Kirsty, daughter of mild mannered Larry (Andrew Robinson), step-daughter to the icy Julia (Claire Higgins), and niece of untrustworthy scoundrel Frank (Sean Chapman). Poor Kirsty's life becomes a living hell when she discovers that Julia is murdering men in order to help regenerate the body of her Uncle Frank, who has recently escaped from a hellish limbo where he was tortured by a group of demons (known as Cenobites, led by the freaky Pinhead)..After playing with the supernatural puzzle known as the 'lament configuration', the cause of Frank's predicament, Kirsty is forced to strike a deal with the Cenobites&#151;deliver Frank back to them or face an eternity of suffering herself.With Frank and Julia being equally as monstrous as the film's demons, there is no shortage of unsettling nastiness in Hellraiser, and Barker delights in showing viewers every gory detail. Frank's gradual resurrection, through the absorption of blood, is pretty horrific, but it is the cold manner in which Julia dispatches of the men she lures back to her house that really got to me a couple of blows from a claw hammer on the back of the head&#151;ouch!.Pinhead and his sado-masochistic pals are also extremely chilling. Although they definitely lost some of their ability to scare in subsequent sequels (much as Freddy Krueger did in the Elm Street series), they are at their most menacing in this first outing their unwelcome appearance after Kirsty unwittingly solves their puzzle is one of the film's most effective moments, being genuinely disturbing and extremely frightening.In fact, with so much of Barker's film being so flawlessly enjoyable, it's a real shame that the finale is so lame after Frank steals Larry's skin (why he is unable to regenerate that particular body part, I don't know), he is finally sent back to hell, and the Cenobites turn their attention to Kirsty, hoping to show her the dubious delights of their realm. Somehow, however, Kirsty realises that the answer to her salvation is to once again play with the lament configuration. As she fiddles with the malevolent puzzle box, the Cenobites do practically nothing to stop her, and eventually disappear in a glut of bad visual effects. To make matters worse, a dreadfully rubbery monster also shows up to unsuccessfully try and stop her from completing the puzzle.Finally, with the evil vanquished, Kirsty throws the troublesome object into a fire, only to have it retrieved by a tramp who turns into a laughable, skeletal, winged creature and flies away!!! This ridiculously OTT ending seems completely incongruous with all that has gone before, and stops the film from being a total success. Maybe, just maybe, the upcoming remake will address this problem, and we will finally get a wholly satisfying Hellraiser movie. But I doubt it.8.5 out of 10, rounded up to 9 for IMDb. "}{"Title":"Thinking Inside the Box","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is absolutely no question about it Clive Barker has one fertile, twisted imagination. Hellraiser is a gentle little tale about a mysterious box that brings the pleasures and pains of Heaven and Hell to the person manipulating the box. Now, I didn't see anything dealing with Heaven in this movie but did see those creatures which obviously were guardians of some type to the entrance to hell(hence the title I believe). The story is really about one Frank Cotton who buys the box in the Middle East(possibly Northern Africa) at the film's beginning. He opens the gates and is really hooked into what the box has to offer. Death by Cenobites(weird creatures that will show you what the world cannot). Frank's brother and his wife move into the house. Brother cuts his hand and bleeds profusely on floorboards under which Frank's emaciated carcass resides, and, Voila, blood begins to bring Frank back to life - some kind of fleshy bare existence. Fortunately for Frank, he had had an affair with his brother's wife and she will help him resume his former self by luring unsuspecting guys to his room where they can really help flesh out his character. Well, that is the basic premise. Of course there is a lot more to it including more Cenobites and lots and lots of blood and gore. Barker certainly uses a hyperbolic bloody style in his films. The gore is plentiful, yet the acting, even the story to some degree, and the creative direction of Barker make this film entertaining and the springboard of many, many sequels and a sort of mythos that goes with the whole series. The story is bizarre and a bit hard to understand fully, but I imagine that was what Barker was striving for. The direction is straightforward despite the level of incredulity in the script, and the actors are all pretty decent. Newcomer Ashley Laurence plays the heroine and is adequate, but sultry English actress Clare Higgins brings the film some credibility. And let's not forget Doug Bradley as Pinhead. He is indeed interesting and outer-worldly. Overall, I enjoyed Hellraiser as a open-to-interpretation kind of horror film. It is a lot bloodier than my tastes generally like, but the style and atmosphere used throughout did not turn it off for me. I will gladly see the sequels with anticipation. Barker; however; will be an acquired taste at best. A definite bonus is the lush, hauntimg score that really brings this feature up in so many ways. "},{"Title":"Amazing at the time but now just a scrapbook","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is just a scrapbook of interesting ideas and images without any reasonable narrative or characters to hold them together. The characters are weak and the actors are dull. The story makes little sense and many of the most interesting ideas of the film are dismissed as if they were just something cool to say. It's saddens me because the cenobites are such a fun idea and they were visually interesting but beyond that they are rather hallow and pointless. On the positive side the VFX are very good and hold up quite well, they are nearly on the level of The Thing or a Cronenberg film. I just don't see why this film is considered a Masterpiece when really all it may be is a very influential film. There are many horror classics that have more depth and are more complete than this film. "},{"Title":"Extremely disappointed.","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this movie last night for the first time expecting to see a film that was intelligent, suspenseful and genuinely interesting. My expectations were shattered the moment I realized how poor the acting was. The characters were lifeless, bland and just uninteresting. I just couldn't believe it - a film with such a promising reputation as a horror classic turned out to be a massive disappointment.The gore, while good for the most part, felt as if it was trying too much to save the film. The Cebonies were an interesting concept, I just wish they had more screen time and were developed more. If this movie was centered specifically around the Cebonies I might have enjoyed this film a LOT more. Instead, we have some guy with no skin needing his ex- lover to kill people for him so he can become fully human again. For me, this just doesn't work. The actress who played Julia was very poor I think and perhaps one of the biggest problems I had with the movie overall. I just didn't feel captivated by her acting at all - It was just wooden, contrived and artificial. If you're looking for an easy on the brain horror movie with plenty of gore then watch this. If you're looking for an intelligent, well directed horror movie that will get you thinking watch The Exorcist. I wouldn't say Hellrasier is a terrible movie, I just find it horribly overrated/over hyped. It most certainly does not deserve the title horror classic by any means. "},{"Title":"Well, it is Clive Barker","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I finally saw this movie about 2 months ago. And I was looking forward to seeing it. Because everybody said that this is a scary movie. So, I decided to rent it and see what the hype was about. It's an interesting movie. But I thought very much over-rated. I admit though, the ending is a classic. But mostly, not a movie I'd buy or watch again, unless my friends wanted to. This is a very gory film. So, for the squeamish, don't watch this film. But if you're into cult classics. Than go ahead and watch. But don't get too excited. But I will give it a 7/10Because it is Clive Barker. "},{"Title":"Hooks & Silly Putty","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I agree with those who found Hellraiser overrated and not very scary. It had moments that made me wince a few times, but mostly due to the gross-out effects. Overall it felt like a waking dream, not something that could actually happen (that's where horror really works for me).The special effects were not convincing, with skin that stretched like Silly Putty when the ubiquitous hooks snagged it. There seemed to be a general fascination with depicting torn, stretched flesh & blood. The ravaged physical appearance of the Cenobites needed more explanation.Also, Frank's motives and history should have been covered in more depth, but time-constraints probably prevented that. I found the female lead a bit wooden; not the passionate type who'd be compelled to do what she did.The actor typecast as the Dirty Harry psycho filled his inevitable role here, but seemed miscast nonetheless. Just a weird film overall. Not boring but not quite the horror I'd heard about. "},{"Title":"Efficient, sick and cheap.","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A story about sexual obsession. A women kills randomly chosen men to revive what is left of her lover who was tortured almost to death by some sadomasochistic creatures which evolve from a little ornamented cube. Her stepdaughter finds the cube and raises hell.Hellraiser is a good example that a movie doesn't need a great, let alone plausible, story or a superb cast to become an instant horror classic. A few disturbing images are enough to do the trick. Barker cleverly focuses on the sexual aspects of fear and violence and his cenobites are really a sight to see. The many shocks are used with good efficiency and almost make one forget what a cheap roller-coaster-ride this actually is (some of the special effects are almost laughable). Great fun, though, and by far the best of the series. "},{"Title":"well rent before you buy this....","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i mean this show is not bad but it didn't cut being scary for me, but it did make the gore cut! the show is nice for the most part you know typical hell stuff but the cenobites are really cool even though you don't get to see them do anything all in all see the second one for more cenobite carnage, it actually was hard for me to understand as the story line is kind of well crappy and the whole blood thing with the floor is pretty cool when the dude...never mind you really should ask around and rent before you buy this unworthy classic, and for you dudes that like nudity well not much here and when it does happen its not very pretty, but if you want gore, mayhem, nudity, and classic action you should get lucio Fulcis ZOMBIE which really makes the cut being the *un-official* prequel to dawn fo the dead and it is just as good the zombies look better but not as many zombies, but is a lot scarier and has some really awesome gore effects, or you could get cannibal apocalypse, night of the living dead, dawn of the dead, day of the dead, return of the living dead, redneck zombies, cradle of fear, the exorcist, shaun of the dead (dont get the new dawn of the dead, it travels way to far from the way zombies are supposed to be!) "},{"Title":"Good, just not great","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" - (From IMDb) Clive Barker's feature directing debut graphically depicts the tale of a man and wife who move into an old house and discover a hideous creature - the man's half-brother, who is also the woman's former lover - hiding upstairs. Having lost his earthly body to a trio of S&M demons, the Cenobites, he is brought back into existence by a drop of blood on the floor. He soon forces his former mistress to bring him his necessary human sacrifices to complete his body... but the Cenobites won't be happy about this.- I've always thought that Hellraiser is a good movie, but I am not as in love with it as a lot of horror fans. The special effects seem to be one of the major draws and, while I agree that they are very well done, I'm just not into a lot of gore effects. I will give the special effects people credit for some jaw dropping moments. If this movie were made today, CGI would replace (and ruin) a lot of what's seen. Hellraiser is one of the better examples of what can be done with real effects.- Pinhead and, to a lesser extent, the other Cenobites have become cultural icons. But, in Hellraiser, they are given so little screen time that they are really nothing more than minor supporting players. Watching the movie, you learn very little about the Cenobites and how they came to be (it's not until the sequels that we learn anything about their origin). Had there never been all of the sequels, I contend that Pinhead and his buddys wouldn't be nearly as famous as they are.- I suppose my biggest problem with the movie is the characters. For me to completely enjoy a horror movie, there has to be someone I care about. None of these characters are worth empathy. I suppose the daughter could be a character I could care about, but she has so little screen time until she's under attack that I never felt as if I knew her. "},{"Title":"...And this is a classic because?","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ** out of (****)After reading the infamous Roger Ebert review for the iconic 80's urban-horror film Hellraiser, I scoffed at it. I thought, this old coot doesn't know the word classic if it hit him in the face. Then I saw the movie. While I think half a star is over-exaggerating, I pretty much respect Ebert's review. The fact that so many horror-fans praise this film, as well as critics, just boggles my mind. Tell me what is so great about it? I have seen a plethora of horror classics and I love them all except this one, but come on. Wooden performances, cringe-worthy dialogue, cheesy special effects, an uninteresting plot. This movie is just not great. It's not even good. I think had Clive Barker's name not been attached or had Hellraiser not been a staple in horror, this movie would have been trashed. First up, the plot is so uninteresting that I almost turned off this movie mid-way. Okay so this wife has been unfaithful to her husband in the past. There's a shock! But wait... the guy she committed infidelity with died and now is coming back alive! Sound interesting? Guess how he comes back alive? After the teen girl's dad in this movie gets his hand screwed up and he bleeds. That has got to be the stupidest thing I've ever heard. Not only that but this movie is called Hellraiser yet you don't see the damn thing until the final five minutes. No lie. The movie should have been called Emo General Hospital but the last five minutes are actually cool. And, if you think him resurrecting with blood is cool, it's not. It's just about some slutty woman and her boring relationship. That would make a decent subplot but not when it takes up most of the running time. You'd think with such an uninteresting plot that the performances would at least be tolerable? Oh have you came to the wrong place. Everyone in this movie just gets on my last nerve and I seriously don't care about anybody. Not to mention the dialogue is just abysmal. Let's not forget the uninspired direction.Now, the reason why all you horror buffs are here. For Hellraiser torturing the crap out of people. Well guess what. Too bad. You see Hellraiser torture one person. That's it. And, it's at the last five minutes! Not only that but there's hardly any gore in this movie. Talk about false advertising. Oh and dead animals don't count Barker. All in all, Hellraiser is by far the most overrated horror classic I've ever seen. A terrible script, an amateur direction, cringe-worthy dialogue. And just when you think it couldn't get worse, even the gore and trap scenes are unsatisfying. I'm sorry if I seem harsh on this movie but I was just severely disappointed. Had I known this was a soap opera, I wouldn't have rented this movie. "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to its potential.","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had never seen Hellraiser until last night and I'd been hyping it up to myself for years. For reason I'd just never got around to watching it despite owning the score CDs to the first three.Clive Barker (adapting his own novel) does pretty good for a first-time feature director and brings a rawness to the movie that feels a lot like Bernard Rose's approach to Paperhouse. Those of you who are familiar with British horror films might notice some similarities in the appearance of both films. Strange though, how a British film can have all of one English accent in it.The story has hedonistic adventurer Frank Cotton solve a mythical puzzle box only to be sent to a realm of pain/pleasure for all eternity. Not exactly the best prize in the world, I'd prefer Bruce Forsythe to appear and shout 'Didn't he do effing well' instead of Pinhead (here just called Lead Cenobite) and his hooks.An indefinite amount of time passes and Frank's brother and sister-in law move into the house where he solved the puzzle. Blood is spilled on the floor and Frank's physical body has a chance to exist again, as long as he receives more and more blood that is. His sister-in law, with whom he has had an affair, is only too happy to lure victims to attic for Frank to feed on. The basis of any solid relationship.Frank's niece, Kirsty, catches on to their diabolical plan and steals the puzzle box only for Pinhead and his minions to appear and threaten her with an eternity of pain. She begs to be let go and promises to surrender her uncle if they do so.Hellraiser fails in too many places to really stand as a straight-up fantasy/horror. The differences between pleasure and pain are never clearly defined. The origins and mechanics of the box are never explained. There is not really any mystery surrounding any of the characters since Barker rushes us straight into their situation as soon as we are introduced to them. Pinhead himself doesn't even come across as a villain.What holds Hellraiser together and distracts from the poor narrative is Chris Young's majestic score which is a thing of beauty. The music to Hellraiser is honestly a masterpiece, a symphony, an opera of darkness and mystery. Wherever the films fails, the score picks up.I might check out the endless sequels. If they elaborate on the box or on Pinhead then they might be worth it. But since it took me 20 years to get round to watching the first... "}{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Intense film about a woman who discovers her supposedly dead lover and her husband's brother hiding in the attic of their brand new house without any flesh. The two of them hit it off again, but she has to bring him victims so that he can feed off of them and return back to his normal human form.Gruesome horror film devoid of cheap humor, goes right for the juglar instead. It features a fascinating premise and terrific special effects, but a slow mid-section almost stops it right in its tracks. Still much better then the countless imitations and sequels it spawned.Rated R; Extreme Graphic Violence, Sexual Situations, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Fails through comparison.","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hey, it's Hellraiser.  I'll assume you're familiar with the premises.  If not--there's this evil box.  This box summons some celestial entities that really aren't bad in the conventional sense, they just really, really like pain, and they want to show you this pain they really, really like.  Pain so great that it is indivisable from pleasure.  And there's this dead guy who somehow got away after they ripped him up with hooks.  Now he's a bad guy because he's eating peoples skins and stuff so that he stops looking so icky (he was only partially resurrected, so he starts off as an emaciated, dehydrated, skinless corpse.  With each victim, he gets more juicy and filled out).  His neice accidentally triggers the Cenobites (those entities that like pain) and they get on his case.As you may be able to surmise from the summary, this movie is a lot more concentrated on the skinless uncle than the actual Cenobites.  This is quite a bit disappointing, since he's not an especially interesting character, just your normal over-bearing sadistic type.  The Cenobites are an interesting concept, but not nearly as disturbing as people pass them off to be.  Twisted nether beings have invaded literature for a while, though this was likely the first time the idea has so well been committed to film.  Wish they'd shown us the Hell from which these beings came from--that would have been interesting.For being a horror classic, there are surprisingly few scares.  In fact, the entire movie builds up to a climax that never happens.  You have buildup, retreat, and denouement, but no real showdown.  I can only think of one moment that was designed to make the audience jump.  Other than that, the gore was probably the biggest horror aspect, and even that is not too extreme.  I watched this back to back with the Story of Rikki and the only thing this film had going for it by comparison was a skinless chap.  Indeed, the entire movie seems impressive mostly to people who haven't delved terribly deep into the cinematic outer reaches.  Hellraiser is probably at the edge of mainstream and as far as many people are wont to travel in their cinematic voyages.  The connection between pain and pleasure isn't as strong as in such films as Ichi the Killer (I'm sorry, but it's far more thematically relevant to see a regular man mutilate himself for pleasure than a demon with an exposed trachea) and is probably the most disturbing aspect that relies the most on audiences not venturing too far away from Hollywood's glistening spires.Oh well, I'm about to see Hellraiser 2, which supposedly solves many of the first's problems.  Let's find out. "},{"Title":"Interesting premise, and neat creatures, and alright acting, but this thing never takes off.","Date":"28 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If director/writer Clive Barker is known for anything, it's for making visually interesting films. His ideas for plots are unique and his out of the ordinary characters are way, way out of the ordinary. Visually this has some great looking elements, and the special effects are neat, and the actors all do a fine job, but this movie just doesn't have enough of anything to really take off. By the end, it feels a lot like a mediocre Nightmare on Elm Street sequel.Larry (Andrew Robinson) and Julia (Clare Higgins) are a married couple who have just moved into a new house, and Julia discovers something very strange about this place. After accidentally spilling blood on the floor of the attic, Frank, Julia's former lover, and half brother of Larry comes back to life (Sounding a bit soap opera-ish), but with no skin. He explains that a puzzle box he solved was actually a summoner of demon like creatures known as the Cenubites, and they tore his body apart and stole his soul. He needs Julia to provide blood so he can come back in full with skin. Meanwhile, Larry's daughter Kirsty (Ashley Laurence) has been snooping on her step-mother and eventually comes face to face with the demons that previously had control of her Uncle Frank. Chaos ensues.This movie has some great looking scenes. The fantasy characters, like the Cenubites, are all very imaginative and scary looking, minus a creature that moves awkwardly with the track visible. The original scene of Frank coming back from the dead is one of the most interesting transformations on screen, and the lighting is often perfect in this movie. Unfortunately, this movie's positives mostly end at the aesthetic pleasures, as most other elements of the film just aren't very good.The acting is the one positive that isn't completely visual. The acting is just fine, and the lead actors give professional and good performances. But the movie itself just still isn't very good. Throughout, the film just moves along mediocrely, and never really breaks any boundaries that make this a truly outstanding film, and even the make-up, which is good, is better in Barker's next film Nightbreed. Throughout this movie feels like one of the Nightmare on Elm Street sequels. You never really know what's what and who's who, and what game's this universe goes by and it leads to a level of uncomfortability, which is probably what Barker was going for. It's not a fun watch. The movie keeps leading up to a lame climax, and then the downright bizarre ending comes off as dumb and hokey instead of really a neat way to end the film.This isn't a bad horror flick, but it's one that doesn't ever stand out. Throughout it's only slightly better than your average B-movie horror film, and it never picks up and takes off like it seems like it should. So despite fine performances, and interesting creatures, and maybe even some scares, this movie is just never good enough to earn the cult that follows the series.My rating ** out of ****. 93 mins. R for sexuality, strong violence and gore and language. "},{"Title":"Stands Up Well Today","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hellraiser (1987) *** (out of 4) Effective, well-made and rather intelligent horror movie has an explorer named Frank (Sean Chapman) opening Pandora's's box and it killing him. Flash forward when couple Larry (Andrew Robinson) and Julia (Clare Higgins) buy the house and after blood drops on the floor, Frank comes back to life only as a skinless monster. He convinces Julia that she should bring men back to the house so that he can drink their blood, which he hopes will return his flesh. This here is just the first half of the movie as things get a lot wilder in the second half when the box is opened yet again. As a kid I really didn't care for this movie because it wasn't like the more popular horror films out there at the time. With that said, seeing the film now one can enjoy it for the fact that it is unlike the slasher craze that was going on during this era. I found the movie to play out a lot like an EC comic as the story here is pretty far-fetched but it's an interesting one. Having a skinless man needing blood to bring his flesh back isn't anything ground breaking but it makes for an entertaining story. What helps even more is that all the characters are fully developed and this adds some nice drama to the mix as the good girl Julia soon finds herself doing acts that she's never think possible. The drama between her and husband Larry works just fine as does the drama built up when his daughter enters the film. Another major plus here are the special effects, which allows for some ooze and gore. I loved the look of Frank when we first see him and the design as more and more flesh begins to grow on his body looks incredible. The effect is rather simple but the way he oozes is enough to keep horror fans entertained. When other monsters aren't as well displayed here as they would be in upcoming sequels but I found the earlier stuff with Frank to be a lot more entertaining. Performances, for the most part, are really good with Chapman stealing the film as Frank. Robinson, best known for his psycho role in DIRTY HARRY, is also quite good as is Higgins. Barker's direction doesn't feature masterful camera-work but he is able to build a wonderful atmosphere that really helps the film. The pacing is also very good as the 90-minutes go by very quickly. "},{"Title":"HELLRAISER (Clive Barker, 1987) **1/2","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Since I had been too young to watch it when originally released, I had to wait till now to catch up with this cult horror item! While definitely gory (as it's renowned to be), the film is well handled and also quite stylish.The plot, in itself, is rather silly but still manages to be fairly engrossing (particularly during the last half-hour). Besides, unlike many a horror film from the 80s, the lead characters are nicely developed it was great to see Andy Robinson again in a film (best known for playing Scorpio, the unforgettable psycho who unwisely pits himself against Clint Eastwood's Dirty Harry Callahan, in Don Siegel's classic 1971 original) though, for most of the time, here he plays the good-guy type; Clare Higgins is convincing as his wife, who becomes a reluctant accomplice in his dead brother Frank's 're-animation'; Ashley Laurence, as Robinson's teenage daughter from an earlier marriage, emerges after a while as the film's true main character (who even went to reprise her role in 3 of the film's myriad sequels!). The special effects are, for lack of a better word, efficiently repulsive - especially in the creation of the hellish Cenobites (an interestingly varied bunch of monsters if ever there was one!) and their excruciating endeavors.Still, despite being one of the more popular horror releases from its era, I'm baffled that it should have spawned so many follow-ups and, to be honest, it hasn't made me all that eager to seek them out (even though my local DVD rental outlet seems to carry the majority of them!)... "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This one is known as the best of the Hellraiser series and that is completly wrong. This one is the most boring. This one has the worst lines. This one has the worst ending. It is only known as the best because it was the first. I really like the rest of the series but this one is only good cause it starts the story. Their are Horror series that never get better then the first one. This series gets better after the first one. Come to daddy...... "},{"Title":"Not the horror legend I was expecting","Date":"29 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember the first time I saw the poster for this film. It was in a friend's bedroom and it had the scariest looking person plastered across the middle of it. This person was the notorious Pinhead. Written underneath his white, bald, nail impaled head was the title Hellraiser. I decided then that this was a film I would never dare watch. Recently however I decided that I should give this a chance as it is classed as a horror classic. I have to say I wish I had stuck to my original instinct and never actually watched this film. Not because it's scary but because it is dreadful.The film follows four characters. To start with we see Frank (Chapman), a pleasure seeker who obtains a box. Once he solves the puzzle on the box he is transported to hell where he is put through ultimate pain by the Cybernites. After his pain he manages to escape and ends up being imbedded in the floor boards of his old family home.Next we see couple Larry and Julia. Larry is Frank's brother and Julia is his girlfriend who once had an affair with Frank, something she can't stop fantasising about. The couple decide to move into this now abandoned house and whilst there Larry cuts himself, spilling the blood on the floorboards in the attic. The blood brings Frank back to life, but not completely human, just enough to be seen. As Frank begins to be reformed Julia notices him and her arousal towards him comes rushing back despite the state he is in. Soon it becomes clear that the more blood Frank receives, the more he re-forms. Due to Julia's infatuation with him she brings men back to the house with the promise of sex, only to kill them and allow Frank to take the blood. The final character is Larry's daughter Kirsty, who dislikes her new mother-in-law Julia and stumbles across her Uncle Frank as he is regenerating. We get some feeling from his intimidation towards her that perhaps he raped her or fathered her, either way he forces her to run away with the box, and accidentally call the Cybernites. Pinhead then turns up trying to take her away to inflict some pain but she tries to strike a deal with them and deliver Frank back to them. Each part of the film seems to follow a different character and to be fair I didn't care about any of them what so ever. I think half of the problem with that was the considerably terrible acting that was on show. It really was bad. Each character also seems to be really miserable, with no joy in their lives at all, meaning they were so one dimensional it wasn't believable.The horror of it was also non-existent. Now I'm not saying horrors are particularly realistic but this one was beyond stupid. Fair enough Freddy Kruger and Michael Myers are not realistic, but I bought into their world and they were frightening. Here we got monsters that looked like puppets, and Cybernites that were nowhere near as scary as I was expecting them to be. The poster of them was far scarier. This film, considering the puppet like monsters and Ashley Laurence's striking resemblance to Winona Ryder, was like watching Beetlejuice, without the comedy of course.I'll move onto Pinhead, whose image alone was the sole reason I watched this film. Let me tell you now Pinhead is barely in it. The fact that he has become a horror icon because of this is ridiculous because he isn't scary, has no screen time, pops up at strange moments when the story felt it needed something scary, and has an actor playing him so poorly that his lines would have been delivered better by the talking clock. Pinhead does not deserve to be an icon due to this movie.Everything about this film is bad. It isn't a patch on Halloween, Friday the 13th, A Nightmare On Elm Street or, to an extent, Candyman. And they were all made before this and done everything horror films should do. Maybe they were trying to do something different here but it purely did not work. Horror fans love this movie, and for some reason put it on a pedestal but I can't understand why. This was certainly not the scary horror movie, with the scary horror icon that I was expecting.1 / 5For more reviews www.tolli-movieworld.blogspot.uk "},{"Title":"Does sadly not age with grace... mostly quite horrible, silly and hammy.","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first time I saw this in 1987, I honestly thought it was pretty good. 21 years later on a re-watch, it's a quite different, disappointing ball game An OK original horror-premise and some effectively shocking scenes (Ugh &#x97; those hammer murders!) are still there. But its flaws grin &#x97; as chucklingly as its laughable demons &#x97; at me Horrible dialog and hopelessly unlikeable characters, hammy performances with downright silly and oh come on..!-plot turns. Shoestring budget might explain its very uneven effects quality, too...So no, it has sadly not aged with grace (although it's a bit of a guilty pleasure to revel in the '80s fashion- & hairstyles and glossy visuals), and its cult status is not enough to make me even consider watching any sequels.3 out of 10 from Ozjeppe. "},{"Title":"Just not a good movie","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I know this means nothing, but I am very much into film and especially horror, but it is so rare to find a good horror film. I finally saw this movie after wanting to for many years and was completely unimpressed. It was poorly acted, directed, photographed, and the effects were awful most of the time. The Story was hilarious and at best qualified for a bad late night short. It was like a bad version of tales from the crypt (which i usually like) but unnecessarily long. I do not get why this movie is a cult hit. The gore is decent, but overrated and seemed to be held back at times. The monsters (cenobites) were barely in the movie and utterly useless. They were not bad characters and had a little charm in an odd way, but then ended up being just impotent. ****SPOILER- the ending was awful. The pointless cenobites just failed to provide a scare or pose any horror to Kirsty and then they were defeated in a very simple, boring and unexplained way. The last scene was just plain moronic, but I did like the character of the drifter before the ending, he was the creepiest part of the movie. The entire family acted illogically and so many things were overlooked. just poor film making altogether. Sorry about ripping on your movie Hellraiser fans. "},{"Title":"Watered down for Hollywood","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, I know this is supposed to be some sort of cult classic, but it did absolutely nothing for me.  It wasn't scary, nor even that interesting.  I think the main problem was that I read the novella The Hellbound Heart- on which this was based-before renting the film.  The book had this mix of gore and sexuality that the movie sorely lacked.  The most vivid scene in the book is the nude female Cenobite straddling a pile of human (male) heads with tongues laying across her thighs.  Sick, yet brilliant.  It takes the male fantasy of a beautiful, naked woman, offering herself freely, and completely distorts it.The problem with the film was that Hollywood at the time was much too tame to use that kind of imagery.  I mean, wouldn't that get your attention right away.If you never read the book, you have no idea what I'm talking about. That's because so much of the story that dealt with how Frank got into his situation was cut out.  That's a full chapter of the book, at least!Do yourselves a favor.  Read the book, then watch the movie.  See if it's still scary. "}{"Title":"predictable","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I bought Hellraiser as I was told by a friend it was a great movie, and gosh was I disappointed. The storyline is predictable and the whole story very dull. ------If you don't want to know the storyline stop reading here------ ************************SPOILER WARNING************************ basically put; couple move into old house, man bleeds on the floor and spawns a half dead zombie who has escaped from the demon Cenobites (escaped after he died, what the hell? and never told how), wife kills people to give more blood to the zombie so that he can become fully human, daughter finds out makes deal with the Cenobites, zombie kills every one apart from the daughter and her new boy friend and she gives the zombie back to the Cenobites. ***************************************************So because I could see two scenes ahead for the whole film I'm giving this film a 6 - it's original (2 decades old), some good effects for the age of the film but some SHOCKINGLY BAD ones too ie the rubber skin with hooks in, and just too predictable. "},{"Title":"It will tear your soul apart...","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Frank Cotton escapes from hell after solving Pandora's Box and seeks help from an unfaithful wife, who he was previously involved with. As the wife kills to make him stronger, his niece opens the box and unleashes the Cenobites(demons who bring pleasure and suffering)who she makes a deal with; her life for Frank's.This is the most grotesque movie I have ever seen! It is excessively gory in every way possible, helping it to be considered one of the greatest horror movies ever made. It may not have amazing acting or incredible cinematography, but the bloody killings and amazing plot make up for every flaw.Although the movie has some cheesy looking monsters, a few look great! Pinhead is the coolest demon I have ever laid my eyes on. He speaks so boldly that it makes him seem so evil and scary. He is the perfect example of great makeup. He makes the move what it is and is now a legendary figure in classic horror, like Jason and Freddy before him. The plot is also unique and incredible. The idea that their is a passageway to Hell brings forth a new type of horror that we have yet to see on film, until now. Ghosts, killers, and aliens are all terrifying ideas but religion takes it a step further with ideas such as Heaven and Hell. The afterlife is one of my worst fears and Hellraiser takes it to new heights. Overall, you have to realize before you watch Hellraiser that it is going to be very flawed due to the time period and budget, but yet it is still highly enjoyable and very entertaining. Hellraiser will be remembered for years to come.I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Splattery will get you everywhere","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There's a lot of ketchup but no scares in 'Hellraiser', which is one of those horror movies that substitutes gore for atmosphere and splodgy effects for suspense. The first in a series of a hundred or so films, this is the only one I've seen with a coherent story. Shame it's told with dodgy acting and pretentious dialogue; this is the kind of movie whose pomposity and self-importance clash with scenes where a skinless love interest wanders around the place saying 'Come to daddy'.Andrew Robinson moves to London with his wife (Clare Higgins) and daughter (Ashley Laurence) and encounters all the usual problems of moving in to a new house the plumbing doesn't work, the bed won't fit up the stairs, his brother's corpse coerces his wife into bringing him victims so he can drain their blood and regenerate himself. It's all due to the memorably-designed puzzle box, a demented Rubik's Cube that, when solved, summons the hellish cenobites, who introduce you to all the delights of being strung up on hooks.The emphasis here is on gooey make-up and effects, but unfortunately they look exactly like make-up and effects, with a generous dollop of KY jelly. It's all very rubbery and fake, which is probably due to budgetary restrictions rather than a lack of skill, but whatever the reason it doesn't really work. For all its gory effects, the most horrific moments in 'Hellraiser' come courtesy of Higgins' painfully '80s hairdo. The scare factor isn't boosted by the bargain basement lightning effects that occur when the box is opened, as they were apparently achieved with animation cels and some felt-tip pens.The make-up on head cenobite Doug Bradley is an interesting visual, though, which is probably why he was promoted from the depths of the cast list here to the star of the sequels. The rest of the film's imagery is made up of chains, hooks, leather, nails and barbed wire, which means that various characters I didn't care about get pierced by sharp things in ways that had no effect on me. I didn't believe in any of it, and I especially didn't believe that Robinson could live in the same house as his blood-sucking brother without running into him on the way to the bathroom.This is a ramshackle ghost train of a movie, all the mechanisms showing as you trundle through it wondering why you bothered. "},{"Title":"Makes no sense.","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What was groundbreaking in 1987 is not as impressive today. The story is terrible, and many of the scenes makes no sense at all. People fiddle around with a box and various random monsters appear. There's a guy without skin in an attic, who was born out of the floor because some blood dripped on it... Hmmm...The cenobites are cool, but that's about it. 5/10  "},{"Title":"Overrated and rather dull influential though, I guess.","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, this movie was a disappointment for me. I've always felt the horror genre have been mistreated in Hollywood industry and seldom is given a chance to reach it's full potential. That's why I expected something more from Hellraiser, I suppose. That other 80's slasherflicks such as Friday The 13th, low on both budget and intelligence, fail to scare me doesn't exactly surprise me. However, after seeing a few sequels to this movie I was favourably surprised. It sure isn't Dostoyevsky, but at least there was some substance to the script, and once in a while the director managed to create a chilling scene or two. So, after hearing people praise the original for it's originality and atmosphere, I figured this could be a truly frightening movie. It isn't, really. Unpleasant perhaps, being somewhat gorier than other Hollywood-produced horrormovies. But that doesn't make for an interesting watch. I found the plot badly executed, predictable and well...as I said, it didn't scare me. This is quite an influential film though, since several other movies lend the film's S&M-inspired style. But if you truly want to be scared out of your mind, I'd rather recommend In The Mouth Of Madness, a book by H.P. Lovecraft or perhaps one of David Lynch's darker moments.4/10 "},{"Title":"Oh Hell.","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Silly would-be-shocker that was spawned due to the success of other mindless horror flicks of the 1980s. Hellraiser tries to dazzle with hopelessly dated special effects and a storyline that tires more than it interests. Andrew Robinson and Clare Higgins move into an old mansion and soon Higgins learns that her former lover (and Robinson's brother) still lives in a deep corner of the house. Of course he is now a terrifying monster who needs the blood of other men to exist the way he previously did. Oh yes, there is also a Lamont Configuration (a glorified Pandora's Box) that is a doorway to hell as well (yawn). The film introduces Pinhead (played by the boring Doug Bradley) and he ended up being an odd sort of cult hero to many film enthusiasts of the period. Clive Barker's directing debut is little more than an ugly mess. His novel (which was not much of a masterpiece either) makes even less sense on the big screen. A total waste that only fans of the genre will find any value in. A precursor to countless imitations and worse---several unwanted sequels. Turkey (0 stars out of 5).  "},{"Title":"Pinhead . And it is enough","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Another commentary of Vietnam. New slice of a kind of Boogieman. A comedy with flavor of horror. In fact, only a impressive work of the Pinmeister. The art of improvisation is all. The game, mixture of joy and metamorphosis of reality is heart of this film about God but, more that, about the hope and its roots.Interpretation of Pinhead is not a surprise but the great piece is art to define a fight in different terms. And the science to escape behind any trap. Because no crime, no errors, no gray perceptions are absent. Hell is not fiction and the demons are the enemy. But the role of huge show is more small. The relations between ordinary people and the resistance of absurd vision about reality is more powerful. So, it is not a war movie. It is not a comedy. Only picture of a world. And a extraordinary Pinheaded mime who gives sense to many small facts. "},{"Title":"Uncle Frank has one hell of a present for you.","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Larry's brother Frank is playing with a cube and suddenly he has to have blood to become whole again. Frank once had a affair with Juila and in order to become whole again, he needs for her to kill people. Juila does just that.For me, the movie was way too bloody and Gory because every scene blood dripped everywhere and flesh was being torn off the bodies. Eyeballs were being ripped out and it was too much.I liked the cenobites, especially Pinhead. His voice was really creepy and the other cenobites kind of reminded me of the band members in Marilyn Manson.Unless you are a huge fan of lots of blood and gore, don't open this box! "},{"Title":"Boring, not scary, not suspenseful...","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  need I say more?? Oh, bad acting, really bad acting...gag. Of course I just saw it for the first time and realize it was made almost 20 years ago, still...bad acting is bad acting. After reading a recent review in our local paper giving Pinhead a 10 our of 10 in scariness, I expected more...was I disappointed. I find the Borg more frightening than Pinhead. "},{"Title":"...and they told it's a good movie (4/10)","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Clive Barker ?I think he is the 2nd horror writer of the last years, after the King of course. However, I think we are lucky that he worked much more on the books than on the movies. This great 80s horror cult movie is the proof of that. No sense, no emotions, no surprise, just some disgusting scenes.When I watched the trailer in 1987, i was attracted by the cube and shocked by pinhead.  Finally I watched the movie, and, you know, the cube is amazing as rubik's magic (TM), and pinhead is one of the less expressive characters/actors I've ever seen.4/10...and for those that keep sayin' it's good compared too those 80s horror movies.... hey, wake up, Nightmare on Elm Street was produced in 1984. "}{"Title":"Scary? Nah, don't think so.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Is this supposed to be scary? I mean, come on! I can think of ten other films that are scarier than this one and I really didn't think *they* were scary to begin with. Well, they are scary compared to this film. Clive Barker has written a very original horror film script, but it does come too close to the ridiculous most of the time. I wasn't scared for a second even though I did laugh a lot. However, two of the cenobites -- Pinhead and the female one -- were rather unpleasant because they were so solemn. Otherwise&#133; nah, nothing that I can recommend. This film can't possibly scare horror film fans *or* people who don't watch many horror films, so I really don't know who Hellraiser was made for. Well, there are good things about it; an intense last half hour, an original script, and those cenobites. Not a total failure, but pretty close. "},{"Title":"When's the scary part?","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't understand why Hellraiser is so often lauded as one of the most terrifying films of all-time.  The plot itself had promise, but the glaring absence of suspense and stiff, bland characters killed it dead.  Also, Hellraiser lacked that brand of dark, tongue-in-cheek humor that is present in so many films of the genre. "},{"Title":"The Rubick's Cube from Hell.","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am not the biggest fan of the Hellraiser series...in fact I am not a fan at all.  Somewhat interesting, in the end I find them to be a bit over done in areas and under done in others.  Sometimes it is over the top, and at other times it is kind of boring.  The story has this guy solving a puzzle box and when you solve the puzzle box you get chains through your body, then you are ripped apart.  This seems to me to be like more of a disincentive to full around with the box, but that doesn't seem to stop anyone in the series.  The guy is later resurrected and has to kill and suck blood (not in the way a vampire does).  He is helped by his brother's wife as they are lovers.  Nothing to unpredictable about where all this leads.  Meanwhile, the daughter of the husband (I don't think the wife is her mother) accidentally solves the puzzle box and here comes Pinhead who is in the movie very little.  Considering he was on the poster and he is what everyone remembers his screen time amounts to maybe five or ten minutes.  All in all a bit of a twisted horror that might appeal to you, but I actually liked the sequels a bit more.  Though not by much. "},{"Title":"good but with flaws","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I only saw this film once, but in my opinion this film deserves 'classic' status. I thought this film was very good but it does have some flaws. Pinhead was not shown as much as much as he could have done. Also not all of pinheads minions were sent back into the puzzle box, one of them only collapsed after the roof fell on him, so in theory he could come back at the end to wreak havoc. If Frank hadn't have said Come to daddy then Kirsty wouldn't have found out what actually happened to Larry, and he wouldn't have been ripped to pieces at the end. Overall this is a film worth seeing if your into this genre. A true Horror film for a true HorrormaniacIT'S A MUST SEE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Avoid this one!","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Why is it that good horror movies are so hard to find? This is one of the many that tries to cover up the lack of story and plot with blood and gore. And the poor actors look like they wish they were not in this one. I can not see why this has gotten such high votes. I would have given it a minus if I could have.  "},{"Title":"Dull Crap","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser must be one of the worst horror-movies from the 80's. This movie is repulsive, but it's not very exciting, and besides from that it's also very dull. Some scary looking creatures in a movie is not enough to scare the audience. I remember I heard much about this movie when it came out, but what a disappointment it was. (2 out of 10) "},{"Title":"Horrid, not Horror","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm near 40 and just saw this movie for the first time last night. I had always wanted to see it because of the good things I'd heard and due to Pinhead's place as a horror movie icon. I think this is one of the most god-awful pieces of film ever. I know (for whatever reason) some people LOVE this thing, but I found it to be a complete waste of time.Other users have claimed it had first rate acting. I don't know what films they're comparing this to, but these actors are awful. As for gore, this has no more gore than half of the other horror or action movies out there. The special effects are cheesy (except for the make-up). There were many movies out before 1987 with higher quality special effects (in fact, these were so bad that I hate to even label them as special). Finally, I've seen scarier torture scenes in other movies made both before and after this one.There was no suspense or build up of tension because I found myself laughing too often, and it wasn't even silly enough to be campy. All in all, except for the make-up (Pinhead is a scary-looking icon for a reason), this was total garbage. You want tension, rent Halloween. You want suspense with gore, rent Alien. You want suspense without gore, rent The Others. Just do yourself a favor and don't waste money on this. Extremely disappointing. "},{"Title":"Hellraiser","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" From director Clive Barker, based on his own novel, I saw this popular scary movie once before, but I don't think I really got it, so I am glad I gave it a chance and watched it again, the second time around was much better. Basically the film opens up with Frank Cotton (Sean Chapman) somewhere in Morocco buying an antique Chinese puzzle box, the Lament Configuration, and solving it he unintentionally activates its power, releasing the Cenobites, extra dimensional demons who enjoy intense torture and masochism, and dissected they take him with them to their dark world. Later, his brother Larry (Dirty Harry's Andrew Robinson) arrives at the house with his second wife Julia (Clare Higgins), who had previously had an affair with Frank, while Larry's teenage daughter Kirsty (Ashley Laurence) is living in her own place, but does visit. While moving in Larry deeply cuts his hand with a nail on the wall, and a lot of his blood drops onto the floor of the attic, and somehow this blood is absorbed by one of Frank's dissected body parts, and partially restores his body and brings him back to life. Julia finds monster Frank (Oliver Smith) in the attic, and he is still obsessed with her after their previous passionate relationship, and she agrees to help him fully restore his body so they can reignite their love. To do this she starts picking up men in bars to bring them back to the house, convincing them that she wants to have sex with them, but in fact she murders them with a hammer and Frank absorbs their blood and internal organs. Kirsty coming to visit spots Julia with a man, and spying she sees one of the horrific murders, and she gets into a struggle with Frank, he is desperate for her not to touch the puzzle box which he still has, but she throws it out the window, and running away picks it up again outside and escapes. After collapsing from exhaustion Kirsty wakes up in hospital, and she solves the puzzle, summoning the Cenobites, the four demons being leader Pinhead (Doug Bradley), Chatterer (Nicholas Vince), the Female Cenobite (Grace Kirby) and Butterball (Simon Bamford). They originally plan to take her to their realm, but they agree to possibly spare her life if they can prove that Frank escaped them and is alive, and she returns to the house to find him. Her father Larry, who strangely has bloody ears, says that he has killed the monster Frank, but as he acts strangely Kirsty realises that the monster has in fact killed her father and taken his skin. In her pursuit Frank unintentionally stabs Julia with a knife, and he smiles at the fact that he killed the real Frank and has caused her emotional suffering, and this is when the Cenobites come in. They chain Frank up, piercing his body with chains, and they pull him apart, and then Pinhead and the Cenobites plan to take Kirsty with them to their hellish world, but she reverses the puzzle box and makes them all disappear. The end sees Kirsty and her boyfriend Steve (Robert Hines) throw the puzzle box onto a fire, but the strange Tramp (Frank Baker) comes in, walks into the fire, and turns into a winged demon and flies away carrying the puzzle box, and it seen back in Morocco being sold to someone else. Also starring Kenneth Nelson as Bill and Gay Baynes as Evelyn. It is an intriguing story about a dark affair reignited by violence, the disfigured dark angels from Hell are the most watchable characters, especially leader Pinhead of course, there are the great lines We'll tear your soul apart and the improvised Jesus wept!, and the make up and special effects to create the monsters and extreme bloody torture and body dismembering, that the villains enjoy, are terrific, it is an engaging masochistic horror. It was number 19 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments. Very good! "},{"Title":"Made me deaf, dumb, blind, and good at pinball","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I feel less intelligent for watching this movie. I can just imagine what the producers were thinking while making this.studio executive 1-What was the plot again?!?studio executive 2-Ah, darn I forgot! Let's just add another gratuitous skinless body!1-Oh,and why is the pin guy mad? 2-um.......He has pins in his face! 1-Iknew there was a reason the studio pays you 400k a year Tom! This sums up Hellraiser pretty well. And the video quality is terrible beyond belief. I know everyone shouting BLASPHAMY! because it's, like, obviously intentional but god, when the Exorcist, made 14 years earlier, looks leagues better then your movie, you've got to seriously question it's right to exist. The acting is deplorable and the monsters are laughable. I busted laughing out loud when what looked to be a mentally challenged maggot type thing started running with it's hind legs on the walls with an expression on its face like it was on a sugar high. I expected to come onto this site and see this in the bottom 50 movies all time but I dropped one in my pants when I found out this movie was above a 1.0. In closing, if your a God-fearing person, or just don't have a death wish then lock yourself in a bunker with 20-gauge shotgun sand a keg of Beck's, obtain a small grade nuclear warhead, and for the love of God launch it, for even though you will kill several hundred thousand people you might just take out a copy of Hellraiser and that, my friends, is a sacrifice I for one am willing to take "},{"Title":"Gory doesn't equal Scary.","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Psychologically speaking, Hellraiser is about as scary as The Exorcist, by which I mean that it's an almost completely unscary film. Gory, yes. Scary, no. It begins well, but it quickly degenerates into a standard gore-fest and doesn't even try to make sense anymore. "}]