[{"Title":"Oh, come on. It's a cute movie.","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"59 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I was a little bit disappointed to see that this movie is a 4.8 on IMDb. After all it's not that bad. It's a funny story with a romantic plot. No, of course it isn't Oscar material, and it's not the ultimate comedy. But it's just a feel good movie that you'll enjoy if you're into cheesiness.Honestly, if you're telling me that you couldn't laugh at Captain Felix and his dog, Rambo, you must not have a funny bone. Especially for that funny scene where he and Mr. Richards end up in that car chase with Jonathan and Emmy, I mean come on, you had to laugh at that. There are also more than a few funny scenes that I thought more people would get a kick out of. Apparently, I was wrong, but please do give this movie a chance. I grew up with it and still love it 'till this day. Not to mention every time I hear that song Nothing's gonna stop us I think of the mall. D7/10 "},{"Title":"Delightfully silly romantic comedy-fantasy","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"42 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Mannequin is a silly movie to be sure. But I found it to be very funny at times. I was just a teenager when I first saw this movie back when it came out in 1987. My mom took me and a friend to see this, and we all laughed and had a good time. It's no classic, but so what. All that matters is that it's a fun movie, and that's exactly what this is. Andrew McCarthy stars as a man who's had bad luck with working jobs. His main interest is to be a sculptor. At one of his jobs he made mannequins, and for some odd reason he seems to fall in love with the last mannequin he made. Later he gets employed at a department store that has taken that mannequin in. And before you know it, the mannequin comes to life in the form of an Egyptian princess. But she only comes to life when the two are alone together. When someone else comes into the scene, she freezes up and turns into a mannequin again. This may sound like a stupid premise, but I don't care. Mannequin is a movie that's very entertaining. It's not a laugh riot, but I did laugh quite a bit throughout. Andrew McCarthy and Kim Cattrall (as the mannequin) look as if they're having a blast, and if I was the McCarthy character, I would have a blast too. The supporting cast includes Estelle Getty (from TV's The Golden Girls) as Mrs. Timkin, the friendly owner of the store; James Spader (in an early film role) as the smarmy manager of the store; G.W. Bailey (from the Police Academy films) as the bumbling midnight security guard of the store (who spends most of his time talking to his dog); Meshach Taylor (from TV's Designing Women) as McCarthy's assistant (who acts strange most of the time); and Carole Davis as McCarthy's former girlfriend (who works at a rival department store nearby). All join in on the lunacy of Mannequin. This is a nice, little picture.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Delightful screwball comedy from the '80s...","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"31 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The low IMDb rating for MANNEQUIN is imbecilic. This is a thoroughly delightful mixture of madcap comedy and romance, played to the hilt by a sparkling cast of players who all have a gift for comedy.ANDREW McCARTHY is at his best as a young man drifting from job to job who ends up employed by ESTELLE GETTY at her almost defunct department store. It isn't until he gets real inspiration for window displays from a mannequin who becomes a real person whenever others aren't around, that the picture soars into romantic fantasy. KIM CATTRALL is the gorgeous dummy who comes to life and wins the heart of the hero who is at first reluctant to believe his own eyes.The sets and costumes are fantastic, the supporting cast is excellent and the script stays in high gear until the last twenty minutes when things get a little too hectic, even for a comedy/fantasy. But it's all in good fun, a cheerful flick easily enjoyable if you like fantasies of this kind and all of it is well photographed in pleasing color with splendid sets.ANDREW McCARTHY, KIM CATTRALL, JAMES SPADER (especially funny as a smarmy business man), and G.W. BAILEY (as the night detective) all demonstrate a flair for comedy in roles they obviously enjoyed playing.Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"I Love This Movie. It Is So Enjoyable.","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It's about a guy who is down on his luck has an incredible woman come into his life and make his life better. The only problem is that she is a mannequin who only comes to life when no one else is around.Kim Cattrall is amazing. She is beautiful, sexy, fun, loving, and full of life. She makes the fantasy character ideal and personally I think that she deserves an award for this film. Andrew McCarthy is also very charismatic and likable in this film.This movie is light, silly, funny, romantic, and very entertaining. It's a feel good movie definitely worth watching.10/10  "},{"Title":"Good fun and not too serious","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I doubt that this is one of the best films ever made, but it is without a doubt one of the better films of the eighties. The acting from McCarthy and Cattrall is superb and the soundtrack is also credible. There are some bad points, but they only show if you analyse too cynically. Some call ti the seminal eighties movie, and rightfully so with many decade references and costume get ups, (think Hollywood Montross, and the scene where Emmy and Jonathon dance there way through the store) All in all a good movie, worthy of 4.5 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"She's the dummy!!","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This film is proof that not every movie needs to have academy award winning performances, a gripping plot and special effects to be enjoyable. Mannequin is certainly not a spectacular piece of cinematic achievement, but its simplicity and light-heartedness is what makes it great! I've loved this movie ever since I was a kid and I always, and still do, find it a fun and enjoyable watch, especially on a lazy Saturday afternoon.Jonathan Switcher is a down-on-his-luck artist. He can't hold down a regular job because his creativity keeps on sabotaging his productivity. One day he saves a little old lady who gratefully offers him employment at the department store that she owns. Jonathan goes to work arranging the store's window displays, and happens across a mannequin that he built during one of his short lived careers. Low and behold, the mannequin he created comes to life when the two of them are alone and a fun and silly romantic comedy ensues. The entire plot is quite silly and full of holes, but the movie is pure fun. Andrew McCarthy is cute and endearing as always and Kim Cattrall is fun and witty as the bubbly mannequin. This film is rife with great one-liners and hysterical situations and of course a great 80's style musical montage. Actual one of the most unfortunate things about this film is that the music is great and a soundtrack album was never released! For shame!Of course Mannequin isn't thought-provoking, nor is it clever or cinematic ally impressive. It's just a cute silly little film that will make you laugh as long as you don't take it too seriously. "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest and Most Delightful Comedies of the 80's","Date":"29 September 2012","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In Edfu, in the ancient Egypt, the young Ema Emmy Hesire (Kim Cattrall) is a woman ahead of time. When her mother tries to force her to marry a manure dealer, she wishes to go to the future and vanishes. In the present days, in Pennsylvania, Jonathan Switcher (Andrew McCarthy) is an idealistic young artist that builds a mannequin. However, he is inefficient and can not keep his jobs and his ambitious girlfriend Roxie (Carole Davis) leaves him. But Jonathan sees his mannequin in the window of the Prince and Company Department Store. On the next morning, he saves the life of Ms. Claire Timkin (Estelle Getty), who owns the Prince & Co., and she asks the corrupt manager Richards (James Spader) to give the position in the stock to Jonathan. The Prince & Co. is near bankruptcy and the Illustra Company intends to but it, using Richards to sabotage the Department Store. Emmy comes back to life for Jonathan and they arrange wonderful windows. Jonathan is promoted to window dresser, working with the gay Hollywood Montrose (Meshach Taylor) that becomes his friend. Soon Jonathan becomes a successful designer, leveraging the Prince & Co and is promoted to VP. But Illustra's General Manager, Roxie and Richards want to force Jonathan to work for Illustra and kidnap Emmy.Mannequin is one of my favorite films and I can not precisely tell how many times I have watched it. Andrew McCarthy was successful in the 80's and Kim Cattrall is one of the sexiest Hollywood actresses ever. The excellent James Spader is caricatural in the role of Richards and Meshach Taylor is hilarious in the role of a gay window dresser. The result is one of the funniest and most delightful comedies of the 80's. The soundtrack is also wonderful. Unfortunately the IMDb User rating does not mirror the truth about this wonderful and romantic fantasy. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Manequim (Mannequin) "},{"Title":"Cute 80's flick","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie. Andrew McCarthy is a classic 80's actor, paired with another 80's co-star James Spader in a cute comedy about a mannequin who comes to life. The music is cool, and it is a cute love story. Meshach Taylor is hilarious as Hollywood, the other window dresser. Watch if you are in the mood for an 80's flick.  "},{"Title":"Nothing can come between the love of a man and his Mannequin","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a fun loving romantic comedy that hits the spot every time I watch it.I love this film. It may not be Oscar winning material but it is high entertainment full of jokes, unusual situations and one of the best high speed chases I have seen.Andrew McCarthy is so adorable as the out of work artist who finds his inspiration from the mannequin he designs and makes.Kim Catrall puts in a good performance of the time travelling Egyptian princess who is never quite content with her situation until she reaches present day America in the form of a department store mannequin.I definitely recommend this movie. It will cheer you up or just fill in an evening's movie entertainment. Whatever you do with it enjoy it cause deep down it's a love story that everyone will  be really satisfied with. "},{"Title":"I got a kick out of it!","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is definitely for the love sick or the romantically challenged. Jonathan Switzer(Andrew McCarthy) is a very talented artist who seems to have a tough time keeping a job. However, his luck is just made when the mannequin he builds in his earlier job, comes to live whenever he's alone. The mannequin named Emmy(Kim Cattrall) who's desire for Jonathan is insatiable. Jonathan's friend Hollywood(Meshach Taylor, Designing Women) wonders about him while he should worry about his own problems. I liked the small video Jonathan and Emmy made together wearing different outfits while Do you Dream about Me? was being played. I liked the flash scene. Then there's the scene between Felix(G.W. Bailey) and Switzer got into the brawl when he thinks Switzer is doing a dummy. When Switzer rescue Emmy from the shredder, the curse was broken. And everyone got to see her including the bad guys. Hollywood needed a serious realty check, however Felix needs it way more. Because Hollywood says I'm seeing, but I'm still don't believing GET OVER IT Hollywood, SHE'S FOR REAL! Anyways, this is a great movie, I enjoyed it very well. Rating 3 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"A cute romantic film that you shouldn't take too serious","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I remember this movie a long time ago so here is my review on it.The story is about a young man(played by Andrew McCartney)who works in a department store in New York City. He of course is in love with a girl,but the problem is she isn't real. In actual fact she is of course a mannequin. But when no one is around,the mannequin is magically brought to life(played by a very young Kim Catrell). You see she was cursed a very long time ago as she is of course a mummy so she ends up being transformed into a mannequin and is sent to modern times(you will see this of course in the beginning of the movie). So will Andrew and Kim's charcthers ever get together and can she become human in the end of the movie?Bottom line this is a very contrived movie with a very contrived plot,but if you love a bit of fun and you want to watch a feel good 80s chick flick,then check it out. I enjoyed it as I have seen this film so many times before on TV.6.1/10Also keep an eye out for a hilarious stylist with cool looking sunglasses and Estelle Getty who was in The Golden Girls. "},{"Title":"Underrated Romantic Comedy","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Frivolous, fun romantic comedy from the '80s. The basic plot is that a girl (Kim Cattrall) in Ancient Egypt is being forced into a marriage she doesn't want. So she prays to the gods and is magically transported/reincarnated/whatever to the future, where she becomes a mannequin that only comes to life for Andrew McCarthy.I know this movie is almost universally derided but I can't help but love it. It's a sweet, funny, innocently goofy movie that always puts a smile on my face. McCarthy and Cattrall are adorably likable leads. They're helped by a great supporting cast, including Estelle Getty and Meshach Taylor. Not to mention a soundtrack of great '80s songs. In a lot of ways, this movie reminds me of old comedies from the 1930s or 40s. It doesn't care if every little detail of the fantasy plot makes sense. It's just trying to show the audience a good time and, in my case at least, it accomplishes that. "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I'm saddened by the low rating of this movie. I grew up watching this movie, and indeed, looking at this movie now... it is a little cheesy, but its the 80's!! Still, Hollywood makes this movie, along with the security guard and Rambo. Kim Cattral... I've had a crush on that girl since I first watched this movie when I was 6. Any guy should just watch the movie for her cause she's beautiful.The Soundtrack (or what lil there is) is amazing. Do you dream about me... great song for the movie. Basically what I'm trying to say, if you don't like this movie, you gotta have no humor or no taste cause its sweet. I rated it a 9 cause its not an Oscar winner, but its a movie that will stick with you throughout your life... I swear I'll be like 50 years old and still watch this movie. So, if you haven't seen it, go rent it, or buy it. "},{"Title":"Mannequin is odd but great, the best film I've ever seen.","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I cant believe just how good the movie is. OK it'll never be nominated for an Oscar and the cast aren't the most well known, but the soundtrack couple with the carefree plot, and fun filled scenes, make it one of the greatest movies I've ever seen. Kim Catrall is unbelievably good looking and that is and added bonus to the movie, and even Andrew McCarthy has a rougish charm. I first watched the movie when I was 6 and have loved it since. I don't know whether or not its the tunes or the film, but whatever it is its taken my heart. The thought of dancing through a deserted store with that wonderful Alisha song (Do you dream about me?) playing in the background must appeal to any seasoned lover of movies just like this?  "},{"Title":"An 80's Cult Classic","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Mannequin is a cult classic from the 1980's that stars Andrew McCarthy and Kim Cattrall together with Estelle Getty and James Spader.It was a film that tries to revive the romantic comedies of the 1930's and 1940's.In the story,Jonathan Switcher is a department store window-dresser who discovers that one of his mannequins is a woman that was from ancient Egypt as she comes alive only to him and calls her Emmy.She inspires him to become the most expressive window-dresser that the department store has ever had.In the process,romance between them develops.In the end,Jonathan has to save her as the mannequin is going to be destroyed in an incinerator to prove his love for her.Despite of being predictable and clichéd as well as being illogical and has numerous plot holes,the film provided a lot of entertainment to many people during its theatrical release and it still continues to do at present as it has become a one of the most memorable films of the 80's.While the performances are forgettable,it did provide lots of entertainment to its target audience especially teen-age girls and viewers who love romantic comedies.Of course,the Academy Award nominated song by Starship,Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now has definitely become an imprint attached it. "},{"Title":"Come on IMDb Users, It's A FARCE!","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Evidently, the IMDb Users are not familiar with the farce as a theatrical form - a comic dramatic work that aims at entertaining the audience through situations that are highly exaggerated, extravagant, and thus improbable. Farces are often highly incomprehensible plot-wise (due to the large number of plot twists and random events that occur), but viewers are encouraged not to try to follow the plot in order to avoid becoming confused and overwhelmed. Farce is also characterized by physical humor, the use of deliberate absurdity or nonsense, broadly stylized performances (buffoonery and horseplay) and typically including crude characterization and ludicrously improbable situations.Here a great cast of character actors and a supernatural plot, adds up to a farce. A form where great character actors Andrew McCarthy, Kim Cattrall, Estelle Getty, James Spader, G.W. Bailey and Mesach Taylor can ham it up and overact for the laughs. Even the minor players Carole Davis, Steve Vinovich and Christopher Maher continue the broadly played comedic characters with an excess of ham and absurdity. It's just fun and a guilty pleasure.It you didn't get either, you must have checked your sense of humor at the opening credits or you've become too sophisticated for I Love Lucy or the Three Stooges and that is sad. "},{"Title":"Come to life...","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This film won't change your life. You won't switch off the DVD and feel as if you've reached the pillar of amazement. But in some way, you do. You almost want to live in that era; you want to wear bowling shoes and drive a motorcycle down a deserted US road with a Mannequin on your back.It's not an intelligent film, the gags are slightly cringe-worthy and while the stereotypical gay parody can be funny it can also annoy you. Felix, the security guard with Rambo the dog does make you want to switch off the DVD and go and watch something with some more substance but don't. Hold back, and watch the magic unfold.Kim Cattrell makes this film light up; she is entirely believable as a soul who feels she hasn't lived and any moment of madness is relished. You can imagine her as a frustrated, contained soul in a birdcage who wants to be free, and Andrew McCarthy brings that out in her. McCarthy, although is often slated on acting ability actually plays the role well as a failed artist with questionable sanity once Emmy (Cattrell) comes to life.It is very much an 80's film, with an embarrassingly bad (but at the same time good) soundtrack that compliments the films message. It is a love film (in an amusing way) and definitely not a comedy, but it is amusing and worth watching just to relax and appreciate the 80's era. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie from a Korean Version of Mannequin. They showed a couple of new scenes from the movie that I have never seen in the 1987 version. There is a scene where right before Jonathan Switcher leaves Prince and Company by motorcycle in the rain they go back to Emmy and she is putting her hands on the window and saying I will see you again. "},{"Title":"A Great Film","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I'm disappointed to see it has such low reviews on IMDb.the film is obviously not Oscar or award winning material, it's just another romantic comedy with a silly twist.it keeps you watching and it's a feel good film even with it's lighthearted jokes and simple plot line.the acting is superb andrew mccarthy delivers another great performance (and looks as good as always), james spader was just INCREDIBLE- he kept me laughing the whole film, kim cattrall is gorgeous and estelle getty is great.it's a great film to just have on if you're doing nothing or to even watch on a movie night. Under appreciated film.. very under-appreciated. "},{"Title":"I can relate to this.....","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie goes hand-in-hand with 3 O'Clock High (both made in 1987). Both movies got 1 star and were hated by the critics but we all loved them back then and still love them right now. The dance scene (Dream about me) was fantastic. Kim Cattrall is so absolutely fantastically beautiful. I could live forever with a girl smiling at me who looks like her. The background music is on key and correct, and easy to listen to. An early James Spader (Mr. Richards) does a great job as a baddie. G.W. Bailey is his usual corny funny self and is very nicely accompanied by his dog, Rambo. They actually use the dog almost as good as the one in Men in Black.This movie is a MUST SEE. As many writers in this column have said, this does have a feel good ending. I don't think Roxie is THAT good looking. She's nice looking. Actually, she looks like the gal in the sitcom called King of Queens. I wonder if there is any relation. Roxie's foreign boyfriend is actually quite funny.As unrealistic as this movie might seem, I think both men and women have had a fantasy of this kind. This is a movie all viewers can relate to. It's great! Lastly, GREAT LEGS Kim! "}{"Title":"Sweet and cutsie romantic comedy","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Jonathan Switcher (Andrew McCarthy) is an artist who is struggling to hold down a job; but when a mannequin that he created comes to life he quickly becomes the most wanted window dresser in the city.Kim Cattrall is the simply stunning fibreglass femme fatale he created, and Jonathan is soon smitten with her magical, statuesque beauty; but the competition want him out of the business, for good.This movie is exquisitely charming throughout, and it's sprinkled with plenty of comedy moments and characters. It's sweet and cute, but it's stop short of being sickly; making it a lot of fun to watch.6/10 "},{"Title":"I like this movie!","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I really liked Kim Catrall how she portrayed in the t.v series sex and the city. I have seen this movie about 10x and I find it wonderful. Why? Cause I liked the Actors and Actresses portrayed in this film. Like Roxanne, Mr. Richards, B.J Wert, Felix and his dog Rambo and Hollywood. It is indeed a fantasy and a comedy movie. I like it when Kim would turn in to a mannequin. I like when Hollywood told Andrew about her ex boyfriend, about his butt and the line which he says, Hollywood come and get me Hollywood... Well I loved the windows in this movie. Because here in Philippines even though we are in the year 2004 I haven't seen such beautiful windows in the mall here than in this movie. Kim and Andrew are really great actor and actress. I agree about 'Nothings gonna stop us now', the theme song of this movie was very beautiful song it really fits the song and the movie. Because they are in the different worlds and no matter how far their world is and what other people tell them they really loved each other. This movie is one of my favorites...  "},{"Title":"Your new salary will be $55 thousand dollars a year.","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Remember when $55 thousand a year was a lot of money?  Yes, it was in 1987 when this movie was made.  It depicts the perfect young man's fantasy - a mannequin comes to life as a beautiful young woman, only for him.  Of course she returns to be a mannequin during the day, but at night she teaches Andrew McCarthy how to become a sought-after department store window-dresser.  At the climax of the movie, when his mannequin is about to be shredded with other throw-aways, he saves her and she comes to life for good, spoiling the evil Roxie's ploy. At the end they get married, of course, in the department store window!  Very light entertainment, but a perfect fantasy for those who don't want to put up with the real task of getting to know a real person. "},{"Title":"I'm not making it up, I'm insane......","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Jon is a young artist, but he just doesn't seem to last in any job he does. But when he builds a mannequin, he makes it so perfect, he falls in love with it. It is the first thing he has made that makes him feel like a real artist. The mannequin ends up in the window of a big department store. When he saves the life of the owner of that store, he is rewarded by getting a job at the store as stock boy. Later the mannequin comes to life, who was an ancient Egyptian known as Emmy. The two redesign the window display to make it most eye catching in town. But the store competitors are not happy and will do anything to stop them.......Yes the film is arguably one of the pinnacle movies associated with the eighties, but I guarantee that when you ask anyone about the movie, they will immediately quote the Starship song, and I dare you to remember a scene that wasn't in the music video.Its a case of great song, very average movie. I've seen the film at least six or seven times, and I had no idea that Spader was in it, and I am an eighties (proper) child. Born in the seventies, so I could appreciate the eighties, and not wear a tee saying 'born in the eighties'.But the two leads are great, and Cattrall is less plastic than she is in the abhorrent SATC. And Getty aside, the rest of the cast are just stereotypes. Spader is always the villain, and when he isn't, he's a pervert. Bailey has wandered in from Police Academy, and Taylor must play the most Un PC character ever committed to celluloid.It's not a bad film by any means, it's quite a sunny old ride, it's just a film about a man who is depressed about keeping a job and high maintenance girlfriend, so seeks solace with a shop dummy.When you think about it, it's the eighties version of Crash, which starred Spader too. "},{"Title":"Looking in your eyes I see a paradise.","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Mannequin is either a sweet affectionate nostalgia movie &#x96; or an empty vacuous experience that fronts the bad side of 1980s American film making? Of all the teen comedies and brat packer pictures that flooded the decade, Mannequin appears to be the one that has no in between fan base, you either love it for what it is, or despise it and everything it stands for.So how do you review something like that? I mean if you have seen it already and are reading this, you don't need any guidance from me. Your minds are already made up, if you have not seen it and have any interest in the 1980s strand of such fare, then give it a go. It's hardly an abomination, while for fans of Kim Cattrall and Andrew McCarthy it has to be worth a watch to see them try to cope with such under written lead characters.It's frothy and cheerful, but yes, devoid of substance, while one stereotype coupled with James Spader's worst performance hardly help matters these days. Soundtracking is decent enough, led by power pop ballad Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now sung by Starship, while the costuming is garishly period.Not to be taken seriously, obviously, and it has flaws galore, but it does have fans. Who knows, you may become one as well? Or you may want to stick sharp implements in your eyes instead? Roll the dice and take the chance. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable feel-good movie AND James Spader","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" If only for James Spader's unbelievably excellent depiction of a character that kisses major ass in hopes of furthering his career, this movie is a must-see. But that's not the only good thing about it. Andrew McCarthy is delicious, the few kisses far and between are actually pleasantly hot, and the 80s decor and fashion are a wonderful reminder to those raised in the 80s that we lived to tell about it! It's a lovely little feel-good movie with the added bonus of James Spader's superb acting and 100% devotion to the role as usual. There are far worse ways to spend an afternoon, and James Spader is a GEM that those who haven't seen the movie have robbed themselves of enjoying. His portrayal is spot-on and actually wildly humorous in patented James Spader understated brilliance. "},{"Title":"Just have fun with it","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie doesn't take itself seriously so why should we? Although Michael Gottlieb says it was based on an original idea, there are great similarities between this film and 1948's One Touch of Venus. In both films a man with an artistic bent but a lack of self confidence is helped and loved by a mannequin/statue that only comes to life in his presence. This film is different in that protagonist Jonathan Switcher only brings the mannequin to life after a long string of job losses and then finally being dumped by his ambitious girlfriend, the obvious comparison being that the mannequin (Kim Cattrell) is more human than Jonathan's cold wooden girlfriend (Carole Davis).Probably released with a teen audience in mind - I was 29 when it came out - it really fits the bill if you are in the mood for good old low brow humor with lots of broad physical comedy and one liners. Kim Cattrell could never be Ava Gardner (the statue in the 1948 film) but she's got that I'll love you no matter what look down pat that would make any man feel like a king. James Spader has never looked like a more unlikeable little toad, and that is quite a feat when you know how handsome he is/was. Note that this thing is like a roll call of 80's sitcoms. There's Estelle Getty as the owner of the department store who played the eighty year old mom with a quick wit and smart mouth on The Golden Girls. Here she plays basically the same character, only younger. Meshack Taylor was the comic foil for the ladies of Designing Women, and G.W. Bailey played a serious role as a psychiatrist during the first season of Saint Elsewhere before taking on film roles where he largely played the buffoon. That is the case here where he plays the store security guard who for some reason is allowed to roam the store with a dog that is known to bite - I can only imagine what the store's insurance premiums are.Watch this movie for one touch of the 80's and, like I said at the beginning, just have fun with it. "},{"Title":"Good 80's Comedy!","Date":"18 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Andrew McCarthy, Kim Cattrall, Mesach Taylor, James Spader, G.W. Bailey and Estelle Getty star in this 1987 comedy. This begins centuries ago with young woman, Emmy (Cattrall) disappearing from Egypt. Soon, we meet Jonathan Switcher (McCarthy) an aspiring artist who tries getting a job until he finds one as a window dresser for department store, Prince & Company. He meets and falls for Emmy (Cattrall) who's reincarnated as a mannequin he created. Soon, Emmy secretly starts helping Jonathan with the window displays to help the store get more business. It works and Jonathan gets promoted to Vice President. Meanwhile, a rival company, Illustra starts losing business and the boss, B.J. Wert (Steve Vinovich) hires Richards (Spader) and security guard, Felix Maxwell (Bailey) to see what Jonathan is up to. When Emmy is taken from the store, Jonathan tries getting her back. The late, Getty plays Claire Timkin, the owner of Prince & Company and Taylor (Designing Women) plays Jonathan's flamboyant assistant, Hollywood Montrose. I watched this growing up and always liked it. Andrew and Kim have good chemistry and I also like Jefferson Starship's theme song, Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now. I recommend this good 80's comedy. "},{"Title":"Cute Romantic Drama !","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A dummy that comes live at night ? How cool is that ? When I was small, I had the thought that those dummies at the supermarket come to life to night and have the supermarket all to themselves. So it is nice to see it being made into a film.The characters were cute, especially Mr.Hollywood! He seems to have major identity crisis and his character is so funny ! However, I'm giving this film a 5/10 because I think this film can be made much better. The storyline was choppy, with no little indication as to why the characters acted the way they do. The acting seemed made up and unreal, making it lose its charm. And what made the film got poor rating (in my opinion) is because the scenes were shown one time too many. The repetition made the viewers bored and annoyed.Anyway, this is a decent film, a silly romantic comedy. A good watch with family on weekends. "},{"Title":"Philly in da house!","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Hello, Aside from this being a decent flick, with come real good actors when they were YOUNG, it is also a great movie for those that might recall some locations in and around Philadelphia. The department store was the famous Wanamaker's Department store in center city Philly, near City Hall. It was there FOREVER and was very well known for it's big Christmas display and show in the incredible lobby. Now when you see them go down into the basement to the club, in reality the cast and crew relocate to another old Philly suburb classic, a now vanished club called Pulsations. They make it seem like this is located below Wanamaker's, but in reality it is about 15 to 20 miles south of Philly near the Delaware border or actually closer to Chad's Ford, PA. This was a REAL hot spot on the lines of Studio 54 (actually designed by the same designer too). It all was just as the movie depicts it, even the robot and space ship! For those of us that enjoyed going to both of these places, this movie is a chance to see them again in all their glory! Enjoy! "}{"Title":"80s classic!","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I agree completely with jhaggardjr!! This is a silly but absolutely FUN movie that is a classic from my pre-teen years in the 80s. I will always love this movie for its fun and its goofy characters (some great actors here!!) and for being one of those classic movies of my youth. "},{"Title":"Not totally wooden... but definitely a bit stilted!","Date":"25 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This was a movie I loved as a kid, but I think my major crush on Kim Cattrall at the time must have been clouding my judgement somewhat! I gave it a rewatch as an adult not long ago, and the magic I seemed to remember from when I was young had barely survived.The falling in love scenes where the two characters are alone were still sort of cute... but with age I could see that any development was paper- thin (unlike Splash, for example... which has a silly concept, but still takes quite a serious look at the emotional predicament of its two characters). Also, much as I love G.W. Bailey, the slapstick scenes of him running around the department store with his dog(s) wore on my nerves, after awhile... It's fun enough though if you like the two stars, and treat it like a pantomime, rather than a story with any aspirations to substance. "},{"Title":"80s romcom starring Kim Catrall and Andrew McCarthy","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" i watched this film and thought it was fantastic. when i was younger it was the first movie i can remember seeing that wasn't a Disney film! i recently bought it on DVD because i had never seen it the whole way through. i didn't expect to love it as much as i do now, after watching it! i really love the motorbike scenes and thought when they were dancing around the store was so funny. i think Kim Catrall played the part really well and the character is so different from her character in sex and the city. i definitely recommend seeing this film, even though i mainly watch more recent films, i thought this 80s movie was funny, witty and original and the chemistry between Kim Catrall and Andrew McCarthy was spot on! "},{"Title":"Feeling Nostalgic?","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I've always said that the best thing to come out of the 80's are the movies... and me, (jkjk). The first time I saw this film I was 10 years old; it was my first Rom/Com and I completely fell in love with it. The basic plot is about a girl who wants more out of life than just to be married, (not that she doesn't want to get married- she just wants to find the right guy). Emmy wants to explore and invent and she knows there's a better way out there, so she appeals to the 'gods' of Eqypt asking them to show her the better way. They in turn make a deal with her. She can go through different times in history and seek out who and and what era is best for her but she can only appear alive to the ONE she's testing. She goes through historical figures such as Michelangelo and 'Chris' Columbus and finally lands in 1987 in the arms of Jonathan a nothing special struggling artist who can't seem to find a job. When she appears to him in the store window he fights to get a job to be close to the only thing that's made him feel like a real artist. As she comes to life, (only in front of him), she teaches him to loosen up and be who he his and he falls in love with her while making the most brilliant window displays for Price and Co. With the crazy/cool story plot, great actors, and awesome music this film deserves an 8.5/10 (I NEVER give 10's- not even to my favourite film) because it's almost perfect. P.S. I've advise when watching it that you don't think too much. Remember that it's a ROM/COM and just enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this movie. Saw it years ago, but it's still watchable. Your typical light-hearted fun 80's flick. The music in this movie is so fun that you can't help but be caught up in some flashbacks. Kim is adorable and McCarthy was in his hey day. See Estelle pre-Golden Girls I'm assuming. Meshach is the quintisential (sp?) gay man, and is funny at it. It's silly and ridiculous, but you get caught up anyway. Definitely worth the watch. Probably more of a chick flick, but oh well. My only problem was with the ancient Egyptians. Not a black face to be seen. She could've been from Greece and the movie still would've worked. How typical, but what can you do? Give it a good watch.   "},{"Title":"One of the best '80s movies...","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is the story of a guy (McCarthy), who fantasizes about a Mannequin he created while working at one of many odd jobs.  Kim Cattrall comes to life when he puts the model together, and turns his boring life into a success.  A fantasy for guys, but still a great movie.  McCarthy is as cute as ever in this movie, and I love Kim Cattrall.  She is such a talent and beauty.  Andrew is so good an actor that it's hard to ever think of him as just acting in whatever movie he is in. I remember Estel Getty being so funny in this film too, which is usual for her. Everyone in this movie is really good in all their parts, and the directing is very typical and practical for the lightness of the piece. Hollywood is definitely the funniest character in this film, and James Spader is sooooo good, as usual, the makeup they put on him to make him look so ugly and geekish, was really well done.  His stature and personality is so slimy and unattractive, it's hard to believe it's the same guy that was in Pretty in Pink, which also starred Andrew McCarthy.If you like the afore mentioned actors and actresses, you'll more than likely enjoy the movie, it's witty and sexy. It's one of the better movies to come out in the late '80s.  And that is the end of my review. "},{"Title":"Surely one of the best things about the 80's!","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Personally I think people who hate this movie just don't understand this type of entertainment.  Its over-acting, its soft-core porn-like plot, its cheesy cartoon opening credits... they all make it clear that this movie was made in the eighties. Now, I know what you're thinking So, it was made in the eighties.  How does that make it a good movie?  It doesn't, but this movie was very entertaining to teenagers, and it became very well-known to them in the eighties, so by watching this movie, you get a very good picture of what teenagers were like at the time.  It's so ridiculous that very few teens today would enjoy it.  I mean it features a guy whose million-dollar clothing store might go out of business because his advertisers can't possibly compete with some guy's window displays!  Do you have any idea how insane that is?  It's clear to me that the movie Mannequin was meant to entertain those who can relate to it the most dummies.  Now, make no mistake. That's not an insult toward the movie.  I love the movie.  Why? Because of the style of the movie.  I like comedy that mocks other comedy, and this kind of comedy would be extremely fun to see being mocked.  When you watch this movie, don't be critical of it.  Don't see its terrible acting and insane plot as a bad thing.  Watch the movie, and let yourself get into it.  Picture yourself in the shoes of a person who would love the movie. In fact, do that with every comedy you watch.  If you can't, then pretend the movie is mocking other movies like it.  Don't let yourself become too good or too smart or too mature for any brand of humor. If you ever catch yourself taking any humor seriously, you've forgotten the point of humor. "},{"Title":"A Charming Romantic Comedy!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A Charming Romantic Comedy about a man and his mannequin. Andrew McCarthy an original member of the 80s Brat Pack stars in this comedy as a lonely man who has a problem with keeping a job and his love life is going out of whack. Till he makes a mannequin he falls in love with played by Kim Cattrall. This is a movie you could like on a Friday night. "},{"Title":"Excellent all round film","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It is a pity that so many films are cast over with violence and massive budgets that you just don't care for. This film although not the best film ever made was funny charming and the cast worked well together. A great family film. "},{"Title":"Adorable Goofy Romantic Comedy","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Okay,first things first.Why would I give a silly Romantic Comedy a Ten? Three reasons actually.First,it reminded me of a fairy tale in the same vein as the story of a certain wooden boy and the Princess Bride,both good movies in their own right.Second,there is a scene in the rain that just affected the artist in me..watch it and you'll understand what I mean,every artist needs to create in order to feel he or she has purpose.Most people wont understand this,an artist will.Third,it never takes itself seriously.Its supposed to be nothing more than what it is,a sweet,goofy romantic comedy.Watch it and you might be surprised just how innocent love can be. "}{"Title":"From Sex And The City to Freaks with a woody...","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  What is with these types of movies? Normal guy finds nice girl. Nice girl is different (a mannequin, a mermaid, a hooker...), but they end up falling in love anyway.But this is a typical 80's romantic-comedy, that, despite the Pinocchio-plotted story is actually quite charming and funny. Oh yes, I *know* I am sad!Kim Cattral (that would be Sex And The City's resident skank Samantha) plays the part of Emmy, a mannequin that can come to life - but only in the eyes of one man.This really is pretty much 'Splash' with a doll instead of a mermaid, but it's really not all that bad (even just for nostalgia value, but we won't go there...).And like ALL 80's movies (and I do mean ALL) it was followed by a sequel... "},{"Title":"wonderful romantic comedy fantasy","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A good man(Andrew McCarthy) who struggles keeping every job he gets creates a mannequin that comes to life as a beautiful woman(Kim Cattrall).She loves him, & inspires him to reach his full potential. This movie is a bit silly, but it is funny and is a great love story. "},{"Title":"A feel good movie","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  While this may not be as deep or thrilling as The Godfather or Glory, Mannequin is a decent movie.  Although the plot is unrealistic, the actors do a good job working with the weak script.  Mesach Taylor steals the show with his terrific performance as Hollywood, the homosexual designer.  Kim Cattral also puts in a great showing as Emmy, the sexy mannequin who comes to life.  2.5 stars out 4. "},{"Title":"Sweet, quirky romance. (Includes excellent dance number.)","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This sweet, unassuming film, is always a delight to view. It's daft, yet fun. A hapless, wanna-be sculptor, is surprised when his favourite mannequin turns into a live woman, only for him. The back story leads into a quirky animated title sequence, accompanied by the first of many excellent songs - In My Wildest Dreams. However the definite highlight of this movie is the dance routine in the store with elaborate costume changes. (Do You Dream about Me?) The supporting characters are OTT, especially Hollywood, a gay window dresser. There aren't many IQ points for either good guys or villains, but then it's not a high brow affair. It's slapstick & romance and great tunes. The feel good finale leads into Nothing's Gonna Stop Us. What more could you ask? "},{"Title":"The finest film ever made","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I have watched this film so many times (over a thousand) I can repeat it line for line in my sleep. Everything about it is amazing. From the great gags to the best soundtrack ever heard in a film (where can I buy that opening Belinda Carlisle track) . It honestly never gets boring. I can't explain why, but no other film I have ever watched, has as much watchability as this one.All I want now is it to be released on DVD, so listen up Warner Home Video you biscuit brains, release it now. Please. "},{"Title":"great truly great","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  what can i say about this great movie...it is no way in league of donnie darko, say anything or any other great romantic 80's comedy. To me the movie is stunning, it is from a time that film makers now have forgotten...its a simple romantic film with no product placement and no tat like you see nowadays. This movie is about a guy who has absoulty nothing in the world a falls in love with a girl that only he can see the true beauty of..and he has to prove his love for her to make other people see her for who she really is...and the plot that this girl has travelled through the ages trying to find her soul mate is a bit corny but then again it is so sweet that she chooses a window dresser. To me this is up there near the top...forget about the fact that its not a masterpiece because then you put it out of context...remember that is a simple 80's film the likes of we shall never have the pleasure of seeing again. Superb  "},{"Title":"Pure Kim Cattrall","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"      I have not seen all of Kim's movies, but there are a few which stand out Porky's, Big Trouble In Little China, Police Academy, City Limits and an episode of the Incredible Hulk where she discovers Banner's secret. Mannequin deserves to be her best because she is so much more lively and vivacious than in any thing else she has ever done. Wasted in her role on Sex with the City or whatever it is called, she plays an immortal siren who lives on in the works and creations of other artists which she then inspires like some Olympian Muse, but instead of Greek Gods she is under the magic of the Egyptian gods. Andrew McCarthy of Bernie's fame is her paramour as he plays a down and out sculptor looking for some magic. Estelle Getty is a lovely and strong-willed presence herself when she's not playing an old woman, and G. W. Bailey is the comic relief as he plays a gungho security guard with dogs named after other  action movies. Meshach Taylor misguidedly plays a gay stereotype as if it were the only way he could get the role. all in all, this is a very charming and light-hearted romantic comedy. It deserves more than the reputation it has recieved, but its sequel should be avoided at all costs. "},{"Title":"great cornball '80s flick","Date":"6 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Movies like this make me miss life back in the late '80s and early '90s when things felt simpler than they are now. Technology was developing but it was not overbearing and everywhere like it is now. Mannequin was a transition movie, coming out of the materialistic Big Eighties into the early '90s era of increasing acceptance of alternative lifestyles.The movie is a lot more progressive than people give it credit for. The artistic main male character was positively juxtaposed against other characters that defined manhood in a negative way (the hyperaggressive security guard and the corporate schmooze). This sends a powerful message that the definition of being a man isn't always about being a jerk. Yes, you can find a girlfriend and succeed at life without reducing yourself to being a cog in the machine or macho posturing.I'm giving this movie 10 stars because it deserves a higher rating than it's getting now. Otherwise I'd give it an 8. The movie itself was well made and well directed. The experience of watching this is fun. For those of us old enough to remember when it came out, it is also nostalgic. "},{"Title":"Great Idea. Poor Payoff.","Date":"24 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Mannequin (1987) Dir Michael Gottlieb / Cast Andrew McCarthy, Kim Cattrall, Estelle Getty, James Spader, G.W. Bailey Corny romantic comedy that seems to reference the emotional side of love using the term mannequin as a symbol. Andrew McCarthy plays Jonathan Switcher who has a knack for creating art, including a mannequin he recently designed. Unfortunately he has been fired from every job out there. Kim Cattrall prays to the heavens to be vanquished of her Egyptian lifestyle of organized marriage. After an earthquake she is darted ahead to modern day where she inhabits the very mannequin Jonathan created. After landing a job in said store she comes to life, much to his shock but he is the only one who can see her. Preposterous, idiotic and written full formula straight through but one observes that director Michael Gottlieb had an idea. Cattrall is the spirited high full of gusto and enthusiasm. She helps Jonathan become a hit with window dressing thus threatening competition. Other characters cannot be believed. McCarthy is laboring under cardboard material. Estelle Getty as manager is flat. James Spader as Mr. Richards tries too hard. G.W. Bailey as security is an over the top version of his Police Academy role. Finally there is the cliché gay African American named Hollywood who competes with the rest of the fakery. Theme of emotional love barely comes alive in this store window freak show. Score 4 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Mannequin","Date":"19 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" When I found out that one of my favourite songs was featured in and came from this film, a film I probably never would have heard of before, and from the year I was born, I was interested to see what it would be like. Basically the film opens in Ancient Egypt with Ema 'Emmy' Hasure (Sex and the City's Kim Cattrall) hiding in a pyramid to get away from her mother (Phyllis Newman) who is forcing her to get married, so she prays to the gods to send her to her true love, and she disappears. Forward to present day Philadelphia, where Jonathan Switcher (Andrew McCarthy) is a young artist, who starts out with a job making mannequins, but when he is fired he can't seem to find a job that he can keep. He made his perfect mannequin that makes him feel happy, and he is really surprised to see it in the window of the Prince & Company department store, and he happens to save the life of the old Claire Timkin (Estelle Getty) who owns it, she rewards him with a job as stock boy. One night staying late in the store Jonathan has a conversation with what is normally an inanimate dummy, but the mannequin he made comes to life, possessing the soul of Emmy, and she knows that he is to be her true life, he just sees her as a new friend. The next day he wakes up to see a very artistic setup of mannequins posing in the store window, and everyone assumes it was him, so he is put in charge of designing more of them to bring in more business. At first Jonathan assumed he was hallucinating the dummy coming to life, but Emmy does come to life again, and he realises that she helped create the setups, so every night they make these, have fun, and get closer. While customers are fascinated by the artistic store windows setups and being drawn to the store, there are the people who are saying he is getting too close to his mannequin, including his supposed girlfriend Roxie (Carole Davis) and Richards (James Spader) who wants to fire him, but camp and eccentric Hollywood (Meshach Taylor) knows his dummy means a lot to him. There obviously comes the point when rival stores try to cash in on Jonathan's success with their own similar ideas, Jonathan is taken away from the store, and Emmy is taken to a plant to be destroyed, but love prevails when she comes to life during the day (instead of night like usual), and they get married to live happily ever after. Also starring Police Academy's G.W. Bailey as Felix, Steve Vinovich as B.J. Wert and Christopher Maher as Armand. I can agree slightly that McCarthy is a bit more plastic than the mannequin he is in love with, Cattrall is nice and sweet as the dummy that comes to life and falls in love with him, and I personally didn't think Taylor was that annoying as his highly camp, bizarrely dressed and exuberant friend, I thought he was pretty funny, it doesn't have many great jokes, but it is a nice sweet film, and the song at the end of the film is worth waiting for, an alright romantic comedy. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for Starship - Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now (it was also nominated the Golden Globe). Okay! "}{"Title":"Cute movie )","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Andy McCarthy's appeal is a positive counter to Kim Cattrall's marginal but hot-bodied performance in this contemporary Pygmalion romantic-comedy about an Egyptian princess who attracts the attention of a modern-day window dresser.Solid co-starring appearances by Meshach Taylor, Estelle Getty, and G.W. Bailey add to the light-heartedly fun atmosphere as McCarthy tries to secure his 'dummy' both physically and romantically all the while being chased by department store big shots and his own sanity.Good Friday night rental and one of those movies that is endearing enough to go out and buy for a personal collection. "},{"Title":"No, not a classic... but a fun movie!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Mannequin is a fun story about a man who creates a mannequin so exquisite he falls in love with it, and discovers that it has come to life with the spirit of an ancient Egyptian princess.  No, it's not based on Pinnochio, but rather the classic Greek story of Pygmalion, where a sculptor creates a statue of Venus and falls in love with it.  This was also the basis for the musical My Fair Lady, although the love interest between Henry Higgins and Eliza Doolittle isn't as obvious as in other forms of the same story.There are several interesting ironies in the movie... Police Academy co-stars G.W. Bailey and Kim Cattrall never actually appear together until the final scene (because she turns into a mannequin whenever he is in sight).  Fans of St. Elmo's Fire will be disappointed at the lack of a graphic love scene between McCarthy and Cantrell, but can go rent that other movie for the cheap thrill.The biggest irony, perhaps, is that non-romantic plot featured classic old-guard department store, Prince & Co., battling the cheesy, glitzy, modern Illustra to prevent a takeover and a destruction of the grand traditions.  The movie was shot on location at John Wanamaker in Philadelphia.  In fact, Mr. Wanamaker's portrait in the main atrium is pointed out as being store founder Mr. Prince.  In the years after the movie, Wanamaker's was bought out by Woodward & Lothrop, then May Company, and the building, which once had eleven floors of retail, now contains a three-story Lord & Taylor.  So the fate avoided by Prince & Co eventually claimed Wanamaker's.If you're from Philadelphia, you're sure to enjoy spotting the location shots (and can probably identify the allegedly broke Switcher's Rittenhouse Square apartment building).  Anyone who even knows a gay person will appreciate Meschach Taylor's over-the-top performance as Hollywood Montrose. And fans of M*A*S*H and Police Academy will once again see G. W. Bailey get what he deserves for being such a jerk.  It's fun, it's light - it's a good movie for an evening at home. "},{"Title":"Whacked out...but pretty darn good","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film very recently on video (my roommate had it). Basically, it's pretty much cliche in many respects (the cop being a dope, the evil salesguy out to do in the other one, etc. etc.) But the romantic twist to it tossed it up a few notches... I mean, I was totally cheering at the end when the guy rescues the dummy he loves and (spoiler, spoiler) she becomes real (as idiotic as it sounds). Pinocchio spoof? Who knows and who cares!! It's a fun romp and worth a rent. *3.5 out of 5* "},{"Title":"Sweet","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Hey, It's suppose to be a light movie! So don't take it seriously.The plot is simple and fun. The movie is funny and light.Andrew Mc Carthy is born cute and there he is in his cutest way. Kim Cattrall is born beautiful and sensual, and there you have it!There's romance and fantasy, and jokes with nice musics around. What more can you ask? It's simply a lovable movie. I've seen it years a go and I still like it.Sweet like a candy. "},{"Title":"A Moving Experience","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Words cannot express the feelings that I get when I see this film. It is, without doubt, one of the best films of the 80's, (maybe even the 1900's). The performances by Andrew 'The Hair' McCarthy and Kim Cattrall ALONE warrant an immediate purchase of this film. But they are helped by the excellent script, which has numerous 'off-the-wall' comments that are so authentic because thats how people spoke in the 80's. The direction is a work of a genius, recalling Scorsese at the height of his powers.   Whenever I see Hollywood hose down the cops at the end, I just cry. Plain and simple. Tears.   I wish I had my own Mannequin that only I could see. That's the effect this film will have on you. Perhaps critics in the future will look back and re-evaluate this work of art. I am a lone profit on this, but I believe Mannequin will eventually be hailed as a film that revolutionized the 20th century. It's THAT zany. "},{"Title":"opinions, short overview","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  First time I saw this movie I was young and it was a way of my brothers friends to keep me occupied...when I got older I purchased it for myself, and I've never been sorry. This is just a cute, happy, romantic movie that reminds me of the way people in the 80s dressed. Its all about a young man who dreams of artistic grandeur, and ends up working in a store where the mannequin that he's created and fallen in love with, is a window display. Everything goes out of control when she comes to life one day.  The songs in the film are classics and the characters are amazing especially 'Hollywood'. This is a good film to see if you enjoy light-hearted romantic comedies with happy endings. "},{"Title":"Not Deep, but good","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Mannequin is probably not the deepest most profound movie you'll ever see. Actually it's probably the exact opposite.  It has a simple, not-believeable story line.  A man that designs manneqiuns goes to work in a big department store.  The mannequin that he works with comes to life and builds her own displays.  In turn, the rival department store steals the mannequin.  Blah blah blah. But the thing is, that no matter how stupid the storyline,  some small part of your imagination wants it all to be true.  And with a happy ending and a great closing theme song, Mannequin is a feel good movie that shows you're never too young to dream. "},{"Title":"Parts are good, but the screwball comedy is awful.","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A flabbergasting thing, Mannequin. Despite the overacting from pretty much everyone expect for Kim Cattrall and Andrew McCarthy (Estelle Getty too, now that I think about it) and a majority of gags that just aren't funny, I found myself getting into this movie; if only just. the central love story is kinda sweet, and I found myself invested when they sent Cattrall off to the wood chipper. It's fluffy, pretty dumb and wholly superficial, but I dunno . . . the leads pull it off. There's just the matter of those supporting players.I do like the location they used for the department store, and the sets are like a hot dose of Madison Avenue '80s. The movie wasn't as entertaining as it was when HBO had it in heavy rotation 20-odd years ago, but certainly not the worst I've seen. Mostly, it's just goofy.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Sparkling if Not Date Stereotypical Romantic Comedy","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A product of the 80s, this romantic comedy gem unfortunately contains old world stereotypes along with the classic elements of comedy, romance, and fantasy, a wonderful movie package that is blemished by its politically incorrect exaggerations of both good comedy and prejudice. There are many elements screwball comedy, slapstick, physical comedy, as well as sly wit with intelligent humor and classic comedic performances and acting. Andrew McCarthy, Kim Cattrall, and James Spader offer up fun entertainment from the traditional dressing up and dancing to the goof-ball comedy. This movie packs everything in along with a rousing and compelling soundtrack of romantic music. Eight out of Ten Stars. "},{"Title":"A nice kind of movie","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I thought it was good when it came out. I was 27 then and into the Rambo-Terminator-Lethal Weapon genre but, although Mannequin was light 80's fare, it was still a nice comedic diversion from the violent subject matter that I was used to.I go to Wanamaker's every Christmas with the family and when the movie was on earlier today I was looking for familiar parts of the building in most scenes. I always liked Kim Cattrall and she played off of Andrew McCarthy's reluctant-at-first paramour as well as can be expected.Going at least 10 years between viewings of the same movie, despite network censoring, puts me in a position to not only compare my views of it then to now, but gives me the opportunity to see how I have changed. Nice movie that I'd let the kids see. "}{"Title":"I love to escape from the reality!!!","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I have always had a great sympathy for fantastic tales. Tales which told us imaginary worlds or funny situations without a logical explanation. For that reason, i love much films with this characteristics, just like Jim Henson's Labyrinth or The Muppets take Manhattan. Just like Tim Burton's Beetlejuice or his masterpiece Big Fish. And then we find something like Mannequin.Before Mannequin, i have read a lot of critics. All of it was bad opinions. Much of that opinions, in certain way, try to cursing it or burn it like it was the most horrible and awful movie in history. I have not any idea of Mannequin. I think that, if was so bad... why see something like that? One day i watch at my T.V an interesting movie about a guy who loves be an artist in his way. That movie was Mannequin... and let me tell you something I LOVED IT!!! The story of Mannequin told us about Jonathan, an artist. He is not exactly a writer, a painter, a sculptor, a musician or a filmmaker. He designs and build mannequins. But he not finds his job as any other, he loves his own work. Jonathan doesn't care to take a long time in their work as long as he makes a true beautiful mannequin. But his boss cares nothing about this. Exactly, after Jonathan's masterpiece is finished, he is fired. He try to finds a decent job but he ends in the street Whit his motorcycle. A rainy night, Jonathan find his mannequin again. He is so happy... so happy that he finds the way to get into the store and work, and, at the same time, be with his beloved mannequin. One day, alone... he is touched by someone. Someone who he thinks that was on wood. He was so wrong! Mannequin has a great story that i don't want to ruin. The characters are so sticky, and who cares if are similar to other films of the same genre, this movie are maybe more creative than others. The characters has been performed by great actors like Andrew McCarthy (One of the most handsome guys that i have ever seen in movies), Kim Cattrall (Beautiful in her role as our beloved mannequin), Meshach Taylor (Funny in his role of Hollywood) Estelle Getty, James Spader, Carole Davis (As evil Roxie) and G.W Bailey (With his dog Rambo).Much of who has live in the 80s going to love Mannequin... anyway, i don't even live in the 80s!!! I have in this moment 15 going on 16 and i loved a lot this movie (With other which was famous from this decade, like mistreated Xanadu, which i loved too!!!).No matters how can you can cursed, spit, smear, to speak pests of it. I alway going to loved and defend that marvelous masterpiece called Mannequin.*Sorry for the mistakes... well, if there any. "},{"Title":"Great comedic performances","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" James Spader was un-self-consciously ingratiating and brown-nosed as the smarmy rival manager. It's clear that he was not taking himself too seriously. Felix,the insane security guard played by GW Bailey was hilarious and his poor dog (OH Rambo)was a riot. He was so earnestly trying to do as his obnoxious employer wanted and was so really offended by the shenanigans with the dummy. These portrayals, as well as the flamboyant window dresser(Meshach Taylor)are absolutely brilliant. James Spader's Mr Richards foreshadows some of his performances in Secretary andBoston Legal...He has a knack for playing ethically impaired business people. I LOVE this movie!!!!! "},{"Title":"THE perfect romantic comedy of the 80's. See below why...","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The plot is cute, filled with pure fantasy. Come on! who wouldn't want to fall in love with a hot mannequin that comes to life? Andrew McCarthy who is widely known for starring in these kind of movies, and Kim Catrall deliver great performances. The chemistry between them is 100% natural. With such a great plot and a likable lead couple, the movie needs funny/smart situations that should fit with the fantasy atmosphere. Mannequin delivers many tender and entertaining situations enough to please the viewer (especially those who are into romantic comedies). Yes, there's also the cheese factor but it's easy to ignore, trust me; it won't be a problem.The resolution of the movie and the ending are also great. This is not the typical movie that will make your girlfriend cry, but it will surely move her in a positive way. In fact, some scenes are sexy and arousing so there you go, this is a complete romantic feature from the crazy 80's. If it wasn't enough, the main song of the movie is Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now. A classic in these days and one of the most catchy songs of all time. It has a great vibe and always manages to make me feel good.Mannequin captures perfectly the essence of the 80's in all the sense of the word. It's a colorful, entertaining, cute movie.It's more than a guilty pleasure. The woman who played Roxie was gorgeous! "},{"Title":"out of 10...i'm gonna vote for 10...","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" i was 13 when i first saw this movie mannequin. since then i got a crush on Andrew McCarthy. he was so cute and adorable. i loved his eyes and the way he smiles...it really tickles my bones every time i watch that movie. i even own my DVD now so that when i feel to watch it again i don't have to rent a movie because i've got my copy already. this was a great movie in the 80's. i hope you could provide me more movies of him.i have a question was there any part 2 of this movie? it's so sad that other people rated that film below as 5 because for me it was completely job well done. as a daydreamer like me because i used to fantasize all the time this movie was perfect for me. i wish i could see more movies of him. the first time i watched that movie i was with my friend because we both admired Andrew McCarthy so from then on we kept on looking more movies of him but we didn't get any that's why please give us any idea on how to search more movies of Andrew. even my sister and her group of female friends when my sister borrowed that DVD of mine they got amazed either. she even said to me that her friends really enjoyed watching that movie. they all got a crush on Andrew too. so you guys out there try to watch this movie and absolutely you're gonna like it. i hope you could be able to help me find more movies of Andrew because i was desperately looking ever since. try to watch that movie and wish that you're the mannequin because that's my fantasy. "},{"Title":"The dude who classified this as a psychological film is out of his tree","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Holy bajeezus man, lay off the Mannequin. As much ass as it does kick -I'm afraid it just isn't a deep movie with brilliant psychological undertones. There are no Freudian theories brought to the forefront and dissected. Jonathan is not crazy. Emmy comes to life at the end of the movie and everyone else can finally see her, so she's clearly no figment of his imagination. Also, assuming your theory holds water, why would the opening scene in Egypt have been included in the film? The answer -IT WOULDN'T HAVE BEEN because it would have made for a whack of disconnected ridiculousness. Further to that -your theory about Jonathan's insanity being evidenced by the bizarre nature of his only other friend, Hollywood Montrose? That Jonathan must be crazy because people like that don't really exist? Are you kidding me? If you've ever been to ANY big city ANYWHERE, you've seen far nuttier cats than Hollywood. Especially during the 80's. Mannequin is a wicked movie, but psychologically taut it is not. "},{"Title":"MIX OF SMARTS, MAGNETISM AND PASSION","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I luv this movie ever since I first watched it when I was seven..I wanted to be just like Emmy, full of energy and enthusiasm, and a rebel at times.. The character Jonathan Switcher had passion, no matter how many times he got fired, his fire never burned out.. And Mrs.T saw that in him.. if only we could appreciate our talents, our lives wouldn't be so routine and predictable.. And Hollywood Montrose was just simply hilarious!!! Not to mention his BAD GIRL pink cadillac, ah!, what a goof! And of course, there's the antagonists Felix who was pessimistic about every little thing, and it's fueled by Mr.Richards conniving, greedy, brown noser executive type attitude, a complete snob by all means.. only because he wanted a piece of the pie.. just like everybody else.. including Roxie.. The jealous ex.. And Armand, the average guy, who was always after Roxie like a little puppy on a long leash.. because he was never going to get what he wanted.. And B.J. Wert who thought he could get away with it.. I recommend this movie to everyone, especially those who miss the good IL' movies.. "},{"Title":"He Was No Johnny Depp & She Was No Dummy, But HE WAS HOLLYWOOD!","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is Another Case Where the Black Actor Stole the Movie.  Mannequin started out as another boring little movie about man finds girl.  Ok man finds Mannequin has special real time relationship with her only when they are alone.  Man ultimately gets girl.  Ok it was really nice.  The old Egyptian mummy thing was a great start to the movie was a way nice touch too, Kufu Egypt just after lunch a hoot that was for sure.Anyway a gentleman named Hollywood the gay black male friend and fellow window dresser at the store where most these adventures happen stole this movie.  Hollywood's scenes while stereotypically gay in the worse ways were none-the-less totally funny laugh fests.  Hollywood is just a happy go lucky campy queen and part tyme Diva without DIVA-Tude whose sly prose support and comedic timing make this movie.  Hollywood adds the spice the intrique and comedic shot in the arm this movie needed to be if not real then at LEAST Real Funny.  In this movie I must pronounce Hollywood the last true Diva.Hollywood was a great friend and a fun person with a heart of gold.  The actress that played the Mannequin was a stunning beauty as well.  I could see why any man would have loved the Mannequin as she was always a nice caring warm wonderful friend in here animated moments.  By the time the movie was ending you totally wanted both Mannequin and husband to live happily ever after, <knock on wood!> Patented Evil-Wolf-Grin.  Our Gay Diva Hollywood's greatest scene in the movie comes near the end of the movie as well when you see his car... and most notabily the car cover they are collectively a scream.The movie is filled with all the expected weird wild crazy crackpot straight laced bisuness men, odd characters, pathetic boob detectives, animals and such to be most excellent filler.  The movie has a simple plot that you won't need to have explained here as it is far from rocket science.  All the characters in the movie do a good job in adding demension to the movie.  Is this movie an Oscar calliber production definately NO WAY!.  This movie is just a nice movie you can safely let your brain curl itself up around on a day when you do not plan to do much thinking and you just want to relax not be surprised laugh a little and eat bon bons, pop corn and the odd slice of pizza fresh or stale. "},{"Title":"Comedy genius - is there none finer than Mr. McCarthy?","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  In years to come, Andrew McCarthy will be remembered as the star of several significant contributions to American, nay, World cinema, and Mannequin surely stands at the apex of his achievements.  A salute to the golden comedies of the thirties, this film weaves love, adventure, mysticism and hijinx into a cloak of hilarity.  Andrew McCarthy plays Jonathan Switcher, a young artist who can't seem to find a job that will let him express his talents.  After rescuing the owner of a failing department store from almost certain death, he winds up assisting the flamboyant Hollywood (Meshach Taylor) to put together the store's window displays.  While working late one night, he comes across a mannequin he created in one of his earlier jobs...and magically, she comes alive before his eyes.  He falls in love with the strange, enchanting Emmy (Kim Cattrall), but their love seems doomed for several reasons, not least because Jonathan is the only person who can see her in her human form.  Throw in a rival department store, a jealous ex-girlfriend, a thrilling car chase, and a crazed night-watchman, and you have a recipe for fun.  Amidst a brilliant soundtrack and wonderful costumes, the performances at the centre of the movie (most notably, Estelle Getty, James Spader, Kim Cattrall, and the afore-mentioned Mr. McCarthy) genuinely sparkle. Mannequin could quite possibly be the best comedy of the 80s. "},{"Title":"A Dummy movie with heart","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is pure cheese yet I can't help but say that I like it.Some parts are hammed up but the little romance between the lonely, artsy stock boy and the glamorous, ancient-Egyptian Barbie doll is cute. Felix, the night watchman is hilarious and the zaney Hollywood character steals the show. Cute little movie to lift your spirits. "},{"Title":"The Least Brattish of the Brat Pack","Date":"15 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The last romantic comedy I reviewed for IMDb was the Steve Martin/Daryl Hannah vehicle Roxanne, coincidentally also from 1987. That film has something else in common with this one. The term romantic comedy is often used to mean any boy-meets-girl love story with a happy ending, regardless of whether or not it is particularly humorous. Roxanne however, is a romantic comedy where the comedy is at least as important as the romance, and I think that the same holds good for Mannequin. Admittedly, the style of humour is very different in the two films. Roxanne, loosely based upon a classical French drama, is characterised by a much more intellectual, verbal humour, whereas in Mannequin the emphasis is much more upon slapstick and a very broad character-based humour. Yet both films never lose sight of the fact that the principal aim of a comedy is to amuse. According to Michael Gottlieb, the film's director and writer, he got the idea for the story when, walking down Fifth Avenue, he thought he saw a mannequin move in a department store window. It has, however, always struck me that part of the inspiration must have been One Touch of Venus from the late forties, another supernatural fantasy in which a young shop assistant falls in love with a statue which magically comes to life. The main character is Jonathan Switcher, an aspiring young artist, who finds it difficult to hold down a job until he finds work as a window dresser at Prince & Co., a large and long-established, but financially struggling, Philadelphia department store. While working there he falls in love with a beautiful blue-eyed blonde named Emma Hesire. There is, however, a catch. Emmy (as she is known) is originally from Ancient Egypt and has been transported to the Philadelphia of the 1980s by some capricious Egyptian gods. (I know that blonde hair, blue eyes, being called Emma and the ability to speak perfect English with a Canadian accent are not attributes normally associated with Ancient Egyptian womanhood, but as the above synopsis might suggest this is not a film which places a high premium on realism). There is a further catch. The same capricious gods have transformed Emmy into a mannequin. She can come to life for Jonathan as long as he is the only person who can see her. When anyone else is around she has to turn back into a mannequin. Emmy has one further attribute not normally associated with Ancient Egyptians or, for that matter, with mannequins. She has a genius for designing shop-window displays and gladly uses this skill to assist Jonathan in his work. The displays they produce together are so brilliant and attract so many customers that they radically improve the company's financial position, much to the disgust of the store manager, Mr Richards, who is secretly part of a conspiracy to run the company down so that a rival can acquire it at a rock-bottom price. The film narrates how Jonathan and Emmy are able to frustrate this conspiracy while at the same time coping with the difficulties in their romance caused by Emmy's turning back into a mannequin. Andrew McCarthy, like a number of his fellow Brat Packers, was widely regarded as a rising star during the mid-eighties, although his career has been rather patchy since. The least brattish of the Brat Pack, he was often cast as good-looking, clean-cut romantic heroes, his Jonathan here being a good example. Mannequin is a rare example of a Hollywood older woman-younger man romance where the age difference is not turned into a major plot point or obstacle to the love of the two characters. Ignore the fact that Emmy is supposed to be about 4,500 years old; the glamorous, sophisticated thirty-something Kim Cattrall is clearly more mature by several years than the boyish twenty-something McCarthy. The film was successful at the box office, but the critics mostly disliked it. (Rita Kempley called it made by, for and about dummies.) I, however, have always had something of a soft spot for it. Certainly, it is based upon an absurd premise and many of the characters are one- dimensional caricatures. It certainly will not win many awards for political correctness, relying as it does on stereotypes like the outrageously camp and effeminate gay man and the arrogant, preening and sex-obsessed Frenchman. Many of those characters do, however, generate a lot of laughs, especially Meshach Taylor's flamboyant window dresser Hollywood Montrose, G. W. Bailey's paranoid and officious security chief Felix Maxwell, James Spader's smoothly hypocritical Richards and Carole Davis as Jonathan's bitchy and snobbish ex-girlfriend Roxie. (In 1987 Spader was a relatively unknown actor, not the big name he was to become after his performance in Sex, Lies and Videotape a couple of years later). The film, in fact, is a lot better than One Touch of Venus, a botched attempt to transfer a Broadway musical from stage to screen while excising a lot of the music which made it a hit on Broadway. The central idea may seem silly, yet it is no sillier than a lot of fairy-tales which have been a beloved part of European culture for centuries. A mannequin coming to life is no more absurd than the idea of a frog turning into a handsome prince or a princess falling asleep for a hundred years after pricking her finger. Mannequin is essentially a modern-dress fairy-tale which (unlike some other modern-dress fairy- tales such as Pretty Woman) keeps the element of magic. Like all good fairy-tales it ends with virtue rewarded and vice punished and a wedding for the beautiful princess and her handsome prince. (It is, I think, no accident that Jonathan and Emmy work at a store called Prince & Co). The tale is told with enthusiasm and good-natured humour which makes the film enjoyable watching. Mention should also be made of Starship's catchy theme song Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now. 6/10 "}{"Title":"I finally found it","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie years ago in England and it's been stuck in my mind ever since. I was a lot younger then and didn't really understand all of what was going on. I finally found the film again recently by doing a plot search and I have to say, it hasn't exactly held up.McCarthy is kind of a weak leading man. Kim Cattrall is pretty sexy as the mannequin-turned-woman but still isn't drop-dead gorgeous. Estelle Getty (who I also just saw in Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot) is given little to do but provides a bit of comic relief.The ending is a bit too over-the-top. It's a cute movie but not something I'd really want to watch very often or own - nostalgia is in fact preventing me from even giving it a lower rating than I am. "},{"Title":"This movie is a great love story","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie ever since I first watched it because it shows at first a young lady who is in Egypt that does not like who her mother is trying to force her to get married to and then she gets sent forward in time to the City of Philadelphia. Then when it shows Andrew McCarthy putting that mannequin together then going through all those other jobs until he gets the one at that store for saving the lady that Estelle Getty plays when that 100th aneversary sign comes loose and he rejoins that Mannequin. It is understood why he loves the Mannequin because all artists fall in love with their creations. Then the movie gets really adventuresome when she starts coming to life and they start going all over that store doing things. I really got a laugh out of the dog that G.W.Bailey had because it was named Rambo! I also really liked how the ending of the movie was showing a wedding scene and I really liked how that movie is because I watch it at least 3 times in a month. I was glad when they released it on DVD.  "},{"Title":"Amazing legs, radiant legs, wonderful, glorious legs.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I was twelve when I first saw this film and had my first film crush with Kim Cattrall.  Among the reasons is that she has an amazing pair of legs. I love all of her films, but she has never been more radiant than in this film.  So if your a guy, and not into other guys, you will appreciate this film, and appreciate the legs of Kim Cattrall.   "},{"Title":"Good comical 80s movie","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I don't understand Roger Ebert's review of this film, calling this film dead. This film is anything but dead. Its got actually a fairly unique comical idea to it, a maniquinn coming to life to help give an insecure man confidence. The idea's not totally new, but there have been much more boring films than this. Sure, the film isn't perfect, but there are some pretty amusing moments.Jonathan Switcher (Andrew McCarthy) is a young twenty something who has had continuous bad luck keeping a job, due to his creative side overtaking the practical sides of his jobs that his bosses expect from him. That problem continues to annoy his bosses and get him fired. His girlfriend Roxy (Karen Black) has trouble understanding him too to where she wonders if staying with him is a good idea. Jonathan is an artist type who a lot of people view as someone with his head in the clouds and is not a hard nosed practical type of person.Through a (humorous) by chance situation, Jonathan runs into the elderly owner (Estel Getty) of a department store right outside the store. He saves her from getting injured from a falling sign, she then takes an instant liking to him. Jon asks for a job at the store, she immediately obliges. She introduces Jon to Richards, the store manager, who doesn't care for him so much. Then Jon meets Felix, the night watchman, who also does not care for him. Felix is played by Richard Harris from the Police Academy films, and plays the same type of character here, a short tempered but dim witted cop. Jon also meets Hollywood, a very flamboyant man who I found annoying, but who liked Jon. Then, the fantasy part of the film occurs. A manniquin in one of the store windows, the same manniquin that Jon assembled at one of his other jobs, comes to life. She is played by Kim Catrell and plays the manniquin as a very nice and sensual woman who really takes a liking to Jon. She helps Jon put together very spectacular window displays and that helps get Estel, the store owner's attention even more positively focused on Jon. Of course, no one but Jon can see the manniquin come to life, causing some people to start thinking he's a little Looney. But to Estel, it doesn't matter because Jon has now greatly helped the store's business, and that's what she cares about. But Jon does lose his girlfriend Roxy and makes other people including Richards and Felix really now hate him. Anyway, I'm not gonna say any more about the film here. Just watch it and enjoy. "},{"Title":"The film is not as lifeless as a mannequin, but it is not all that funny.","Date":"16 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Saw this romantic comedy as a kid and it had some funny parts to it, mainly supplied by G.W. Bailey. The film is about some sort of Egyptian girl who comes back to modern times as a mannequin that only this one guy can see. She helps this guy get all famous and popular by doing window designs and that is about all there is to it. Basically a film where she can turn human in his presence and when someone else shows up she reverts back to a mannequin. So you know the drill, people begin to think the hero of the piece played by Andrew McCarthy (whatever happened to him?) is crazy and you have a jealous girlfriend and other things of that nature along with a stereotypical gay guy just to add some stereotypical laughs. There were laughs (not by the gay character), but to me G.W. was the funniest thing in the film playing a security guard who likes to have a super trained attack dog named after an 80's action film by his side. Kim Cattrall plays the mannequin and watching this film and Big Trouble in Little China you see her in her prime and she was a very lovely lady back then. In the end you have a film that did a rather good job at the box office as it cost a mere 6 million to make and it grossed 42, but it was a forgettable flick not really something that should be unburied and let's just hope it will never be remade. "},{"Title":"Not the greatest...","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" ...but fun nonetheless.  Bit of a 'going through the motions' sort of film, many characters being taken almost flaw for flaw from many other films at the time, but it's fun.  It might not make your jaw drop, or split your sides laughing but it's a 2 hour filler on a rainy day. "},{"Title":"very cute!!!!!!","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  My comments is this is a very cute movie, but I do have a question. Near the end of the movie when the security guard and the store mgar. were getting into a car wasn't it a black car then during the chase scene the car looks green even a different make.  "},{"Title":"Cheaply made and a bit dumb, but still charming","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Starring Andrew McCarthy, MANNEQUIN is a bit of a contrast to the usual higher-budget movies he starred in in the mid to late 80s like ST ELMO'S FIRE, LESS THAN ZERO and WEEKEND AT BERNIE'S; it turned out to be a cheerfully low-grade romantic comedy in which he plays the part of an artistically gifted guy who can't hold down a job but whose luck changes when he is hired by an unsuccessful department store and falls in love with a mannequin who is the incarnation of a fun-loving four-thousand-year-old Egyptian princess. Somehow it all manages to stay together and be an entertaining, amusing movie; it's not rocket science but it sure passes the time. I've always been kind of charmed by the comedic premise of being alone at night in a department store. McCarthy's gay friend Hollywood is a hilarious character, and probably one of the first gay characters in a movie to be portrayed as likeable. Proctor from the POLICE ACADEMY series also stars as a dim-witted security guard determined to wage a war against McCarthy. Favourite quote when his girlfriend points out that he's lost his job, he replies, I didn't lose my job, I still know where it is! Some other guy's got it, that's all. Three stars out of four. "},{"Title":"Greatest Love Story Of All Time","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This happens to be Crow T. Robot's and my favorite movie.  A far greater love story than Titanic, this movie weaves fantasy, adventure, and comedy all into one highly enjoyable package. Stars one of the best actresses of the 80's Kim Catrall.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"another great 80's movies","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  All I can is the Best, the Greatest.  I love this movie, it is the best 80's movie I think, I voted 10 and I think it deserves it.  Besides the movies being great the soundtrack rocks and starship is the best 80's group.  All I can say the 80's rocked. "}{"Title":"Showroom dummies","Date":"21 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I think to like this film you really have to be an apologist for the decade that taste forgot, the 80's. I actually wanted to like this film, I mean I love fantasy films but when I'm pushed to offer the most obvious insult about it, that the actual mannequins in the department store act better than any of the humans, then I guess I'm in a pretty bad way. Might I have thought differently if I was 13 years old at the time of the original release...well no, I hope not.This really is just an awful rom-com feature, trying, I don't know, to capitalise on the success of other films where ordinary guy meets other-worldly girl and finds true love after a series of madcap adventures...Splash anyone?I also have to say it, there is something weird about watching Andrew McCarthy's character smooch a blow-up doll and carry it around with him everywhere. His romance with Kim Cattrell's Roxie character, who conveniently time-travels to mid-80's Philadelphia from ancient Egypt and helps him in his job as a window-designer at a big store, takes in various attempts at slapstick, particularly with an over-zealous store detective, his dog and the conniving store executive he reports to.The comedy is non-comedic, the story is paper-thin, the characters even less so. I don't know who I hated most, besides those already mentioned, but there's also the camp black stylist McCarthy pals up with, the big bad department store-owner rival who takes his girl and the little-old-lady heart-of-gold shop owner who takes his part.With an inane soundtrack, forced situations and awful dialogue, I watched this film to the end, just to get to the end. Sorry I just thought it was terrible and nothing's gonna stop that thought. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary!","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Yes indeed ladies and gentlemen, I believe it not wildly unfair to say that this film is a distinct species unto itself.  This is 90 minutes of brain-numbing, soul-crushing, hideously unfunny tepid 1980s drivel, made bearable - nay watchable... nay enjoyable... purely by the presence of Kim Cattrall.  It's sad that a film of such dismal quality should simultaneously be the finest testament to this woman's status as the paragon that she is, but there we are.  I've watched this film more times than I should care to confess in a public place, and even despite coming to loath it, Ms. Cattrall always makes it seem worth watching.  I've even just bought the damn thing on DVD.It's probably sadder still that this film appears to have been derived from the Ava Gardner-starrer 'One Touch of Venus', itself a film of the wonderful Weill & Nash musical, in which a statue of Venus comes to life in a department store.  If you want quality that doesn't kill your brain cells, check out the musical.  If you want Kim Cattrall, check out this film.  It probably deserves to have a Government Health Warning on it, but the leading lady is lovely.  Oh, and I suppose if you like that sort of thing there's shorty Andrew McCarthy too, striking a sort of post-pubescent Elijah Wood note with his performance, and towered over by Cattrall when she wears high heels. "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  filmed in my homestate of good ol pa and in philly too. kim cattrall and andrew mccarthy are a delight. funny cast adds to the hijinks about a store mannequin that only comes to life for mccarthy. very funny and cute with a great theme song by jefferson starship. i highly recommend watching it. "},{"Title":"Stupid and unfunny, but Cattrall almost makes it worth watching.","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  As a comedy, Mannequin is completely lacking in wit. Its idea of humor is having a gay character drive a pink car with license plates that read Bad Girl. All its secondary characters and physical gags are painfully stupid and unfunny. But as a fairy tale and a romance it fares better. As a fairy tale, because it has an initial idea that is easy to relate to (everyone has, at one point or another, looked at a doll that seemed strangely lifelike), and as a romance, because Andrew McCarthy is a likable enough hero, and Kim Cattrall brings a combination of innocence and unmistakable sensuousness to her part; you'd never guess that she is actually six years older than McCarthy!    (**)   "},{"Title":"Not McCarthy's best...","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Andrew McCarthy was rather a staple throughout the 1980s as part of the Brat Pack.  Mannequin is not his best however.  With movies such as Pretty in Pink and St. Elmo's Fire under his belt, one would wonder what would possess him to act in such a feature.The story itself is average.  It's not necessarily original but it is rather cute.  McCarthy is a true romantic/comedy actor and portrays such a role but his performance is missing something.  Could it be because he had nothing to work with?  James Spader is also another actor who has some amazing films to his resume, but chose to do this one?  I don't understand. While it has it's moments, all in all, unless you are a huge McCarthy fan, you should probably just skip over this film.   "},{"Title":"Saved by Andrew McCarthy!","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a pretty bad movie, actually a really bad movie but it remains one of my favourites because of Andrew McCarthy.  He is just so great to watch and I think he is an amazing actor (even if he was in Weekend At Bernies). Bad performances, writing and directing are all saved by Andrew! "},{"Title":"This could have been as classic a movie as Splash but for some reason just didn't have that same quality.","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" For some reason, although the premise was actually quite imaginative, the movie as a whole just didn't work. The story didn't involve you, it's quite the fun concept, but as a fantasy type of love story movie it wound up being more boring then funny. The opposite of another 80's fantasy movie-splash-man falls in love with mermaid-in THAT case, there was so much chemistry between hanks and Hanna and the film was such a delight in general. This was almost the opposite in every respect, everything from the humor to the pace of it all, fell short and did nothing for me. Hence the movie isn't considered a classic like splash.I think if the movie had just moved at a brisker pace and had more genuine wit and the sweetness of splash it would have worked better. Juat my opinion but with such a good premise the movie was a bit of a disappointment. "},{"Title":"2/10 childhood classic can't hold up","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  As a young child, I remember having fond memories of one of my favorite films, Mannequin.  Sadly, I enjoyed much more when I was a kid, then I do as an adult.  The romance between Andrew and Kim Catrall just doesn't work, and the comedic characters James Spader geek, the security guard from Police Academy, and the gay African American Hollywood, are just not funny.  IN fact, the only thing that works with this film is the nice little tune, Nothing is going to stop us now, by Jefferson Starship. "},{"Title":"Cheap gags take place in a disappointing movie.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Great expectations never come, so to speak. The only thing that made MANNEQUIN a smash hit movie was the inclusion of the smash hit single by Starship. Nice pet Kim Catrall was delightfully cast as a department store mannequin who lives, breathes, and has plenty of fun with companion Andrew McCarthy. At first, it was going to be fine as a modern-age romance with the magical bliss, until a hefty load of dull and idiotic gags greatly ruined what must have been a very likeable movie. With G.W. Bailey in another policeman's uniform (well, he's a security guard this time!), this is yet another POLICE ACADEMY semi-sequel. What was the director trying to do, make the ultimate new cult classic sensation for the 80s? Irritating comedy that just doesn't work, ladies and gentlemen. "},{"Title":"A Harsh Critique","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie would have been gooder with Michael J. Fox. It is my firm belief that Michael J. Fox would have provided a more believable and emotionally stable lead. While Mr. McCarthy does have his charms, he falls short of sincerity while bonding with what should be portrayed as his true love. Unfortunately his courtship with his prosthetic beauty only seems to further the patriarchal attitudes of the mid-eighties. The OBJECT of his affection is given life only through his desire for her. From this one might conclude that a woman cannot be considered a person without a male counterpart to represent her and give her a venue through which she can legitimately voice her concerns. This train of thought reluctantly leads us somewhere that even Margarette Atwood would prefer not to go. But man, that Hollywood, LOL. "}{"Title":"Running out of insults to describe this trash","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Unless there's some huge ironic conspiracy going on, my jaw dropped when I read the positive reviews of this film; I cannot believe that this film was even released, it's so bad.I admit it is not my kind of movie, but I tried to watch it objectively anyway, you know, so bad it's funny, and was still offended at its sheer awfulness.The acting is atrocious, they can't have watched the rushes and I'm guessing there was one take per scene, it really is that terrible. It is the worst film I have seen in many a year, in fact, I wouldn't even call it a film, it's a tragedy. The gay black friend, whom no-one actually calls gay, it's just implied because he's so crazy? Homophobic. This is not good, in fact, this is downright vomit inducing. The jokes die on their pathetic arses, the music is so bad it defies belief. The person who compiled the soundtrack essentially chose the most ear-mutilatingly bad songs they had ever heard and put them in this waste of film stock. Oh my good Christ I can't believe the 80's produced utter garbage like this, I grew up through them, and I cannot find one thing worth of note here, it must have been a dark time to be a cinema-goer.If you even contemplate watching this film go see a psychiatrist, he will then accordingly slap you, you sick, sick person. "},{"Title":"Incredibly silly and cheesy screwball comedy that does have a certain amount of charm if you can get into it","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Jonathan Switcher is an aspiring artist who has not yet gotten a way to fund his art and so is bouncing from job to job. His successful girlfriend despairs but being in the right place at the wrong time sees Jonathan save department store owner Claire Timkin from injury and land himself a job. In this store he finds a mannequin that he once put together in a previous lost job and, while alone with her, she comes to life, revealing herself to be an Egypian princess that the gods have allowed to be alive only for him. The two of them cavort the night away and, by morning have redesigned the window display of designer Hollywood. The window is a hit and Jonathan is employed to keep it coming and draw the crowds to the store. Meanwhile a rival store tries to scupper Jonathan's success and everyone begins to have their suspicions about the amount of time Jonathan spends with his mannequin.If the cheapness of the opening scene and the horrid cartoon titles don't tell you that this is a cheap and cheesy 80's movie then I would guess it is because you have never seen a movie from the 80's because Mannequin is so very of its period that it should be sealed in concrete for future generations to look back on. Having last seen it about 20 years ago, my gf and I decided to watch it again recently &#x96; but not with the nostalgic impression of quality that many seem to have when reflecting back on the film having not seen it since childhood. The first thing to really get into your head is that the title sequence is supposed to get you into the zone in terms of quality. I say this because the majority of the film feels cheaply made without a lot of care and attention to the plot, characters or even look of the film. Somehow though, it just about manages to have enough wacky charm to it to make it work &#x96; but please note I say just about because it is a pretty daft affair that doesn't deliver enough laughs to totally cover it if you are in anything other than a totally accepting mood.The silliness and the sheer wall-to-wall eighties-ness of the whole thing does give it a certain amount of charm as well, since it is very much of its time &#x96; this is not the same as it being good but it does bring something to the table that has come with time. Having said that though, while I can accept the attitudes and the fashions, one thing I find hard to accept is that Andrew McCarthy was once considered to be bankable by anybody. He is unconvincing in his role and has nowhere near the charisma required to carry the lead role. Certainly he doesn't fit with Kim Cattrall who, although handed an impossible role, gives her all at every point in the film. Support from Getty is nice while Spader hams it up and adds to the silly appeal of the film. Bailey does his Police Academy turn with reasonable success while Taylor is a squealing, fabulous cliché but yet does add colour to the film.Mannequin is far from being a good film but it is not as awful as some grumps on here would have you believe. Incredibly 80's throughout and with low quality standards across the board, the wacky aspect and the silly screwball comedy does sort of bring enough to the party to make it easy watching. However even those that love the film would surely class it as a guilty pleasure rather than anything else. "},{"Title":"Nothing's gonna stop them now!","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" '80s cheese, done up in screwball style. Andrew McCarthy (grinning like a dimply pre-teen) gets a job with a department store dressing the display window; his ideas catch on with the easily-curious, and pretty soon business is booming, however his secret conceptual partner is actually a pretty female mannequin who only comes to life when the two are alone. James Spader (working hard to convince us he's a sniveling nerd) and G.W. Bailey attempt to expose the kid as a pervert in love with a wooden lady, while Meshach Taylor is a flamboyant confidante (what would have happened had he and McCarthy switched places?). As the magical model, Kim Cattrall is blithe and bemused, and one might almost accept the love story between she and Andrew if only he weren't so self-conscious and uncomfortable. The comedy is strictly low-ball, and the film never rises to the dizzy highs one ends up yearning for...but strictly as a time-filler, it isn't bad. Followed by a sequel in 1991. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Ridiculous 80's cheese","Date":"18 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Emmy (Kim Cattrall) was born in 2514BC Egypt. Her family wanted her to be married off to a camel dung dealer. She wished for a different life and the gods send her soul into a modern day mannequin.Jonathan Switcher (Andrew McCarthy) can't hold a job. It takes him three days to make a mannequin. When he saves an old lady (Estelle Getty), it turns out that she's the owner of a failing department store. She gives Jonathan a job, and he's reunited with the magic mannequin that turns into Emmy when he's alone with him.This is cheesy 80's flic. It's got all the silly moments. James Spader is the ridiculously sleazy executive trying to torpedo the store. G.W. Bailey is the ridiculously stupid night watchman. Steve Vinovich is the ridiculously evil owner of the competition. And Meshach Taylor is the ridiculously over the top gay Hollywood.It's bad smelly cheese. But it's heart is in the right place. So I won't completely destroy this. Go ahead and just enjoy the smelly cheese. "},{"Title":"Sheer drivel","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" If I were ever to be truly embarrassed about any of my entries into the Childhood Memories Project, it would be this simply disastrous excuse of a movie. It was shown mid-afternoon in the early days of Channel 5 one day, and my granddad thought to record it for me, along with another bizarre and semi-obscure entry into the 1980's comedy genre, FEDS (1988). I can't remember if I even liked the film, but I remember watching it repeatedly. Maybe I was drawn to the simple-minded and childish comedy, played out over some extremely dodgy 80's electro-pop. Or perhaps it was Kim Cattrall, looking beautiful before she starred as upper-class slut Samantha in Sex in the City (1998-2004), stirring some pre-pubescent feelings inside of me. I like to think the latter is true.Ancient Egyptian princess Emmy (Cattrall) hides from her mother who wants her to marry against her will. After praying to the Gods for rescue, she in transported through time on a quest for true love. Meanwhile, young mannequin-manufacturer Jonathan Switcher (Andrew McCarthy) is sacked for taking too long on the job, he drifts between jobs while trying to keep his demanding girlfriend Roxie (Carole Davis) happy. One night he spots his greatest mannequin creation - in the image of Emmy - in the window of the failing Prince & Company, ran by Claire Timkin (Estelle Getty) and the slimy Richards (James Spader). After saving Claire from a bizarre accident, he is given a job as a stock boy. One night, Emmy comes to life and enchants Jonathan, inspiring him to create a window display that attracts a large audience.I don't really know how to write a serious review of Mannequin after just typing that plot synopsis. The bull-s**t story and lack of any remote explanation aside, the film is nothing but clichéd, childish humour, and a fairytale romance aimed at mentally numb teenage girls. The truly creepy idea that Jonathan is in love with a plastic mannequin is simply justified by his outlandish co-worker Hollywood (Meshach Taylor) being 'weirder'. He is gay and camp, after all! There is also a gaping plot-hole that begs that question as to why Jonathan doesn't just take the mannequin home with him, therefore ruling out the need to sneak around under the nose of psychopathic security man Felix (G.W. Bailey) and his dog Rambo. It would have also been a reason to avoid 90 minutes (and hours of my childhood!) of sheer drivel.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Ugh.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Terrible. Just plain terrible film about a young artist (Andrew McCarthy) who cannot find work anywhere so he gets a job at a large department store where he falls in love with a mannequin (Kim Cattrall). Of course she comes to life when McCarthy is around, but not when anyone else is around. The film is just.....I don't know......awful. The direction is sorry, the acting is sorry as we have many Police Academy (Cattrall and G.W. Bailey) and television alums (Estelle Getty and Meshach Taylor). James Spader is also terrible as the crazed store manager. In all this is just a total waste, but the theme song Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now did receive an Oscar nod in 1987. This may be the worst film to ever receive a nod from the Academy. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"Mannequin","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Idiotic comedy about a window dresser who woos a mannequin brought to life. Noteworthy only for its Oscar nominated song, Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now.  "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's. The title describe the movie very well.","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Mannequin (1987) stars Kim Cattral (during her hot period) as guess what? A mannequin. Yippie let the good times roll. 80's victim Andrew McCartney co-stars as a schmo who discovers the secret about this wax sex doll. More mumbo-jumbo than you can shake a stick at. 1987 was a big year for bad 80's movies and this was one of them. Kim Cattral is easy on the eyes (which is good) the acting and the story (which is bad) drags this movie down, down, down.Life is too short to waste 90 minutes of your time.Not recommended. Only for Kim Cattral fans (she is hot but please don't waste your time). "},{"Title":"Psychological comedy","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  'Mannequin' can be viewed in two very different ways. One way to look at it is as a frothy, lightweight, undemanding fantasy comedy. Turn it on its head, and all sorts of Freudian theories undermine this film and elevate it immediately into the realm of a 'higher concept' film...Switcher doesn't necessarily see the mannequin come to life. Movies can play with the audience's expectations in inventive ways (see 'Mulholland Drive'). The film shows a representation of a dummy accumulating human characteristics, so are we instead witnessing the representation of the mind of a madman? Everything points to this theory - Switcher's unhealthy relationship with the mannequin BEFORE the mannequin begins talking to him is an early sign of his problems. Later, after the dummy has 'come to life', he seems oblivious when his ex-girlfriend sees the inanimate object on the back of his motorcycle and offers to get him help. Surely Switcher remembers that only HE can see the mannequin 'come to life'.Switcher spirals out of control and battles with his split personality and interesting fixation with plastic models. Offensive stereotype Hollywood also seems to be his only other friend. It is also debatable whether he really exists also, as it is hard to imagine someone so unbelievably colorful in real life.Gottlieb presents the viewer with a film to delight and provoke in equal measures, showing he really is up there with the likes of Cronenberg, Lynch, Pasolini and Waters. A maverick film for the stale 1980's era of film-making. "}]