[{"Title":"Through the eyes of a child","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"41 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Undoubtably one of the best movies about the home front of WWII, Hope and Glory effectively recalls the child's perspective of living amidst the rubble of the Blitz.  The film's strength, in my view, is how people tried their best to maintain their normal lives and customs as their world crumbled around them, both literally and figuratively.The young man playing the central character does a fine job of bringing Boorman's childhood to life.  The natural ability of children to adjust to change (but not without consequences) is brilliantly depicted.  The gang sequences were not only funny but also felt remarkably true, especially the collection of plundered booty and scrap war material.  It's just the type of mischief you'd expect from letting the boys run wild through this type of damage.Sarah Miles and Sammi Davis are excellent as the mother and older sister to the central character; their interaction shows the damage war does to relationships and moral values.  The highlight for me was the grandfather, however.  The gentleman stole every scene in which he appears.  The final scenes of the movie show his delight in his grandson in such a novel and moving way that it became almost the film's highlight.I worked with a man who lived in London during the war, when he would have been the same age as the boy in this story.  He told me that he considered this movie the best one he'd ever seen on World War II and recommended that I watch it.  I've never regretted it.  Thanks, Jack. "},{"Title":"snapshot of a time past","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"40 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe it's just because of my love for history, but I really enjoyed this movie.  I can understand why some may not, since it has a sort of anti-ending and very little actual 'plot.'  The film is simply the portrayal of daily life for a London family--a collection of character subplots, basically.  It doesn't sound like much, but the film's strength is its characters.  Besides the main little boy, there's the overzealous father, the sexually-liberated teenage sister, a hilarious grandpa, a gang of far-from-innocent little boys, and others.Overall, watching this movie is like stepping back in time and sneaking a peek into everyday life. "},{"Title":"A Funny, poignant, truthful, and enjoyable child's-eye view of London during The Blitz.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since I first saw it, 15 years ago, a little film in a little theater, I have regarded John Boorman's recollections of life as a grade-schooler during The Blitz as astonishing.  Over the years I've used the movie to bring to life the very points that Anna Freud makes in her diaries of the War Nurseries she ran in Hampstead.  While the movie is always entertaining, it nevertheless shows the effects on kids and families of life at home during a war the separations, the losses, the physical damage, the inflammation of aggressive impulses in normal kids, the loosening of parental control over adolescents, the dropping of the curtains we use to keep kids from seeing more than they ought to. The film is wonderfully English, with customary attention to period detail, and a great collection of eccentric and memorable secondary characters. You've just got to see the geography lesson, featuring a middle-aged martinet school-marm who whacks away at a world map, using her pointer to punctuate her lesson on the vastness of England's pre-war empire.  I have seen this movie on video, and can say that it translates well to the small screen. In fact it was created for British TV.  See it. You'll laugh. You'll cry. And don't tell anyone--You'll learn something, too. "},{"Title":"tune in tonight","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hope and Glory is one of my favourite films and gets a rare airing tonight on satellite's FX UK channel at 9pm. I saw it 18 years ago on its release and numerous times since and it still takes a place in my fav. top 10 of all time. The settings are truly wonderful, the humour as British as it gets and a performance by Ian Bannen that shows what good British acting is all about. His naming of former love conquests at the family Christmas party is one of cinemas funniest pieces of comedy. The cast is perfect and the whole film is a joy from beginning to end. It was deservedly nominated for a Best Picture Oscar and although failed to win would have been my choice. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A perennial delight","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've been watching 'Hope and Glory' for almost 20 years now, since its release in 1987 and it is still a total pleasure to view. John Boorman has re-created his memories of experiences during the Blitz and produced what could have been a very cynical, black comedy. But instead of dwelling on the death and destruction he has created a delightful pastiche, almost like a fairy tale, viewed through the eyes of a boy, Bill (Boorman himself), as he adapts and revels in the collapse of all the old and comfortable patterns of his life.I am no fan of child actors, of the Shirley Temple/Freddie Bartholomew type, but these young British actors are wonderful. Bill is played by Sebastian Rice-Davies, a kid who seems to be possessed by the humor and life experience of a 35 year old. His younger sister, Geraldine Muir, steals her scenes with her cherubic face and rapier tongue. Her commentary on sex is hilarious.The cast is uniformly excellent, though often over-shadowed by their young colleagues. Ian Bannen once again shines as their grumpy grampa, full of vinegar and oaths. His character is revealed to the fullest extent as he shakes his fist at the power lines encroaching on his idyllic house on the river Thames, hissing out I curse you, volt, watt and amp! This is indicative what all has been lost prior even to the bombs falling; the advancement of what is popularly thought to be Progress. 'Hope and Glory' is a salute to a more civilized society that was dealt a death blow during The Great War (WWI) and would be buried forever after WW2, Hitler's bombs just sped up the process of the dissolution of civility and decency.But there is hope inherent in this film. Humor survives and the links with the past are secure, as embodied in the relationship between Bill and his grandfather, they connect and that connection cannot be broken, leaving me with the thought that perhaps we can return to better days, before MTV, Jerry Springer, Enron, Bill Clinton and a government educational system that demands our conformity to some sort of ephemeral norm. 'Hope and Glory' is endlessly thought-provoking at the same time making one laugh at the follies of human-beings. "},{"Title":"More British than British","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Set in London during World War II, Hope and Glory is anything but your typical war film.  It's an autobiographical sketch of a schoolboy who witnesses, firsthand, the aerial devastation of London.  Through his innocent eyes, we see the destruction in a completely unique way.  To him, the war is more than simply catastrophic  it's also creative.  This movie is somewhat unique in the sense that it's a war film lacking tragic or heroic qualities.  We see ordinary people not only getting by, but also getting a buzz off of the excitement.  What's most interesting about the boy's perspective is this  while he watches any number of British social norms become transformed or nullified because of the exigencies of war (the film has some hilarious scenes to that effect), the British remain remarkably British.  There is no debilitating self-doubt about who or what they are.  It's about a crisis in the historical sense, similar to Bruni's experience of the early Italian Renaissance, which served to reinforce and infuse with energy the cultural assumptions commonly taken for granted.  As an American, one senses what it means to be English, to have those qualities refined and purified like iron in a blast furnace, which is not an easy feeling to convey. The boy's mother (Sarah Miles), for example, with her husband away in the service, is thrust into the role of head of household.  And yet, she's demonstrably uncomfortable assuming these duties.  The boy's grandfather, who is warm, acerbic, formal, dignified, and comically lascivious, appears as a bundle of contradictions;  but, he's a microcosm of British social contradictions, which makes him fascinating.One hopes that the events of September the 11th can inspire in us a similar sense of what it means to be American, and maybe help us to find some hope and glory in ourselves.    "},{"Title":"Tender tale from Boorman","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Boorman is impossible to categorize.  From his spaced out ZARDOZ to DELIVERANCE to EXCALIBUR, this wildly ambitious director hasn't met a subject he's afraid to tackle.  Here, the film maker delves into his past, delivering the story of a boy growing up in WWII England.  Directed in a style that is nostalgic and innocent, HOPE AND GLORY displays a brighter side of human conflict.  Watching the picture, it is obvious Boorman approached this highly personal material with the utmost of care.  Nonetheless, if you're looking for a heavy drama, this is not the place.  Many scenes (if you're not in the mood for them) can become a bit difficult.  In other words, you're feeling as if you're watching someone's home movie.  However, this should not detract from the talent of a true cinematic master, John Boorman.  We love you, John Boy.  Give us more!     "},{"Title":"Very well-done","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" WWII Britan is shown through the eyes of 8 year old Billy (Sebastian Rice Edwards). His father leaves to fight and he's left with his two sisters and mother. Based on director John Boorman's life. Sounds depressing but it's not. The kids back then treated the war as if it were a big game. They would go through bombed out houses looking for stuff to take---or break and made games with all the stuff they found. There's really no story--it just follows Billy and his family through the course of the war and all the incidents that happened. The 1930-40s setting is captured perfectly and (I've heard) accurately portrays life in Britain at that time--through a child's eyes with a comic twist. The acting is all very good--especially Edwards, Sarah Miles (as the mother) and Sammi Davis (as a rebellious daughter).This film is leisurely paced and some viewers might find it dull but others will find it absolutely fascinating--showing how an average British family made it through WWII. I give it a 9. "},{"Title":"World War II Through the Eyes of a Child.","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Film-maker John Boorman's (Oscar nominated for writing and directing)   semi-autobiographical account of growing up in London during the   early-1940s is a wonderful sight to behold as a 9-year-old boy   (Sebastian Rice-Edwards) looks at German blitz air-raids as fantastical   and interesting occurrences rather than tragic happenings. But the   youngster does know enough to realize that the country is in turmoil as   his father (David Hayman) is out fighting in World War II, his mother   (Sarah Miles) is noticeably distraught and his older sister (Sammi   Davis) is having a love affair with a Canadian soldier (Jean-Marc Barr). As   all this happens though Rice-Edwards and little sister Geraldine Muir   just behave as if nothing was wrong. Their innocence and lack of total   understanding allows them to enjoy their youth even though the world   around them is in total chaos. Sometimes a lack of understanding can   lead to happiness and wonder anyway. Also along for the ride is   Hayman's brother (Derrick O'Connor), a man who has always secretly   loved Miles (and vice versa), and Miles' eccentric father   (scene-stealer Ian Bannen). Boorman grew up in London during the heated   years of World War II and it is apparent that he remembers his   childhood years not as a time of horror and despair, but as a time of   love and lifetime discovery. This is definitely his finest picture (I   never did get much out of Deliverance and he plummeted to new lows   with The Exorcist II The Heretic) as he uses quietly effective   characters and old-time movie-making principles to create a truly   endearing motion picture masterpiece. 4.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"The war through a young boy's eyes","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" John Boorman seems to be telling us this story about his own experience about the first days of the Blitz, something that might well be the case because he must have been Bill's age when WWII broke. Mr. Boorman, working with his own material creates an accurate account of what Londoners lived through that time, in vivid detail.We are introduced to the Rohan family, at the beginning of the story. They seem to be a typical English family of the time. When the conflict starts, Clive enlists and goes away, leaving Grace, his wife and the children, Dawn, Bill and Sue to fend for themselves. The Rohan's neighborhood suffers a lot of damage during the days of the Blitz, as homes are destroyed, even the Rohan's is badly damaged. With dignity and valor the Rohans survive the worst, although the experience seems to have been forever etched in their minds, especially young Bill, who is at the center of all that goes on.Mr. Boorman gets excellent performances all around. Notable is young Sebastian Rice-Edwards as Bill. This young actor seems to be a natural, as well as the other young children in the picture. Sarah Miles and David Hayman, as the parents, are also quite good. Sammi Davis, the teen aged Dawn discovers love and makes us care about her character. Ian Bannen, Derrick O'Connor and Susan Woolridge are seen in minor roles.Mr. Boorman creates a nostalgic look about the horrible experience families went through during those days. "}{"Title":"Unsentimental war-at-home picture from the viewpoint of an English boy.","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Boorman gave us films like Deliverance, Excalibur, and The Emerald Forest, but this is his finest. He shows us what war feels like to a nine-year old kid who views his family and others around him in all their naivete, pluck, heroism, pettiness, and humanity. Just because World War II is on and the neighborhood is being bombed by the Germans doesn't mean that people aren't still people. And while their lives are deeply disrupted, kids still play and get into mischief. The period recreation is terrific as are the performances, especially Ian Bannen as the cantankerous grandfather. Parts of this movie are laugh out loud funny (favorite line Thank you, Adolf!), others gently touching. One of my favorite films of all time. It merits re-watching. "},{"Title":"their finest hour","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Hitler thought to bomb the British into submission he neglected to take into account the peculiar resilience of his target it takes more than TNT to upset the composure of a typical English family, as John Boorman discovered while growing up in a London suburb under the Blitz. His semi-autobiographical screen memoir is a celebration of heroism at its most banal, with Londoners meeting the daily bombardments more as a thrilling inconvenience, to be answered by a stubborn refusal to alter old habits. Of course the odds of being killed in an air raid meant little to a seven year old boy compared to the fun of looting through bombed-out houses, and by filtering the war through the eyes of a child what might have looked tragic (father leaving home to enlist in the army; big sister's affair with a Canadian GI) becomes instead an adventurous rite of passage. Boorman recreates the exhilarating anarchy of the period with a warmth and reserve not much seen in recent films, capturing the moment when his country was (briefly) awakened from its usual complacent monotony to withstand the Nazi threat of invasion. "},{"Title":"Early days of WWII seen through the eyes of a boy...","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think those criticizing the light tone of the war scenes are missing the point. The story is told through the eyes of a boy (semi-autobio of John Boorman, the director), and is based on his recollections of what happened to his family and neighbors during the start of World War II.It's a difficult film to describe since there is no real plot, just a series of funny, touching, sad and humorous vignettes in how the boy and his family coped with what he personally thought was a great adventure. In many ways, it reminded me of the way EMPIRE OF THE SUN was told from the boy's viewpoint, although that film grappled with much darker themes.Here the accent is not on tragedy but on the human spirit and survival during a difficult time on the homefront.Boorman wrote and directed it with skill and the very British cast is excellent. Well worth seeing for another perspective on WWII, British style. "},{"Title":"What a joy","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What a joy this film is, every time I watch it it's just as fresh as the first time. The acting is first class and I can relate so easily to it being a lad of five myself at the time, also it has a most lovely musical score.The scenes in London are so true to the war years, and the bombed houses and children collecting shrapnel I remember well and those long hot summers are something I will always recall and although the world was caught up in terror and death it was something that in the end you just had to accept, but I have to say for a 5 year old boy it was So exciting.Sadly AGAIN another British Movie you can't buy in the U.K at the moment although thankfully it does quite often get an airing on TV.. Don't miss this one ! SUPERB ! ! ! "},{"Title":"Oh, my youth!","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was 6 years old when World War II broke out. Washington, DC wasn't England, but, still - air raid drills, models of fighters, the feeling of living in a great epic - all were there. This is a truly superb film "},{"Title":"Magnificent!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A touching look at World War Two through the eyes of a British child (the story is a quasi-autobiography of director John Boorman's childhood). All the characters are completely believable, and the acting and dramatic elements are perfect. You almost want to strike up a conversation with these people. But for me, it is Ian Bannen's performance as Grandfather George (A _CURSE_ upon you, Volt, Amp and Watt!) that does it for me. The man is so cantankerous that he is lovable. And how he teaches his young grandson how to bowl a googlie is priceless. The way he laughs at the end of the film is so wonderful. My mother introduced me to this film, and I am forever thankful. "},{"Title":"As a child in England in WWII this marvelous movie was so biographical I re-lived the events.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This semi-biographical movie from John Boorman is beautifully done and takes me back to my very similar childhood in England during WWII. As I watched it, I felt transported back in time to that wonderful world of make belief that became more real than the Blitz and kept us all sane in a world gone mad. "},{"Title":"Well directed film by John Boorman , where he tells his own experiences as a child during WWII","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Autobiographical film by John Boorman who describes enjoyable vignettes about recollections from his boyhood . Seen through the young boy's eyes , WWII originates a playground of memory to collect and wild imaginings brought to life in which a family battling through Nazi planes , Blitz , fire and blow up . It is starred by a nine year old boy called Bill (Sebastian Rice) as he grows up in London during the blitz of World War 2 . For a kid , this time in history was more of an adventure , a total upheaval of order , limitation and rules . As his mother (Sarah Miles) must deal with the awakening of her adolescent daughter (Sammi Davis) keep her children in line , balance food rations and attempt to shelter against bombings on the suburban street . Meanwhile ,Bill and his friends prowl the ruins and debris of bombed houses and when occurs bombings they run to bomb shelter .A flavoursome semi-autobiographical project by the same filmmaker whose recollections come true as seen through the eyes of director John Boorman, who also wrote and produced . There are rollickling portraits of the family members , the bands of young boys are well-drawn and exploring the liberating effect of the war on the women left behind . Interesting and agreeable screenplay , including Boorman's own dialog . It contains a portrait of the lower middle classes battling through suburban semis , good jokes , chuckles and some scene rings horrendously actual , but in other hand other images seem unreal . The highlights of the movie are the joy when a rocket blows up the school and scenes dealing with the gang of boys . It's a fine companion to ¨Forbidden games¨ by Rene Clement , ¨Empire of sun¨ by Steven Spielberg , and ¨Au Revoir Les Enfants¨ by Louis Malle ; all of them dealing with WWII from memories of kiddies . Good British cast who plays with relish as Sarah Miles as the mummy , David Hayman as daddy , Sammi Davis as the feisty daughter , Derrick O'Connor as Mac , Susan Wooldridge as Molly and the French Jean-Marc Barr as the boyfriend . Special mention to Ian Bannen as the grandfather who steals the show as a rogue veteran . Furthermore , Boorman's two children as Katrine and Charly Boorman . Colorful and evocative cinematography by excellent French cameraman Philippe Rousselot . Evocative and stirring musical score by Peter Martin .The motion picture was well directed by John Boorman . He's a real professional filmmaking from the 6os , though sparsely scattered and giving various classics . John started as an assistant direction and his friendship with Lee Marvin allowed him to work in Hollywood as ¨Point Blank¨ (1967) and ¨Hell in the Pacific¨ (1968) from where he returned to the UK and directed ¨Leo¨ (1970) , a rare Sci-Fi titled ¨Zardoz¨ (1974) or the ¨failure Exorcist II¨ (1977). His films are without exception among the most exciting visually in the modern cinema . He became famous for Excalibur (1981), the best of them , ¨Emerald forest¨ (1985) with a ecologist denounce included and his autobiographic story ¨Hope and Glory¨ (1987) and which brought him another Academy Award Nomination after ¨Deliverance¨ . Rating  Better than average . Wholesome watching . "},{"Title":"Ww 2 in Britain","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" World War 2 film as seen through the eyes of a nine year old boy during the heavy bombing raids by the Germans. Director John Boorman's autobiographical story is a deeply personal work filled with wonder. Easily one of the best movies of the genre, we see the blitz of London from the perspective of a child not yet corrupted by adulthood. While his mother and father are terrified by the ongoing chaos, the boy finds games to play while being captivated by the nightly fireworks.His sister becomes pregnant by a Canadian soldier, his house burns down, but through it all the family survives the surrounding turmoil with fortitude. Boorman also wrote the script and succeeds in portraying his family with both love and humor; it is his best work. "},{"Title":"Like a less cheesy version of Empire of the Sun","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Reflection reinforces and strengthens true emotions whilst exposing those that are shallow and disingenuous. Sentimentalists, however, avoid this experience of reality and try to keep people from asking questions. This shameless manipulation of emotions is the ultimate act of cynicism. - Alan Jacobs Placing children in wars and then contrasting their innocence with the horrors of warfare is a cheap tactic employed by many film-makers. It's a means of justifying sentimentality, wide eyed kids battered in the name of exposing injustice. Some films get away with this (Forbidden Games, Europa Europa, Ivan's Childhood, Come and See, The Colours of the Mountain, Strayed etc), others almost do (Au Revoir Les Enfants, Life is Beautiful, The Tin Cup, Fateless etc) whilst most are simply inept, content to wallow in schmaltz (The Boy In The Stripped Pyjamas, Empire of the Sun, War Horse etc).John Boorman's Hope and glory is harder to get a reading on. Based on his own experiences growing up in Britain during World War 2, Boorman's film watches as a suburban family, the Rowans, struggle to cope with the London Blitz. But though Boorman finds humour and adventure in virtually every scene, his light approach seems to actually desentimentalize the typical view of the Blitz, which is usually ascribed stoic heroes, valiant firemen and stiff-upper-lipped Londoners.Boorman doesn't shy away from the more traumatic, disturbing areas of war, of course, but his film is more preoccupied with capturing what is truer for far more people during wartime; that life simply goes on, that catastrophe brings people together out of fear and necessity, that conflicts have a way of turning towns into extended families, that war through a sheltered child's eyes can be a giant adventure, and that, in some ways, the war offered Britain a respite from the economic downturns of the early 20th century. As one character puts it, war removes the struggle of keeping up appearances. What the film ignores is the fact that many of the socio-economic factors which led to war, and therefore an escape from the Great Depression, are exactly that which put millions in poverty in the first place.Subtly, Boorman's film also references many of his other features. Observe the way Hope and Glory's child hero mentions King Arthur and Merlin and believes war-torn London to be an enchanted forest, all of which recall Boorman's earlier films, Excalibur and The Emerald Forest. Meanwhile, Boorman's Zardoz seems to spring from both Hope's rubble strewn streets and its all female households, whilst the film's ineffectual patriarch recalls the clownish men behind the curtains which pop up throughout Boorman's filmography; figureheads without any real power. In this way, Hope and Glory isn't just about Boorman's past life as a child during the Blitz, but the seeds of his future as a film-maker. These are the scraps which fuelled his imagination.These autobiographical themes are encapsulated best by the googly, a cricket term which pops up repeatedly throughout the film. I'm going to pass on a secret now, father to son, in case anything happens to me, Boorman's father says on screen, before showing his son how to throw a kind of deceptive screwball. It's like telling fibs! Boorman's on-screen surrogate wails. The father, a typist no less (Boorman writes most of his scripts), then philosophizes about how to tell lies and get away with it. Throw in the fact that Boorman's on screen heroes evade the war by retreating to Shepperton (next to the soon to be erected Shepperton Studios, where Boorman would later work) and that they repeatedly run across film-makers and cinemas within the film, and you have a strange meta-film about the germination of Boorman's own future filmography.Aesthetically the film is rather restrained for Boorman, who is usually overwrought, ridiculous and wholly self-indulgent. The film is swift and juggles its tones better than Empire of The Sun, another WW2 through a boy's eyes film released in 1987. Au Revoir Les Enfants was also released that same year.8/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "}{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"17 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I saw the poster of the film I thought  waow ! it is going to be a romantic film, we will take out our hardkerchieves. But it is not. I have found the film unbelievable, wonderful. I have been touched by all characters. The acting is perfect. The little boy who plays the role of Bill is magnificent and the elder daughter is playing beautifully. The film is seen through the eye of a British boy, we can say that the film is autobiographical. John Boorman shows own experience during world war II with a lot of sentiments, emotion, a mixture of fun moments and sad moments. I think it is the best film I have seen in years. I give it an 8 and I will always be thankful to my teacher for seeing the film. It is a film for you if you want to be touched, to be flabbergasted and please if you are touched by the film like me, pass on the message that this film is wonderful. "},{"Title":"Jolly good Boorman; Quite right old' bean!","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hope and Glory is an apt title for a movie about the injustices of war and the triumph of the human spirit.Based on the childhood of John Boorman and his family's experiences during the German blitz of London, a young British boy watches his world change from the violence of war. Dateline 1939; Britain is forced into the European war by an advancing German Reich, things at home are expected to remain much the same no matter what the problems that Churchill announces over the radio. The novelty of your friends and neighbor's houses exploding around you, and the newness of your friends and neighbors surviving the war effort is all fodder for the imagination of a young child. The true beauty of this film is the humanity that emerges in difficult situations. When you suffer as a nation, your individual problems become those of your neighbors and vice versa. The horrors and wonders of war can never overcome the indomitable British spiritAs the story advances the piles of destroyed houses stack up, and the devastation becomes more and more a playground for the young children. Collecting shrapnel, amassing wartime rumors of 'Ze Germans,' and stealing as many shiny baubles they can collect, the children have built their own mini empire out of the rubble. Their sole purpose in the mountains of rock and ruin that used to be their suburban houses is Total Destruction; a game of ruining anything that hasn't already been upset by the constant rain of ordinance.Proper British attitudes are being pushed to the wayside in the wake of the unknown. The father returns from training and notices a new found wildness to his son. The mother feels that This war has put an end to decent things. as well as the rest of the nation echoes the father's view of a changing Britain. Holding onto the norms of living and managing the little things the way they've always done become almost impossible when the world itself won't let you. I curse you, volt, watt and amp! The grandfather declares, whilst viewing the power lines of progress. This film shines a light on the corner of the war that marked not only a turning point for humanity, but also a turning point for industry, capitalism and traditionalism. Boorman's genius in this movie is when he is slipping in the adult moments. When Billy asks who pays for the Big Bertha shells flying across the English Channel, Uncle Max's reply is We will, you will&#x85; the rest of our lives. The adult conversations that the children overhear give us a quality view of a historical moment. Billy watches from his roost at the top of the stairs as the familiar scenes from childhood are played out in front of a more sinister and nihilistic backdrop of war. Tipsy parents bidding their friends good evening becomes a tear filled moment of intense love and forlornness. A father brings a tin of jam home that becomes a debate on German policy. What would be a normal mother/daughter argument about boys and teenage love, turns into something a little direr when the response is we could die any momentBut always from the eyes of the young does the slice of life events unfold in Hope and Glory; National announcements are ignored because a doll's eyes won't close; A day at the beach surrounded by shrapnel; The daughter's passionate puppy-love story with a lonely Canadian corporal; The grandfather's recounting of his life's loves; The everyday occurrences that seem so mundane become vital to realizing the frailty of life and the bitterness of sacrificing your values in the face of a national crisis. Boorman captures the innocence that the Second World War stole from the world and shows us the lives that war steals are only accountable to the people that let them die. "},{"Title":"Bloody Boring","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was simply un-engaging &#x96; more like a series of unconnected and disjointed scenes. The acting lacked any intensity &#x96; in fact the film and actors were bloody boring. Overall a very wooden and artificial feel to this film. Scenes that were allegedly funny were cornball. I started to fast- forward at the end, my spouse did not protest. The film would constantly jump from one scene to the next with little continuity &#x96; because in fact there was no story &#x96; just a series of cameos. It reminded me of a badly done soap opera. At least a soap opera can be funny. The dialogue was contrived and the character interactions stilted. "},{"Title":"Like a big-budget ITV production","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is something so distinctly British about the Home Front during World War II. Perhaps it was the movies that portrayed the typically 'stiff upper-lipped' Brits holding their heads high and getting on with their everyday lives, not letting the fact that the country was being destroyed by German bombs get them down. And so came John Boorman's semi-autobiographical account of a child growing up during the Blitz, trying to capture that old-school spirit, and giving a fresh perspective from a particularly naive child's point of view.The film follows the Rowan family whose youngest child Bill (Sebastian Rice-Edwards) finds the frequent air raids and destruction as exciting as it is terrifying. His sister Dawn (Sammi Davis) falls for a Canadian solider who is soon called back into action. His father Clive (David Hayman) volunteers for the army and heads off to fight until he's deemed too old and supports the war effort from an administrative angle. And struggling to hold the whole family together is the mother Grace (Sarah Miles), who in her loneliness seeks out the comfort of Clive's best friend who she had feelings for back before she got together with Clive.Nominated for 5 Academy Awards, including Best Picture, I was expecting a definitive account of Britain during WWII. What I witnessed was a badly acted, amateurish and poorly scripted film that I found reminiscent of an ITV drama with a slightly bigger budget that normal. I was genuinely surprised, as I'd heard nothing but good things about it. It felt that one scene led to the next without any control or idea of where it was heading. The relationship between Dawn and the Canadian soldier is every bit as predictable and tedious as you would expect, and I failed believe any of it. The third act of the film moves the action to the granddad's countryside home, and meanders there for a long time without much happening at all.The film is also guilty of some truly terrible acting. Decent child actors are always hard to find, but Rice-Edwards doesn't even remotely convince as an actor. He delivers his lines with a rigid blankness and is not able to channel his character's emotions through to the audience. And the late Ian Bannen playing Grandfather George suffers from a bad script and bad direction. He is meant to be the lovably grouchy old man, but stomping around muttering inaudible grumblings over and over and over again is neither funny or convincing.I'll stop the moaning there I think, because there were things I also liked about the film, it's just that the negatives irritated me so much that they overshadowed the positives. A stray weather balloon causing havoc amongst the rooftops whilst the family watch with glee, and the Canadian solider pulling faces through the family window while they stand straight-faced listening to 'God Save The Queen' are a couple of the rather wonderful and funny moments of the film. And the forbidden and potential love affair between Grace and her husband's best friend seen through the eyes of a maturing Bill is cleverly explored only in glimpses.Overall an okay movie, which I will no doubt watch again in a few years to see if I've just missed something, giving the overwhelmingly positive critical response the film received. But for now I'll stick to my guns.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"....Boorman gives us a taste of the REAL stuff","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In '88 the Oscar people completely passed over EMPIRE OF THE SUN in favor of John Boorman's rich comedy-drama HOPE AND GLORY. Some cried bloody murder, but I think it was a warranted choice.I distinctly remember the Sunday I saw both new releases. I first saw the Spielberg pic. Relatively little emotional impact, despite the craftsmen trying every gaudy trick in the book. Seeing EMPIRE was much like being smacked in the head 50 times with a two-by-four. (Of course, this was as nothing compared with JURASSIC PARK like being smacked 400 times with a two-by-four.) Then I hopped in my car & drove off to another theater a little ways away. HOPE AND GLORY was wise, gentle & down-to-earth.Both films dealt with a young English boy's experiences in WWII. EMPIRE OF THE SUN expressed it as if by proxy. With Boorman's HOPE AND GLORY, you got it straight from the horse's mouth. "},{"Title":"Very good autobiographical film","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this film when I was 9 or perhaps 10 years old and it made quite an impression on me. Having just re-watched it recently, I was pleased to see that it has aged rather well. Despite the back-drop of the blitz, this is more of a character driven piece as opposed to a war film, per se; and all the actors are uniformly excellent. I picked up on the little nuances of regret between the Uncle and the Mother this time around, something that brings another dimension to the film and something that I would have been too young to comprehend when I first saw this. And the final third of the film, when they go to live with Grandpa by the river, was just as good as I remembered it being. Funny, sad and full of joy and life, this is a great film that can enjoyed by all ages. Recommended if you enjoyed 'Empire of the Sun' and the Robert Westall book 'The Machine Gunners.' "},{"Title":"Bit of trivia","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not since Since You Went Away with Shirley Temple and Claudette Colbert has a movie so completely depicted the home front during World War II. Those of us so far removed from this time can't understand rationing of food and gasoline, the loneliness of women whose husbands went to war and the effects these things had, in addition to the war, on the children of the time.This movie has historical accuracies of note. Dawn Rowan has her brother draw lines up the back of her legs to simulate stockings which could not be gotten during war time. The bomb shelter in the back yard, collecting shrapnel and the oversexed American soldier are accurate as well. Here, you can see why the Brits would say of the American servicemen...they are over paid, oversexed and over here...and didn't much want their young ladies to take up with the Americans. During the scene where they are shooting down a parameter balloon that has gone astray, you will catch a brief glimpse of the cast of Dad's Army as they march in formation as part of the home guard. Blink and you'll miss it! "},{"Title":"What a gem!","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw this on cable, and I can't believe I never heard of it before.This is sort of resembles Racing with the Moon and The pianist, except it's really in a different genre.  I don't know how to categorize it. It's not a heavy drama, yet it deals with an extremely dark and serious subject.It's definitely NOT a comedy, though it has plenty of moments that make you smile.  It has plenty of harsh reality, yet isn't dark like The Pianist. Totally captivating, yet heart-wrenching at the same time.Highly recommended.  Ten stars, IMO. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Film","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must have seen this movie a dozen times and I never get tired of  it.  Every character is brilliant and even the most minor characters add something to the film.  All events look different through the eyes of a child.   This is an exceptional movie and I recommed it highly. "},{"Title":"I was Billy's peer in that time frame.","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I grew up in a major Midwest (US) city and not in London, I did live in the same time frame and was about the same age as the protagonist. There were no bombed-out buildings, but, as kids, we found our own rubble to explore and imagined we were in a wartime area. We were not as precocious with regard to sex and language as our London counterparts of that era, but I suppose we had our own peculiarities. I shared many of Billy's personality traits curiosity, sense of adventure, embarrassment over public display of affection. What I lacked and would loved to have had was a grandfather like Billy's. The things I truly loved about this film was the humor and love of life expressed by the characters during this era of wartime and horror for their noble country. "}{"Title":"My favourite moment","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Its a great film, I agree with all the other praise for the director but my favourite scene is when the father is going off to war.He takes his young son into the garden to talk along the lines of  this isn't going to make much sense now, but one day you'll  be a man and...... he produces a cricket ball ....this is how to bowl a googly.It won't make much sense to an American viewer I suppose but then much of this film must seem peculiar.  Much of its charm comes from the effort of living a normal life amid the rubble. Wonderful "},{"Title":"War Through a Child's Eyes","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Outstanding in every way. A touching memoir that rings true. A friend who lived through bombing in Birmingham at roughly the same age as the principal character watched Hope and Glory, and cried afterward. The narration is wonderful and the small English touches well observed. "},{"Title":"Memoirs of a beautiful war","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  These are director, John Boorman's own memoirs of his experiences  growing up in the Blitz. Boorman's recollections bring to mind a  sense of innocent wonderment about what was happening around him. Neighbour's houses being destroyed, children learning through their friends that their fathers would not be returning, young women frollicking amid the rubble with Canadian Airmen. Boorman shows his usual touch with applying humour where perhaps a more discreet director would have played it straight. This film is beautiful because it portrays the darkest hour of the century through a child's unknowing eyes "},{"Title":"Too Nice and No real Message","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I see no one has reviewed this flick here since 2007. I saw it tonight for the first time, but just wasn't very impressed. We're the Brits really that blasé when confronted with terror bombings, destroying their homes? It appears everyone just took it all in stride. This flick has no plot what so ever, just a series of scenes that apparently are recollections of the boy, principle character.I guess, this tells us, if indeed these are his memories, all the real terror and sorrow must have been over the decades entirely suppressed.Although joining a gang and seeing his sister behave as a slut, must have made impressions, we just can't quite ring out what the boy is really thinking.Over all a well filmed series of nicely acted pieces, but hardly a winner of an Academy. "},{"Title":"Delightful movie of WWII homefront with a British boy name Bill","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie so much. I first found this movie when I was 14 playing as a Saturday afternoon movie on a local channel. I am a love for any story about the home front during WWII. Maybe it is the enchanting pictures of my Grandmother and Grandfather that makes me long to have lived in this time. But this movie was just sentimental to me because of the story of Bill and the relationship he learns to have with his family and his crabby Grandfather. The last scene of the movie just brings me to delight of laughter but sadness too missing my grandfather. But any-who, if you want to explore a story of a young boy at the grand age of around 10 living through the Blitz of German Air Raids, this is the movie for you!! Hope and Glory is just a delightful gem of WWII British memories. "},{"Title":"Outstanding story!","Date":"26 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hits lots of good notes. One of my favourites. Gramps is a classic pompous legend in his own mind. Billy is wonderfully played. The balloon scene is simple but memorable. The Canadian Corporal is perfect to the stereotype and well cast. The teenage daughter is suitably incorrigible. The family relationships are honest. The reality of domestic existence during the blitz comes to life. Clive is, well, who you would expect Clive the dad to be. A time without TV, many cars, cellphones or much wealth for the British middle class. It is an uplifting film which leaves you feeling good. The mom has not entirely accepted her lot, but abides it sufficiently well. All in all, time well spent. "},{"Title":"a rare but enthralling comedy in wartime","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" HOPE AND GLORY is the protean John Boorman's autobiographic re-enactment of his childhood during WWII, in the suburban London, the Rowan family, Bill (Rice-Edwards) is an ordinary 10-year-old schoolboy with parents Grace (Miles) and Clive (Hayman), he has an elder sister Dawn (Davis) and a younger one Dawn (Muir). The film begins just before the war, through Bill's eyes, it endearingly portrays how the war has influenced and altered their life, and very rarely in a vivaciously snappy tone, which sets itself apart from the usual clusters of heavy-handed war travails. How is your war? when Clive comes back for Christmas after voluntarily joining the army, he asks one pal. War does take its toll on everyone with different repercussions, exclusively steers in the homestead life during wartime, Boorman excellently carves an outstanding ensemble piece out of a structurally formal script, apart from the direct threat from frequent air-raids, life continues its course, Grace is left to take care of three children and grows closer to Mac (O'Connor), Clive's brother, who is in an unhappy marriage with Molly (Wooldridge), and both betrays their own feelings, but refrained afterward. The sweet sixteen Dawn rebelliously falls for a young France-born soldier Bruce (Barr); while Bill himself joins in a local boys' gang and becomes obsessed with shrapnel. After a fire destroys their house, they relocate to Grace's parents' living near a river, where the children spend a wonderful summer time and they decide to settle down. Boorman also engages in establishing onerous visual spectacles to widen the scale of an epic vibe, constructs an impressive set of the neighborhood which is constantly under the demolition of bombing, conjures up the giant barrage balloons, which can befuddle younger generations for its utility. The all-British (bar Barr) cast achieves an handsome task with well-toned kitchen-sink accessibility instead of larger-than-life theatricality. As his only acting project so far, Sebastian Rice-Edwards is another cute-on-the-eye kid scanning the trials and tribulations of adult world through his innocent eyes, and indeed, he is truly reveling in it, in the fabulous coda, when his school is razed by the bomb, his sincere happiness is so tangible even the line thank you, Adolf Hitler sounds like a resounding mantra to encourage people to endure the hard times. The usually high-strung Sarah Miles puts on a brave face as a mother of three, sustains the household under dire straits; Sammi Davis, vividly embodies the young-and-rebellious type, but never over-stresses the standard stench of obnoxiousness and obdurateness. David Hayman's Clive, emits a more satirical presence as the blueprint of an ideal family man who decidedly joins the army out of the spur of patriotism, ends up as a typist nowhere near the war-zone. O'Connor and Wooldridge, the former is comprehensively tagged with a nice-guy label, while the latter is so unsatisfied with her dead-water marriage and becomes overtly proud of her amoral affairs. But, amongst of all, it is Ian Bannen, as grandpa George, who is the real deal, not comes into the scene until the third act, he is an grumpy old patriarch, a male-chauvinist, names his four daughters Grace, Faith, Hope and Charity, since they are the merits wanting in him, and grumbles they are all married to non-achievers. He arbitrarily infuriates his wife during the Christmas reunion by brashly reciting all his old flames' names (which is quite a long list), but at the same time, he takes on the duty as a father figure, plays cricket with his grandson and teaches him how to steer a punt, uttering never give up the punt for the pole, who doesn't want a grandpa like him? Nominated for 5 Oscars, including BEST PICTURE, and BEST DIRECTOR, the film debatably the crest of Boorman's career, life is full of drama and tears, but even at its bleakest, there is always humor and optimism within, that's why HOPE AND GLORY works. P.S News arrives that Boorman has made a sequel of it, QUEEN AND COUNTRY (2014), which has debuted at Cannes this year but I've yet to see, it is greatly admirable and grateful to see this octogenarian never stop working. "},{"Title":"A unique perspective on war","Date":"7 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If on re-seeing this 27 years after it's initial release, it didn't quite hold up to all my grand memories, it came pretty close. Whatever it's forgivable flaws, this is a unique and wonderful film. Showing life in WWII Britain through the eyes of a young buy, it's a very odd look at war, filled more with comedy, family warmth and a sense of adventure, than of tragedy (although tragedy always seems to threaten, from just around the corner). The acting is superlative throughout, and Boorman's camera really seems as though it sees with the senses of his child hero Bill. The first two thirds of the film, as the family lives through the blitz, with bomb raids a part of daily life and houses all around them being blown to pieces is as remarkable, human, funny, sad and surreal as I remember. Only in the last third, when the family leaves London for the safety of the countryside does the film lose some steam, trading the completely original and honest feeling of a child's experience of a war, for eccentric relatives in the English countryside &#x96; something that feels far more familiar, if still well done. But, in spite of that slight letdown, this is certainly a film worth seeking out and seeing. It's very strange &#x96; given how popular it was with audiences and critics, and the fact it was nominated for 5 Oscars including best picture that it seems to be out of print on DVD in the U.S (not to mention never having a well deserved blu-ray release). Hopefully someone will rectify that soon. (listening Criterion)? "},{"Title":"Soundtrack???","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Can anyone tell me the name of the song that Boorman used when Billy and his friends are destroying the already destroyed homes? It is the same music when Dawn is dancing at the club with the Canadian. I know the genre is Swing and or Big Band, but does anyone know specifically which song it is? Artist at least? I have searched far and wide for any lead and have finally seen this post board. I saw that Chopin was identified for another poster. I have listened to Swing music channel on cable but haven't heard anything near it. Does anyone have any idea where I can pursue this? Any ideas where a web site may have a soundtrack listing? Was there a soundtrack for this film? "},{"Title":"Don't kill love.....","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bill Rohan, a young boy living on the outskirts of London experiences the exhilaration of World War II. During this period, Bill learns about sex, death, love, hypocrisy, and the faults of adults as he prowls the ruins of bombed houses on Rosehill Avenue. His father is off chasing patriotic dreams of glory from behind a military clerk's typewriter; his teenage sister runs wild; his mother can't cope; but hopefully everything in the end will eventually turn out all right.....A semi autobiographical movie by Boorman, Hope and Glory is as British as British movies have been since the old Ealing comedies.And what's not to like about it? From the movie, you realise that growing up as a young child in WW2, must have had so much impact on your life, from family leaving, to lack of education, its all here, and even though Boorman slightly sugarcoats it and gives it an almost fairy tale like feel, its gripping stuff.Along with the fantastic cast, including a scene stealing Ian Bannen, the sets are spectacular and really have an authentic feel to the proceedings.The final third takes you away from the war, and the pain, and lets you spend the rest of the movie enjoying the English summer, a real treat, and a lovely way to end a film.For the lengthy running time, it moves along quickly, and although its a tough subject for many, the essence of the film is love, and how huge events bring the nuclear family close together. "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As someone who was 9yrs old at the start of the war and lived in the London suburb of Southall I found the film unbelievably accurate and it was like watching my very own experiences all over again. From having my sister and I 's evacuation to relatives in the U.S. canceled at the last minute because a previous ship from the London area was torpedoed, to the scrambling over bomb sites and collecting shrapnel it was uncannily similar. I was playing with my lead soldiers out on the pavement when that first test Siren went off and we were all herded under a bed downstairs. Lead soldiers lost their appeal with all the excitement of dog fights over head , near misses from bombs that flattened nearby houses and the joy from us all ( as in the film) school was canceled when an unexploded bomb landed in the playground. I was not lucky enough to have a rich uncle who lived on the Thames though,so when the bombing got a bit too much we were sent off to Bristol with our relatives there until Bristol started getting pounded just as much as London.Seen the film 4 times now with last night's showing on Foxtel 27/6/2013 always a joy to watch for the memories. Since first posting my review I have read all the others and was a little surprised at the negative comments of some. Possibly the film is viewed a lot more favourably by the English, especially if from that era as I was. But I can assure everyone that I cannot fault the accuracy of most of the events and the attitude of most people coping with it all. Of course there was death and destruction all around, but as long as it wasn't personally you , humour helped everyone cope, which surely is not just a British trait ? The film was supposed to be through a boys eyes after all, nit picking a film that was as true a recreation of how life was for an ordinary family in war time , just beats me. As in the film, I as another 9yr old, never at any time felt the fear that my parents and other adults were probably fighting in their own way. I was just caught up in all the excitement part of it. I have to get a D.V.D. copy of the film now to give to my Grand children, and say  That's what it was like. So true to how it was.! "},{"Title":"Britain at her best","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" one of my dads favourite films, this always gets watched when it comes on. a small capture of a boys experience of his war, the triumphs and the tragedies he and his family faced, from losing lead soldiers to grandada shooting rats. from scoffing German jam to the war kids and their sacred word that is only said for something really special - ill let them tell you, to the ultimate joy of catching fish on the river and the supreme irony of school being closed thanks to Hitler bombing it i can see why dad loved this film, and its one of my favourites too !! some superb acting from the kids to the supreme hamming up of ian bannen.one of them films that should be shown in school, as a this is how i remember the war from the viewpoint of a child to a child.. "},{"Title":"Good flick","Date":"8 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know what it is about Brits and their films, but they seem to make better intimate period pieces than us Yanks. Save for the Western (our trademark) historic purview has mostly gone to the U.K. film industry.I saw this film just as I was starting my film career many a year ago. I liked what I saw, and was impressed with both scale and artistry of the production itself. Good choice of lenses and angles, the camera is mostly static and at a certain distance to give us a standing person's POV as we see bombs fall, kids frolic (sometimes dangerously), lovers embrace, families rejoice, and the occasional Spitfire gun down the stray Messerschmidt. Art direction is superb, as is the lighting. All technical points pass muster and then some. I can't think of a single misstep in production.An excellent young boy's memoir on the second World War. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"So-So","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In fact, the story is good with a young actor who plays very well. But the film is old and the plot is getting worse and worse. What a pity ! And the film is very long and it's very boring. But I think that the film is a good idea because we can see the war through the child's eyes and it's very interesting.This film shows us that children do not perceive events as adults. They see the war as one game rather than a disaster. I love the grand-father in this film. He is really strange but he brings a little humor in the movie. He's crazy !I hate the end which is not in reality or maybe it is because I didn't understand it. I find the story lacks in action which makes it boring. But the beautiful story between the sister and the soldier carries more action. Generally, this film is really average in any case it is not the film of the year ! "},{"Title":" Too Bad ! ","Date":"12 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hope and Glory is a film about the second world war in England. We see this through the eyes of 8-year-old Billy ( the main character ). This film is more the portrayal of Billy's family who have to live with this war. I enjoyed this film because the actor's game is great, the characters are believable. Furthermore, the story steps back in time and shows us not the real nature of the war of the second world war during the Blitz but the war seen by Billy, which is more a good game than a war to him, which I find very interesting. But in this film, there are a lot of problems. The main problem is that the film has an anti-ending, thin plot. Furthermore, I find the film dull, slow and boring and that is why I did not really enjoy this film. And I am not thankful to my English teacher for taking me to see this film. "},{"Title":"Underwhelming but had potential","Date":"18 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" War does odd things to people. And by people I mean not only the participants of the war, but also the spectators. The direct onlookers of war will react in all sorts of misunderstood ways. Perhaps the group with the oddest reaction would be the children. They have so little insight into the true gravity of war that it becomes a game to them without the proper understanding. This is what Hope and Glory centers on. It's the story of Bill, a young boy living in London during World War II. He and his family are surviving in the midst of the incessant German air raids of the city. They must all cope with the destruction around them and it all plays out very offbeat and awkwardly lighthearted. I was a little put off from this film and very underwhelmed for its entirety, save a scene here and there.First off, I wasn't that impressed by any of the characters. They all seemed to be pretty uninteresting or just annoying. The family consists of the mother, who is not a very likable or memorable character. She serves her purpose to the themes of the film and thats about it. The father is not present for a lot of the film because he joins the military. This happens to make him one of the more interesting characters. He has an underdeveloped relationship with his son, Bill, who is the main character of the film. His character is intriguing because he and the other boys he is friends with encompass the entire meaning of the film which is war through the eyes of a child. The other two children are to girls. The older sister is incredibly obnoxious and I never once cared for anything that happened with her. The younger sister doesn't do or say much and seems to be another character that serves her purpose and moves on from there. There are other characters who spring up in the film and all of them further the plot in different ways, but I couldn't emotionally invest in any of their relationships.The plot of this film has a lot of potential and could have been really interesting, but it seemed to miss the mark a lot. There were moments in the film where I saw where the director was going and I could make out the point he was trying to make. Some of these statements on war and childhood had the potential to be quite profound, and with some fleshing out, they really are. But the execution just wasn't quite good enough to really spike my interest during the film. The film also seemed to drag a lot as it went on. Towards the end I started to wonder where any of this was actually going, and whether we were leading to some actual climax or not. Then the film ended suddenly and without any kind of climax or resolution, leaving me underwhelmed.I wish I could have liked Hope and Glory more but I could never get into it. It was too easy to lose interest in and not a whole lot happened to keep the film lively. The characters weren't engaging enough to keep that dynamic of the film very entertaining either. Hope and Glory has a lot going for it and could have been a lot better. I can see why some people would like this film a lot, and they have every right to. I myself didn't get much out of this film. Plus, it's not really my cup of tea. "},{"Title":"A look at John Boorman's wartime experiences as a child","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bill is a little kid living in London during the blitz of World War II.Being a child, he doesn't see the war as a horrible thing like the grownups do.He sees it more as a great adventure, where the bombs fly and can even destroy your school.But then his father has to go to war, and he's left home with his mother and two sisters.Also, his older sister becomes pregnant to a Canadian soldier.John Boorman is behind movies like Deliverance (1972) and Excalibur (1981).Hope and Glory (1987) is Boorman's most autobiographical movie to date, that takes us to his childhood in London during The Blitz.Right now he's visiting my country, Finland.He's at the Sodankylä's film festival, and I saw him in the news today talking how today's directors are estranging themselves from the audiences trying to make more and more shocking movies.This movie doesn't shock you.It tells a human story about a family trying to survive in the horrors of the war.It's a touching moment when his father is leaving for war.One shocking moment is when a bomb nearly destroys the house, or when they actually lose their house in fire.Sebastian Rice- Edwards plays his part really well as the young Bill.It's rather surprising to find out this was his only movie.He could have become something really big.Sarah Miles does a magnicifent job as the mother Grace.And same thing with David Hayman, who plays the bit childlike father Clive.The other children, Sue and Dawn, are played by Geraldine Muir and Sammi Davis, and they do a terrific job.Jean-Marc Barr is great as Cpl. Bruce Carrey, Dawn's Canadian boyfriend.Derrick O'Connor does a terrific job as uncle Mac.Ian Bannen as the grumpy grandfather George is the most comical character in this movie. "},{"Title":"Growing Up with the Blitz","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A delightful and imaginative film about a young English boy's perspective of the London blitz. Instead of focusing on the weariness, fear and anxiety that the war causes among the adults, this film depicts war-torn England as a source of fantasy and sensory delights for a child who's too young to fully understand its implications. Houses reduced to piles of rubble become treasure-troves and playgrounds; bombs going off in the night sky become fireworks. The film looks wonderful, and it's artfully directed by John Boorman.The cast is full of mostly unknown actors -- the most recognizable is probably Sarah Miles, who received a Best Actress Oscar nomination for Ryan's Daughter way back in 1970.Grade A "},{"Title":"An absolute joy...","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hope and Glory was a movie I approached with apprehension; but, it had such a high rating, and favorable comments, that it seemed one not to miss. However, as Professor Higgins asked, Why can't the English learn to speak? I feared wasting precious time watching another incomprehensible British movie.To be sure, there were moments that I wished for American subtitles; but, then, they would have distracted from the movie. The story is understandable, and a shear joy, in spite of occasional moments of dialog obscure to my failing ears.The movie has been criticized for a lack of plot; but, I believe the comment suggests a narrow view of plot. It is a wonderful story of growing up amidst the bombs, destruction, chaos, and loss, of WW II Britain; and, is told from the point of view of the boy. The characters are as varied and as real as in life. Far from dismal, the story goes through the gamut of emotions, and includes moments so funny my sides hurt. This is one you will want to see again.~~Robert "},{"Title":"Awe and Spectacle","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You can bomb their houses in the middle of the night, make them scavenge for jam, interrupt their cinema with an air aid but the British still make sport of it. The Germans have made quite a spectacle out of London but they have not overawed the British; school children practise their times tables with gas masks on.An excellent story of a British boy growing up in the dark days of World War II, Hope and Glory shows the horrifying interface between terror and normalcy with normalcy seemingly winning out. One of their most intractable enemies (not a German) gave credit to the British who stood the blitz I called them many things; I never called them cowards.Movie is highly recommended for President Bush, maybe he'll pick up an pinch of courage.Comparable films LET HIM HAVE IT CHRIS and BACK HOME "}{"Title":"So, It's Miracles Now, Is It?","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What is perceived as humour is instead simple human reaction to tragedy going on around them; to merely go on with their lives. And that is exactly what these people did as they were bombed during the blitzkrieg in the forties. Looking more authentic than any film should, 'Hope and Glory' is told from the point of view of young Billy Rowan, but we learn about his parents and older sister, Dawn (oh, Dawn.), and how they dealt with the bombings as well.   Knowing very little about my English mother's life when she was growing up, this was one of the first films or shows to finally get her to speak about much of what happened.  She cried when the father left to go serve his country.  She proceeded to recognize Billy's hat when he was supposed to be sent to Australia (Used to put one of those on your brother), she noticed the mailman still gathering the mail amidst all the rubble (typical) and commented on her own older sister's shrapnel collection as well.   Even after watching this tho, I still don't understand the rules to Cricket.  As we watched the father leaving his children, my brother commented on the giant oil frame that held oil in the background.  I've seen behaviour like this on many English shows; talking about background stuff while all the human emotion is in the front.  The movie is still full of funny, original moments, such as the grandfather himself, the string quartet, the classroom reciting their times tables (hilarious), the can of German jam, the father's return on the motor bike, Bruce's visit to the family outside the window, Pauline's mum dying, We got a pet! (My brother loves that line) and so many more.  The youngest child, Susie, gets many of the best lines.But then reality also enters the scenario, as when Grace is trying to get her children to the bomb shelter.   And how many German stray bombers were around back then I wonder?  Hands down, one of the finest movies about life in the forties in England.   "},{"Title":"wonderful, touching, funny, beautiful","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My favorite part of this movie shows the teacher in the classroom under constant bombardment from Hitler's airplanes pointing to a map of the world in which the British empire countries ca 1941 are colored pink.  What's the significance of the pink bits? she asks the class.  The 10-year-old hero hesitantly suggests, They're ours?  That's right! They're ours! the teacher shouts back.  And that's what we're fighting this bloody war for to to make sure we keep holding on to those pink bits!  The scene where the deflating signal balloon falls to the public street creating a new playground for the carefree children sums up the uniqueness of this war movie war as seen through the eyes of a child.  Don't miss it.  What a great director Emerald Forest, Deliverance, Hope and Glory!  What a list! "},{"Title":"Hope and Glory","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bittersweet film of writer and director Boorman's memories of his bizarre wartime childhood as seen through the eyes of a young boy. With humor and heart, the film examines the horrors and absurdities of World War II with glorious camera work, stunning cinematography and excellent performances from Miles, Bannen and Susan Wooldridge. Won the Golden Globe for Outstanding Comedy/Musical Motion Picture of 1987 and was nominated for 5 Oscars, including Best Picture.    "},{"Title":"A lot of events in a small period of time","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very well costumed film with an excellent script and believable characters. The film condenses al ot of events into a single street, but this doesn't detract from the film. "},{"Title":"Looks splendid, but is overlong and tiresome","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This war-time film is too much melodrama and not enough substance. Hope and Glory tries to be an epic, but ends up being overlong and tiresome.When the action moves away from London, things really start to happen, yet John Boorman (writer/producer/director) loses his grip and is unable to pull the audience back in. He tried to people this pic with interesting, true to life characters, but failed. The first half hour showed much promise before the movie faded to nothing.Sarah miles' strong turn disappears as she goes out of the limelight. Sebastian Rice Edwards is good as Billy, though he can't carry the film as Boorman required. Sammi Davis shows a lot of spunk as Billy's older teenage sister.The production looks splendid though, with art (Anthony Pratt) and cinematography (Philippe Rousselot) recapturing the era brilliantly. Perhaps Hope and Glory needed a stronger, more central music theme to pull it together (sorry Peter Martin).Friday, February 13, 1998 - Video "},{"Title":"Golden Days. A Little Too Golden","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film's central conceit -- the Blitz was a blast, if you were a young boy -- wears a little thin after two hours, and the tone is a bit overcute, especially toward the end. That said, it's an affecting and unusual view of wartime. And as an attempt to capture childhood on film, it's up there with The 400 Blows. I treasure the clear-eyed view of adolescent sexuality, the unsentimentality toward family and death, and the beautiful detail. And Sarah Miles and David Hayman, absolutely perfect casting.  "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Thank you Adolf!Just finished this excellent drama/comedy about a family living through WW2 in a London suburb. I enjoyed the wartime imagery a lot, and it's beautifully photographed. Highlights for me include the kid gang who raid the bombed houses and swear and smash stuff for fun, the balloon blowing about over the houses and everyone having the time of their lives watching it like it's a big whale or something, and the strange scene in which a girl stands outside her bombed house while Billy runs around shouting Did you hear, Pauline's mum got killed, as if it's normal gossip. I liked the performances a lot, Sebastien Rice-Edwards was good as Billy and Sammi Davis was funny as the moody teenager. Recommended from me, great images, great ensemble, funny and lighthearted throughout. "},{"Title":"Billy, facing real life","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The scene is seen through the eyes of ten-year-old Billy who is confronted with real life during the second world war. He discovers all the horrors and absurdities of an adult's life and sexuality too, because his sister is running after soldiers. This film shows that Billy is a little independent because, when is father goes to France, he is the only boy in the family, so that shows John Boorman, when he was a child, lived with females and had to go to school with is sister and his mother was staying at home. That shows that Billy was confronted with war and life too. This film is accessible to all and it should be seen. It's a beautiful movie but there are a lot of absurd scenes. "},{"Title":"A very good movie ! But no ...","Date":"17 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yes, I can understand many people like this movie because everybody sees this movie through a different point of view. But ( to me ) , this movie is not that wonderful or artistic. I can understand that when we see this movie we rewind time. And there isn't any really end, we only follow an English family day after day ... The only positive point of the movie is the characters ; a mad Grandpa and a sexually liberated sister.We can see the characters feel happy and Second World War like a big game for them ( nobody dies, ... ).There is only one funny scene, when Billy says F*** !  and when the little gang come to help him.Overall, we can say this movie can be seen if you love history or if you have absolutely nothing  to do in the afternoon. But isn't worth sacrificing one day to go to the cinema to see it. I give it a bad mark... "},{"Title":"Is that right - your mum got killed last night? There you are! what did I tell you?!","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So asks a ten year old boy of a 12 year old girl, disconsolate and standing in the front garden of her home, demolished the previous night in a German bombing raid. He then turns to his mates to shout that he WAS right, her mum WAS killed. An 8 year old girl is deputed to ask the 12 year old if she wants to play, and as a friendly gesture, offers her some bomb shrapnel. The most brilliant part of the film are the children - how for small boys, the freedom to roam in gangs, explore, set up camp in the bombed houses and plunder what they liked was unforgettable fun. Death came suddenly, literally out of a blue sky. A child might have had next door neighbours, played with their children, had tea in their house, the next moment there was no house and no family. The way children could adapt to and enjoy what for adults was only terrible is beyond a screenwriter's imagining, it is however the authentic memory of children who experienced it and recalled in later interviews. In between raids, for the survivors, there was a more or less normal domestic life - dad might be away but there was for most a loving mum who cooked, washed and provided meals and ironed clean clothes. In occupied countries or where there was real scarcity life for children would not be fun. Here too, the problem of the teenage girl, father away, bored by the lack of entertainment, endless greyness and lack of bright lights. Into this came a 1 million? young foreign servicemen with smart uniforms, interesting stories, money to spend and almost unobtainable items such as chocolate, nylons and make up. Here an absolutely luminous performance by Sammi Davis as the wayward 16 year old daughter whose father is away and mother cannot stop her from providing a great deal of comfort for one of the troops, a young Canadian soldier. Unusually, its the adults who are rather pallid in character and story. John Boorman's most vivid recollections it seems are about himself and his contemporaries rather than adults. I'm a decade or so younger than him so have no memory of wartime but can certainly testify that little boys behaved as naughtily and as grubbily as Boorman portrays. Not me of course. "}{"Title":"Excellently Crafted, but through Rose-Colored Glasses","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The dynamics are splendid - a well-maintained cadence of tension, love, foolishness, childishness, historical fact, and human weakness, all deftly interwoven through a variety of characters, each with a unique subplot holding us in suspense.As others have noted, this film soft-peddles the background of war buildings are destroyed each night in great regularity, but few people seem to die, nor do many wardrobes seem to go lost. From my years in Normandy, I've heard stories from friends who as little boys played mischievously with live grenades, or emerged from their cellars or other places of hiding to find the meadows strewn with horribly wounded soldiers - the dying remains of teenagers and young men moaning for water or help the whole day, till finally the following morning the last of them succumbed to peritonitis and laid there as corpses. The boys I knew didn't plunder their neighbors houses, but live with such horrible memories half-slaughtered boys dying outside the bedroom window - more wounded lying around than a family could bring water to, and eighteen hours or more before medics arrived to collect the dead.But then maybe the more gruesome reality is better left to other films, ones not intended for family viewing. Or maybe it's better forgotten certainly those who lived through it would like to forget. Though some boys got great fun from the hand grenades - a bigger bang than a cherry bomb, or the German kids' Kanonenschlaeger.As said, an excellent film. "},{"Title":"Better the first time","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't have anything terribly deep to say here other than that I absolutely loved this movie when I saw it in the theater at age 11, but having re-watched it now at 29 I don't like it as much. The film is a series of sometimes funny, sometimes touching, sometimes sad vignettes, but there's no story to it... it seems to be 100% character study and no plot. In fact, most of the characters show little or no change at all throughout the movie. While it does have some entertaining and sweet moments, in general I'd say it's not the amazing film I thought it was when I was a kid. Perhaps I'd appreciate it more if I was English. "},{"Title":"Too happy","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why was no-one really worried about rations? Why do all the women always wear beautiful dresses? Why is the weather perfect, every day, and - mind you - in London? Why do all the kids play in the rubbles of bombed houses, searching for live ammunition and never get hurt? Why is no-one hurt when the kids throw stones?I didn't get it. Even if the picture is regarded to tell a story as seen with the eyes of a nine year old child, these war days were far too happy and too beautiful.Alas, I haven't lived in that time. Maybe I'm plain wrong.cfi "},{"Title":"World War II for Peacenick Empty-Heads","Date":"30 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the early 1940's, the Nazis began bombing London with two supposedly off target aircraft, shortly followed by daily destruction of buildings, neighborhoods, lives. What John Boorman is telling us is that as a child in London he found nothing disturbing about his neighbors' housing being destroyed, people suddenly homeless in the streets, his country being torn to pieces. NO, to little Johhny B this was all so cute and beautiful. To me, this was the most morally bankrupt movie ever made about Waold War II. But what about Mr. Boorman? He might have had his mind bent on drugs in the 1960 drug craze when Love and Peace was all the rage. Peace through drugs; real cute; real popular still in 1987 when this mess of a movie was made.Worse though are the reviewers who found no fault with this dreadful propaganda work. "},{"Title":"A dud from unpredictable Boorman","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Don't bother with this movie. From a talented but wildly inconsistent Boorman and a good cast comes a poorly written, directed, acted, unrealistic, predictable and sappy movie. No matter what bad things happen to this middle class family in a London suburb at the start of WWII, they always come out smiling and happy.To be honest, there are hints at some depth to the story, but they never come to fruition a teenage daughter's coming of age and related escapades; an unhappy marriage; etc. If you're interested in some fluff about WWII England and don't want realism in any form, you might enjoy this slice of life from the view of a young boy. Otherwise, don't bother. "},{"Title":"Too long","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Samantha Miles is always wonderful, and she carries this movie. but not enough really happens to keep it going, and despite all the bombing they don't really seem to be in danger, which I chalk up to the combination of the script and the directing. The father is always too silly, and so is the Canadian soldier. Almost all the incidents are just fun in wartime and there is no sense of dread, even when somebody is killed down the street. The children are all totally unaffected by the bombing, which is totally unbelievable. They saved a lot of money on the bombing scenes and the few aerial moments. And the whole family is too eccentric, the grandfather especially. It seems like they took all the total silly fun moments possible in a war and crammed them all into one hour, which doesn't really make for great art. "},{"Title":"Maybe it's my age but I had a feeling of deja vu","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everyone but me seems to enjoyed this film. I turned it off after 30 minutes, perhaps I should have watched longer.We were treated to this type of film a great deal during WWII, and the years right afterwards. My response to this movie is that  I don't have watch this sort of thing 50 years later, and so I didn't! "},{"Title":"i hated this movie","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i couldn't stand this movie. The british humor is so awful and was unappreciated. Everything was being blown to bits and yet somehow they seemed unphased. I don't understand how anyone could enjoy this film. It is way too unbelievable and moronic. Kids are not happy when their schools get blown up, especially when they are inside of it! Also this movie portrays little boys of being demonic little brats and teenage girls as whores. I just can't see this as nonfiction. I am not British, so maybe I am missing something here? Or maybe this movie is just plain awful. The title is really bad too, i see no hope or glory in this movie. BLAH. If someone actually liked this movie, please help me understand HOW?! "},{"Title":"Boooooooooring","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hope and Glory is a slice of life flick about a boy and others in an English neighborhood during WWII. A different kind of WWII flick, this naive dramedy takes a pollyannish look at English civilian life during the war and though it does have its moments they seem too few and too far between. In other words, this lovely film bored the socks off me. K? Recommended for those into squeaky clean theatrical flicks. (B-) "}]