[{"Title":"Not afraid to be brave","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a fantastic film, it really is. The director took a risk in casting a relatively unknown actress (Magnuson) in a lead role, but that risk paid off - she turned in a faultless, feisty performance, and I really believed that she was a top notch confidant businesswoman whose love life was a mess. John Malkovich is equally good, and it is so nice to see him cast against type and doing comedy for a change - and two roles to boot - which he manages very well. A far cry from Dangerous Liaisons, Malkovich works hard to give the android depth and character, when Ulysses could have easily become so two-dimensional. Instead we have the pleasure of watching him grow and gradually develop the emotions and human characteristics that we take for granted, so that if you rewind and watch how Ulysses was at the beginning, he will seem completely different. Equally, Dr Peters, though arrogant and dispassionate, does evoke some sympathy and compassion with the audience. In an ironic turn, watch how machinelike Jeff seems in comparison to Ulysses towards the end, you will be surprised!Brilliant! The scene at the wedding when Ulysses tells Frankie he loves her was perfect and particularly moving. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, imaginative, and inspired comedy.","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Another of my perfect comedies.  It is brilliant from beginning to end, not to mention hilarious.  And the things you learn reading these reviews -- I had no idea that Sandy was Laurie Metcalf, so I am going to watch it when I get home from work just because I am a Laurie Metcalf fan and can't believe I didn't recognize her.  Ann Magnuson is absolutely unforgettable and I am really sorry her career didn't take off like a rocket after this movie.  I won't go into detail because so many of the other reviews do, but I watch this at least once a year and it never fails to grab me.  One of the most enjoyable movies ever made, with top-notch production values, beautiful and great photography, magnificent direction, and an outstanding and perfect cast.  There may be one plot-specific and perfectly apt F word and only plot-specific and non-graphic nudity, which may account for it's relative lack of popularity.  Why can't there be more movies like this? "},{"Title":"INTERESTINGLY FUNNY.","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A sweet romantic comedy, that has an interesting twist. A image consultant named Frankie Stone(Ann Magnuson) who just dumped her philandering congressman boyfriend(Ben Masters). Is asked to help an android named Ulysses(John Malkovich), to help polish his social graces, before he is unvaled to the public. Much of the dismay of his of his creator Dr. Jeff Peters(Also John Malkovich). A good romantic comedy of it's time. Ann Magnuson is great. John Malkovich is terrific in duel roles has the sweet and sincere android Ulysses, and has the uptight and cynical Dr. Jeff Peters. A great movie to rent for your date. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the movie was far ahead of its time. i just got to watch this film recently in wowow -- a japanese cable channel available here in the philippines -- and as i was watching the film, i thought that the movie was made in 1999 or later. i was very surprised to find in the credits that the film had a copyright year of 1987. amazing!i think that most of the themes of the movie love, sex, finding the right person, being a loner, were tackled in a timeless manner, such that they are still applicable now as they were 14 years ago.all in all, a great movie. definitely, a must see!     "},{"Title":"What's Not to Like?","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a tremendous fan of movies, I have yet to see many directed by women. Rarely are they publicized, and rarely are they seen, for many reasons. This movie, Making Mr. Right, is one of the great films of the late twentieth century.It is a film fraught with ironies and humor, and told from the perspective of a busy working woman, who is in the midst of making her life and keeping up relationships. Her life is changed when she is forced to train an android to learn some people skills.The movie brings up all kinds of social questions &#150; it feels largely told from a anthropologist's view &#150; a perspective that is completely devoid of the subject at work. This is certainly very interesting, and becomes very engaging when it is forced to look at the way people interact and why.There are the obvious questions &#150; like can machines think? These conspicuous ones are less interesting to the audience since they are an old hat, something already presented to us by science fiction writers of the 60s and 70s.The cinematography or other technical elements are nothing to rave about. You don't watch it for the special effects, obviously. John Malkovich puts on a startling real act of a machine, as well as the maddened scientist who cannot interact with the real world.RATING 8/10 One day, when people have figured that out (the problems of love), then they will be more than just machines "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was my first introduction to John Malkovich.  He stars in a dual role as the straight laced Dr. Jeff Peters and the fun loving android Ulysses.  This is one of the few roles that Malkovich has done that really bring out his comedic side.  The story goes as such Frankie is a publicist that is hired by Chemtec to socialize an expensive android, Ulysses, before he journeys into space for 7 years.  There are also hilarious supporting performances by Glenne Headley and Laurie Metcalf (Roseanne).  This is a definate must-see comedy!!!!!   "},{"Title":"Orion Pictures mismarketed this quirky charmer.","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" If there were more genuine laugh-out-loud moments in this film, it could have achieved more commercial success. OR, if it hadn't been pitched to audiences as a straight comedy, it could have achieved later status over time as a cult film. This is the approach I think the producers should have taken. This would have made a great indie(rather than a mainstream release by the fledgling Orion Pictures) with Ann Magnuson still as the star. Have the actors play it straight as a character study and let the subtle natural comedy shine through. Laurie Metcalf's dingy character would have to be dismissed or toned down a bit, but otherwise this would work with the same quirky charm that made Mystic Pizza (released the following year) a success.As it is, the film is sweet more than it is funny. And it works thanks to John Malkovich's great dual performances and Magnuson's ability to carry a film (the only time she's been allowed to do so before or since--pity). Believe it or not, this was the film in which I discovered them both, and they should still be proud of having it on their resumes, even with all they went on to accomplish.I shouldn't be too hard on Orion, though. After all, they did put out The Silence of the Lambs, but they also let Blue Sky sit on a shelf until they went belly-up and another studio had to release it four years after it was completed. The only flaw is not in this film itself, but in the way it was marketed and what I as an audience member expected going into it. This film deserves rediscovery--and if it gets it, there's the added bonus of '80s nostalgia in the fashions and some of the dialogue. "},{"Title":"An nice, pleasant, underrated romantic comedy of the 1980's with some originality.","Date":"29 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" An bright, smart, beautiful woman named Frankie Stone (Ann Magnuson) is public relations executive. She been hired by a huge technology company to humanaize their latest work. An dorky, curious, android named Ulysses (John Malkovich). Which Ulysses is been trained to be an astronaut. Ulysses is the likeness of a cold-hearted scientist named Jeff Peters (Also played by Malkovich). At first, Frankie finds her latest assignment to be truly strange. As she gets to know Ulysses much better than Peters, she slowly falls in love with Ulysses! Ulysses starting to be more curious about the human life than being an astronaut. Which Peters is absolutely furious, since it taken him years to train Ulysses and drives him crazy that Ulysses only wants to know about love! Directed by Susan Seidelman (Cookie, Desperately Seeking Susan, She-Devil) made an amusing romantic comedy with superb comic performances by Malkovich and Magnuson. Making Mr. Right was an flop, when it was released in 1987. But the movie did went on to have an loyal cult following. It is fun to watch Malkovich in a charming, extremely funny and touching role. Which it is rare for Malkovich. Magnuson is certainly an knockout in her role. Glenne Headly does have some very amusing moments as Stone's best friend and Laurie Metcalf does have some good moments as the annoying woman in Peters' life.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (also in Pan & Scan) and an good Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound. DVD's only feature is the original theatrical trailer. In a way, Making Mr. Right is a odd romantic comedy with some original effective moments that makes this movie unique. The movie has an great if unusual ending as well. Die-fans of Malkovich certainly should check the movie out. Great use of The Turtles song titled Happy Together at the end. Making Mr. Right is certainly an curio. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"In love with an android.","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Making Mr. Right is one of director Susan Seidleman's funniest movies, perhaps even funnier than Desperately Seeking Susan. Plus, I love Seidleman's style, with such goofy situations always set in beautiful atmospheres with bright, art deco settings and neo/retro (60s with an 80s modification) wardrobe for both female and male characters. They were part of what made her movies so interesting.Once again, Seidleman has directed another great romantic comedy with a terrific cast. Ann Magnuson is Frankie Stone, a woman who works in high class advertising. She has taken on a new project to help find the proper advertising angle for a new creation that is going to change the future--an android named Ullyseus (Malkovich), designed by a seriously detached scientist named Jeff Peters (also Malkovich). A scientist and an identical, eager android is already destined for great laughs as the situations lead to a few wild misunderstandings. To Peter's dismay, Stone's quality time with Ullyseus (so she can figure out a successful advertising campaign) starts to make the android more human. And, ironically, he gains more human emotion than his identical creator, Jeff Peters, who gradually sinks into something more like an emotionless, android state. But Ullyseus wants to know what true love is all about (and Stone wants to know if such a thing is even possible).It is a sweet movie, as Seidleman's movie often are, mostly because all the actors (and their respective characters) work so well together. In particular, this is a great demonstration of Malkovich's talents. It is one of the few comedies I have seen him in. And, it's fantastic to seem his try to act like an android acting like a human. Also, Laurie Metcalf (who was in Desperately Seeking Susan), as usual, is one of the funniest characters in the whole movie (just wait till you watch the scene with her and Ullyseus at the mall). It is a great romantic comedy, and one that I think 80s fans are sure to enjoy. Plus, Chaz Jenkel (who did some of the music for 'Real Genius') adds some great synthesizer/bongo drums music for this movie. "},{"Title":"Looking for Mr. Malkovich","Date":"25 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" After he is seen with a beauty queen, Florida advertising executive Ann Magnusson (as Frankie Stone) drops not hard enough politician boyfriend Ben Masters (as Steve Marcus) from her roster. Next, she accepts a pitch from the local Chemtec organization; in danger of losing their government funding, the company wants Ms. Magnusson to work on public relations. She meets the company's chief calling card, an anatomically correct blond android named Ulysses (played by John Malkovich). He's the spitting image of creator Jeff Peters (Mr. Malkovich again).His Dr. Frankenstein wants Ulysses to be a spaceman, but the android gets lovesick for Magnusson, and wants to remain on Earth. This dilemma makes you wonder why they didn't leave a trio of parts off the manly Malkovich; probably, it was due to his creator not being very good with people. It all works out just fine in the end. The cast is fun, if not always funny. And some of the supporting characters are cast aside by a quick ending. Still, Malkovich makes a great date; especially, watch for his hilarious encounter with Laurie Metcalf (as Sandy) at the mall.****** Making Mr. Right (4/3/87) Susan Seidelman ~ John Malkovich, Ann Magnuson, Ben Masters, Glenne Headly "}{"Title":"Signs of the future, funny on film but scary in reality.","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Androids, clones, aliens, pod people. All non-human, at least in the biblical sense. Almost 30 years have passed since this avant garde comedy came and went, a variation of movie plots that went back to the silent age. Yet strikingly original, this Susan Seidelman has a lot going for it even if this had been done hundreds of times whether in comedy, science fiction or serials.Cult actress Ann Magnuson is smart, attractive and successful, but a dud with men. She becomes involved in business dealings with wacky scientist John Malkovich who has created an android that looks exactly like him, and a series of wacky adventures has Magnuson getting in over her head as she teaches android Malkovich all about life...and love. Practically stealing the film is future Roseanne co-star Laurie Metcalf as a love-starved young lady who has a major crush on Malkovich the scientist and ends up on a truly bad date with Malkovich the android. To toss in some class, Polly Bergen is present as Magnuson's opinionated mother. Charming but unremarkable, this checks the viewer into a future we can only pray is false. The actors are all likable and the swift direction helps this fly by, but it hasn't achieved the cult status that this certainly deserves. There are many amusing moments including one where a Jewish coat salesman makes an interesting observation when a naked Malkovich bares all to him and Magnuson without shame. "},{"Title":"cute premise but not that funny","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Frankie Stone (Ann Magnuson) is a modern woman in Miami. She's in public relations and is tired of boyfriend/client politician Steven Marcus. Her mother keeps bothering her about her sister's wedding. Her latest client is repressed scientist Jeff Peters (John Malkovich). He has created the Ulysses android which looks exactly like him. The program is in danger of losing government funding. Ulysses has never seen a woman and Frankie starts teaching him social graces before presenting him on a talk show. Her best friend Trish (Glenne Headly) arrives to stay with her after Trish's soap actor husband left her.The premise is somewhat cute. This is a rom-com where the successful female lead can't find a good man. Ann Magnuson is not a big rom-com actress. A bigger actress could probably make this work better. Malkovich is a stiff scientist and a learning robot. He's fine but not a hunky lead. I don't think any of the jokes are working. Frankie is a nice character but this isn't that funny. "},{"Title":"Ann Magnuson reminded me of a young Shirley MacLaine","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The two stars of the film are John Malkovich and Ann Magnuson. John Malkovich is now renowned as a consummate actor, and in this film he has a tour de force in a dual role playing Dr. Jeff Peters, an all-serious engineer/scientist and the look-alike android he created for a one-person multi-year deep space mission which the characters believe would be too lonely for a human to endure. Unfortunately, Ann Magnuson did not enjoy similar success as a film actress following this part. I found that surprising because she was truly excellent as Frankie Stone, a respected publicist hired to convince the government to provide funds for continuation of Dr. Peters' deep space project. Frankie's approach is to make the android (named Ulysses) more engaging and interesting to the general public during interviews. That is, to make it more human-like. Magnuson, a red-head, was around 30 years old when the film was made, and I thought at times that I was watching a 30 year old Shirley MacLaine.The style of the film as a whole seemed to me to belong to an earlier time in the film industry, more like 1950s era romantic comedies. I checked to see if the film had been made earlier and not released until 1987, but found nothing to indicate that. Perhaps I'm just not remembering that time period accurately. "},{"Title":"An Overlooked Gem","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" With the ratings this film has I didn't expect much, but instead found a hilarious rom com. Malkovich and Magnuson have great chemistry, and are able to carry this throughout the movie. Malkovich also does a nice job of playing the android without portraying a stereotypical robot. Minor characters such as the mother Estelle Stone (Polly Bergen), eccentric Sandy (Laurie Metcalf), and liberal Ivy Stone (Susan Berman) are also quite lovable. I stumbled upon Making Mr. Right On Demand and would definitely recommend it to anyone looking for a good comedy. The ridiculous 80s wardrobes, as worn most notably by Magnuson and Bergen, only add to this understated classic. With memorable characters and lines, a funny plot, and much more to offer I'm surprised this film isn't as popular as it should be. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, Endearing Comedy Sci Fi Romance","Date":"7 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This likable android becomes more human sci fi scenario offers Malkovich an opportunity to act multi-dimensionally as well as provide both comedic and some endearing emotional tenderness. Never completely over the top, this somewhat predictable storyline is pretty basic but with a snappy soundtrack and decent script, the pacing and editing, continuity make for an entertaining, fun, and feel-good experience. The movie while never probing into any depth, does offer some reflection on humanity and love. There are a few plot points that don't seem to have resolution (like Frankie Stone's sister's ultimate disposition), an abrupt cut away from Frankie Stone's climatic embarrassment as well as somewhat of a under-developed segment on the androids coming out. Overall, though this is decent, above average sci fi comedy with a heart (Wizard of Oz style and all). "},{"Title":"Too Many Fish In The Sea","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a nice change a movie I first saw as a wee lad and remembering liking then, only to revisit it decades later and liking it more (for the opposite reaction, see PLAYING FOR KEEPS).The movie popped up last Saturday afternoon on pay cable so I decided to why not see if it holds up, instead of watching a block of Scrubs on Comedy Central again. My main memory was the fabulous production design and costuming, like back then the movie was set in an alternative '80s galaxy with cute convertibles and kitchy-cool high heels.I enjoyed it before, but this time I literally ROARED with laughter! I guess I paid more attention to the acting this time 'cause I sure didn't recall John Malkovich being so absolutely heedlessly hilarious playing an automaton trying to pass as human. Watch his body language, the way he walks and processes the world around him. Comedy ain't easy, but the Malk is committed and focused, and really brings Ulysses to (pseudo) life. Bravo, you idiosyncratic weirdo.Ann Magnuson is terrific too - she's easily believable as a smart PR drone with an effed up love life. Why didn't she become a big star? I remember her on the show Anything But Love and there again she clearly exuded competent business acumen. Where you been, girl? There is one character in MMR that was difficult to watch when I was 13, one that remains an uncomfortable viewing experience today. That's Laurie Metcalf's desperate single gal looking for love with the wrong man. The humiliation she endures during the mall date wasn't funny then, and it's not funny now. I dunno, I just felt, and feel, awful for her; she's so forlorn and sad it's a bit depressing - I had to turn away. Poor thing.But anyway, I had to have the DVD to show my mate - we watched SYNECDOCHE NEW YORK last week and neither of us were able to make a lick of sense of it, but then the mate revealed he's never seen ADAPTATION, so by the powers of the Philadelphia Library we're watching it this weekend. (How could he have never seen it? He's a big Tilda Swinton fan!) It's Malkovich Week at Casa de Ogorek (I wonder if he's seen PLACES IN THE HEART or IN THE LINE OF FIRE). Malkovich, Malkovich, Malkovich.One last thing my newest DVD reads, Ann Magnuson (PANIC ROOM)...really? That's what FOX/MGM hopes to remind us of who she is? Well, I guess that'd be less embarrassing than Ann Magnuson (GLITTER)... "},{"Title":"Why I love this movie","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was little, this used to be one of my favorite movies ever. I don't know if it was the song at the end, or the outer space thing, or the movie itself, but I still love it. The romance between Frankie and Ulysses is weird all in all, but really satisfying nonetheless. The ending is the greatest, happy endings are what make the romance stories, I believe anyway. But, I really wish there were more scenes between Frankie and Ulysses, it seems to have gone kinda fast. And the fact that Frankie didn't even consider herself a freak for loving an android boggles me. Even kissing one. Whenever I finish watching this movie I always sit back and wonder what would happen in the sequel, if there ever was one. This is a great movie for anyone in the mood for a strange but yet smart romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"Fun enough for a dull afternoon","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this film inadvertently, on a rainy Saturday afternoon in 1989, on pay cable. Had the sun been out and the barbecue not postponed, I might have missed this oft-overlooked Susan Seidelman entry.Okay, the plot - an image consultant is hired by the space program to groom a more palatable public image for its new android - is a bit far-fetched. It's a COMEDY. And the android, a doppelganger of its inventor (John Malkovich in a dual role), is imbued with its own personality. It's a COMEDY. And the top-secret android stows away and accompanies the image consultant off of the high-security base. It's a COMEDY.The purpose of this film was not to rival the Star Wars series with credible science fiction, nor to join the likes of The Andromeda Strain in the annals of tense government-related thrillers. The real spark behind Making Mr. Right is to explore what a contemporary woman might do if she had the opportunity to...well...make Mr. Right.As a fan of both the sci-fi and comedy genres, I quickly recognized this and relaxed my suspension of disbelief as the necessary nuts-and-bolts elements of android creation were hurled at me. Having done this, I managed to enjoy a passable comedy with a few laugh-out-loud moments.Malkovich, of course, is brilliant in his dual role as the antisocial inventor of the android, and the physically mature but childishly curious android itself. And Laurie Metcalf shows her gift for simultaneously subtle and over-the-top comedy in her role as the dangerously codependent co-worker who wants to claim the nebbish scientist for her own.Love triangles, double ententes and mistaken identity form the nexus of the comedic plot, but the film's conclusion about both the quest for and flight from love was poignant. The fact that said conclusions are not necessarily logical seems foregone, as love and logic almost always operate independently of one another. "},{"Title":"A fairy Tale from the1980's","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first caught this movie half-way through on an obscure TV channel.I was so taken with it that I hunted it down on video. John Malkovich, as the android, is in a role so out-of-character for him that it took me awhile to cotton on to who was playing the part! This film is sugary fluff all the way through but none the less watchable for it. Difinitely a girl's-night-in kind of movie with a reassuringly happy ending. "},{"Title":"80's comedy that hasn't aged well","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is about what happens when a chemical company hires a PR woman to program their Android when they are worried about losing funding for a deep space program. Right. Ok, as far as I was concerned with a plot like that it was doomed from the start. But I was surprised. It is a measure of the John Malkovich's ability that when he was on the screen, even this movie lost some of its inane quality and actually had a few good moments. This is far from being a good movie but Malkovich does make it almost watchable.Also, there is also enough late 80's technology present in this film that its interesting from a pop history perspective.  Seeing folks at the wedding lugging around a camcorder that's larger than my current VCR brought back memories. Also our heroine lugs an old-fashioned Filo-Fax everywhere. Remember those big wheels that held paper cards with contact data? "}{"Title":"An alright movie","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this on TV 2 nights ago as I never seen it before and I thought it was a bit stupid. The film is about a woman who falls in love with an android who is like the creator that made him. The android of course has human charctheristics and falls for the woman also leaving their relationship at jeopardy.The story is a bit dull as its weird having a woman falling for an android I mean COME ON how is she suppose to be with someone who isn't real. It just doesn't make sense.The ending was a bit of a letdown and the music was OK I guess.Im giving this a 4/10 because I didn't really like it. "},{"Title":"Unhappily, there's not much right about this one...","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" A long time ago, I saw Desperately Seeking Susan (1985), also directed by Susan Seidelman and I thought that film and story were quite good, and very well produced.I don't think the same about this effort, despite the presence of John Malkovich who gives an adequate performance in a dual role. The supporting cast is also quite good, particularly Laurie Metcalf, whom I recall most from her days on the TV sitcom Roseanne. The story material, however, leaves much to be desired...The problem with the narrative is that, try as I might, I really didn't care about any of the characters. Their vacuous lives amidst the glitz of Miami was a tad overdone, I thought, leaving absolutely no room for any empathy. Instead of being funny, it devolves into campy crassness, which, I grant you is part of that whole scene, way down there in orange juice land.However, instead of trying to overcome that, the story instead uses the presence of an android, named Ulysses, who looks like Malkovich (who must go on a long journey of seven years &#150; yikes, shades of the Odyssey!) &#150; to act as a metaphor for that same vacuity empty, soulless, without feeling, without hope...And then proceeds to show how even such an empty shell can indeed learn to love and live as we all should. Excuse me? I don't mind suspension of disbelief to carry me through some preposterous narratives, but even science fiction (not science fantasy) must obey the laws and limitations of physics, neuroscience and computer software. This story blithely ignores all such precepts and merely succeeds in making itself look and sound ridiculous.And the ending? Just absurd &#150; absolutely, totally, irrevocably absurd.If you really want to waste 98 minutes of your life, then go ahead and make yourself pay. I had to, in order to do this review, so how do you think I feel now? "},{"Title":"Pretty Bad, But Partially Redeemed by John Malkovich's Performance","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Making Mr. Right. The premise behind this film is simple and the sub plots are uncomplicated and sometimes trite, but the movie is consistently contrived, from beginning to end.John Malkovich is a scientist who creates a look-alike android to precede him into space. Ann Magnuson is the assistant who is in love with her boss and ends up spending time with the android. Complications ensue. Well, duh! The suspension of belief required is pretty hard to achieve. In fact, it was impossible to achieve such an extreme level of dim awareness.The only redeeming element associated with this work is John Malkovich's performance, which is startling and Michael Jacksonesque (though not so much so as Depp's Chocolate Factory persona).All in all? Unless you're a die hard John Malkovich fan, this really isn't worth your time.It rates a 4.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Did I Miss the Point?","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Malkovich stars in Making Mr right as a scientist who makes a robotic version of himself to be used in a space mission. The company he is working for hires a women to teach the robot about emotions. But she falls in love with the robot. I don't have much to say about John Malkovich who gets the job done as usual. For some reason, this film didn't make me laugh in the parts I was supposed to. Ann Magnuson is not really convincing for her part. Okay, this is not supposed to be a serious film but again with the material we are talking about, a much better movie could have been done. She looks more like the wife of the senator who spends all her day shopping and changing hairstyle. There are some moments of the film you can smile but that's all. By the way nobody buys this robot's way of learning to impress a woman. Even a real person can't make it right with only one go. I think we are shown only the surface of the film, but in a romantic comedy audience expect to see a bit of deepness too. This is a big miss in Making Mr Right. * out of ***** "}]