[{"Title":"Scarry then, cult classic now!","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"37 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Demons? Metal Music? Steven Dorff? Why not!!!So... the gateway to hell or whatever is in the backyard of Steven Dorff's suburban home... and a metal band foretold all of this... and Demons threaten this world... Doesn't that sound great?As a kid this was scary watching this with a baby sitter and such but now it just seems campy. But I still love it every time!OK... it is a bit cheesy, and the DVD quality is awful.... but come on...it's like 5 bucks at Best buy!Seriously... if you haven't seen this movie and your into cheesy horror flicks just give it a try... keep the classics alive! "},{"Title":"Playing records backwards can be hazardous to more than the needle.","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A classic in the eighties genre of horror. It features goofy heavy metal music and demons. Stephen Dorff plays young Glen, who discovers a hole in his backyard is a doorway for demons. After his friend Terry plays his metal album backwords and they coincidently bury the family pet(you always need a sacrifice) in a hole in the backyard, they awaken demonic spirits which destroy the home and try to kill them. A funny take(even if not meant to be) on back masking and the influence of rock music on children. This film features some classic stop motion in the lines of Jason and the Argonauts. They are attacked by reanimating dead, droves of tiny demons and a head demon the size of a bus, which bares a strong resemblance to a Clash of Titans creature. This all stemming from a movie that would normally be a dud given the time period. It shouldn't be taken too seriously, but will amuse you for about 85 minutes. This is yet another underrated, hardly seen eighties gem. "},{"Title":"Underrated Cult-Movie","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"32 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The boy Glen (Stephen Dorff) and his best fried Terry (Louis Tripp) accidentally open a gate to hell when a rotten tree is removed from the backyard of Glen's house. When his dog die and a friend of Glen's sister, the teenager Alexandra (Christa Denton), buries the animal in the hole, demons from an ancient civilization are released, seeking for two human sacrifices to dominate the world. Glen, Al and Terry, who are spending the weekend alone in the house, fight to save their lives and close the hole.I do not recall how many times I have seen The Gate on VHS and now on DVD. The funny story has a terrible conclusion, but the special effects were amazing in 1987. This cult-movie is very underrated inclusive in IMDb but who cares? I still love this little gem of the fantastic cinema. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) O Portão (VHS) / O Portal (DVD) (The Gate) "},{"Title":"cheesy horror and nostalgia = fun!","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ah, the pleasures of horror movies and nostalgia. I was about 18 or so when this was first released, and I wandered to the theaters with my friends to watch this movie based on all the TV ads. Yeah, ads that included those little dwarfed demons with mean faces and sharp teeth. Hey, for 1987 that was seriously cool - and done very well! But at the time, I came out of the theater thinking, Eh, it was okay. Years later, sick and not in the mood to move, I flipped through the channels late at night and found The Gate about to come on. I thought, Eh, for nostalgia, why not? I was surprised by how much I loved the movie! I'd forgotten it starred Stephen Dorff (he was unknown back then), and I was disappointed to learn that his sister in the movie (Christa Denton) didn't really go on to do much else. She was cute. Whatever happened to her??? Besides the cool suburban and 1980's atmosphere (not to mention the clothes and hair - oh yeah!), the movie's story is the fun type of cheese that still keeps your eyes glued to the TV. Cool effects, a no-brainer but engaging story, and the kids are fun to watch. It's also on DVD at a cheap price, and I bought it the other day. Not bad. It's full screen (bummer), but the picture is pretty good. No extra features though (bummer again). But still, very worth of owning. I just watched it again lastnight. And yes, it's still so fun! "},{"Title":"Worth a look.","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a movie about parents who leave their kids at home while going on vacation.  Of course the older daughter throws a wild party.  Less predictably, the younger son and his screwed up, heavy-metal listening to friend open up a dimensional gate to a realm of demons.That's where the fun begins.  Some hard-core lovers of horror movies may find this movie to be too heavy on plot and character, but I believe that those aspects are balanced with a good dose of gore and special effects including some pretty amazing f/x feats for 1987.The only let down for me is the sappy feel-good ending that is seems a bit tacked on.  Other than that this movie is good for a scare.  So if you are cruising down the bargain priced movies at your local video store and see this title give it a shot.  At the very least you'll see Stephen Dorf in his first movie. "},{"Title":"Protect Our Trees!","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Believe it or not, this was much better than I initially anticipated. I expected one of those God-awful, cheesy special effects, mindless eighties horror films - a decade I think was a low ebb for that genre in general. I got to see a 35mm print of The Gate and was impressed with several things. Now before I get out of control here, make no mistake, this is not a great film even in terms of the horror genre, but it is a bona-fide campy, cult favorite from the eighties with good reason. The story is ridiculous about some hole, as a result of an old tree being destroyed in a family's backyard, having demons living down deep in its bowels. A rock band that died tragically also is involved, or at least the record album on hand complete with a huge history of demonology attached. Add a couple more-than-precocious boys, a bunch of teens, looking dreadfully eighties-style, attending a party while the parents are away, and some freaky little demons and you have much of The Gate. The little demons are cute and spooky and the director Tibot Takics actually visualizes them rather nicely - particularly in an era when special effects for horror and science fiction films were quite low in terms of quality. The director was also able to create some suspense and some interesting characters with the 2 small boys in particular. Stephen Dorff and Louis Tripp play Glenn and Terry respectively and give the film some heart. There is not much to recommend as far as the remaining cast is concerned, but The Gate delivers some solid scares, some atmospheric settings and direction, and some surprisingly good special effects. Good campy fun! "},{"Title":"Cult Appeal","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Overall, I liked The Gate because of it's weirdness. Plus, the special effects were eye-catching. Especially when the handyman tumbles over then transforms into tiny demons that scatter about. My favorite scene is when the parents return home late at night and Glen's father says You've been baaaaaad! and tries to strangle him while slime drips out of his face. Weird stuff. My only complaint is how it ended. But I won't give it away. I recommend seeing this one but keep in mind that those dwarf demons are older than the Bible. "},{"Title":"Believe it or not, this is pretty good!","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I usually don't go for cheap '80's horror films, but this one was entertaining. I had heard some good things about it before, but never really thought about watching it. However, there was nothing else on, so I gave it a shot. I was surprised. So the special effects aren't quite up to date, if you like horror, you probably won't mind. It's not as violent as some other '80's horror films, and it's actually better than most of them. "},{"Title":"Amazing!!!","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you are ever in the mood of seeing a funny and thrilling 80's horror movie, please watch The Gate! Don't trust IMDb with the 5 rating it's much better than that! I love the opening scene, the monsters and the thrilling scenes it contains.The movie is about a Gate to hell or something which lies in a young boy and his sisters garden. Suddenly when it's dark, monsters emerge from the gate and attack the boy and the girl. The monsters are small latex beasts which also like incredible good and monster like. And there are some scenes with a zombie dude which are totally outstanding! I'm not going to spoil the end because this is a special effect extravaganza! Must see! "},{"Title":"I feel weird writing it, but I like this movie alot.","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the better 80's horror films. It's about Glen and Terry finding a rock in their backyard that leads to demons breaking free to terrorize earth.Overall it didn't even effect my rating that Stephed Dorff was in it, because I had know idea who he was.Also with Christa Denton.   I'll rate this on 7/10. "}{"Title":"Good","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I would have never guessed in a million years that a PG-13 horror movie actually existed in the 80's. I knew horror was big then, but big enough to make a movie for the under eighteen? I was definitely going to have to watch The Gate.This fun, campy horror flick is about Glen (Stephen Dorff) and his best friend, Terry (Louis Tripp), accidentally finding a gateway to hell in Glen's backyard, and with the help from a rock band that had written songs about the gate, try to close it up. Unfortunately, all doesn't go that well. With Glen's parents gone for the weekend and his big sister, Al (Christa Denton), in charge, this can only mean one thing demons.The downside about the demons, though? Well, actually there are two things. One, they're about the size of a newborn kitten, which sort of takes away what could have been something good and scary (though if you were about ten when watching this, it would have given you nightmares compared to anyone over thirteen.) However, considering it is a low-budget movie that does involve kids, I'm sure they couldn't make them too challenging of demons (they were actually rather stronger than you would have suspected!) The other downside is that it takes nearly fifty minutes for anything even remotely scary to happen (the very first incident is when long creature-looking arms are grabbing Al's leg from under a bed in Glen's room.) After that, the movie becomes a wonderful roller coaster ride, but then the ride slows down and before you know it, it's time to get off.When the bed scene is over we actually get a little &#x96; and I do mean just a little &#x96; gore! Now I'm not talking gore as in The Thing, but the gore was good enough for the movie and to not make anyone queasy. As far the special effects go, today they would have been considered bad, but for the era back then they're actually rather decent. The kids do a satisfying job on their acting, especially Louis Tripp! This is definitely a classic any fan of the 80's must see! "},{"Title":"Original","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Gate is a really good horror film from start to finish. It remains one of my all-time favorites, probably since it scared the hell out of me as a kid. Can't wait to show it to my son. Three kids left alone for the weekend are tormented by demons. They come out of a hole in the backyard from where a tree once stood. Sounds cheesy, and maybe the story is, but the thing comes off good. The whole thing is very imaginative, and crammed with great special effects (none of those pesky cheesy digital effects that plague our mainstream horror films today). The atmosphere is excellent, even though the thing takes place in one suburban house. There's a true sense of terror running through the whole movie. It reminds me of a nightmare. The characters are not your average bratty foul-mouthed kids that seem to plague films like this, making things refreshing. It's mild horror (at a PG-13 rating), but it's not kiddieish. The horror is there but it doesn't have to be bloody. Original and refreshing. Too bad the sequel sucked. Three Stars. "},{"Title":"80s comedy horror at it's best","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Why is this movie so obscure?This is a far better film than Monster Squad, Saturday the 14th and the rest of the kids/horror/comedy that hit so big in the late 80s.Heavy metal record unlocking the gate to hell is a little cheesy, but the film maintains pace, plot and a mixture of stupid giggles and lame rubber zombies breaking out of the walls at a perfect level.Too bad it suffers from twist ending theater. (Not a spoiler. It's the defining characteristic of the genre.) "},{"Title":"Heavy Metal Hell","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Possibly after being struck by lightning, a tree in young Stephen Dorff (as Glen)'s yard is removed. Possibly, this was a gateway to Hell. After Mr. Dorff, neighbor Louis Tripp (as Terry), and sister Christa Denton (as Al) unwittingly perform a succession of rites and incantations, demons surface. The youngsters' parents are conveniently away from home; and, the demons want to do mean things. Mr. Tripp is dealing with the loss of his mother; and, Ms. Denton is discovering young womanhood. The monster demons are cute, but the story really doesn't pass muster. Made, apparently, to scare 1980s pre-teens.***** The Gate (1987) Tibor Takács ~ Stephen Dorff, Louis Tripp, Christa Denton "},{"Title":"A spine-tingling horror film.","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This horror flick is highly underrated for its genre.  It is a fantastical story about a young boy(played beautifully by a young Stephen Dorff) who by chance in a dream awakens evil demons from a hole in his backyard.  The whole film follows his journey to destroy the demons and send them back to hell.  The young boy is helped by his best friend(who is as nerdy as a young kid gets) and his naive sister to rid his house of the minions of evil. First rate visual effects are very good and the demons are very life-like and mobile.  A great fantasy film for kids that liked to be scared out of their wits.  ***of **** stars. "},{"Title":"A great horror-fantasy","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Don't let the PG-13 rating and the if it's not gory and new, it's no good critiques fool you. This could possibly get an R today, and is a great horror-fantasy that I loved as a kid and still love now. All of the actors turn in great performances (including a very young Stephen Dorff who proves here that he was a great actor from the start), and I have no idea how anyone could dare to criticize the quality of these great special FX. To me, The Gate is an example that sometimes a low-budget film, if done well, looks much better than big-budget swill could ever wish to be. The only less than totally impressive special effect is the big monster that shows up, but it's no better or worse than the computer-generated monsters we're accustomed to today, plus the fact that it WAS done on a low budget should make it more worthy of respect when it probably looked state-of-the-art back then. All of the rest of the creatures are great. Like in Return of the Aliens The Deadly Spawn (another great movie with even lower budget creature FX), if I were to run into some monsters in real life, I would expect them to look as real as this! Another thing I loved about this was the fact that, despite idiotic people who write all the time that this movie is making a comment against heavy metal, The Gate actually poses an interesting idea that sometimes the knowledge of some of these heavy metal rockers can be positive and helpful, no matter how evil their image might be. If you watch this movie, you might see what I mean. This is definitely a PG-13 horror movie that deserves a lot more respect than it's gotten.  "},{"Title":"This is a good movie","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't know why people hate this movie. I thought this was a good horror flick. Some of the film is a bit strange, but cool. I love the little demon monsters. The movie doesn't scare me as much as when I was a little kid. The film is still great, if you don't have anything else to do. The film isn't violent like most horror flicks, but the movie still got some violence in it.I give this film 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A good 'Beginners' Movie.","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie involves two kids who find a 'gem' in there back yard and release demons all over Glenns house. Sacrifices, sacrifices. Good if you like a 'B' movie once and a while.My rating out of 10 = 7. "},{"Title":"Super 80's horror.","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Gate is one of my most loved films,scary and cool. This was the only film that i had to turn off when i was young because it was very scary. WICKED AND WILD. "},{"Title":"A hugely enjoyable 80's teen horror blast","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Nice kid Glen (a fine Stephen Dorff in his film debut) and his amiable heavy metal music nerd best friend Terry (a solid and likable performance by Louis Tripp) inadvertently release a powerful supernatural force from another dimension through a mysterious hole in Gleen's backyard. If the boys don't figure out a way to close said gate right away, these lethal demonic beings will bring about hell on earth. Director Tibor Takacs and writer Michael Nankin eschew the usual graphic gore and cheap nasty scares found in a majority of 80's slasher fare that was trendy at the time in order to put a welcome and refreshing emphasis on eerie mood and nerve-jangling suspense. The gradual build-up in the opening half leads to a delightfully surreal and nightmarish second half which culminates in a lively and exciting climax. Moreover, the main characters are well developed and genuinely appealing Dorff and Tripp make for engaging leads while Christa Denton brings an endearingly spunky charm to her role as Glen's sweet older sister Al. Jennifer Irwin and Deborah Grove are amusing as the vapid Lee sisters. Nankin's screenplay boasts several cool offbeat touches Terry learns about the gate by listening to a hard rock album from an obscure band, the telephone melts, a shambling zombie workman bursts out of the walls, and Glen winds up with an eyeball in the palm of his hand. Kudos are also in order for the dazzling array of excellent and impressive special effects The giant stop-motion animation beast seen towards the end is truly gnarly while the diminutive demonic minions are quite creepy and funky. Takacs and Nankin bring a positively infectious go-for-it enthusiasm to the material that's impossible to either dislike or resist. Tomas Vanes' slick cinematography and the spirited shuddery score by Michael Hoenig and J. Peter Robinson are both up to par as well. Best of all, there's even an upbeat central message about how the power of pure love can effectively conquer evil. An incredibly fun and worthwhile 80's creature feature winner. "}{"Title":"A cult classic","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  On the surface this film is nothing special, however it is good solid middle of the road kiddy horror (kidhor).  In my mind this knocks the socks off all the modern horrors (modhors) like scream and I don't give a fluck what you did or didn't do whenever!  I like my horror and I like The Gate.  Ok, so the dialogue is awful but the FX are good and there's even a hint of Peter Jackson in Tibor Takács style (that's Peter Jackson in his Bad Taste/Braindead days).In summation, a good solid kiddy horror indicative of it's era.Grunt.  "},{"Title":"Move over Ghoulies, these guys are the real deal","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ever since the success of 'Gremlins' in 1984 other filmmakers attempted to capture the same magic with their little creature films. The first was 'Ghoulies,' which did extremely well for such a cheesy film. It was followed by a sequel two years later, but neither came close to matching Joe Dante's film. Towards the end of the decade came this film, featuring few people who were really known at the time and made on a low budget. No matter because the result was a very pleasant and memorable little film that has gained a small, but devoted following that led to a sequel and a recent Special Edition DVD. How does the film hold up today? Pros A really neat concept. Solid performances. Nice and crisp cinematography. Excellent score. Moves at a roller coaster pace. Amazing special, make-up, and visual effects that have held up quite well. Lots of creepy goings on. Impressive direction by Tibor Takacs. A spooky and often dreamlike atmosphere.Cons The hair and fashions date the film horribly. A few of the optical effects near the end don't hold us well as others.Final thoughts Like 'The Neverending Story' and 'E.T.' this was one of the films I watched over and over as a kid and that put a smile on my face. Sure watching it today isn't quite the same as it was then, but unlike some films we loved as kids it still holds up very well today. Definitely worth adding to your collection and watching again and again.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"The Gate 1987 Reunion 30 years of Hell and Back  1986 2016","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hi Guys my name is Joe Vision please Like our New Fan page Gate Fest on face book there is a lot of info on this Ground breaking event.The Gate was filmed in Toronto Canada back in 1986 and The 30th anniversary event will be in Toronto this Fall sometime in Oct of 2016 that being saidThe Gate Movie had a profound Impact on me and a lot of its fan base worldwide There will be prize give aways and a lot of props from the film Plus a reunion from some of its cast and crew , the Gate will open again in Oct of 2016 Hope to see you all there thanks Guys.... All My Best Joe Vision Enterprises Inc. "},{"Title":"Really enjoyable kid-friendly horror effort","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After finding a hole in his backyard, a teen and his friends learn the hole is a gateway to Hell and is unleashing diminutive demons upon their house-party and forces them to stop the creatures' evil plans.This was quite a fun and enjoyable kid-friendly effort. One of the better aspects here is the film does a rather fun job of building to the actual infestation of the demons as there's some cheesy scenes to really make this work. The hole's appearance at the very beginning and its contrived openings along with the discovery of the strange rocks starts this off rather well, and with the supernatural lights and party levitation tricks which all come along together very well. Best of all, this one manages to tie these factors into their true significance with a heavy metal record that not only gives them the final clue that something's going on but also the tactics needed to fully resolve the situation rather than what was commonly done at the time which meant being the root cause of it all simply for being loud and aggressive. This is pretty novel and unique which gives it some rather clever marks for its story that makes the resulting supernatural-themed action so fun as the effects of the gate opening weave throughout this. There's the creation of the second pit beneath the house, the abduction of their friends and the initial haunting dreams to go along with these scenes as well as the frantic finale which features everything from tiny demons crawling throughout the house to the fight against the multi-limbed monstrosity that appears at the end which provides this with plenty of rather enjoyable action-packed scenes that come off quite fun due to the supernatural bent to these scenes. Along with the rather appealing child-friendly storyline, there here are enough for this one to hold off the film's few problems that pop up in here. One of the bigger problems here is the fact that there's very little actual involvement of the main gateway towards the kids, as the main half here tends towards scenes involving them being home with their friends rather than anything of any significance against the titular gateway. The supernatural activity is kept to such a minimum that it really feels in a back-seat against the film's main point which is the teen angst drama of being unable to connect with his sister as she grows up as this particular storyline overwhelms the movie so much to the detriment the more horror-centered elements found in the second half the other flaw to this one is the absolutely banal and ridiculous special effects used for the demons here, with some really bad stop-motion photography that's jerky and obvious and just plain up-front about its origins which really tends to lower this one somewhat. Overall, these here are the film's flaws.Rated PG-13 Violence and Language. "},{"Title":"good effective small horror","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Glen (Stephen Dorff) finds a geo after they pull out a tree. He and his friend Terry Chandler (Louis Tripp) dig for more geo, uncover a deep cavern and find a magical rock. Their parents are going away for 3 days and they reluctantly let his sister Al (Christa Denton) to be in charge without a babysitter. Al disobeys her parents to have a party. Terry and Glen split open the rock and open the gate releasing the tiny demons. They are eventually trapped with Al and her friends Lori Lee (Kelly Rowan) and Linda Lee (Jennifer Irwin).This is a pretty good small B-horror movie. The three young leads do a great job. The effects are fun with a good effective mix of forced perspective and stop-motion. As always, it is a big plus to put little kids in danger. This is no exception. The tiny demons are both funny and super creepy. It's another kind of fear to be attacked by a large number of tiny creatures. "},{"Title":"a shame I had never seen or heard about this movie when I was younger","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm not sure if I would have liked it when I was a kid or teenager, fact is now being in my thirties I liked it a lot. Kids going on some kind of adventure has always been an interest of mine but there really aren't that much who do it in a way that can hold my interest for very long. The Goonies for example started out interesting but very soon became silly and pointless. This one captivated me from the start with a nice premise, very likable child actors who also work very well together. Of course there is the obligatory annoying teenage friends of the big sister who don't like the younger kids but that is only a minor distraction. Actually big sister is very likable and caring towards her little brother and his friend. Without giving too much away the story is basic with a well worked out demon legend behind it in the style of Don't be Afraid of the Dark. The kids bundle forces and are eventually able to overcome the evil working well together and caring for each other. That the monsters didn't look really scary didn't bother me that much as the creativity of the events blew me away a few times. "},{"Title":"We accidentally summoned demons who used to rule the universe to come and take over the world.","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Glen and Terry (Stephen Dorff, Louis Tripp) inadvertently open a gate to hell in Glen's backyard, releasing ancient demons. The boys and Glen's sister Al (Christa Denton) must find a way to send the demons back and seal the gate. Very fun kids horror movie from the '80s. The cast is likable. The special effects are very cool. The script is good. The '80s had some great movies with kids as the heroes fighting against the forces of evil. Despite some inevitable cheese, these movies were way smarter and more real than similar movies of today. The kids seemed authentic and not overly precocious or popping off pop culture references right and left. The Gate's a fun movie that anyone should enjoy, except maybe gorehounds. "},{"Title":"More of a curiosity than anything else...","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...The Gate is a classic example of Sturgeon's Revelation in action. Michael Flipper Nankin's script, centering on two tween-agers who manage to accidentally open a demonic portal to wherever, is slipshod and undistinguished--routine TV quality at best; the direction by Tibor The Outer Limits (1995) Takács is pedestrian. The Gate has all the markings of an on-the-cheap Canadian production, highlighted only by a few snippets of stop-motion animation and some forced perspective work that looks pretty good, but adds nothing in terms of actual suspense or much of anything else. On a whole, it strikes this viewer as a made-for-TV movie with a slightly higher budget, just not enough to put it on a par with genuine feature films.No, the only thing that makes The Gate stand out is the fact that it was Stephen Immortals Dorff's first film (at age 12-13), along with several of his co-stars. All the kids, in fact, came from TV-land; interestingly, the two with the choicer support roles in The Gate eventually faded from acting, while the two girls playing Alexandra's friends both went on to solid (though not brand name) careers. Such is fate and show biz. I'll also opine that Christa The Burning Bed Denton's birth year listed here on the IMDb is inaccurate; Dorff was pushing 13 when the movie was shot, so take another look at Al and do the math.The Gate is one of those films that benefits from nostalgia, and the more years between seeing it and remembering it, the better. The (apparent) impending remake stands a very good chance of being an improvement, should the powers-that-be actually cough up for a decent screenplay and a quality director. There'll be no excuse for not providing quality acting talent; Dorff and Co. established the only high bar the original provides. I won't be holding my breath, mind you, but in the meantime, if you really must re-explore your childhood film thrills, surely you have better examples than The Gate to provide them. "},{"Title":"You've Been Bad!","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stephen Dorff, Louis Tripp and Christa Denton star in this 1987 horror film. This begins with young kid, Glen (Dorff) having a nightmare. He wakes up and finds a mess in his backyard caused by lightning. Glen has a sister, Al (Denton) and best friend, Terry (Tripp). After Glen's parents go away for the weekend, he and Terry find a crystal rock in the backyard and decide to dig a hole unwittingly releasing demonic creatures from hell. Soon, Glen, Terry and Al find themselves in a nightmare battling the forces of evil. I watched this as a kid and thought it was creepy. It still is and I like the effects and music. If you enjoy good 80's horror, I recommend checking this out. "},{"Title":"We accidentally summoned demons who used to rule the universe to come and take over the world.","Date":"3 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Alright, this movie turned me off from the beginning when I have to watch the dog die. Then the little kid (Stephen Dorff) is looking at a photo album with puppy pictures. Bring on the demons, please! Well, it did have some really cool looking creatures, and the special effects were good. When the guy living in the wall transformed, it was hilarious.The ending was a bit over the top, but at least it ended well for the dog.You can usually count on Tibor Takács to do an entertaining B movie, and he doesn't disappoint here.Cheesy high school dialog, very little gore, and the only nudity was on the creatures. "}{"Title":"Stephen Dorf Was a Very Cute Kid","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is an old fashioned ghost-y story which does not hold together very well. It is really too scary a movie for small children, but the protagonist is one. Nor does it capture the innocence of youth. More or less, Mom and Dad leave the kids home alone for the weekend with a big scary hole in the back yard. Some mildly creepy things happen. Stephen Dorf was pretty good as the precocious demon fighter. Made in the mid-80's it is visually and aurally a period piece. It is refreshingly relatively free of gore. Nightmares and the devil worship associated with heavy metal music are the horror idioms of choice. Sex and slashing are minimized. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Due to construction nearby, Glen, (Stephen Dorff) manages to unearth a strange rock from the site, which his friend Terry Chandler, (Louis Tripp) and sister Al, (Christa Denton) don't think much of it. Stuck together for the weekend, a spur-of-the-moment party leaves him feeling even more weirder about the situation, especially once a series of strange accidents around the house leave him convinced something is wrong while she does nothing about it. When the two find that the hole in the ground is indeed a gateway to another dimension full of ravenous demons and bloodthirsty creatures which has been accidentally unveiled through their freak accidents, they try to close it off only to find it has been too late. With a slew of demons unleashed the day of a party, they try to put an end to the invasion before anything happens.Pretty standard fare, but for such a tame film this does build up some good suspense and scares. The special effects are terrific! Rated PG-13 for Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"A DeGrassi Street Poltergeist","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remembered this film as a low budget horror movie from when I was in high school, so I expected little more than nostalgia when I saw it again on Fearnet recently--something along the lines of 'House'--mildly comic horror fluff. But it turns out to be a much more interesting movie for a number of reasons. First, the pre-CGI special effects are pretty amazing, including, but not limited to, the intensely creepy minions which were stunning in the late eighties and remain so today. Something like a cross between little silly putty humonculi and the Zuni fetish doll from Trilogy of Terror, these things are truly the stuff of nightmares, and are seamlessly depicted throughout most of the film. So much so that at times you're not sure whether the effect is puppetry, stop motion animation, or people in rubber suits--I mean, it's clearly an effect, but that layer of how'd they do it? makes it all the more unsettling. Add to that the casting of actual teens and preteens, and then allow them to behave more or less as actual teens and preteens would under the circumstances, then augment with some really nice subtle touches (the altered family photo comes to mind, almost as an afterthought) and bring the whole thing in with very little actual gore and a low body count, and you have a pretty worthwhile, and even genre-stretching exercise. It's not high art (and it's not surprising that it's Canadian--a DeGrassi Street Poltergeist,if you will), but it is a far sight better and more original than any of the crappy big-budget horror remakes Hollywood has come up with lately. Better than expected. "},{"Title":"Low budget, high fun!!","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched The Gate when I was 11 or 12 years old, I can't remember right now, and I thought it was very scary and likable, but you know...a kid at this age is not so selective; I also loved all the Jason movies...Some years later, when I was 16, I bought an old VHS tape from a broken up video store, and I watched it with my friends again and again and again...it was unbelievable, I really couldn't understand why this movie was so underrated. A long time has passed, my tape got moldy, and since that day my heart was filled with sorrow, I really miss it so much!But it doesn't matter, let's go to the point it's not so original, with all that heavy metal things and records spinning backwards, but who cares? What's so original nowadays? The fact isThe Gate has tons of fun and the special effects are OK(well, we can't expect too much from a low budget movie made in1987)...it's really pitiable that I still haven't watched it in DVD yet...In Brazil, this movie is out of catalog, and it's REALLY hard to find a VHS copy. So, what can I say? To my folks from the rest of the world, I recommend it, specially if you're a huge fan of horror movies, just like me; and for all my Brazilian neighbors, run and search for a VHS copy of The Gate, but prepare yourself, 'cause it's gonna be a long journey.. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly fun!","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" *Minor Spoilers* This sat on my shelf for months, just waiting for a day where I had absolutely nothing better to do. Today was that day, and I was actually really surprised. What other movie has miniature demons, Lovecraft references, zombie construction workers, dead dogs, and really bad 80's haircuts? This has it all! The acting obviously left a lot to be desired, but what can you expect from a cast of kids? The plot, though it took awhile to get to the good stuff, was very interesting and, though cheesy in many places, kept my interest until the very end. The effects were very cool, the huge demon at the end looked great! The film's main downfall was the ending. I suppose a movie like this needs an upbeat ending, but I think it would have been a lot better if it ended 5-10 minutes earlier. Oh well, this was still a surprisingly enjoyable film, I definitely recommend picking it up, it's usually in a bargain bin somewhere...7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Watchable if you're into the genre","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Having a soft spot for eighties horror, I had wanted to see this for a long time. Last night I finally did. For the beginning I was pleasantly surprised, for the last two thirds mostly a bit disappointed. Everybody else keeps telling the start is really slow, but the end pays off! Well what the hell? I probably should have seen this as a thirteen-year-old kid to get the kicks out of it. Now... I only liked the beginning. I liked the direction. The nightmare intro is effective, easy to see the director has potential! After that we've given real characters (the geeky kid's mother has been dead for a year; the main characters' parents are all right; the big sister behaves her age, both in good and bad) and introduced to the amusing premise there's a gate to hell in their back yard ) The problems ensue when movie tries to make sense and bring background info and proof to this main idea. What the hell for? It's a horror movie! No-one cares how Michael Myers survived after being shot six times in the finale of 'Halloween'! Nobody would want a 15 -minute storyline involving some Ph.D. explaining how it would be physically possible! In horror movies things like that can be dealt with within a 30 - second piece of dialogue BS rookie cop - How can it be? It's not possible! Lead character (bleeding) - It IS! Now deal with it!So The gate starts to drag after 37 minutes or so. After that we get a couple of good scares that lead to nowhere, they're there to furthermore postpone the inevitable... and then we have the incoherent scares and horror in the end. Seemingly the end consists of two 15 - minute segments that are just forced into each others. No doubt you end up asking yourself the same question I did where the hell is this going? Multiple times. Perhaps this was planned an R-rated flick with deaths, and sanitizing it to PG-13 (no blood, no deaths) made it jumpy and illogical. Or then they realized they'd only shot a 45 - minute movie and desperately just filled it up. The gate is uneven yet a watchable effort, if you're into the genre; the very good scenes make up for the not so good ones and the incoherency. Good actors, dialogue avoids the usual clichés, OK effects, better than usual camera - work and some of the effects still work. Basically all this needed was a coherent script. "},{"Title":"Stephen Dorff's breakout role!","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I first saw this movie on HBO in 1988. That was back when HBO premiered a movie exactly one year after it had been released in theaters, and they played it to death, morning noon and night.  Needless to say, it was worth it. Glen(Dorff) and Terry are two kids living in Canadian suburbia, who stumble upon a Gate to the nether regions of creation. By virtue of a heavy-metal album that Terry's dad bought him in Europe(Manowar?), they discover that a nefarious plot is about to unfold from this Gate! Stephen Dorff has been a vampire in the movie Blade, an indie movie director in Cecil B. Demented, but nothing can match the power of young Glen,fighting the forces of darkness in Suburban Canada.  This little gem of 80's horror is now available on DVD, and very cheap too!  It'll just be like watching HBO all over again! "},{"Title":"Was better than I remembered...","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie at the drive-in theater when I was a kid. I was really into horror movies at the time, so I thought the Gate was pretty lame compared to the movies I was seeing during that period. Well, today I turned on the TV and the Gate was showing on cable and I thought I'd give a few minutes for nostalgia's sake. What I found surprised me; it was better that I had remembered, in fact it was quite good for a 1987 movie and most surprising were the special effects. The little demons are done really well in a time before CGI. It even prompted me to sit down and write this just minutes after watching so it can't be that bad. I say give it a whirl, you may be delightfully surprised yourself. That's my take. What's yours? "},{"Title":"The Great Gate Rate","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Three things you need to know about The Gate before watching...1.  6-inch tall demons ARE NOT scary. If I was Stephen Dorff I would've teed off on every one of them with my Top-Flite XL-2000, Tiger Woods Style.2.  If you are nine years old, watching this movie while home alone on a dark, rainy night, it will scare the duke out of you. Otherwise, you'll find that The Gate is the #1 movie of all time to crack on with your friends.3.  The Gate would've been 100 times better if it would've been a Michael Bolton album that opened the gate to hell instead of a heavy metal one. Now that, my friends, would've been money.Out. Rack 'em. "},{"Title":"A classic for the true horror fan!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is great,and pretty scary!When two kids o are leaft alone,and decide to invite some friends,things heat up!If you thought what kids do to a house alone,wait to you see what forces from beyond the gate will do!The plot is pretty basic,and dosen't try to confuse you to get you to watch again,because the movie alone is enough!It's Gremlins meets Poltergeist,if you like horror,make sure to see this!And don't overlook two! "}{"Title":"Good ol´horror fun, the American way...","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a pretty typical 80´s horrorflick about two kids who opens the gate to hell. It´s rock n´roll from start to finish with tons of effects and monsters. Not scary, of course, but pretty fun and never boring. Perfect for the average 12 year old monsterfan.And those effects are pretty good too, if you consider the fact that the film is 15 years old. "},{"Title":"A real good fun 80's horror","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The best thing about 80's horror films, is that they were fun, and this film was certainly fun.It's not scary, and I don't think it was meant to be, but this film has everything you need for a good Friday or Saturday night film with your mates.I think there have been a few fun horror movies out in the 90's, but mainly 95% of horror films have all been TOO melodramatic.You may have noticed that I don't go too deeply in to the plot.  Don't worry there are lot of cool scenes in every film I have reviewed, it's that, I like you to watch the film without being spoiled by what's going to happen, or which is the funniest bits, just sit back and relax, with a cool drink and enjoy the movie.There have been other excellent fun horror movies as well, such as ThE LoSt BoYs, House, House 2, Killer Klowns From Out Of Space, The Stuff, Warlock, Creepshow, I highly recommend them all to you.There has been The Gate 2 but that wasn't much good, and it lacked the humour of the original.The kids are not annoying, and okay the special effects are not up to scratch, compared to The Mummy, or The Frightners, but who cares!!!   This movie is to be enjoyed, it's as simple as that.A truly excellent filmSo go on.... Go get the film. "},{"Title":"Great 80s horror about kids who open up a gateway to hell in their own backyard","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of those movies that teaches one of the classic horror movie rules if there is a book of darkness of some sort, don't read it aloud, read it to yourself.  The storyline here is about some kids whose parents go out of town for the weekend and all sorts of fun ensues.  Stephen Dorff's friend looks at his Crucifix record that his dad brought him from Europe. He then deduces from the included book with the record that they opened up a gateway to hell.  Then all sorts of little clay-mation demons run amok throughout the house and eventually form into a huge farmer John sort of guy.  So it's up to the brother and sister team to outwit the demons and be alive long enough for their parents to come home.  Combine the low sound quality and the odd filming process and yourself really tired and alone in a dark room and you should be able to get a kick out of this.  The scary part is that they made a sequel.  "},{"Title":"Good movie if you like horror.","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie stars a young Stephen Dorf as Glen.  A kid who finds a hole in his backyard which just happens to be the Gate to Hell.  It's a joy ride of 80's style horror. "},{"Title":"The coolest mini-monsters in a horror movie!","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Gate is definitely the kind of movie that captured 1987. It's cheesy and ridiculous for the most part. The girls have awesome color-streaked hair and the pimple-faced guys dress like 'duckie' from Pretty In Pink. Two kids dig a hole in the backyard and open up a gate to hell. These awesome little demons come out and wreak havoc on the house. Lots of freaky things happen in between the great scenes with the Lee Sisters, young Dorff and Tripp and a dog coming back to life. The little demons are pretty well done. The whole movie is a lot of fun to watch, but do so with a grain of salt. You won't be disappointed.7 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"Cheesy fun","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I wasn't expecting much from The Gate, especially as it had a 15 rating on the VHS big box that I have. However, it turned out to be quite a decent cheesy 80's horror flick. It is obviously geared towards a younger audience, but that's OK, because there's plenty of fun to be had. The plot revolves around a gate in a boys garden that contains demons. They are trying to escape into the real world. The demons are quite cool looking stop-motion creatures, and the effects are great. Overall, I would say The Gate is definitely worth a watch if you like a bit of brainless fun.6/10 "},{"Title":"The Scarecrow reviews The Gate","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After lightning strikes a tree in the backyard of Glen's(Stephen Dorff)home, a hole appears with an unusual smoke emanating from it. It's possibly, quite possibly, a gateway to hell! Glen discovers a chiod..this rock with a glittery substance on the inside. Terry(Louis Tripp), a weird friend of Glen's whose mother recently died and victim of an absent father, collects several moths which came in mass from the hole and places them in a jar. Glen puts the jar in by the window for which eerie things begin to happen. Terry has this record of a band called Sacrifyx, who were students of the art of conjuring demons. They released one album, for which Terry owns, but perished in a plane crash. On a certain song, the band recite a specific chanting which pertains to the demons which rise from the hole of hell. This book accompanied the record called, The Dark Book..a guide to not only opening the doorway, but closing it as well. Alexandra(Christa Denton), Glen's sister, works her parents into letting her babysit while they are away on a three day trip. Soon after the parents leave, all hell breaks loose..literally! This is a horror title that probably should be watched by anyone in for an entertaining little ride. It's pretty much a film which utilizes bells and whistles. There are quite a few really good horror gags that work splendidly. Perhaps the most famous gag(well for me, at least)is the melting phone, but the demon effects are excellent. The director does quite well using the hole as a major device at giving the viewer the creeps. When Tripp falls into the hole, that fear of being trapped inside with demons is quite prevalent. There's a great gag concerning a dead dog as Terry envisions a reunion with his late mother. There's also a great little fright gag when supposedly Glen and Al's parents return..You've been Bad!! The way the whole last 30 minutes or so sets up is really goofy, but if you just can adjust to what the film wants to do I think you can enjoy it without getting overly prejudicial toward the coincidences and liberties taken by the filmmakers in setting up Glen's final showdown with the main demon. There are some fine moments where our young heroes must deal with those pesky little demons and, I liked how this big monstrous figment of a dead man comes to life from Terry's imagination..the demons use fear as a motivational tool and I thought it worked well. The final half of the film is pretty much a special effects extravaganza so many might roll their eyes at the final result which is perhaps a bit far fetched and stretching our limits of acceptance towards how a young boy could possibly battle a creature from hell using a bottle rocket. Still, it wants so badly to entertain you and I, without a shadow of doubt, found much enjoyment and thrills. "},{"Title":"One of the great 80s horror films","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This Canadian lensed horror film owes a big debt to POLTERGEIST (1982) in terms of suburbia gone wild style but it manages to hold its own with an interesting story and excellent f/x work. I'd say this is one of the best low budget films of the 80s. After an old tree collapses, friends Glen and Terry find a geode in the massive hole left behind. Trouble starts when Glen and his sister Alexandra are left alone for the weekend by their parents. Through an odd series of events, demons and Gods from the old world have been summoned through the gate in the backyard. How do they know this? Well, Terry is a metalhead who has an album by Sacrifyx (my dad picked it up in Europe) that explains it all. Despite how all that sounds, it works.Director Tibor Takacs really delivers with this one. The film touches on some interesting themes (brother and sister growing apart; parental neglect) but wins mainly due to its fast pace (it runs just 85 minutes). Takacs succeeds in delivering some real dream-like images such as a father's face melting into slime, an eyeball in Glen's hand and the urban legend dead workman in the walls who becomes real. All of this is brought to life via some amazing special effects work (courtesy of Craig Reardon and Randy Cook's teams). Cook delivers some fantastic stop motion animation. Despite being 20 years old, nearly all of the f/x work holds up today. THE GATE ended up being a surprise box office hit when released in May of 1987. So much so that the entire production crew reunited for THE GATE II, easily one of the worst follow ups ever. Takacs has worked steadily since (he even delivered MANSQUITO last year) but he has never managed to match this film. "},{"Title":"Violent Horror... for kids!","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Gate (Quickie Review) The gate is a film that revolves around a couple of kids who haphazardly stumble upon a secret door, or shall we say, gate of some kind leading to a demonic little underworld. The demonic underworld is filled with devilish little creatures about six inches high that begin to terrorize the kids. The film also includes a zombie of an apparent workman busting out of a wall of the house (in which the kids live) and eventually, a really big demon.Well, this is one of those rare horror films made for little kids. Ages 10-15 or so. And, like another little horror flick for kids (Tobe Hooper's remake of Invaders From Mars), this one exhibits a high degree of horror that one might imagine is simply too much for really young children. The upside, however, is that this film is superior to Hooper's sci-fi remake. The acting is quite a bit better and the special effects are decent. But that doesn't detract from the fact that the script is written down for a much younger audience and the atmosphere isn't all that great. Most of the effects are stop-motion animation and puppets, but the little underworld demon guys do manage to be pretty damn creepy. Recommended mainly for families where horror movies are a regular treat&#151;like mine was when I was growing up. May be too much for much younger children and those kids not used to scary movies. And yes, that's a young Stephen Dorff. 6/10www.ResidentHazard.com "},{"Title":"An interesting horror film starring a young Stephen Dorff.","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Gate (1987) is a low budget and cheesy horror film (aimed for the kiddie crowd) that stars a young Stephen Dorff. He plays a kid who's always looking for something to do. One day, he's digging around out in the backyard and discovers some strange hole. It's badly covered with strips of wood and earth. The nosy kid wonders what can this hole be. He invites his goofy looking friend (Louis Tripp) who has his own fair share of childhood trauma to help him find out what's in the hole. Will these nosy kids find something that they'll regret? Co-stars Kelly Rowan.A fun horror film that knows it role. Just please the crowd with basic horror, cheesy special effects and questionable acting. But the young Stephen Dorff shows sign of being a good actor. It would take him nine more years to finally display his finely honed acting skills. Recommended for horror film fans. "}{"Title":"Open THE GATE for terror!","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE GATE is a highly imaginative horror thriller, that is more or less aimed at the kiddie market in much the same way as THE MONSTER SQUAD was that same year. While the film is not quiet as good or as fun as that one is, THE GATE certainly has it's moments to help qualify as one of the most remarkably well made horror flicks of it's era. It's a really fun popcorn horror item, that is well deserving of it's positive notices & cult status potential. Humorously enough, the film is part of many horror films made around the same time, to deal with the supposed satanic messages found in heavy metal death music, others would include TRICK OR TREAT (1986) ROCKTOBER BLOOD (1984) BLACK ROSES (1988) SLUMBER PARTY MASSACRE 2 (1987) ROCK & ROLL NIGHTMARE (1989) etc. all of which centred around a rock music record, group, or lead singer that is the cause for an uncontrollable amount of heavy supernatural going on's & vicious slayings & in some cases, vicious monsters that are let loose. The stop motion animation effects by RANDALL WILLIAM COOK are some of the best to ever grace the screen of any horror film. Notable scenes is when a minion get its hand cut off, only for it to hit the floor, turn into a series of worms & then leave the house. A zombie workman falls on the floor & morphs into several minions & the Demon Lord is well done piece of work. The creature designs are well articulated & the zombie workman that shows up midway, is really spooky looking! The acting works for the most part, STEPHEN DORFF in his feature film debut brings plenty of sympathy to his character the rocket loving Glen, although it's almost hard to buy into the fact he's a thirteen year old kid, since he looks to be seven, because he's so tiny! LOUIS TRIPP (Whatever became of this guy anyways?) fares well as his pal Terry, a complete opposite of Glen, since he's more the weird/loner type, who prefers heavy metal rock music to rockets. CHRISTA DENTON fares well as Glen's older sister. TIBOR TAKAC'S fares well behind the camera, executing a series of cool shots & camera trickery, he manages to keep the film moving at a decent pace & manages to conjure up a few well executed, suspense & tension filled moments, to coincide with all the weirdness going on that this little horror gem has to offer. The score is particularly well done. The ending is also highly imaginative, as young Glen is forced to try & defeat the demon lord that emerges from the earth, using stuff from his toy box in a final confrontation with the beast. THE GATE must also set some kind of record, for being the only film to use a BARBIE doll as a weapon, to pluck out a possessed kids eye. The films weird energy is confirmed, when a made up story Terry tells Glen about a workman killed on a job that got sealed up behind one of their walls, because the rest of the workers didn't want to stop construction of Glen's house is used by the demons, bringing Terry's creepy story to life!Despite it's many hit's, THE GATE also has some misses to it's record as well. I think the main problem stems from the fact that due to the film aiming for the kiddie market, the PG-13 rating robs the film of a much creepier & darker, more violent & bloodier impact it could have had. One thing sorely missing from THE GATE is atmosphere, although the film opens up with a weird, stylish & very scary nightmare sequence, for the most part THE GATE is hamstrung from going to far in it's execution, which may turn off a lot of die hard horror fanatics. The film is also absent of any real gore, minus a shard of glass plucking out an eye ball, that is embedded in the lead hero's hand & the after-mentioned Barbie doll stabbing. For the most part, any gore the film does have, comes from the destruction of the monsters themselves, young Glen at one point uses his fingers to tear into the face of a demon, pretending to be his father spewing out loads of green slime before his head falls off & hits the pavement with a splat. The violence is very minimal at times, almost non existent. TheMinions mini demons are hardly what one would call menacing or scary, instead they come off as rather laughable & oddly cute, in truth I don't now where the mini monster idea came from, but it looks like it belongs in a FULL MOON/CHARLES BAND production, than here, they don't serve any purpose in the story. The film also has a really good build up, leading into what is unfortunately a cheat ending, in which all those who have died or taken into the portals of hell, are allowed to come back (Terry & Alexandra & the family dog) it's almost as if the film-makers were afraid to end the film on a rather dire ending, to me this would have made for a much more powerful & emotional ending for the young hero. All in all, THE GATE makes for a fun viewing experience, true it stumbles a bit due to it's PG-13 rating, regardless of that, it's still a pretty fun time & well worth a look for horror fans. Followed by GATE II RETURN TO THE NIGHTMARE (a.k.a. GATE II THE TRESPASSERS)***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"My older summary was a little harsh so I changed it to nothing.","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The movie starts out when two boys and their older sister are left at home for the weekend where they later find that they can open the gate to hell in a large hole in their back yard. This movie wouldn't scare a seven year old girl at a slumber party. Demons later appear and help show just how little the producers spent making this film. The overall quality is comperable to the early to mid sixties and the acting has holes bigger than the one in their back yard. Rated PG-13 for violence and language.I would strongly recomed watching this movie if you are still afraid of the boogie-man and whats under the bed. But if you are like the rest of us, you could save this time to actually watch a family film for once. Because PG and G movies don't get enough support and let me tell yah, after watching this, I'd strongly suggest getting a less disturbing movie. "},{"Title":"flick for young teens","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this horror movie is for someone between the ages 9 and 14, who isnt into gory stuff like hellraiser.  stephen dorff is like what, 9 in this movie and now he's like in his twenties and back on track with his acting career. he has come along way since the gate for the better with movies like blade and S.F.W.  this movie is ok, but nothing that great.  7.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"AVERAGE HORROR MOVIE!!","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For someone who loves horror this might be a bit soft. But it is not a bad movie for the younger fans. A young boy discover a hole in his back yard and soon discovers it's the Gate to Hell. The little minions were a cool touch, and their were a few scenes that will stick in your mind. No graphic violence or sex as many of the other 80's movies were but it does have it's moments and makes an average horror movie. "},{"Title":"Your mum wouldn't like it!","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Demons, Ghosts, All the usual things that seem to turn up just as your mum and dad go out to tesco to do the weekly shopping. Yup it's true, i tried it, i went to the bottom of the garden, ripped up a tree with my bare hands and sure enough there was a hole and demons and stuff, but then i woke up in a cold sweat and thought hmmm, That was a good film that gate movie, its not often i wake up expecting to be dragged under the bed and be taken over by an over-sized demon. The gate is a by the numbers mega low budget movie that spawned a semi OK sequel. I like this sort of low budget hokum but it sure isn't to everyones taste. If you like puppet monsters and stop motion demons with ugly actors with sad 80's hair cuts and high pitched screams then this may cook your bunny, However if you like to think through plots and story lines, then avoid like liquid doggy doins! "},{"Title":"Had potential.","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie could have been a lot better...it had the potential to be, but ultimately I found it a tad weak.  It is pg-13 so it never really gets to horrific.  The story revolves around a tree that is pulled up and the hole is covered up.  Two boys dig in and find a geode.  Through a set of strange coincidences they actually perform a bunch of acts that when done all together open the gate to hell.  The other main character is the main boy's sister and both he and she like firing rocket fire works and this is emphasized way too much in this one.  There is a party and a sleep over that goes wrong as the minions of hell are released as little demons.  The highlight in this one is where the zombie construction worker falls down.  All in all this one could have been good if they had gone for an r rating and maybe explained a few plot points, but as it is it isn't very good.  Though it is very tolerable to watch because of a very short running time. "},{"Title":"This is a good movie!","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie plot outline consists of mainly a few punk kids who are very distructive find a rock while digging in the ground. They bring it into Glenns house and decide to break it open. They find that was a pretty dumb move. A movie for people who can't follow plots my rating ****** (6.2 out of 10) "},{"Title":"Everything worth seeing was in the trailer","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This isn't one of my finest movie memories. The trailer looked good, with very interesting looking effects (for its time -- the effects look pretty pathetic today). However, when my friends and I actually saw it, we found that almost everything worth seeing in the whole movie (85 minutes), including all the interesting looking effects, was stuff we had already seen in the TV trailer (about 30 seconds). The rest is pretty tedious.Some other comments here have suggested that the film was intended to be a tongue-in-cheek comedy about horror films, but I didn't see it that way at the time (and I was smack in the middle of the intended demographic for this kind of movie at the time). If that really was the intent of this films creators (which I doubt), it was done with far too much subtlety for its intended audience. "},{"Title":"Endurable kiddie-horror","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Charming and unscrupulous 80's horror, mainly aimed at younger audiences that outgrew the childish monsters of Gremlins but that are still a little too fragile to watch the real demons of Hellraiser. Even for adult viewers, The Gate can be enjoyable as long as you can get past the silly plot and typically teenage acting performances. The story centers on three teenagers, Glen (Stephen Dorff was a better actor at age 14 than he is now) who's obsessed with toy-rockets, his sister Alexandra (busy discovering boys and slumber parties) and pal Terry (obviously having issues). They discover a deep hole in Glen's backyard and, for no particular reason; ancient demons decide to make this their passageway to take over the world. The Gate is a well-intended and often professionally made film, with subtle parody (towards metal music, abandoning parents&#133;) and imaginatively animated demons. Its only flaw is that director Takács takes it all too seriously. The screenplay desperately tries to be convincing while it clearly doesn't make the slightest bit of sense. Make-believe bogeymen suddenly turn out real, dead dogs keep on moving from their place, etc etc&#133; I'm sure that, if Takács had focused on the irony more, his film would now be regarded as a minor classic. Instead, it's just a bit of forgettable fun. "},{"Title":"Fun film...","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was almost a regular in my movie rotation when I was a kid but, out of nowhere, I forgot about it for a long time until a friend reminded me of it recently and I pulled it out of storage&#x97;and by storage, I mean I put it on my Netflix queue (pay me money for dropping your name, Netflix).As a kid, I was genuinely creeped out by those little demons that chased a young, pre-E-cig selling Stephen Dorff but, watching it now, I can't help but think I was a weakling and just an all-around stupid kid for finding them terrifying even in the least. However, the fact I was easily scared as a child and have now grown into an impossible to scare adult (I have no middle ground in my life), I really enjoy The Gate and it was nice to watch it again.The Gate may not be one of those quintessential 80s movies that instantly comes to mind when you think about an era that gave us the drink of the Gods (Ecto-Cooler) and where MTV was less about pregnant teens and more about music but it's still a decently entertaining and fun film. The practical effects still hold up and the story is fairly entertaining. Overall, not a bad movie that is still watchable today and doesn't feel dated.Howdy! The name is Rev. Ron and if you wanna read a more in-depth review of this film and many other films that don't contain the guy who would one day go on to be in Blade and sell E-cigs, you can head on over to my blog; revronmovies.blogspot.com. Or maybe you're busy with demons in your backyard and don't have time for that&#x85;that's cool, too. "}{"Title":"A blast from the past","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I hadn't watched this film in well over twenty years! Now I've got more hair coming out my nose than on my head, but one thing hasn't changed This film still take ages to get to the good stuff. Then again, I enjoyed it more this time around because The Gate is pure eighties goodness, and is nice, light hearted stuff. With zombies and demons.Two kids find that a hole in their back garden is a gateway to hell, and there's demons trying to get through to our world. Following instructions they find in a heavy metal album, they discover that there's certain rituals to be followed to open up the game, but unlucky those rituals have already taken place (accidentally), and the demons are about to push through. The demons are great. Small, capering imps that attack the kids, form into a zombie, and generally cause havoc before a huge stop motion demon attacks the household. Add into that bits and pieces of gore and those great eighties fashions, and you've got a film that's slow to start, but pays off in the end. I must admit I'm getting soft and easier to please in my old age, however. "},{"Title":"A Happy Little Piece of Nostalgia","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Three young children (including Stephen Dorff and Christa Denton) accidentally release a horde of nasty, pint-sized demons from a hole in a suburban backyard...This is a film many people of my generation grew up with. Certainly the movie takes a place in my heart. Whether it is a good film or not is open to debate. I think it is good, but maybe my judgment is clouded by the nostalgia, the fond memories of the film. I just watched it for the fourth time, and it still seemed good to me. The special effects are pretty strong for their time, and really should be praised.The film is a 1980s film, clearly, with its bright colored clothes and unusual love for heavy metal music. But it really is something more -- a timeless story of kids and monsters (very different from, but in the same spirit as, The Monster Squad). The film is scary in many ways (the workman, the demon king, the eye) but yet still has that childlike sense of fun and adventure. You never really feel anyone is in danger.A modern classic? Perhaps. The Gate is the high point of Tibor Takács' career, who made Gate II and I, Madman before moving to television and cheesy SyFy movies. This was also a great feather in the cap of visual effects master Randall William Cook, who went on to work on those other two films, and then bigger things like Ghost Busters and the Lord of the Rings franchise (where he won three Academy Awards).While Stephen Dorff went on to bigger things, Christa Denton faded away. She appeared in a handful of television episodes before retiring from acting in 1992 at age 20. Louis Tripp came back for Gate II an then he, too, faded away... "},{"Title":"Attack of the foot-high homonculi.","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A young boy Glen (Stephen Dorff) and his best pal Terry (Louis Tripp) discover a portal to a hellish world where the old gods have waited since the dawn of time to claim the Earth as their own; meanwhile, Glen's older sister Al (teen cutie Christa Denton) invites her friends over for a get-together blissfully unaware that demons are about to crash the party.With everything from a creepy telephone call, monstrous hands reaching from under a bed, ghostly moths, melting parents, a zombie in the walls, diminutive demon minions, a massive, multi limbed, four-eyed Lovecraftian beast, and even that hoary old horror cliché, a Satanic album revealing magical incantations when played backwards, The Gate is a messy hodge podge of tried and tested ideas tied together by that most uninspired of premises&#x97;the 'entrance to Hell'.Inconsequential fluff though it may be, the film still succeeds in being an enjoyable piece of family friendly horror thanks to its likable young cast and a whole slew of impressive pre-CGI special effects, including some excellent stop motion animation and clever use of forced perspective during the scenes involving the tiny minions (I always wondered how they did those&#x97;thanks IMDb!).6.5 out of 10, rounded up to a 7 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"A fine little horror flick","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This little horror movie wasn't too bad. It deserved a lot more attention though. The Gate is kinda like Poltergeist, only a little scarier. Here you got this kid, whose friend has lost his mother, and there's a place where there used to be a tree house which becomes a opening to another dimension. The two friends tried their best to keep the evil from entering their world. Unsuccessful. Thespecial effects in the movie were a little weak. Some parts of it was a little too cartoonish, but the part where the dead man becomes little minions was the best part. The wimpy twins were a riot. The brother/sister team were great. The kid's love for rockets was the key to save the world from destruction. Even without the help of his parents. This movie is good, the critics didn't show much appreciation for it. Some parts were weak, but watchable. 2 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Don't go get it but if its on YOU WILL watch it","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Flipping channels at 2am I stumbled onto this movie. I instantly could tell it was a horror flick (good sign) and I was wondering why haven't I ever heard of this movie before? OK shoddy dialog but some (a few)(OK one) of these effects are better than todays films. That tornado in the backyard was AWESOME!! Cheezy clay-mation demons and an evil farmer. It's one of those movies where you're YELLING at the TV. Dood you have a choice between grabbing a loaded shotgun and a flashlight and you pick the flashlight??? Come on already SHOOT THE F'N ROCKET already, Yah a demon from hell wouldn't rip your head off, he'd pet you affectionately I don't know why but I watched it to the end and immediately looked it up here. Hmmm maybe there's some subliminal messages in the movie that keep repeating stay to the end, stay to the end I'm not sorry I did but still can't really explain why. I'd still only give it 5.5/10. Easily predictable but yet still not boring. I'm sure they weren't shooting for this reaction but I would even watch it again. Kelly Rowan is awesome in Candyman II guess she did have a life after this movie. Lucky. "},{"Title":"Classic 80's horror","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Gate may not be the greatest horror movie ever made, but I loved it at age 12 when it was released. It freaked me out way back then, and few horror movies have done that since. Simply a great piece of horror from the ruling decade of pop culture. I personally think the script is well written and the acting is quite good throughout. The special effects were well above average for their time, especially now that the film is over 15 years old. I think they still look quite good and believable.There was also a sequel title Gate II which was released in the early 90's, starring Louis Tripp (Terry) who returns to his character without Stephen Dorff (Glen). It took the story even further and I think made this, the first film, easier to understand.For those interested, this has recently been released on Region 1 DVD, albeit with no special features...it is very hard to find one in only select stores, so if you see one for sale grab it fast. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After a tree is removed from their backyard, a group of teenagers home alone for the weekend discover it is a gate to hell and that one of them has accidently opened it up. Soon their house is infested with dozens of tiny pint sized monsters. Pretty standard fare, but for such a tame film this does build up some good suspense and scares. The special effects are terrific!Rated PG-13; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Simplistic & silly teen horror","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When The gate first came out 12 years ago, I remember being really scared by it. As an adult, its not scary but there were still a few scenes that had stuck in my mind.  The minions were a great creation, they look a bit better in The Gate 2 , but they were a nifty idea.   Its really pretty silly when you see it now, but its not boring.  After having the initial laugh over the clothes and hair styles of the late eighties, which makes the film date somewhat, there actually is not a bad plot behind all the eighties cliches.  Its hard watching a very young Stephen Dorff playing the lead, as now I am used to him playing adult roles.  But it wasn't a bad first effort at all.  Although Louis Tripp as his friend really has all the best scenes.  If you like horror, then you will probably like this. "},{"Title":"A nightmare from hell gone terribly wrong ..............","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Gate certainly plays like a nightmare from hell gone terribly wrong. Eventually you would hope to wake up, but The Gate just goes on and on piling nonsense on nonsense. The big question is, who is the intended audience? This is certainly too scary for children, teenagers will abhor the lack of sex and gore, and adults are not likely to enjoy a movie that has virtually no adults. In addition it takes forever to get going after the hole initially appears. Plus, the whole thing is extremely claustrophobic, taking place entirely in and around one house. Of course another question is, why didn't the kids just run out of the house, and away from all this nonsense? I give up, and so will you. Not recommended. - MERK "},{"Title":"Some things should be left alone... (spoilers)","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Gate is a novice-grade horror movie. No real blood, no cursing, and almost no violence. But it is a better-than-average family horror fest, although it fails at points.The Gate is the entrance to hell. After a couple of workmen removed a tree stump from the yard, two kids go digging in a hole, where they find a pretty cool stash of geodes, which contain some kind of strange, flashing crystals.Terry, the neighbor, and the stranger of the two kids, gets the idea that beneath the hole is the Gate to hell. After digging in the hole, he and his friend find some strange markings that coincide with some underground cacophanous German death metal group who chant the spell that opens the Gate. Smart kids that these two are, they're going to have some fun and see if it really works.Needless to say, the results aren't pretty because out of the Gate, once the kids unlock the spell (and get this, playing the record backwards contains the formula for closing the Gate), they unleash these minature demons who run around the house terrorizing the kids. If that's not bad enough, they also unlock a zombie and the mother-load of demons, which creates complete and total havoc. The special effects for this movie are actually pretty decent, considering both the story and the budget. The little demons, the huge beast, and even the zombie workmen was pretty cool for it's day mostly using stop-motion animation. However, there are a lot of poor elements to this movie.First is the incredibly horrible acting, especially from the sister's whiny friends. Second, the story takes all year to get off the ground because most of what we see is the just the brother and sister (and her friends, too) bickering. And it goes on and on. The focus on things surrounding the Gate really doesn't happen until a good chunk of the movie passes. Probably about halfway through, things start to actually get interesting, and we finally get to the story. Third, the way the children defeat the demons is pretty stupid, and far too easy. I know it's just a kids horror movie, but hell, at least have some fun with it. The first set of demons are eliminated through readings of random passages from the Bible. The second mega-demon is just killed with a wimpy little rocket. (The better parts of the movie, especially visually, occuring the elmination of the first and second demons. Most fo the movie is just wasted time. But really, was this movie approved by the church or something? Backwards records, deviant metal groups, Bible phobic demons? Better for kids. I'm going to give up on watching family horror films. This and 'Pulse' were both big disappointments for me. But I think it's because I'm just too old to watch these anymore. Although, with the Gate, I don't know if there is enough going on even to hold a younger kid's attention for very long. "}{"Title":"good for kids","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  good for kids but not that great for teenagers or adults this is a fairly boring effort that has a very weak script and the fact is there was nothing terribly interesting in this movie for me good to watch if you have a little sister or a brother or something like that but otherwise don't bother *1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Don't fear the large, wide, gaping hole...instead throw this movie in it","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *Minor Spoilers*A movie centered around a hole.  I mean, it seemingly could work, but this movie needed about 15 years of technology to make watching it worthwhile.  They try to pull of the cheap tricks, but having the characters do things that make you want to put your foot through the T.V.  Like, for instance, one character falls ridiculously easy into the large hole to Hell.  Then, he sits there thinking, Hmm, I've fallen down a hole...look at these little demons.  And the demons are about a foot tall, and pose no threat whatsoever.  So he ever so slowly climbs out of the whole only to be taken by a zombie five minutes later in the movie.  Let me tell you about this zombie, he's a slick character.  Well, eventually one of the kids uses a toy rocket to shoot a hole in the largest demon, (I guess it's the Devil) and the demon blows up.  Yes, the Devil blows up from a frickin' toy rocket!  Yikes, how terrible.  The characters taken by the zombie man magically reappear at the end as if nothing had ever happen.  It's like the Devil is saying, Man, I got blow to pieces by a piece of plastic, go ahead and have your friends back from the dead.  Then all is well again in suburbia, with no gaping hole or mini-demons pulling at your leg.  Bad acting, bad animation and graphics, and bad plot.  Bad all over. "},{"Title":"young glen and buddy unwittingly unleash demons on earth","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this movie is pure dreck,with bad acting, bad plot and worse special effects.it rivals, possibly surpasses evil dead 2 for the worst movie i have ever seen. i wasn't expecting an Oscar calibre movie, but it seemed at times the actors were trying not laugh, while allegedly pretending to be scared.this movie should be used as torture to get criminals and prisoners to confess to their crimes.i guarantee results. i can't imagine being scared or impressed by this movie as a kid, but anything is possible. i know this movie is old and the technology wasn't what it is today, but the filmmakers should not have attempted to do things they weren't equipped to do at that time. what's worse is someone thought the gate deserved a sequel, called the gate 2. i realize my opinion is probably in the minority, since like evil dead 2, many critics and presumably moviegoers praised it and thought it was well done. this movie is so bad i felt like i had to wear a biohazard suit just to remove it from DVD player.my advice, avoid this movie at all costs.you will get more pleasure sticking pins in your eyes. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE RULES ALL HORROR MOVIES!","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the most AWESOME Horror movie EVER! I've been looking for the Sacrifyx LP From this movie for 5 Solid Years now, I've tried EVERYWHERE! Noone has it. But on the movie side, This is way worth buying/seeing if you're a Metal Horror movie fan, If you liked Return of the living dead part 2, Black Roses, Trick Or Treat Or The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 3, You NEED to See this! It's worth seeing. Just look at the trailer and you'll see. -SacrifyX (The Dark Book) "},{"Title":"One of my favorite horror movies of all time!","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Glen (Stephen Dorff) is your average 80's pre-teen boy who has a pal named Terry (Louis Tripp) as they are both into heavy metal music. Glen's parents leave for the weekend leaving the older sister Al (Christa Denton) to take care of her bro, then she decides to throw in a party with all her pals however Glen and Terry discover a weird hole in the backyard as they use a special demonic rock album that has magic spells on summoning demons. They literally get one hell of a night as that hole in the backyard is actually a gate to hell where demons and evil forces terrorize them for the night as they must try to find a way to shut the gates of hell.Excellent 80's cult supernatural horror thriller from Canada that became a box-office hit in both the US and Canada in May of 1987. This movie marked the debut of Stephen Dorff long before he was in Blade who played a superb kid in this movie, the film incorporates a very interesting concept about a rock album used for satanic rituals. For it's time the special effects are outstanding even on the creature and master demon effects with plenty of memorable moments including the eyeball in the hand gag and some gore for a PG-13 rated movie. It's a real winner in my books as it's a very HP Lovecraft-esquire thrill-ride that never lets go.Also recommended City of the Living Dead (a.k.a. Gates of Hell), Hellraiser 1 & 2, Silent Hill, Poltergeist, Pet Sematary, 1408, House (1986), The Haunting in Connecticut, The Fog (1980), Gremlins, Demons 1 & 2, Suspiria, Inferno, Mother of Tears, House By The Cemetery, Ghostbusters 1 & 2, Twilight Zone The Movie, Evil Dead 1 & 2, From Dusk Till Dawn, Pumpkinhead, Making Contact (a.k.a. Joey), Burnt Offerings, Urotsukidoji Legend of the Overfiend, Night of the Demons, The Exorcist, Candyman, Nightbreed, Mirrors, End of Days, The Frighteners, Stephen King's IT, The Shining, The Gate 2 and The Beyond. "},{"Title":"Fun film...","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was almost a regular in my movie rotation when I was a kid but, out of nowhere, I forgot about it for a long time until a friend reminded me of it recently and I pulled it out of storage&#x97;and by storage, I mean I put it on my Netflix queue (pay me money for dropping your name, Netflix).As a kid, I was genuinely creeped out by those little demons that chased a young, pre-E-cig selling Stephen Dorff but, watching it now, I can't help but think I was a weakling and just an all-around stupid kid for finding them terrifying even in the least. However, the fact I was easily scared as a child and have now grown into an impossible to scare adult (I have no middle ground in my life), I really enjoy The Gate and it was nice to watch it again.The Gate may not be one of those quintessential 80s movies that instantly comes to mind when you think about an era that gave us the drink of the Gods (Ecto-Cooler) and where MTV was less about pregnant teens and more about music but it's still a decently entertaining and fun film. The practical effects still hold up and the story is fairly entertaining. Overall, not a bad movie that is still watchable today and doesn't feel dated.Howdy! The name is Rev. Ron and if you wanna read a more in-depth review of this film and many other films that don't contain the guy who would one day go on to be in Blade and sell E-cigs, you can head on over to my blog; revronmovies.blogspot.com. Or maybe you're busy with demons in your backyard and don't have time for that&#x85;that's cool, too. "},{"Title":"Pure 80's teenage-terror-trash...","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first time I watched The Gate I was 7 or 8, and I remember that this movie scared the shht out of me. And now, 17 years later I wanted to have another look at it (nostalgia, bad adviser!!!). I expected exactly what I've watched a typical 80's teeenage-terror movie just like Critters or Ghoulies. Hell gates open in some mid-class family house at the suburbs of any given city. Stephen Dorff's mini-me plays the leading role in this film, and is just a perfect movie to be watched with your brain disconnected.I won't be too harsh judging The Gate, 'cause it does not deserve it. I mean, this movie had no pretentions but  to make the young ones  have a good time ... and sometimes it achieves that purpose. Obviously, it hasn't matured very well (that 80's pop music!, those hairdos!! those special effects!!!), but if you watched it 15 or 17 years ago, just when you were kids, it will sure make you smile (or cry!! Geez!! 17 years!!). That's all.  Anyway, I do prefer Critters.My rate 4.5/10 "},{"Title":"a great horror film!!!!!!","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this was a great movie. It had good acting, a few scary scenes, and superior (and very creative.) special effects by Craig Reardon.The story was creative, the music;eerie and suspenseful. I could not believe that this was made for a low-Budget, Because it was on my top 10 list of best movies. The gore is kept to a minimum, so if you have a weak stomach, you can still sit through this. Followed by an inferior sequel. "},{"Title":"Stuart Sutcliffe left the Beatles for something really unusual","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I learned about Stephen Dorff through Backbeat, in which he played ex-Beatle Stuart Sutcliffe (he later played the title role in John Waters's Cecil B. Demented). So you can imagine how surprised I was when I learned that one of his early roles was this 1980s horror hokum! He plays a suburban boy who finds a hole in his yard leading to evil. You read that right. It's outlandish and doesn't pretend to be anything else. Since I assume that director Tibor Takacs is probably an immigrant, I try to imagine him fleeing communist Hungary, expecting to live the good life in America...and he directs a horror movie. But make no mistake, The Gate is a cool horror flick. You're sure to like it.Stuart Sutcliffe left the Beatles to find evil under his yard. The things that we see in life... "},{"Title":"OK (but incoherent) low-budget effort.","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Gate is an OK little horror film. Perhaps too tame for hardcore horror fans (which isn't surprising, considering that the main leads are three kids), but occasionally pretty scary. Stephen Dorff is a spirited, engaging little actor. However, the script lacks two basic things logic and coherence. In a way, The Gate is similar to the (far more gruesome) Hellraiser, which was made the same year; they both prefer effects and unrelated little shocks to clear, precise storytelling and plot logic. Not a bad film, but nothing special.  "}{"Title":"AWESOME MOVIE","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie when I was about seven years old. I remember the scary scenes in the movie. This is a good movie to see at a young age. Its about a kid named Glen who has a dream of a crystal crashing through his tree and it comes true and they go through a series of rituals by accident, a dead dog, levitation, and a human. This is a good movie. Rent it today or tonight or on Halloween. "},{"Title":"The Gate? The gate to what?","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This review contains spoilers because quite frankly I would have nothing to talk about if I didn't reveal some. The Gate starts out slow and it ends up going nowhere.Where the gate in this movie is your guess because there is none that I could see in this movie. The movie basically has 3 characters in it Glen and his sister Al and Glen's best friend Terry. It takes place completely in a house and mostly at night.Visually this movie is dreadful. Half the time the special effects in this movie I couldn't tell what they were supposed to be and the other half they were not too good. Yes I know the film was made with a very low budget and was made in 1987 but I have seen better.Short Summary of the movie. Glen digs a hole and finds a geode rock, he opens it with Terry and it has light in it and it writes something. Later Glen and Terry think something is wrong. Then Terry is listening to Heavy Metal music jumping on his bed and chanting the lyrics with the record. Then Terry realizes that this record just happens to have a Dark Book in it that contains the same writing as what was written later and he reads the book and figures out there are demons in the hole and him and Glen must seal the hole or they will destroy the world. Blah Blah Blah the demons come alive and destroy the house, take Terry and Al as sacrifices and Glen destroys the Demon with a large rocket. To mark the destruction of the demon fire works go off over his destroyed house. And Terry and Al come back to life and all is well.As you can tell from that summary the movie has a weak plot and take my word for it. It is rather boring. It stands out as the worst movie of 1987 that I have ever seen. Which is why I rate it as a 1 (awful). "},{"Title":"You call this horror.","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You call this horror.  This movie sucks.  You know why, because you stink like garbage.  That's just my line I say to my friends.  Anyway, this movie sucks because the movie itself and the graphics are way too cheesy. "},{"Title":"80's horror trash","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie is horrible and has huge inconsistencies in it. It has all the 80's horror garbage in it.  The whole movie comes off like a cheesy attempt by Jerry Falwell to demonstrate what becomes of teenagers who disobey their parents and go to Hell.  "},{"Title":"Gothic no?????????","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was trash!!!  I hated it and between the gothic kid and the gate this movie is  probably the most I could  handle in 1 week.I would never even mention this movie to anyone "},{"Title":"Typical 1980s Horror Non-Sense","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Gate is a pure mess of a film.  Young kids open the gate to an ancient netherworld which may be hell.  A sorry screenplay, sophomoric performances, and a lack of real direction make this film one of those you should avoid at all costs.  This film is such a dud that it could not even achieve an R-rating (which is strange for a horror film) when it was released in 1987. Turkey (0 out of 5 stars).   "},{"Title":"The Goonies with Trolls","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gate, The (1987) ** (out of 4) Lightening strikes a tree, which leaves a large hole in the ground, which just happens to be a gateway to some demons. Three kids (Stephen Dorff, Christa Denton, Louis Tripp) eventually have to battle these demons when their parents leave them home alone for the weekend. This has a large cult following and even though I grew up watching horror films throughout the 80s, this is one I never got around to checking out. While watching the movie I really could see why some might love this thing as it's pretty much another clone of THE GOONIES and I'm sure many watched this as a kid, connected with the kids in the film and just liked the idea of fighting off these small creatures from Hell. With that said, the movie just didn't work for me. There were a number of reasons why but the biggest is that nothing really happens until the fifty-minute mark and then we get a couple action scenes and then it appears the film is over only to then kick it into another gear for yet another 25-minutes worth of action. Another problem I had with the film were the actual demons. They're small, unscary and way too cute to be very menacing. Not for a second did the film ever build up any type of suspense and not once did I feel that any of the characters were in danger. Some might say there's nothing wrong with that but we are watching a horror movie and a horror flick without any danger is pretty pointless. Yet another problem is that the screenplay takes the subject matter way too serious and yet it never makes a bit of sense. We're given a story as to what's going on but it'll just leave you scratching your head. Fans of gore aren't going to find much here, although we do get one terrific sequence where the boys goes to jump in his father's arms only to eventually have his head melt off! What I enjoyed most about the film were the performances by Dorff, Denton and Tripp. All three fit their roles quite nicely and they're all charming enough from start to finish. They're certainly not Oscar-worthy but they're good enough for this type of material. "}]