[{"Title":"The complete European-release version is extraordinary","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The European-release version of The Sicilian is 31 minutes longer than the US version.  Supposedly, the director was ordered to deliver a version under 2 hours, so he recut the film to render it incoherent with the expectation that Fox would have to release the complete film.  Only, they went ahead and released the deliberately botched shorter cut.  This may be apocryphal, but it would help explain the critical drubbing it got in this country.  I was lucky enough to see the complete film in Paris and was mesmerized.  Gore Vidal was denied credit for the screenplay,  but the film has a literacy, intellectual depth and acidity that is pure Vidal; the character played by Terrance Stamp is essentially Vidal's stand-in.  The only comparable film might be The Godfather, but with an even stronger historic/political context.  It is certainly the highpoint of Michael Cimino's career to date, and I'm one of those odd ducks that fervently admires Heaven's Gate.  If you can see this in Europe, or if it comes out over there on DVD and you have a region-appropriate DVD player, grab the opportunity to see it. "},{"Title":"Not such a bad movie","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a very well made movie, especially as it concerns scenery and camera angles. However, the tempo of the movie is a little slow and after the initial fifteen minutes or so its seems to emphasize a lot on character development rather then unraveling a plot quickly to keep you interested. This movie gave me the impression that it was intended for a more subdued audience. Eventually it picks up here and there with some violent retribution from those that have betrayed Giuliano. I can't emphasis enough about the scenery since that seemed to compensate for the poor dialogue a lot of the time. John Turturro was great in this movie as well as Chris Lambert. The character of Don Masino carried this movie as your classic stolid and shrewed mafia boss and Giuliano, whom Masino admires, poses a threat to his power. "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is not as bad as many say. It is somewhat melodramatic at times, but not too often. I really enjoy watching it and recommend it. The main problems with the movie are, the music and acting. The opening song in the film is great and it leads you to believe the film will be a near masterpiece. But there is this one song that is used during some romantic moments, and it just plain sucks. It kills any effect the film had. Then there is the acting. Lambert is one of the worst actors i have ever seen. Simple. However, this movie is probably his best work. The violence in the film is intense which keeps your attention and the cinematography is rather beautiful (One of Cimino's greatest abilities) So, if you can find a copy, watch it. "},{"Title":"I like it","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Despite the score of 4.8/10, I still picked up The Sicilian in the DVD bargain bin since I liked Christopher Lambert in Highlander and Fortress. I'm not gonna say Christopher Lambert is the greatest actor in the world but I guess he did OK in this. They've got some good supporting actors such as Joss Ackland and John Turturro that bring life to the movie. I like this movie a lot. It is MUCH better than the trash Lambert has starred in the past five years i.e. Fortress 2, Absolon. This movie deserves more than a 4.8...more like a 6.5+. Michael Cimino has got to be one of the greatest directors ever but I guess after Heavens Gate, people lost faith in him. Oh well. If you're looking for a spin-off Godfather type movie with the 'Highlander', it's worth a rent. "},{"Title":"Cimino does epic again - with predictably awful results","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Cimno obviously hadn't learned from Heaven's Gate, which isn't the disaster it's made out to be, just too long and too caught up in its subplots. The Sicilian copies the mistakes, but this time around it doesn't even have the beauty or breath of Heaven's Gate. Nor its good actors. Christopher Lambert is a disaster in the title role. He tries to get by on his good looks and roguish twinkle in the eye, but his charisma is non-existent and it's hard to believe him as a folk hero who can move the masses. Helena Sukova is also a disappointment. Terrence Stamp's performance is hard to measure fairly, due to a poor dubbing job inflicted on him in post production. Only John Torturro as his usual nervous self is worth the money, as is Joss Ackland as the don of dons in Sicily.Apart from the acting problems, this film is also spectacularly dull. Cimino stretches a repetitious, drawn-out story over almost two and a half hours, when 90 minutes and some judicious editing would have served him better here. Because things shuffle on at a snail's pace and many scenes seem completely superfluous (also known as the Heaven's Gate syndrome), the viewer quickly loses interest. Which in turn is a problem with this densely plotted and at times confusing film. There are so many betrayals, broken deals and secret alliances, that at some point the viewer is bound to be confused, especially if he's trying to keep up interest in a movie that doesn't deserve it. Seriously, give Heaven's Gate a try instead of this. You might lose an additional hour of your life, but you'll be awarded with a flawed epic instead of this epic failure. "},{"Title":"Soap opera level melodrama","Date":"16 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I read the novel by Mario Puzo quite a few years ago, but do not remember a thing about it, unlike most other Puzo works that I have consumed. So, maybe the source material was a bit lacking. If I remember correctly, Michael Cimino had already destroyed one studio, and well, I don't know how much was invested in this one, but I hope not too much. Cimino was obviously shooting for the sweeping epic, but ended up hitting soap opera level melodrama. The high points were the scenery, the cinematography, and the score. The low points were the plot and the acting. Christopher Lambert badly needed a charisma injection before trying to play this part. Joss Ackland was adequate as the mafia don, and Terence Stamp as the enigmatic prince, but the rest of the cast, ick. Cannot recommend this one. "},{"Title":"A farcical fairytale","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bandit, separatist, hero, murderer - with Francesco Rosi's acclaimed but hollow Salvatore Giuliano failing to come to grips with his subject, it almost seems as if the contradictions in Giuliano's story dictate it should best be told by an outsider with no political axe to grind. On the surface, that theory is soundly kicked in the groin, beaten to a pulp and left for dead in a ditch by The Sicilian, along with Desperate Hours the only Michael Cimino film that really IS as bad as critics said Heaven's Gate was.This film is so far from the truth that only the addition of flying saucers and death rays could make it any more outlandish. This Giuliano is a Christ-like martyr and hero of the people caught smuggling grain to the starving (in reality he was selling on the black market), buying land for the peasants (Giuliano had no interest in land reform), marries the sister of a communist (Giuliano didn't even have a girlfriend), hijacking troop trains, crucifying priests and even trying to stop the massacre at Portella della Ginestre (shamefully blamed in the film on Terranova, who was one of the few of Giuliano's band who it's definitely known did NOT fire a single shot on that day). No sign of the American occupation, no mention of the Separatist movement, no sense of how Giuliano operated just Hollywood hokum, and badly executed hokum at that.Of course, a film can be a total fantasy and still be enjoyable, as anyone who's ever seen a Jesse James or Robin Hood movie knows. Unfortunately, The Sicilian also has the disadvantage of being an astonishing piece of crap for most of its running time. It's full of atrocities, from Joss Ackland's comedy Mafia don (his dance with Barbara Sukowa is one of cinema's great this-isn't-working- but -just-grit-your-teeth -and- try-to-get-through-it-as-quickly-as-possible acting moments), an embarrassing acappella bebop mountain wedding (dig those crazy jitterbugging bandits, man), clunking dialogue (They'll never trust you again. Yes. How sad.) and situations, a terrible grinning performance from Christophe Lambert and a has-to-be-seen-to-be-disbelieved final shot of Salvatore rearing up on a horse against the setting sun at his own funeral. The uncut version actually is worse than the edited version released in the US, giving more screen time to Barbara Sukowa's atrocious 'American' aristocrat (Ja, ay em verr Amerikahn), who even gets to rape the hero during a robbery at her villa, and amplifying the inept Messianic parallels to a comic degree. There are hints at ambition, with a couple of scenes that threaten to work and the odd good line that one suspects comes from Gore Vidal's rewrite, but it's just another Hollywood mafia movie, with Ackland's Don protecting and ultimately betraying Giuliano, the son he never had. This was, after all, originally a semi-sequel to The Godfather (in Mario Puzo's novel Michael Corleone tries to arrange Giuliano's escape) until the producers found out Paramount owned the screen rights to Corleone characters and had to write them out. Unfortunately, they threw out the baby with the bathwater. "},{"Title":"Salvatore Giuliano, Folk Hero or Mobster?","Date":"7 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For entertainment value, Cimino's 'The Sicilian' does not deliver in the Hollywood sense. That's good in my opinion.It viewed some where between documentary and romantic fairy tale. Maybe to many, the latter choice would be more appropriate. I'd place Sicilian, Salvatore Giuliano or Lambert's portrayal smack in the middle. That's because even after doing much research I'm still not sure who the real character was. Probably, no one really knows for sure.The plot moves along fine except for the opening flashback from Turturro's cell. Cimino should have axed the scene first cut. The inclusion of the American governess did not help the story line either. In fact, she, the actress gave an unconvincing and unflattering portrayal of Americans (the rich ones) living abroad. At times she swore like a trooper. Most of the film she sounded and looked like a hooker in communist garb, designer that is. I was so glad when she fell off the reel.The rest of supporting cast was complementary. Giuliano's accomplices were good enough and just bad enough to add intrigue. Even the crotchety old professor was a good fit as interlocutor between Giuliano, his loyal band of unhappy bandits, the fickle mob and the stripe changing church.The film's one weakness is the behind the scene's love affair between the Mafia Don and Giuliano. I found it confusing. Do competing mobsters profess such unrequited love? Perhaps they do in Sicily.If you're looking for something in the genre of the non-stop murderous mobster films, then give this one a miss. However, if you are fascinated with Sicily and their mysterious culture, 'The Sicilian' will give you some good glimpses of the stunning mountain terrain, cosmopolitan Palermo and its people both big and small, good and bad. "},{"Title":"A movie with some political comment.","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In keeping with one of the movie's subplots, I confess to being a total Cimino fan. I have loved the four films that I have bought on DVD and I believe he is a much underrated director.  I just finished The Sicilian several minutes ago and I, as opposed to the last commentators, loved the film, did not fall to the floor in hysterical laughter and did not think that Cimino wanted to become Scorsese in the worst way. I thought the script was thoughtful and one of the few films to confront the historical political skeleton hanging in every Italian closet--the skeleton of land redistribution and the ghosts that haunt,to this day, the society of old Italy. The people of Bologna and Emilia-Romangna understand this but the Scicilians still rely on the Mafia. Of course, everyone sees in a film that which they are programmed from childhood to see; for me, however, I saw a deeper film than other commentators saw and as a result, I watched a far better film--a film of great substance with the rough beauty of the Scicilian countryside and the Scililian cityscapes bared for all to appreciate. The historicity of Cimino's films produce a memorable panoply of substance, painted on a canvas of great beauty. I loved the actors and I loved all that they did on the screen; I applaud Cimino for his artistic brilliance. I am hugely saddened that there is nothing comparable in today's Hollywood cinema. "},{"Title":"An Epic","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Cimino has created an epic, this is a very ambitious film, which unfortunately went exactly nowhere. Christopher Lambert plays Giuliano, a Sicilian bandit/revolutionary in post WW2 Sicily. Cimino effectively balances all of the powers that be --the church, the mafia, the nobility-- and presents a complex picture of the forces that were at work. Giuliano was a peasant hero, a kind of Robin Hood, whose heart was right but whose head lacked the smarts or the wisdom and ended up being destroyed. Watching this film, I thought of Visconti's The Leopard, it has the sweep of that earlier film, starring Burt Lancaster. Cimino has been in disfavor since Heaven's Gate, but with the Sicilian, he proves that he knows how to direct a film, even if no one ever sees it. BTW, this is one of the few films produced by the late David Begelman, who unfortunately blew his brains out, since he was in over his head legally and financially in 1995. Rent the Sicilian, it is on DVD. "}{"Title":"Really awful","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This must be one of the really awful films of all time, which belongs in the bottom 100. Must admit to having ignored the score and comment on the site here and purchased the DVD. Terrible mistake.I figured a Cimino directed Puzo film couldn't be that bad - it was. The acting is generally poor with a few exceptions. Notably, Joss Ackland, John Turturro and Giulia Boschi come out with some credit. Christopher Lambert, however, fails to carry the movie, and is as wooden as it gets. Even the Sicilian swagger fails to impress. Barbara Sukowa also is a let down, despite the odd sight of flesh.Cimino is a mega let down. It is as if there were a few scenes left over on the cutting room floor from the Godfather - marvelous scenery though it is - clipped together with a hastily put together script. To add to it all, the editing leaves a lot to be desired.I gave it 2/10, but only due to the scenery and score (which also may have been a hand-me-down from the Godfather).  "},{"Title":"The gifted Director is a brilliant post-modern architect of the film industry.","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Cimino is one of the very rare species on earth that can create a MOOD' that leads to the very cradle of western civilization. The Roman Empire. As a foreigner who has lived in an Italian town for a year, I come to see that the colossal heart of every Italian man can only be captured with its gist by Cimino. And no other up till date. It comes from lighting, its shadow, its colours, its smell even on screen, its silhouettes, its accents, its breathing space, and his very own colossal heart that can contain it all. You do feel that he has achieved that sacred task in showing us THE SICILIAN. Nobody has that feeling ever been captured with rapture that its texture is almost noble, royal, yet sacred.  But in its careful craftsmanship of Cimino, you find it everywhere, and it is just everywhere that overflows its costumes, its lighting, its camerawork, its juxtaposition, its projections, so on and so forth. Its tempo of the film makes you flow like a river that breeds lives and cultures at the very same time. "},{"Title":"bad epic","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's post-war Sicily. Salvatore Giuliano (Christopher Lambert) and his friend Pisciotta (John Turturro) steal grain for the poor. They are stopped by the police and Salvatore kills one of them. They steal two horses from land gentry Prince Borsa (Terence Stamp) during the escape. Salvatore catches the eye of Borsa's American wife Camilla (Barbara Sukowa). Salvatore takes on the conservative land owners, the church and the mafia to steal for the poor peasants. Mafia Don Masino Croce (Joss Ackland) is willing to use Salvatore at first until he becomes too powerful.Director Michael Cimino has grand designs. Sometimes his visuals work and sometimes they don't. I admire the attempt. The story is a muddle. There is no flow. The center of the problem is his casting. I don't understand what he's trying to do. Christopher Lambert is more or less French American but he's playing a Sicilian. Barbara Sukowa is German and yet she's playing an American. At least, she gives off a sense of superiority. He is as stiff as a board. He has certain limits as an actor and this movie shows many of them. I find the first act memorable but the movie crumbles as it goes on. "},{"Title":"Weak movie arising from strong book","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mario Puzo has given the world many novels and scripts becoming the basis for fine movies, e.g. The Godfather trilogy. As for The Sicilian, the screenwriters made it a dubious historical action movie, with an odd choice for the leading role - Christopher The Highlander Lambert who obviously lacked the features characteristic to e.g. Robert DeNiro or Al Pacino. The result is a kind of Italian Zorro or Viva Zapata!, with beautiful but difficult-to-remember women; luckily, there are some fine supporting performances, particularly John Turturro as Gaspare Aspanu Pisciotta and Joss Ackland as Don Masino Croce, and real Italian atmosphere. But the 2+ hours was too much, there were many scenes not providing additional value, and some lines-links could have been totally avoided. But first of all, one could have a real choice whether to make an adventure movie or mafia movie.Thus, unless you have decided to see everything connected to Puzo or Lambert, or Turturro, skip The Sicilian. "},{"Title":"Cimino's real worst (yet still better than many films out there)","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Heaven's Gate was Michael Cimino's worst film and one of the worst of all time? Never. The troubled making of it was a disaster, indeed, but the movie is almost a masterpiece and a good film on its own. The ones that came after Cimino's ban from Hollywood are the excellent The Year of the Dragon, the average Desperate Hours, his last The Sunchaser (a nice film for those with eyes to see), and this one The Sicilian, adaptation of Mario Puzo's novel and based on the life of criminal Salvatore Giuliano. In my humble opinion, this is his worst film. Confusing, ineffective and trapped in a weird chaotic fashion with scenes going from good to painfully bad. But it's better to blame on Steve Shagan's script and the studio who trimmed down the film in a few minutes making the story even more confusing than what already is.What we gather is that Giuliano (played by a dreadful Christopher Lambert) and his Sicilian group of criminal peasants cause horror in Sicily stealing land from its rich owners and giving to the poor, working for the cause of making Sicily independent. He defied politics, the church and everyone against his actions. His popularity was so great that even a powerful mafioso (like the one played by Joss Ackland) gave him some support until the day his arrogance for more power drives him off course, and no one's there to help him anymore. I guess this film could be called Salvatore Giuliano The Beginning as it ends from the part where Francesco Rosi's good classic begins with the disastrous and controversial investigation about the mysterious robber's murder, a political criminal that devastated Italy. If built on the same tradition of The Godfather, with substance and greatness it would have turned out to be a great endeavor. However, it all looks phoney, simplistic and we feel as if watching a poor version of Scarface. Another story about a man trying so hard to be a powerful criminal, difference is that he has some ideals of respect, justice and fights for others though he's no hero - but he seems more reliable than all the other corrupted Italian institutions. And in Giuliano's role, Lambert comes off a stiff, unnatural, only pleasing to look at when he's dressed with his elegant trench-coat. Ruined the movie just as much as Barbara Sukowa as the American lady who rapes the gangster.And there are qualities to be found in this Cimino work, qualities that remind us of his previous works. The cinematography bears similarities with the shots captured in The Deer Hunter and Heaven's Gate and Vilmos Szigmond is not the director of photography here yet it looks like one of his works; David Mansfield score has its moments; Mr. Ackland was a strong presence, as John Turturro as well, playing Giuliano's best friend. It's the story that is wrong. I couldn't get anything from it, no life, no truth, nothing new. Worthy of a view? Maybe, out of curiosity. Bear in mind that Cimino lost his mojo with this thing with badly staged scenes (but some horrifying and effective moments as well, demonstrated in the barber's execution in front a whole village after being discovered as a traitor who denounced Giuliano) and no story to work with. The book has to be ten thousands better to get ruined this way. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Terrible movie","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If, like me, you are attempting to get the great satisfaction that gave reading The Sicilian, by Mario Puzo, watching this movie you will be highly disappointed. It has virtually nothing to do with the book, although it claims to be based on the novel. No character corresponds to the age, temper or intelligence attributed to them on the novel. It's clear a movie cannot recreate a book completely, but this one goes the extra mile and butchers it without mercy. Spoiler alert it leaves out important relationships like Giuliano's with his mother and La Venera and makes up another with the Contessa. All the human, great stuff of the book is left out. This movie is just terrible. "},{"Title":"This Sicilian will make you an offer you can refuse.","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on the novel by Mario Puzo, which was in turn loosely inspired by the life of bandit, black marketeer, and separatist Salvatore Giuliano, The Sicilian is a confusing, self-important mess of a movie. As was the case with Rob Roy, Jesse James, and Bonnie and Clyde, popular culture once again whitewashes the acts of a real-life criminal and reinvents them as a folk hero. Set in Sicily during the 1940s, the film begins with Giuliano (Christopher Lambert) and his friend Pisciotta (John Turturro) stealing grain to feed hungry villagers. Caught in the act, Giuliano escapes after shooting a police officer, but he is seriously wounded himself (despite his life-threatening injury, Giuliano still manages to outrace the authorities and leap onto the back of a horse!). Giuliano seeks shelter in a monastery and is treated by a barber who says he will certainly die. However, Giuliano declares that he will live and makes a miraculous recovery. Giuliano's (near) death and resurrection is obviously intended as an allusion to Christ. I'm not a religious person, but I still think there's something blasphemous about comparing a thief and murderer to the Messiah.Once fully healed, Giuliano launches a crusade to provide the poor people of Sicily with land and counter the authority of the Mafia, the Catholic Church, and the wealthy landowners. To accomplish this he becomes a bandit and flees to the mountains, eventually assembling a large following. However, Giuliano goes too far, makes powerful enemies, and (in another parallel with Christ) is betrayed by a Judas in his ranks.If executed properly, The Sicilian could have been a powerful, complex tale of a man who does terrible things for noble reasons and ends up undermining everything he fought for. Unfortunately, the motion picture is plagued by poor choices. Various accents are spoken by the international cast, very few of which sound remotely Sicilian. Christopher Lambert in particular is miscast. Supporting characters come and go without contributing much to the story. Numerous factions become involved in the plot - the government, the Mafia, the church, the nobility, and the socialists - but it's not always clear whom is allied with whom or why. Many scenes were cut from the finished film by the studio and the audience can tell.The Sicilian was directed by Michael Cimino, who has a very mixed track record. After directing one of the greatest movies of all time, The Deer Hunter, Cimino was responsible for the notorious commercial and critical disaster Heaven's Gate (which, in retrospect, is actually not that bad). Cimino recovered somewhat with the crime thriller Year of the Dragon, but The Sicilian was another step backwards for his career. Cimino at least insures that the film is well shot, but his deadly serious intentions are frequently undermined by weak performances, clunky dialogue, and schmaltzy music.** out of **** "},{"Title":"Lambert = wooden","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a fantastic story about rebellion against the odds, Mario Puzo's Novel is a splendid read. However, Christopher Lambert acting is completely wooden. Absolutely awful. He straight out looks and speaks like an American with a terrible attempt at a Sicilians accent. Very annoying to people that have read the book and looked forward to decent story being told. Too much emphasis on the relationship between the duchess and not Giovanna. Gives the viewer the impression of a stronger love connection (when it was just sex for revenge/future plans) between the duchess than when Giovanna (his true love in the book) sat by the sidelines. Crappy casting and a poorly adapted novel seems like Michael Cimino just missed the whole plot. could of been so much more. Oh well read the book instead. "},{"Title":"A pretentious campy Godfather!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You can't be serious. This movie could have been great. It's got tragedy and struggle at its heart. The score is mournful and sufficiently mody. The direction and photography are at times beautiful and inspired. But the hard-boiled and wooden acting - combined with some of the most ridiculous dialouge - takes all seriousness right out of this over-achieving film. The only true hope within this waste of money is the always brilliant, John Turtorro. Watching him act one gets the idea that he knows the dialogue is ridiculous and acts up the campiness accordingly. Look out for a scene late in the film when he visits the cardinal to retrieve a message for Guliano. AS he walks back, he stumbles over a coffee table, in effect pulling the wind right out of the drama! "},{"Title":"What Heaven's Gate Should Have Been","Date":"3 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've seen about four of director Michael Cimino's films, and every time I see one I feel like I am watching an attempt to create the equivalent of opera within the film medium. All of Cimino's films are filled with things one would often expect to find in the opera emotional soliloquies, multi-layered mob conflicts, varied ethno-religious pageants filling the screen, extended love scenes, contrasting symbolisms between murky and bright color schemes, and plenty of furious soul-searching by its male characters following unexpected death and despair. Plus, like opera, his films are LONG.The problem is that the old Italian conventions of the opera are not what most American audiences and even critics want to see. That is my theory for why his films have never gained the kind of respect he would probably get if he were a purely European director. My guess is that one day they will - alongside someone like Sergio Leone, whose work is quite similar.A film treatment of a melodramatic novel by Mario Puzo about a Robin Hood-type (emphasis on the hood) outlaw stealing from the Sicilian gentry to give to the peasants in Fascist 1930s Italy is really the best possible setting I've seen for a Cimino film. His style of multi-layered art filmmaking was just not compatible for the American West of the 1880s in Heaven's Gate. Here, he is using an incredibly literate screenplay (supposedly most of which was written by the literary legend Gore Vidal, the rest by author Steve Shagan), filled with endlessly quotable spiritual/political/philosophical dialogue and musings. Aiding this is the Nino Rota-esqe score by Cimino's usual musical composer David Mansfield.Subtle character development has never been the strong suite of Cimino; he explores bigger things in his films like mood, place, and theme. And in this respect, he really does deserve credit for putting the audience in the middle of 1930s Italy, with its cauldron of conflicts between indentured peasants, land-owning gentry, shifty politicians, and the self-righteous dons and pontiffs who control things behind the scenes. This would be an excellent movie to watch alongside The Godfather III, also based upon the work of Puzo, to spot common themes. While nowhere near as groundbreaking or spectacular as The Godfather films, this movie does deserve its place as a companion piece in Puzo's screen adaptations. It's not a fast-paced Scorcese mafia film; it requires patience. "}{"Title":"Dancing","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For the record, I'm not a Cimino knocker. I liked Thunderbolt & Lightfoot, I initially thought the Deer Hunter was overrated, but it's grown on me. I actually like Heaven's Gate (although the last third drags - and in a film of that length a third is a LONG time)... it also is obvious that it shouldn't have cost that much (The book on the making of it, Final Cut is a must read). Year Of The Dragon, I liked, even with the stereotyping and awful leading lady (where did she disappear too?)I just want to make a short and simple comment - worst dancing scene ever by an actor. Joss Ackland, the singing and dancing fool. Also, Cimino needs to seriously get out of this 'I want to be like Coppola' thing... it's not working. The Sicilian is junk.It's hard to tell if Cimino is talented or if he has a habit of picking good cinematographers... the only good point in The Sicilian "},{"Title":"Better called The Petrified Forest","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wooden from the getgo. Predictable behaviour in a stew of accents. The only particular joy was in a very louche performance from Terence Stamp (have a look at his curious riding style!). I thought Michael Cimino would be capable of much more than this.  "},{"Title":"Ahh- the Sicilian","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Oh, this movie wanted to be the Godfather in the worst way, boy did it ever. Unfortunately it was about as far from that masterpiece as it could possibly be. After watching Heaven's Gate a few years ago, I wanted to see if Cimino could make something as bad. My curiosity was correct- this is plain awful.Lambert at one point in the film says in his horrific wooden accent, Everyone muss know, I am ah serious man. That had me on the floor laughing. I understand the film was edited and cut by the studio, but what I saw today barely makes any sense. The scenes seemed hastily put together with no coherence whatsoever. The camera angles and lighting were awkward and unsettling. And what is with the rape scene in the middle of the film? And where did the American governess disappear to for the rest of the movie? Half the time we don't know who is on who's side, and who is about to betray each other, and...oh why bother! Another scene that had me in stitches was mentioned by another reviewer the awkward Don dancing scene. It really looked like one of those ballroom scenes from the Muppet Show.What a mess. "},{"Title":"what do you want? LAND!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It does not look like an american but it is. The story is pretty heavy and intresting and REAL. I watched it for several times and i liked it every time. There were lots of very nice scenes and the end was pretty sad. I cant forget the scene where Pisciotta shots Giuliano. Its a very intresting movie. Giuliano asks the little boy what do you want? he says LAND "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Christopher Lambert is my favorite actor and when I saw this movie it became my favorite movie. He was a very good Guiliano, the movie moved me to find more information about the real Guiliano. "}]