[{"Title":"80's Heaven","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"48 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who wants to revisit the excesses of the 80's should definitely head straight for this movie.  Every element of it is strikingly evocative of its era.  It has all the obvious things like the absurd fashions, the brick-sized mobile phones, the casting (only in the 80's could a cast be assembled so wimpy that James Spader can convince as a tough guy!), and of course the drugs.  But it also has the little touches that generate shocks of recognition, from the pink and blue lighting, to the opening Bangles track, to the huge banks of TV screens masquerading as interior design it will rekindle memories you never knew you had.Like the central characters whom it both satirises and glorifies, this movie is beautiful to look at and obsessed with surface and appearance. You don't look happy, comments Clay (McCarthy) to Blair (Gertz) at one point, But do I look good? is her rejoinder.  This film, while not a happy one, definitely looks good.  Some scenes, notably one of McCarthy swimming and one of a swarm of motorcycles driving past him, seem to have no other purpose in the film beyond being aesthetically pleasing.  The film's visual imagery is indeed so striking that when the makers of The Simpsons wanted to include a parody musical Kickin' It - A Musical Journey Through the Betty Ford Clinic they drew the leading man (playing a celebrity busted for drug offences) dressed in the distinctive black and white suit worn by Robert Downey Jnr during the first party scene, presumably confident that it would be recognised.But despite its emphasis on visual style, Less Than Zero does have some substance underneath, most of it concentrated in Robert Downey Jnr's acute portrayal of the spoilt, self-destructive anti-hero Julian.  It is easy to say with hindsight that playing a drug-addled and desperate man was never going to be a huge stretch for Downey, and plenty of critics have done so. However, regardless of the reasons behind it's proficiency, his performance has a depth and range that gives it an air of authenticity rare in a genre of character which traditionally leads actors into either an excess of hamminess or a glazed vacancy.  Downey's Julian swings between easy-going charm, raw vulnerability, spoilt petulance and an aggressive unpredictability in a way which allows the audience to sympathise both with his family's angry hand-washing and his friend's reluctant love for him and determination to save him from himself.The role is a difficult juggling act and luckily Downey has the perfect foil in Spader's subtle turn as the cynically manipulative dealer, Rip.  The film really comes alive in the exchanges between the two, Julian puppy-ishly optimistic that he can sort his problems out and Rip cruelly cutting through his confidence to the reveal the self-deception at its heart, chipping away at Julian's fragile self-esteem in order to control him.Unfortunately, the film rather lets itself down with a closing few minutes that seem to drag on for at least an hour.  It's lazy, contrived and unlikely ending is more of a get out clause than a culmination and appears to have been written purely as a way of ending the film rather than as its logical conclusion.  Despite this fairly major flaw Less Than Zero is entertaining, with enough snappy dialogue, varied music and amusingly dressed extras to counteract its deficiencies. "},{"Title":"Hip, Slick and Dead","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"34 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I lived in L.A. in the Eighties and remember the club scene with a chill. From Eddie Nash's joint on Hollywood BlvdThe Seven Seas to Club Lingerie to the small venues in Long Beach and Orange County, this movie catches the ennui like a manic firefly in a jar. From the 'powder' in the ladies' room to casual sex, it shows it as it was--callow and shallow and a line/hit away from degradation and death.It's heart-breaking to watch Robert Downey Jr.'s character surrender his dignity to a free base pipe.  Other posts complain about the James Spader's performance, but he was dead on.  Pushers are not nice people.  This is an early cinematic example of truth about the nature of drug addiction.  Are you frightened? NOT FRIGHTENED ENOUGH!Scare yourself straight tonight.  Watch 'Drugstore Cowboy', 'Less than Zero', and 'Rush'.Here's hoping that Robert Downey Jr.'s talent will not be eclipsed by his addiction. He's an amazing actor. 'Chaplin' & 'Restoration' alone earned him a place in cinematic history. "},{"Title":"Great snapshot of a time gone by.","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"48 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The thing i love most about this movie is that it captures a generation. Whether you were one of the cocaine users, or drinkers, or school students, this movie really takes a picture. I was 18 and just graduating high school when this movie came out and for me the drug life was just beginning. The thing i like about this movie also is that it doesn't trivialize or glamorize drug use. It shows both sides of it. The great heights, the stunning lows. Its honest. And most of all it is realistic with everything it shows you. I give it a 9, a nearly perfect movie.I'm not sure why you have to have ten lines in your comments but I am writing thi sending to accomplish that goal. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A complete disaster...","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"77 out of 125 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Less Than Zero was one of my favorite novels of all time, combining a Catcher in the Rye for the excessive L.A. in the '80's sorta mentality. Unfortunately this film was in production during the very height of the just say no to drugs Nancy Reagan campaign. I remember reading in the L.A. Times how the producers were stating that they changed the character Clay to an avid anti-drug crusading hero instead of the bisexual, morally confused coked-out protagonist Ellis' novel made him out to be.What a waste. This movie is ridiculous, containing absolutely none of the ambience of the novel. Instead we get stupid visuals (a party with 20 TVs all stacked up on one another, an idiotic fight at a party in Palm Springs with beautiful coked-out people looking on), that lend little to promote the plot. Essential characters from the novel (like Trent) that could have helped explain the relationships are missing. It's almost as if the screenwriters intentionally tried to make this movie as illogical as possible.I met Ellis' sister once. She told me that Bret was so embarrassed by what they did to his film that he refused to go to the premiere. Can anyone blame him? "},{"Title":"Loved It","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie should be considered a Cult classic. The movie captures the plight of a young teen's soul while in the drug world and the loyalty of friendship. The riveting performance of Robert Downey, Jr, who coincidentally won an Oscar nomination for his portrayal of Charlie Chaplin, was convincing as a spoiled rich kid gone bad.. why does that sound familiar ?!? James Spader was almost as intriguing as the pimp/drug dealer who was as cold as dry ice ! Andrew McCarthy however, seemed to be drowned by his supporting cast but has proved to be a beloved actor in his roles in Pretty in Pink & St. Elmo's Fire ! Overall, I think that this movie started fans to really look at these fine actors as serious player's in the 1990's. I highly recommend having this in your collection ! "},{"Title":"Less Than Zero; An excellent look at an age.","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I first viewed this movie in 1988 not long after it's release. Less Than Zero encapsulates the nations obsession with the runaway greed is good, voodoo economics era of the 1980's. The move is highly stylized, and slick. It's Maimi Vice meets The Breakfast Club. I state this because it has elements of the now (unfortuneatly) defunct Brat Pack However, the depiction of Julian (played by Robert Downey Jr.)seems to be the embodiment of the age as it relates to cocaine, and crack-cocaine use, and the effect it had and in many cases still has on the lives of families friends, and love ones. For this reason as a baby boomer who lived through that era. I find the movie disturbing for its sheer view into the reality of lifestyle crashing into reality. I always try not to watch this movie. Sadly, I'm drawn into it like a moth to a flame. I think its a scared straight movie for the rich; or really any one that thinks that drugs are cool, glamorous, and harmless. From a directing, and acting standpoint its excellent. Marek Kaniveska did an excellent job setting the scene and style of Los Angeles high-life. Cars, money and clothes was what it was all about. Within that vein Kaniveska has put that portion of L.A. 80's lifestyle in the history books in this writers opinion Its really too bad the main characters are not as exposed as they once were in the industry. I think that anyone that sees this movie will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" As a graduate of 1987, this brings back memories of the younger years.Care free days of youth. Though the movie is a tragic Drama. It captures the fall of Wells very good. His friends trying to help and not realizing he is on borrowed time.Andrew McCarthy as the one has seen his partying days go by and now concentrates on college and Robert Downey Jr. still stuck in his high school memories and addictions. Jami Gertz as the one who loves McCarthy as a soul mate and Downey Jr. as a brother.Very dramatic and moving. Very Tragic ending, but does have a little light before the closing credits.Fabulous soundtrack and even better acting. Jami Gertz is Brilliant. I would highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Less Than Zero An Underrated Piece of 80's cinema","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Before watching Less Than Zero, I had read the book and was aware of the criticism this movie gets for not being anything like Bret Easton Ellis' first book. After watching it, I would definitely agree that it is nothing like the book, but I did like it for what it was.Clay (McCarthy) is coming back to Los Angeles for the Holidays. He meets up with his old Girlfriend, Blair (Gertz) and Best Friend, Julian (Downey). Clay last caught them in bed together during a Thanksgiving visit. It seems that for the past few months, Julian has developed a serious cocaine addiction that has put him $50,000 in debt with his vicious Coke Dealer, Rip (Spader).So what can I say? The film looks terrific. The Cinematography by Edward Lachman is amazing, and it is also highlighted by Thomas Newman's haunting score. The performances are great, particularly Robert Downey Jr as Julian (Who I think plays the part pretty accurately as his counterpart from the book), and although Andrew McCarthy and Jami Gertz get a lot of bashing for their performances, I think they're both quite effective. And Also worth noting is James Spader as Rip, who seems almost like an even slimier version of Stef from Pretty in Pink.Although it has its critics and it isn't an adaptation of the book, I personally love this movie and think that it deserves more credit than it gets. "},{"Title":"Its a teen movie with adult themes! And is truely magnificent","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Less than Zero has to be my ultime favorite 80's movie. Every time that I watch this movie I learn something new. This movie as many people know is Robert Downey Jr.'s break out film and boy, did he do a wonderful job. I think Robert did the most amazing depiction of a drug abusive young adult that anyone of his age or stature could even try to imitate. He was just amazing! You know, that someone is amazing in a movie when you can't see any other actor portraying his or her role and that's how I know Robert did an amazing job because i can't see any other actor at that time or even now who could portray the complexity of the character,Julian Wells, justice. The movie also includes Andrew Mccarthy, Jamie Gertz and James Spader, but clearly after watching Less than Zero all your left thinking about is Robert's performance. Don't get me wrong it was a perefectly casted cast as you know Andrew being the preppy college student and Jamie being the model/girlfriend and Spader being the villian/drug dealer but all you can think about is Julian and how everything in his life, no matter how hard he tried, just kept falling apart which therefore left him with no choice but to result to drugs. Even the director who hasn't directed many films is phenominal he gives a visonary to the audience the is just exceptional. And even the music in this movie is just great your left feeling the emotions as you listen to the music and I just find that completely rare now a days. As you can see i really do hold high regard to this movie and I actually do believe that if you took the time to watch it you would learn something from it and can apply it to your own life. And if there are any Robert Downey Jr., fans out there this movie would make you like Robert far beyond his irrestiable, amazing, gorgeous looks but it would make you look even further beyond that and have you respect him even more as an actor and as human-being, and even if you are not a huge Robert Downey Jr., fan this movie will convert you into one as soon as the credits start to roll. Again this is an Amazing movie both visually and physically (performance by Robert Downey Jr.,) so if your looking for a great movie to really leave you with something to think about rather, apply to your own life than this movie is for you and I can say this because I too have learned alot from it and I thank Robert from the bottom of my heart for making it! "},{"Title":"Under-rated!","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  As I write this, about 1700 voters here have given this movie a 5.5 rating. That's hard to fathom.  And yet, in some way I'm glad, because yes this is a truly different kind of movie--praise be. And maybe slipped past people unnoticed.I think this movie is like a small volume of honest postcards. The first thing you note about it is its honesty (it never shows it off) and at no turn of the page does this volume let you down. One source for this honest texture is the trio of main characters. One is as original (in cinema terms) real, non-sentimental, and truly likable and unpretentious as the other--and yes they are like comrades (no jealousy, no violence, no loud star-type sex, almost no f word).  Perhaps the other source is that among the accumulation of scenes none is invasive or exploitative or stereotypical--all are kind of flat and equal and old postcardy in color and never drawing attention to themselves. So, you may think this must be one of those artsy films--and this reviewer is into this sort of thing.  Well, if it is, it has less than zero pretense to such and, therefore, no one would call it that. I guess the real irony here is that such an honest little gem of a film takes place in Beverley Hills and is about cocaine.    "}{"Title":"Superficiality comes alive!","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This a classic example of the book made into a movie. The book was a frightening, uneasing tale about modern youth... very very good. The movie is just a weak reflection of that, going in to completely different directions, except the right one. The book is about superficiality, the movie IS superficiality. It actually left me with a headache, as I was so disappointed with the fact that once again a brilliant idea got raped for Entertainment's sake. "},{"Title":"A movie about people who exist in perpetual uselessness. (spoilers for the novel and movie)","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  'Less Than Zero' was a good book, but a horrible adaptation. The movie plays out like an anti-drug drama while the book explores California's wealthy socialites who exist in a state of perpetual uselessness. With vicious characters similar to Igby Goes Down, and the unbearable and disgusting apathy of The River's Edge, the novel portrays a dark reality of over-privileged city sleaze with too way much money.The novel is narrated by Clay, an eighteen year old who returns home from his New Hampshire college for the winter holiday. Rightly characterized as a modern Holden Caufield, Clay just seems to watch his surreal existence among the wealthy Califorian socialites with disgust. It is like the Roaring '20s of The Great Gatsby, only much harsher. The characters have no emotional connection to one another, neither to family or friends. When asked where her parents are for the Christmas vacation, one girl, Kim, replies that she read in Vogue that her mother was in London, or perhaps Honolulu. Everyone just seems to be content (or kidding themselves that they are) in their meaningless rituals. Meeting at one club after another, doing endless amounts of coke, engaging in casual sex. These characters are, what Sandra Bullock's character in 'Murder By Numbers' refers to as the 'orphans.' Kids with too much money and no place to go, nothing to do. Their lifestyles have turned them into the most disgusting creatures who don't seem to acknowledge their state of uselessness. They consider it the good life. In fact, Clay does seem to be the only one to realize it. Though Blair may've once been his girlfriend and Julian may've once been his best friend in school, they don't seem to matter anymore as they get carried away with this lifestyle. Everyone has turned into this sort of Il Conformiste (notice that all characters are described as blond and tanned). Any sort of connection Clay might've had with his friends or family is lost. New Hampshire, I suppose, is his only escape from perhaps, fantasies of suicide. (Notice how he states at the end that he half-wished he could take Blair back with him). The movie is a ridiculous adaptation of the book. Important characters like Rip and Trent, the most disgustingly apathetic of the characters in the book (notice how they react when the twelve year old girl is hogtied to the bed at their friend's house or when they discover a dead body behind a club), are made trivial in the movie. And largely because the theme these useless characters made so by their money and by the city life (the same themes of the 20s and 30s) becomes only secondary to the anti-drug story. In fact, another 80s drug-themed movie of the decade, 'Big Lights, Bright City' with Michael J. Fox and Kiefer Sutherland (aside from the drug theme) does a better job at illustrating the type of sickening cycle of useless people Ellis was describing in his own novel. 'Less Than Zero' is one of a few of Ellis's novels that have come to be adapted to the screen. The same cast of characters, those rich useless kids of the city who delude themselves in a world of zero emotion or care, return in 'American Psycho,' 'The Rules of Attraction', and now 'Glitterama.' Although, I suppose 'The Rules of Attraction' is much closer to the novel 'Less Than Zero' in that one character comes to realize how pathetic that cycle is, and desperately seeks to escape it in the end.So, I'd say, the novel is good. The movie was not. I suppose the only saving grace of the movie is that yes, it was an 80s movie with the hot young stars of the decade (particularly Gertz and Spader who are always interesting to see). That, and the anti-drug message can't be totally disregarded, especially considering the decade. Although, then if that were all the filmmakers were looking for, then 1) it was done better the following year ('Bright Lights, Big City'; Clean and Sober), and 2) they didn't need an adaptation of a novel to create that kind of story. The movie is alright just by itself. But as an adaptation, the novel fares much better.Moreover, for those interested in reading the novel, this narrative makes an interesting comparison to the 1979 Terry Davis novel, 'Vision Quest,' which was also poorly adapted into film in the early 80s. Anyways, these are two very different books that would be quite interesting to read consecutively.  "},{"Title":"Why waste your time?","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I avoided watching this movie for years because I thought it was just going to be a bunch of young people hanging out, drinking too much, doing drugs and wasting their lives. Well I finally saw it and ... the people were more beautiful than I expected and the performances more heart felt but it was still about rich kids wasting their lives. I read where people said the movie had an anti drug message. I don't see it. I mean a druggie is not going to miss that Julian died but none of the other people who did drugs died. And Julian's uncle was like way old and he was still doing bumps. Julian was just unlucky, maybe he got some bad stuff (maybe Rip gave him bad stuff on purpose). And everyone was so beautiful and there's no way Jaimie Gertz could stay that thin without using coke and speed. (And I have to say taking Julian back to Bennington with Clay would not have been an improvement on the LA drug scene.)To me the message of this movie is, kill the rich. Or at the very least,tax them so they can't afford so many drugs and bottles of champagne. "},{"Title":"Less Than Zero","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I have always found drug movies a bit difficult to sit through because watching someone fall prey to addiction and debt, with no where left to turn and a future uncertain, isn't easy. Decadence in wealthy Los Angeles, cocaine the major drug of choice for the 80s generation, along with parties, clubs, high priced cars and fashion. Andrew MCarthy is off to college probably at an elite private school while Downey has wasted away a promising recording industry career and savings, now an addict with no options for life advancement. Jamie Gertz is a model with a coke problem. Gertz was McCarthy's girl until he left for college, her ending up in bed with Downey. She beckons him to return because Downey owes drug/smut dealer James Spader(a more lavish version)and is doomed unless he gets help--question is can Downey make it out of his current state? Better yet, how can McCarthy rescue him when Gertz herself is often high on coke? McCarthy and Gertz do rekindle their relationship, sexually and otherwise, while attempting to save their pal from Spader's grip. Downey exhausts all methods for getting out of $50,000 that belongs to Spader, a lot of dope the young man has went through over the course of 6 months, and, to be honest, his dealer has been cooperative regarding lack of payment. So Spader wants Downey to hook for him, agreeing to substitute the work for his drug debt. So the viewer is treated to an unflattering look at life of the affluent youth when they are out at night. Downey's downfall is all too credible and harrowing, his fate unfortunate, suffering through one of those excruciating experiences where he must get clean, absolutely overcome with the sickness. Downey was forbidden by his fed-up father to come home, finding himself sleeping on park benches. Watching him deteriorate, helpless as his own two friends, we are treated to his decline. With lush cinematography to compliment the beautiful people who populate the LA scene, masking the real ugliness of it all. Rusty pipes says it all. Film is loaded with a number of great rock and pop songs. "},{"Title":"Going Down the Cocaine Drain","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Finally graduating from Beverly Hills High School (class of '87), bratty well-heeled Andrew McCarthy (as Clay Easton) goes off to college while his friends back home go off the deep end. Also making it through the twelfth grade (at last) are Mr. McCarthy's sexy girlfriend Jami Gertz (as Blair) and fun-loving pal Robert Downey Jr. (as Julian Wells) - but these two are not college-bound; she decides to work on her modeling career and he wants to start a business. The three are reunited when McCarthy comes home for Christmas. But, partying becomes a downer when McCarthy discovers his friends have become fiendish cokeheads...Can McCarthy save his friends in time? With attractive young stars, semi-MTV quality, and decent soundtrack - propelled by The Bangles' great cover of the old Simon & Garfunkel chestnut Hazy Shade of Winter - this film was a big hit with those saw it as representative of a decadent, pre-AIDS lifestyle. And, Less Than Zero certainly looks and feels like the 1980s. It's thesis seems to be Pitiful rich kids, who lack parental guidance, could get bitten by the drug bug. But, this was based on a much more reflective story, by Bret Easton Ellis.Critics singled out Downey for praise, hence the video synopsis In a spellbinding dramatic performance, Robert Downey Jr. portrays Julian, a Beverly Hills brat who has it all looks, charm, smarts, a rich father - and a drug habit. His friend and girlfriend (Andrew McCarthy and Jami Gertz) are trying to help, but Julian's world is crumbling so fast, he might take them out with him. The result is a powerful and compelling story of three kids who started out with everything and are about to wind up with 'Less than Zero'.Apparently, a little eyeliner goes a long way.Downey would have been even better in the Rip Millar role as it was originally written; this isn't meant to suggest either he or James Spader (as Rip) are inadequate; as far as this film takes them, they're fine. But, the male prostitution angle just isn't believable when you compare it to the book; and, it's way off balance. Worse, the original novel's bisexuality is neutered to extinction. A subtler performance is given by Gertz; with less to go on, she fills up her portrayal of a beautiful model on cocaine.****** Less Than Zero (11/6/87) Marek Kanievska ~ Andrew McCarthy, Jami Gertz, Robert Downey Jr., James Spader "},{"Title":"They Gave A Heartless Book Some Heart","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't say that much that none of the other posters have said but I must say I love this film. I've read the book and it's well executed and written. The film is good too but people dismiss it as a horrible adaption of the book. This is, more or less, true but only because instead of filming it as a bleak, passive movie they put some heart into it. For example, Julian is only a character hinted at in the book. We only meet him a couple times before we realize from many vague clues that he might be dead. In the film, we see his friends really trying to help him. In the end, I have to stick up for this movie. I don't know what it is about this film but it just works for me. Just realize that had the film been a faithful adaptation of the source novel you would have been completely and utterly depressed by the end of this movie. I understand that was the point of the book but... well they gave it some heart.   "},{"Title":"A Perfect Snapshot of 80's So. Cal.","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this film when it was first released in theaters. I lived this whole scene without acquiring a drug addiction. When I first saw the movie I was bored because it was kind of a wet blanket to those of us who were living that kind of lifestyle. I used to go to the circuit parties in Palm Springs. I went to the big clubs in LA. Studio One was THE hot place for many years. I went to my share of parties in Beverly Hills where coke was abundant. I never had to buy it. It was just everywhere. I went to one party where there was a mirror topped cocktail table with a pile of coke in the middle surrounded with razor blades and straws. It looked like someone had dumped a box of baking soda on the table.Having just watched this movie again for the first time in 20 years, I can objectively assess this as being an amazingly precise snapshot of the times. The only aspect of the film that could have been a bit more fun style-wise is the music. Yet, it might have been a bit too brat packish if it turned into a pop soundtrack movie like Sixteen Candles or Breakfast Club or Weird Science, etc. This story was not all about goofiness and teen angst. It was more adult and there really were a lot of people who got into trouble with coke and crystal in those days. They were easy to spot when you stood back. I also found it easy to stop myself from going too far by maintaining high awareness of my own situation. People into the fitness craze like me found it easier to resist going overboard because we always had our gym thing which required a clear head to keep it up. That whole scene really was mostly weekend partiers.I enjoyed watching this movie and going back in time. The film has its continuity flaws but I just couldn't see them. I was seeing too many memories to notice. I remember a Spring Break in Palm Springs where I ran into Arnold Schwartzenager at a Robinson's Dept. Store on Palm Canyon Drive. I was trying on a pair of shorts in a men's department dressing room and when I stepped out of the stall to look in the mirror Arnold stepped out of the stall next to mine wearing the exact same shorts as me. He looked me up and down and grinned at me and said, Dey look betta on you den day look on me. We both started laughing. I bought the shorts. Those were the days. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Ignore the negativity about the comparison to the book. If you want a book review, go to Amazon.As a film it does what it does magnificently; thru and thru, from extreme to sublime via ridiculous - but as many point out, if you witnessed any clubbing in LA in the '80s, or any of 'the scene', then this movie holds an unpleasant mirror up to those views.RDJ is simply brilliant. McC & Gertz fantastic. Spader, preparatively oily.10/10 for this one folks. Anything less is discussing the % of the cut, to be honest.*Sniff* "},{"Title":"Not a bad late 80's drama, with Downey at his most downest","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Less Than Zero almost seems like a film that came too late, if only for a couple of years earlier, during the Brat Pack era. While it isn't John Hughes, it's an interesting drama thanks to it's performances, especially Downey's, this role hitting a bit too close to home, and James Spader, as an oily drug supplier, while McCarthy basically just has to look sharp, smile and not say much, while I almost don't know what Gertz has to do, but just look independent. When graduating at the start, McCarthy had gone away for a while, and now he's back, only to find friend, Julian (Downey) at his worst with his drug habit, spiralling into a darker hell as referred to the movie's title, while Gertz is overly concerned. All three are from privileged families, Downey's father disowning him cause of his addiction. Downey shows some powerfully acted moments, too convincing you might say, like when he's really strung out, his supplier Spader, a really bad influence, ha ha, (different Spader movie reference) acting as a kind of pimp, when funds are short or due, making him do some weird stuff. Less Than Zero is a flashy energetic drama, all the more conflict driven, in Downey's character refusing to be helped. Based on Brett E Ellis, novel, Gertz uses the same line regarding snorting coke, as Jessica Biel does in 2003's Rules Of Attraction, based on another novel by Ellis. The film does have some messy areas, and it's ending, tragic for one, is thought provoking, but if you want John Hughes, go somewhere else. "},{"Title":"Not a great one, but if you're an RDJ and 80's fan, then this movie is for you.","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie version is a toned-down, infinitely cleaner & more positive take on Ellis' disturbing novel - it still has captured the decadent lifestyle of the characters, but less of the shock value the novel has presented. I say more positive because the characters had redeeming qualities here, which the novel lacked, and the ending was kind of a happy ending despite of what happened. The movie, I felt, went on a cowardly path because it basically changed everything in the book. The Blair-Clay approach of the movie is so typical of Hollywood and it's one of the movie's aspects that I really didn't like. Two things that make this movie legit and worth watching though is the music which gives you that wonderful 80's vibe, and Robert Downey Jr.'s moving performance. "}{"Title":"Missed The Mark By Miles","Date":"23 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" To keep this review short, sweet and to the point, this film completely missed the point that the novel made. As a 25 year old, I consider the novel one of the defining works of my generation and I had hopes for the film adaptation to be remotely faithful to that. It wasn't. In all fairness to the plot, it has been a couple of years since I read the novel, but it is clear that much was discarded in translation with the intention to present the film in the light of an anti-drug piece. The novel however was far more nihilistic than that and focused on the banality life for the over privileged elite. As I recall, several elements were retained in the film from the novel, but it felt like two completely different stories. I'm generally kind to adaptations and remakes in regards to view them independently of the work in which they're based, but this one was such a let down that I had a hard time not yelling at the television. That said, the film itself, ignoring the novel as much as humanly possible, was pretty middle of the road. The storytelling was shallow and clear-cut with little left up to the imagination and aside from a young Robert Downey Jr and James Spader, acting performances were marginal. It would be interesting to see this film remade by a director (and screenplay writer) that actually retains the vision that Ellis painted so vividly in his novel, but until then take this film with a grain of salt and read the novel instead. I give it a very generous 6/10. "},{"Title":"A Vapid Take on a Vapid Moment in Time and Place- But Not in a Good Way","Date":"4 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is very mixed. Robert Downey Jr. is beyond fabulous. Having watched someone very close to me go through addiction, I can say that Downey's Julian is the most accurate addict I've ever seen portrayed on film. His hopeless optimism, random outburst of rage, and constant sweating all ring true. But everyone knows RDJ is brilliant. Andrew McCarthy does well with the character created by the screenwriters, but that character lacks depth. If you've read Bret Easton Ellis's novel of the same name and are expecting the apathetic, drug-addled, jerk narrator, step back 'cause you won't be getting it here. It's no surprise the author was only happy with RDJ and James Spader, their characters are the only ones who even vaguely resemble those of the novel. The novel is shocking to the point of being nauseating and down right disturbing. The film is not. It's a beautiful, vapid montage of 80s that sometimes drags. The soundtrack is killer, especially LLCoolJ's Going' Back to Cali and the Bangles cover of Hazy Shade of Winter. But back to the acting- a few times in the film, Jamie Gertz hits on something real and heart-wrenching, but it's fleeting and before you can sigh with relief, it's gone. Much of her performance is pretty wooden and her performance in the last scene is positively painful. The sex scenes are very realistic, though. Probably the best acting Gertz and McCarthy do in this film. If you're into costumes, check this film out- they're pure 80s perfection. "},{"Title":"better than it's rating","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is my second time to see this movie, the first being when it was released in 1987. I liked it the first time, but now have even more of an appreciation for it. This movie was very well done as compared to some other movies of it's time period. The story was captivating and I thought Robert Downey Jr.s acting was excellent even if hard to watch at times. It's obvious to me that the director went to great lengths to make sure every shot was done right. The lighting was excellent, using color and giving feeling to a lot of the night shots and especially all the scenes in the convertible. I read an earlier comment from someone who thought the music didn't fit, however I disagree. I thought it added significantly to the mood and the feel in many of the scenes. Andrew McCarthey and Jamie Gertz were also very good in their roles and I thought James Spader played a great bad guy/drug dealer. I give it 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Uncanny casting","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Has there ever been a movie that was better cast than this? Did this movie forecast Rober Downey Jr.'s drug induced downfall or was he already on that path? Andrew McCarthy as preppy, do the right thing guy - spot on. Jamie Gertz...at the time of this movie's making she seemed like the next big thing, beautiful and talented - but like her character in this movie she never seemed to be able to put it all together. James Spader as an a-hole....do we even need to get into this one, perfect character for him.At the age I was when I was first saw this movie, 16 and on my way to a bad future, this was a real eye opener and really hit home as I saw so many similarities between characters in the movie and people I knew at the time. This will forever be one of my all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"Less Than Zero - One of the Seminal Films of the 20th Century","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Less Than Zero is one of the seminal films of its era. Director Marek Kanievska and cinematographer Ed Lachman created a masterpiece of form and style, unlike any other film in the 1980s. Less Than Zero visual style was the first to blend the high style glossy fashion ad look of Los Angeles and Palm Springs with the first MTV generation energy of music videos.For example, one of the establishing scenes of the movie is the intro credits with Clay, portrayed by Andrew McCarthy in his finest role, arriving home to sunny L.A during Christmas Vacation. A yellow filter is placed over the lens so that L.A. glows. There is no dialog, but only the booming singing of The Bangles' rock cover of Simon & Garfunkels Hazy Shade of Winter. The palm trees go by as Clay's taxi floats into one of Beverly Hill's affluent neighborhoods. The music dies down as Clay enters his empty modern impersonal family home and plays the message machine, only to learn that both his parents could not be present to welcome him home.The foreshadowing is all there in that establishing scene with the credits - the lack of familial love, the emptiness and detachment of the main character that matches the hollow environment.The first party is a lavish F. Scott Fitzgerald Great Gatsbyesqe 1989 party filled with dozens of television playing video images timed to rock musics. There are theme winter wonderland rooms, where the fake snow on the floors represent the white cocaine being blown up the rich teen's noses.The plot of the film is loosely based on the brilliant first novel by Bret Easton Ellis. Mr. Ellis' novel stands as one of the most significant literary works of the late 20th Century.Many amateur film critics have criticized the film for not doing justice to Mr. Ellis' literary creation. Fortunately, I do not suffer from the misconception that a film must be judged by how exact it matches its literary inspiration, rather than judging the film on its own merit.Screenwriter Harley Peyton, who was rumored to produce a first draft closely following the novel, modified his script into a lean script that could be transformed into a brilliant motion picture. The essence of isolation, friendship, drug-addition, and lost youth remains. I would argue that a closer adaptation of Mr. Ellis' novel would not have made a good film, because rarely on screen is it successful to portray a main character without emotion. Mr. Peyton needed to create character arcs, where the characters start one place and over the course of the film has some change, whether positive or negative. Robert Downey Jr. gives the performance of his life (literally) portraying the drug addict that he was to become and which almost ruined his career.One of my favorite shots in film is the second to last shot. Andrew McCarthy, Robert Downey Jr. and Jami Gertz sit mourning in Clay's classic Corvette which sits on a lonely road in the middle of the desert surrounded by Joshua trees. A flyover shot of the desert closes in for a close-up on the Corvette and the devastated main characters. The shot is breathtaking.Taken in context of film history of the 1980s, this is a clearly darker take on youth, than the John Hughe's stories of the time, like Pretty in Pink (1984) and The Breakfast Club (1985). Less Than Zero - the film and the novel should be a must see film and must read novel for every serious film viewer and reader. "},{"Title":"Ironic","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is very loosely based on Bret Easton Ellis' book; the locations and characters are similar but that's about it. It tells the story of a complete waster with masses of talent and ideas who falls victim to cocaine/drug addiction and all that surrounds it. It seems extremely ironic that the waster is played by Robert Downey Jr whose own drugs hell has been very public (funnily enough he played a similar character in 1969!). We also see the lengths that his true friends are prepared to go to to try to help him.I personally believe this is one of the best films I've ever seen. It has everything you could ever want from a film, especially when you're depressed. It helps one to see that, in most cases, other people's lives can be so much worse!There is some fairly wooden acting, especially that from McCarthy and Gertz. Downey however is superb, as is James Spader as the slimy drug-dealer Rip.The film also contains one of the best soundtracks I've heard with music from the likes of Jimi Hendrix (Fire) and Kiss (? - Rock and Roll all Night). Even the incidental music, by Thomas Newman (6 Feet Under) is very emotive.All in all a very underrated film.  "},{"Title":"Aptly Titled","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"37 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Although his style had its detractors, Bret Easton Ellis painted an intriguing and extremely disturbing portrait of wealthy Los Angeles youths leading drug-laced lives of ennui--and who casually sleep around with both sexes, watch snuff films, and abandon long-standing friends without much more than batting an eye. Hollywood was eager to buy the rights to this best-selling novel, but Hollywood was also too chicken to actually film it... so they ran the novel through a wringer, and what came out on the other side is a formula story of two friends (Andrew McCarthy and Jami Gertz) who try to stop a third friend (Robert Downey Jr.) from taking a drug-fueled elevator straight to hell. And director Marek Kanievska even manages to foul that up, too.The really frustrating thing about this film is how good the cast is--or rather, how could it COULD have been if absolutely anything about this sorry waste of time and money had been worth a damn. This is a really, truly shabby bit of hyped-up commercialism without any substance to it at all, badly written, directed, and filmed, and the only other title to which I can compare it is the abominable Didi Conn film YOU LIGHT UP MY LIFE. I would dearly love to give this movie a less than zero rating, because that is precisely what it deserves, and if you think otherwise, guys, you're just buying into the marketing machine that told you this piece of trash was good to begin with.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"gets better each time","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" yet another mid80s film starring young actors for which i fail to understand the criticisms.as a standalone piece, it's excellent. casting is spot-on; even jami gertz who gives the weakest performance seems at home in her role, straddling strong loyalties for her two leading men. given that LESS THAN ZERO turned out to be almost entirely prophetic re a certain young actor whose name rhymes with hobart towney it's hard to justify the resistance to the anti drug stance. i thought mccarthy did a good job of seeming exceptionally ambivalent to the libertinism surrounding him while remaining somewhat apart from it all.some really nice shots of just about everything. if watching downey chew furniture for an hour and a half isn't your cup of tea, it's worth checking out as a document of LA mid-80s.not bad on a purely hyperbolic/camp level either, as drug films tend to be. i was slightly amused by all the gay for pay action, drug pushers in vintage hot tubs with floating brick mobile phones, graffiti in couplets (julian gives good head and is dead).always felt that there was a bit of a homoerotic subtext between julian and clay as their scenes together are so nice and understated. as if to underscore this point, the ladies don't do much undressing in this one and instead let the gents be nude and sexy.i thought it ended too fast but apparently overdosing is A Thing and so are bad cuts, so perhaps was not an entirely fatal artistic decision. the graveyard scene tacked on at the end seems entirely unnecessary tho. have learnt thru research that they had to reshoot like half of it in order to please the more conservative studio + mass audiences which may explain the thematic unevenness. "},{"Title":"Ups and Downs in the materialistic world","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw the movie in my early twenties, and all my friends and i got shock after see it. Now, i saw it 29 years after it's release and it's not the same impact as before, but ....remains something.I agree that the film it's considered as cult movie because at that time it had a relative attention from an intellectual audience.The movie takes you to 80's age, with it's characteristic effervescence, especially the peculiar atmosphere, in which they emphasize the blue colors and a stylish environments.The movie portraits a decline of values in a rich society. After all , this axiom remains fully present since proves itself in today's society.Probably the book can be better or different in some many ways, as some people say (i did not read it) ...but the movie is still more than decent.7/10 "},{"Title":"80s decadence","Date":"13 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Clay Easton (Andrew McCarthy), Blair (Jami Gertz) and Julian Wells (Robert Downey Jr.) are best friends graduating from high school. Julian uses his daddy's money to start a record company. Blair abandons her plans for college with Clay and sleeps with Julian. Six months later, Julian returns home from college for Christmas. Blair convinces Clay to help Julian who is in trouble. Julian lost all of the money and had to borrow from drug dealing school acquaintance Rip (James Spader).This captures a certain superficial 80s L.A. decadence. Robert Downey Jr. delivers a big-time performance as a druggie mess. It is probably a bit of real life imitating art. James Spader has the perfect creepy sleaziness. McCarthy is still in the full bloom of his boyish charm. His problem is that he's a bit inferior for the part. He's not quite the leading man this role calls for. Jami Gertz does functional girlfriend acting. Downey is the key and he's great. "}{"Title":"The books is, especially in this case, way better than the movie","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" They tried to make Less than zero into a movie, but they had to censor some parts, probably too hard for the movie. But the success of the novel was the traumatizing things that happened to Clay and his friends, and if you censorship that in order to make a 'watchable' movie, you are going to fail.Let's remember that in the novel there are the rape of a twelve year old, a pimp injecting heroin into Julian's arm, and a dead boy of an overdose in an alley. You lose all that in the movie by censuring it. And I'm not defending the horrible things that happened in the book, I'm just saying that Less than zero was kinda of a morbid reading.Another thing they ignored (and it couldn't be because of censorship) was the ad that said 'DISSAPPEAR HERE', that constantly followed Clay through the city. "},{"Title":"A good movie showcasing the decedent 80's and members of the Brat Pack","Date":"24 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A college student goes home for Christmas and finds that his girlfriend and best friend have become cocaine addicts. Aw yes the decadent 80's. If you grew up during this time then you will have a special appreciation for this movie. It definitely captures an era with relevant music, clothing and several brat pack stars doing some decent acting (especially Robert Downey). The story itself is intriguing, gritty and sad with a strong anti-drug message.Andrew McCarthy is Clay who returns from college to spend Christmas with his wealthy family in Beverly Hills. His former girlfriend (Jami Gertz) is now involved with his best friend Julian (Downey) and both of them are in trouble. Julian's drug use has spiraled out of control and he owes huge debts to a dealer. James Spader plays a real slim bucket here, I had forgotten how good looking he was back in the day. 07.13 "},{"Title":"It is a close to flawless movie with to the heartfelt message that never gives  up on what it is trying to say.","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I wouldn't be the first to say drugs are in and a problem throughout American society. With the legalization of the pot in Washington, Oregon, and soon to be Alaska in 2015, drugs can be political and are often talked around my high school; for example If weed should be legal or not. I will also say high school is where sadly I am most exposed to drugs. You know who the drug dealers are, who's been arrested over it and I can't tell you how times in my study hour I have overheard a story about a local party involving the drugs and alcohol.Yes, there are stoner films but films that have a plot of a person dealing with a drug addiction are not that common. It is hard to an find audience for these films which have a depressing atmosphere. The one film that should always to mind with drug addiction though is Less then ZeroBlair (Jami Gertz), Clay Eaton (Andrew McCarthy) and Julian Wells (Rober Downey Jr.) are all college age kids during Christmas time in affluent Los Angeles. Blair and Clay are a former couple who's relationship faltered after Blair cheated on him with Julian leaving all three friends in a awkward stance. During this Christmas break, we learn that Julian now has a severe drug problem and sometimes sleeps on a cliff on a beach due to the fact that's his parents kicked him out of the house. Julian also can't pay off his drug debt to drug dealer Rip (James Spader). It is part drug film, part relationship film.Truthfully, these are somewhat simple lead characters. These are characters who are trying their best to get away from high school problems and are trying to get a foot in the real world. It is the Downey character who is the most interesting. Director Marek Kanievska does a good job of making you feel like you have already known Julian. With some great acting by Downey, you are truly frustrated with his antics and you have no confidence that he is going to stop buying drugs like says he will. You do want him to get better because you miss that cocky, smart-ass character that briefly appears before he becomes stoned and strung out. It is hard to like Blair because of the cheating and she could possibly go down the same road as Julian but she eventually does find herself. The McCarthy character doesn't have much substance compared to the others and he is truly the only character with a clean record and you do have respect for how he tries to save his friend. Released in 1987, we do see the 80's fashion/style, and 1980's Los Angeles culture is a major theme in the film. These are all kids who parents never had money troubles, who think it is normal to wear suits and dresses every day and drive flashy cars. This rich culture is presented to us in a way that fits very nicely into the drug plot.Less Than Zero won't seem to be a stand-out film. It is mostly remembered for being an 80's film and some of it's cast and an ironically Downey had severe drugs problems afterwards in the 90's but we should remember Less Than Zero more for how well it is made. It is a close to flawless movie with to the heartfelt message that never gives up on what it is trying to say. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of the 80's and a real image of life","Date":"19 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember when i see this movie in video (it never came out in theaters here in Mexico)and the experience was very surreal,I have to recognize that i know of the movie because the music video of THE BANGLES-Hazy shade of winter (Remember it was the MTV era)and i was very surprise.I know all the actors of the movieMccarthy for Pretty in pink and mennequin,Getz for The lost boys and Solarbabies,Downey jr for Weird Science and Johnny be good and Spader for Pretty in pink and for Wall street so i know the quality of all of them.The movie is really really great based in real situations and great characters (Downey jr and Spader steal the movie) and the soundtrack are great music ofPOISON,ROY ORBISON,AEROSMITH,LL COOL J,SLAYER,RED HOT CHILLI PEPPERS and of course THE BANGLES make a great contribution to the movie...So why see it???...Simple they don't make movies like this and all the main actors are now great actors (with the excepcion of Jami Getz of course). "},{"Title":"Definitely worth a watch","Date":"26 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I rated this film 8/10, and here's why Whilst this film has it's fair share of bad, it has a bundle of good to go with it. It's like a game of 50/50. Half the cast are good, half bad. Half the scenes are good, half bad etc. The real clincher in this film has to be Robert Downey Jr's portrayal of drug addict, Julian. Never have I been so moved, to the point of tears (and I never cry). The film is about 3 friends Clay (Andrew McCarthy), Blair (Jami Gertz), and Julian (Robert Downey Jr). They have just left High School and are all off to enter the real world. Clay goes to University, Julian tries to fund a record project, and Blair gets into modelling. After a year apart, things have changed. Clay comes home at Blairs request due to her concerns about Julian after his record project falls apart, he gets into debt, and heavily involved in drugs. The remainder of the film explores the struggles between the three friends being reunited and seeing how each one has changed. Whilst Andrew McCarthy and Jami Gertz give very poor acting, very little emotion, it is Robert Downey Jr and James Spader (Who plays Rip) who steal the show and make the film worth while. The film has a very rustic 80's feel to it along with a fantastic soundtrack in-fitting with the films story. The film is supposed to based on the book Less Than Zero by Brett Easton, but is only very loosely based. If you are a fan of the book i'd watch it with caution. Other than that, i'd recommend you all watch it just to see RDJ's captivating performance. Go on, give it a try! "},{"Title":"Downey Should Had Been Nominated for Oscar!","Date":"25 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It seems that Robert Downey Jr back then real life drug habits intervene with his character of Julian. As he plays the character off really well.As his character, also Clay the main protagonist played by Andrew McCarthy and ex-girlfriend Blair, played by Jamie Getz now dating Julian at the time behind his back. But finds out later in flashbacks.Clay returns from his freshmen year in NH and that he finds his two best friends on drugs and partying. As Julian must owe his pimp and hood, the main antagonist, James Spader money off of his drug habits.While also trying to rekindle with Blair, despite her having an affair with Julian. As Clay finds his friends broken not just in money but in spirit and health.The author of this book did not like the movie when it came out as it had nothing to do wtih his book. But later mellowed out on it a bit. Kind of depressing film but if you are a fan of RDJ, he really steals the movie! Watch it due to him! "},{"Title":"Everyone is accountable....","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Clay, an eighteen-year-old freshman, comes back from his first term at a college in New Hampshire to spend Christmas with his wealthy family in Los Angeles. His former girlfriend, Blair, is now involved with his ex-best-friend, Julian. She warns Clay that Julian needs help he is using a lot of cocaine and has huge debts....Anything to with the Eighties, and I'm already sold, as you may know if you read my other reviews. Bret Easton Ellis novels are difficult to turn into movies, but I've loved everyone that has been produced (even the Informers).And this is no exception.It's a film about greed and excess, and spoilt little rich kids getting into trouble and not getting their parents health.As expected, Downey Jr. Is the best thing about this, totally believable as the young man living the high life, only depending on being high to live it. Eye make up and barking attributes are the order of the day for him, and he excels.The same cannot be said though for Gertz and McCarthy, they are pretty terrible in this, just spending the film looking worried or a little bit distant, this may be trying to be cool and reckless, but they just looked moronic and boorish.But funnily enough, they are not the pivotal part of the movie, yes they get back together and try to conquer the excess of the eighties for love, but its the Julian and Rip relationship that is the movies core and heart.It looks good, a typical eighties movie where people stand on expensive looking balconies trying to find themselves, with a great soundtrack, and good looking people.Shame about Gertz and McCarthy though. "},{"Title":"Nothing Without Downey, Jr.","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There is unapplied ambiance in Bret Easton Ellis's dark story of a college freshman who returns home to LA for Christmas and finds things not to be quite as he left them, to say the least. His ex-girlfriend has been having sex with his friend from high school, the heroin- addicted Robert Downey, Jr., who is being hassled by his dealer, James Spader in a typical performance of vicious self-importance, for the money he owes. What follows is the homecoming collegian's effort to help clean Downey, Jr. up.Downey, Jr. is terrific in an early landmark performance, but he could've been matched by the actors around him, and the production values. With the exception of Spader, the remaining cast is without the charisma and feeling that he embodies in his tortured character. The direction, too, is static, at least compared to what it could have been. This is a story that should not be given democratically. Like American Psycho and The Rules of Attraction, Less Than Zero needs a production team willing to take risks, plunge into their own subterranean perceptions of the film. The Rules of Attraction, for instance, has a twisted subreality brought to its technical aspects by Roger Avary, a filmmaker with a penchant for numbingly gloomy subjects, as he had previously made clear with his contribution to Pulp Fiction and his first directorial effort, the dismal, brutalizing bank robbery film Killing Zoe. Less Than Zero is directed with commercial sensibilities. "},{"Title":"Okay as a standalone movie","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Less Than Zero has little to do with the book it's supposedly based on, I am told. Having not read the original novel I cannot comment on that. As a standalone movie Less Than Zero is quite good, though. It assembles some notorious 80's actors who were at the height of their fame back then (Andrew McCarthy, Robert Downey Jr., James Spader and the super-hot Jamie Gertz) and features blink-and-you'll-miss-it-appearances by Brad Pitt and Anthony Kiedis and Flea from the Red Hot Chili Peppers.The movie itself is a snapshot of decadent life in 80's L.A. As such it is pretty intriguing to watch at times. After a while the whole thing seems a bit anemic, though. The numbing score, Rick Rubin's aimless selection of songs by such different artists as Jimi Hendrix, Poison, Slayer, The Bangles and Roy Orbison, the half-baked acting...Less Than Zero is no masterpiece, but it takes you into a certain time and milieu like few other movies do. Therefore it's not merely a curious artifact of the 80's, but a movie that's still worth checking out today. "},{"Title":"Compared to the Novell , Disappointing","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" OK, The above is as i see this film, i recall reading this novel whilst in the Caribbean , sipping pina colarda's and tanning. I guess the book is positively influenced by the time and place theory.... But i saw the film and recalling on the Book i felt significantly let down in every-way possible. I am a huge fan of Ellis's novel's , not of Ellis himself but his work is something extra. The conversion from book to film are really badly done in most cases, but with Ellis they are completely ruined in translation. I think the directors don't filly understand the theory of the Noevl and see it as a story. This is an epic character study , its to people and conversation as Spielberg is to action and adventure. This is simply lost and none of the characters contain any amount of depth. Avoid this film and do not allow the cast list and novel tempt you. if you enjoyed the book, you'll hate this. "}{"Title":"If Anything... Watch It For Robert Downey Jr.","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, I am going to start with the bad parts (which there are a lot of so bear with me.)The script is very cheesy and shallow. It seemed they saved all the good dialogue for Downey's character. Many lines just made me writh in my seat such as, but do I look good? As someone mentioned before, it does almost read as an hour and a half long anti-drug commercial, but it does realistically display the effects of drug use. This movie should be shown to high-school students around the world!The acting (apart from Downey) was horrendous. Spader wasn't that bad, but I wasn't blown away and I forgot him as soon as the movie ended. The rest of the cast (primarily Gertz) was just... bad! I found them not believable, I was watching them act instead of what an actor should do, which is become the character. The script didn't help them, and if they had some better lines, I might have liked them better.I haven't read the book, but from what I've read, it wasn't an accurate adaptation. If it was accurate, I would have wondered why they made such a bad book into a film. But I will have to hunt down the book, because I'm sure it's better than this movie.Well I think that's enough negative for one review and I shall now proceed to Robert Downey Jr. I was captivated by every moment that he was on the screen. I could name so many scenes from this movie that blew me away and made me bawl like a little baby (I will name a few later). He is the sole redeeming feature of this movie, and if I were to watch this again (which I know I will) it will be to see him work his magic again. His performance is so moving and powerful, it will hit you like a sack of bricks. He was truly given all the best lines. The funny ones and the heart-wrenching ones. Here are a few of my favorite scenes from this film1. When Julian asks Clay for the 50 thousand dollars to get him out of debt with his dealer, Rip. The desperation that Downey portrays is simply heart-breaking.2. When Blair and Clay find Julian on the stairs and they look after him, is very hard to watch, yet you can't take your eyes off Downey. I was crying because I was shocked by the realism of it all. 3. The look on Julian's face when he first comes out the hotel room. Need I say more?4. The scene when Julian talks to his dad in the tennis court. When Downey cried, I cried. OK, to sum up this insanely long review with the reasons to see this movie (even if it's only once.) 1. Robert Downey Jr is simply phenomenal. 2. It will convince you that drugs are bad. 3. You will cry more than Ben Affleck in all of his movies combined. 4. Robert Downey Jr. is simply phenomenal!My rating 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"A good movie, but disappointing in that a more faithful adaptation will never be made.","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" One of my favorite episodes of the Twilight Zone focuses on a gangster who has just died and been greeted by an angel. The angel guides the man into an eden paradise of booze, women, and constant winnings at a casino. After some time, he becomes bored of winning all the time. The women are too easy to get and the thrill of gambling is gone. It's no fun when he can't lose. When he tells the angel he can't take it anymore and he is ready for the other place, the angel replies, What do you mean? This is the other place!Apart from Downey's stellar performance, a reason Less Than Zero is good is because it is based on wonderful material. It is all about Bret Easton Ellis' portrayal of the suburban hell. Too many kids who are too rich and spend too much time and money on booze, parties, and cocaine. With all their good fortune of being brought up in a society where they can choose to do anything, they do nothing.Where setting has both faithfully and successfully been adapted from Ellis' original material, two key elements have been changed which hold the movie back. Though McCarthy plays his role very well, the trouble is in the writing. Clay's subdued yet conscious driven character is written for the screen as a vehicle to guide us through this weird world of endless excess. He is there so we can have someone to sympathize with while we try to absorb everything around us.This is a grave miscalculation.Rarely do I critique movies on how they were changed from their original work, but the screenwriters have done the novel an injustice. Clay, as he was written in the novel, should be just as disaffected as his friends. He is no better or worse, he is just alive enough to notice what is going on around him after coming home from three months abroad. He also has a terrible cocaine problem of his own. The brilliance in the novel is, just like Nick in the Great Gatsby, Clay is an unreliable narrator. He is able to live as a real character, have good and bad things happen to him, and still have no control of the outcome in the story. He is powerless because he is completely indifferent. Things only change in his perceptions of how they actually happen. This is almost vital to the story in that it opens with the premise that things can't possibly get worse, yet by the end, they don't get any better. Sure, a reliable storytelling method works for the movie. It is an easy way out though, and Ellis' critically objective think for yourself method turns into a preachy sympathy play where morals are instructed rather than figured out with attention to style and detail.The second change, one that must have stirred up much controversy, is the rampant moral righteousness, even in material as seemingly morally depraved as this. Again, these are not simple, I wish they had done this gripes, they are critiques on events that truly deter from the message of the original material. As for the latent amount of sexual ambiguity that is missing from the movie, I believe it was viewed as too delicate of a subject. A reason the novel is so shocking is because it was published in a time when drugs and homosexuality were not discussed in terms of adolescents who could do it and get away with it. However, It is important to note that the characters should not be viewed as bisexual, but rather sexually indifferent. The children were never taught the difference between right and wrong. They have no sense of moral decency and no concept of sensitivity or the meaning of love.They do whatever gives them instant pleasure.We realize early on that Clay cannot save Julian. However, it is all the more powerful and dreadful for Julian to be left alive in his human hell hole with Clay indifferent as he is in the end of the novel than to have Julian die in the car with Clay hugging Blair. At the time, these subjects must have been of some concern to the producers. They obviously wanted viewers to take the film seriously and not as satirical as the book is presented. Still, while Julian's death is a sad scene, nothing can be worse than being stuck in this moral wasteland.While the film focuses on having everything and losing it all, the brilliance of the novel is being unable to lose any of it. That's real hell. "},{"Title":"Worst Book-adaptation ever....","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" OK, it had some nice visuals and the acting wasn't that bad, but how in the world hasn't anybody noticed the fact that nothing in this movie parallels the storyline in the book? Absolutely everything is off key. Watching this movie was like a form of punishment. Than there's the fact that the whole tone of voice the book took on is non-existent in the film. So many characters were left out. So many dubious choices were taking in adapting the story for film. The term 'loosely based on' doesn't even begin to fit the bill. Somebody better have been slapped for this horrible piece of memorabilia back in the '80's. Robert Downey Jr. gave away a decent enough performance, true. James Spader did a good job, sure. Whoever was playing Clay was reasonably okay. But the Blair character was awful. The way they bend the story to fit in the movie is just beyond comprehension. "},{"Title":"Great performance by Robert Downey Jr.","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There are two main reasons to watch this movie. Number one, it captures the excesses of the 'BIG' 80's, and Robert Downey Jr. gives a gut-wrenching performance. The shallow, self-destructive behavior; the greed; and the vanity that cloaks it all are very well captured in this movie. The movie, itself, kind of parallels the world it is depicting. On the surface everything looks great. People smile in their $2000.00 shirts, and perfect faces. They live in million dollar homes. But, underneath the pretty picture is parental alienation, drug abuse, and just good-old fashioned unhappiness. The scene where Clay tells Blair that she does not look happy, and her response is, But do I look good! sums up the shallow emptiness of an entire decade. "},{"Title":"It's acceptable as long as you don't know the book exists","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Less Than Zero is one of the better quality '80's movies, and a couple of the scenes are fantastic, including the scene at the pool where Julian finally asks Clay for the cash, and the famous overdose scene, but as a Bret Easton Ellis loyalist, I think that the movie lacks any of the punch and substance that was written in the novel, which was one of the better morality tales of the period. Understandably, no major studio in the eighties would have made a prestige movie about a bunch of degenerate bisexual coke fiends that run around seemingly aimlessly, without any overt message or epiphany from any main character.  This being said, I think a little credit should have been granted Ellis for creating characters with enormous depth while seeming totally void of moral values.  Recent movies have done this very successfully, and even other Ellis adaptations have come out so much better. So, as a glitzy movie about hardcore drug use made in the middle of the John Hughes era, it's very good.  However, since the book's characterization and central themes were ultimately ignored, the movie fails horribly as a novel adaptation.   "},{"Title":"utterly trash","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a complete waste of time. Those who have read the book will see that this trash has absolutely nothing to do with it. The actors suck, the text is awfull, the caracters unbelivable. Iy's one of the worst movies of the eighties. Garbage!!  "},{"Title":"Hazy Shade of a Movie","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  No, it isn't like the book, but how do you make a movie about a book like that?  The script concentrates on a very small aspect of the book- the part that actually has a semi- sort of PLOT.  So, yes, the overall spirit of the book is lost in its onscreen translation, but the screen adaptors did a great job working with what they had.  I really enjoyed the movie, in particular the cinematography- the colors, the sets, the clothes, etc. The opening credit sequence with Hazy Shade of Winter set a good feel for the film.  I particularly enjoyed Jamie Gertz, and her line, But do I look good? (which, along with the Let's F--k X-Mas Together! party invitation was one of the few things taken directly from the book.)  Her character was written most loyal to the book, as opposed to Andrew McCarthy, who in the book was a self-destructive, promiscuous, bisexual drug-user.  But overall, I can't complain because I don't think it could have been done any better. See it for a slice of good old nihilistic 1980's Americana.  "},{"Title":"Worth a look","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  While this movie was no great feature film - a decent book - but, definitely worth a look. Robert Downey Jr. gives a fine performance. James Spader is typical James Spader; almost reptilian, like a snake. Jamie Gertz is present, with her good looks and William Shatner acting qualities. The film does not run too deep, staying above the surface most of the time. Mainly, you are watching a good performance by Robert Downey Jr. and a fairly respectable cast. A better director could have done more with the cast and sub-par screenplay.    "},{"Title":"5.3? Come On People, This Is A Pretty Good Movie","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  An imdb rating of 5.3 is pretty messed up for a movie with such a good cast. Downey Jr. is a treat in any movie he's in. Andrew Mccarthy is also quite good. Seeing him here makes me wonder what the hell the happened to his career? He's a decent actor. He has a good screen presence and he's quite a handsome chap. The screenplay has a few scraps of crappy dialogue  but that's a wonder compared to other 80's movies. The direction was pretty good. Jami Gertz is just beautiful. Why didn't she become a big star in the 90's? She's still  young, maybe she'll be famous later on. James Spader is his usual WASP rich-boy sleaze bag. I gave this a 6. "},{"Title":"A good example of turning a great novel into a terrible movie...","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Less Than Zero, the novel that is, is one of my all time favourites... Well, the book is always better, right... In this case, it's like comparing an Andy Warhol with a drawing by a sixth-grader... Read the book (again)... forget the movie. "}{"Title":"IN THE GREAT '80","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the best movie from one of the best minimalist book of the great eighty years. If you lived that years, you have to see the movie also read the book, to remember and feel that time forever lost. Lovely parts to Jamie Gertz and Mk Donell jr.  "},{"Title":"Not too bad.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Less Than Zero is sort of half a bad movie, in a good way (plenty to make fun of); and half a good movie (engaging characters and plot, some well-done elements). I found it to be pretty entertaining, anyway, for both reasons. The script's a little clunky, and the direction isn't too hot... And while Robert Downey is really good (he's very all eyes on me when he acts, but he's undeniably a good actor), the other three leads aren't so great. Andrew McCarthy, especially, seems pretty weak here, as if he's unsure of how to play the role. (Some of his line deliveries and reactions seem weirdly inappropriate.) And I'm no big James Spader fan, but I've definitely seen him play his usual slimy character much better than this; his performance is just kind of half-hearted here. For what it's worth, the sex scenes between McCarthy and Jami Gertz are pretty genuinely steamy and real-seeming. (And they're non-clichd; they don't even need to show any skin). I thought the thud of an ending was kind of a letdown, but whatever.  "},{"Title":"Great Imagery","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a favorite movie of mine in the 80's when I was in high school. Just recently watching again made me see all the excellent imagery in the scenes that deal with the conflict with Clay wanting to help Julianne.Downey's portrayal of a drug addict seemed like excellent acting back before his recent public incarcerations for this problem. Now I see it as a great way for him to show young people what this drug can do to people who have it all. Maybe he should watch it again himself. This movie sums up the public opinion of what the 80's LA drug culture at the time was like. It's like looking into a world we always wanted and realizing it could be the most dangerous life, to live rich spoiled and drugged out in California. Memorable quotes from Blair You look pale said to Clay when she infact is the palest person in the entire movie. Clay replies I thought you said I looked great her response  Well you look pale & great. Watch it again and remember the 80's.  "},{"Title":"Impossible not to be moved by Downey's performance...","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have been a longtime fan of Robert Downey Jr.'s, and this film cements that reason why. It is a wonderful example of his emotional explosiveness, and depth-- particularly in the scenes dealing with his father. The film may get slack for being coincidental with Downey's real-life drug problems, but we're judging a movie, not someone's personal life... James Spader is at his slimy best-- he seems to have been born to play suave, manipulative characters that may be evil but never without charm! The two characters I was most disappointed with Andrew McCarthy's Clay, who seems too straight-laced to have ever been best friends with Downey's character; nor is it believable that he would command the respect that his character receives in the party scenes. And Jami Gertz-- someone feed that poor girl! Good grief! My dog has bigger ankles than that girl! But, all in all, the movie is an interesting, vapid look into an otherwise vapid era. (with a great 80's soundtrack!)   "},{"Title":"Art imitating life imitating art","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's Robert Downey Jr., playing.... ROBERT DOWNEY JR! The movie was boring, the performances were flat, and the plot didn't live up to its potential. Where was the acting? Where was the character development? Where was the story?  Maybe it was better in the context of 1987 but in 2001 it looks like a biography of Downey. Where's Callista Flockhart when you need her? "},{"Title":"What have YOU done with YOUR life?","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A movie centered around emptiness and failure.  Such a despairing premise usually leaves its audience uncomfortable and inching their way out of the room right away.  At times, I found myself seriously considering changing the channel to escape and get myself back to thinking about the trivial jokes of Seinfeld or the happy pastels of the Simpsons.  But the somehow the swirl of downward events just captivated me.It begins with a graduation, with nothing but bright futures ahead of the three characters - a club owner, a model and a college bound kid.  But a snapshot picture is taken there and a skillful change of music tells you that this is not to be a happy film - it is a tragedy.  The rest of the film is just a string of depressing events that leads to the ultimate demise.What made me watch this?  Well, it's for anyone who's ever experienced failure (all of us).  Compare the graduation with the mark of hope, an opening for wishful thinking.  At graduation it's easy to say you're going to do something, to make something more of yourself because all your options are open.  But, in reality it's more likely you would fail, get sidetracked, or just end up doing something else.  Despite all the opportunities that come up throughout the film (the rehab, the $50,000, the friendship) we already know how it will end.The end, with the scene of the empty plains furthers the idea of desolation. The road they were on was the road of their life, the promise of the future.  Julian cannot go further down that road and his fate should not be surprising.Less than Zero is yet another of those somewhat philosophical movies that will not satisfy you with answers but leave you questions about your own life and what you have done with it.  It will leave you empty and is not intended to satisfy you like light-hearted movies.  Watch this movie only if you don't mind getting a little depressed ;)Overall 6/10 "},{"Title":"One of the faves from high school","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is great for people like me who grew up in the 80s.  Robert Downey Jr. was awesome, however with his recent drug problems, apparently this character wasn't much of a stretch for him.  Love the music in this movie, the 3 main characters are great.  Just a great 80s movie! "},{"Title":"Drama about friends reuniting in an effort to save one.","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Intense drama with Robert Downey, Jr. eerily forecasting his later demise. Great acting, great story... riveting film that is totally 80's excess. Andrew McCarthy and Jami Gertz round out the case with true to life sincerity over the concern of a friends drug use and downfall. "},{"Title":"Rip - the best character name in movie history.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The year - 1987. The film - Less than Zero. The man - James Spader.James Spader gives an extraordinary performance as drug dealer Rip.  This performance is as eye-popping and show-stopping as fellow Californian Hulk Hogan's performance in the 1989 epic No Holds Barred, also as a character named Rip.  As for the other actors, well, Andrew McCarthy looks genuinely confused throughout the movie.  In fact, Andrew McCarthy looks confused in every movie he is in.  Check out the horrendous St. Elmo's Fire for more proof of this.  However, him and Spader seem to steal the show together much like they did in Pretty in Pink.  Check out the scene where Spader informs McCarthy that this isn't recess for proof of there great on-screen chemistry.  Jami Gertz isn't much of an actress, but she looks pretty good here.  Her make out scenes with McCarthy were quite convincing The other actor in this movie is Robert Downey, Jr.  Although it is not much of a stretch for Mr. Downey to play a down and out drug addict, I must admit he does a terrific job here.  Very convincing. Going into this movie I expected to hate it and call it awful.  However, I can't hate any movie with the great thespian James Spader in it as a rule. Therefore, I give the movie 2 and 1/2 stars.  James Spader is so kettle that his core is showing.  I hope this review was as Russo-booked as I hoped it would be.  By the way, why did you have to screw Hulk, Vince?  Don't you know he shares the same character name as James Spader?  Or am I the only one that cares?   "},{"Title":"Too close to the truth","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having lived right in Hollywood and been addicted to crack myself I am impressed by how darn true it really is. Sure, the acting may lack and the directing could be better... I remember watching this in '87 when I was in high school and an innocent young girl. After watching this again (and being drug free for 2 years now) I am floored at how close to reality this film is. It is stylized, but it is a film after all. The desperation, the loneliness, the hopelessness, all were captured and imprinted on film. Until you have walked the walk and talked the talk this film may be cheesy to you. Once you've walked down those same streets (literally!) this film is a reminder to me of what can happen if I make those same choices again. I laughed and I cried.What saddens me most is that hindsight is 20/20 for Mr Downey. I've read that he allegedly WAS high and using during the filming.  "}{"Title":"A dark slice of LA's upper crust","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  While the story and acting at times gets a bit flat the visuals and soundtrack of the movie carry it very far. While movies like 'Ferris Buehler's Day Off', 'The Breakfast Club' and 'Pretty in Pink' dealt with the more commonplace angsts of the 80s teenage world, 'Less Than Zero' gave us a glimpse into the fringe bringing along the aesthetics of the time (neon colors, early hip-hop). This film, while dealing with less middle-America teenage angst, still manages to capture a slice of 80s culture. "},{"Title":"This is Robert Downey's Life!","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Haven't seen this movie in such a long time but caught it on cable this morning. It's very stylized...it came from the Miami Vice genre...filming with lots of colored lights and props that show the excesses of the '80s.Can't help but think, this is Robert Downey's Life! How much of this was good acting and how much of this was Downey's life for the last decade? Now that Downey's in jail, I guess we know the actor really did know his subject matter--maybe a little too well.So many say the movie is bad, but it's such an honest portrayal of the hopelessness of a once bright and innocent life. You can feel the tragedy and waste in the movie...wish that could come across to kids in drug education programs. They should play this movie and then show Downey behind bars today...there's more reality here than in most films!  "},{"Title":"Downey Jr. calls this film Midlevel and  Sensasionalist","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I just read that Robert Downey Jr. has dissed some of his own films, Iron Man 2, Air America and Less Than Zero. While I would agree with him that Air America was Watered Down Iron Man 2 was a very good sequel at a time when most are awful. Less Than Zero stands out, to me, as a powerhouse of acting and emotion. No matter how many times I watch this movie it always is engrossing and emotionally draining, in a way few movies are. I mean that in a good way, too. Yes, the characters are wealthy kids who have it pretty good, however it does a good job of showing how anyone and everyone can fall to the hypnotic trappings of the drug culture. Andrew McCarthy, Jami Gertz, Downey Jr., and James Spader are solid all the way through this film and Thomas Newman's score is one of the most evocatively straining scores I have ever heard. I mean that in the most positive way, as well. If there was ever a film that truly showed the tragic effects of drug use this is the film to watch. It is not for the squeamish. If Downey Jr. wants to diss some of his films I can give him a few titles; The Pick-Up Artist, and Tuff Turf are 2 that come to mind. I do respect Robert Downey Jr. tremendously. Here is a man who has battled his real life demons and seems to have won. His Career has taken off again and God Bless Him for that. I just respectfully disagree with his choices of his bad movies. Give me a few minutes and I can come up with a few more. Less Than Zero is NOT one of those films. "},{"Title":"Different from the book, a little bit better than the book, but equally good","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Less Than Zero is an adaptation from the book of same name written by Bret Easton Ellis in 1985, a drug journey through hell that looks like paradise because the drug addicts are rich teenagers whose lives are so perfect that they need something more to run away from it, through parties, drinks, cocaine, prostitution, money and more. While Ellis's book was like seeing an Altman film with multiple characters completely tuned on drugs and MTV, an electrifying but repetitive and endless story (looks like there's a sequel in development), the film changes drastically this point of view by changing facts, characteristics of characters and giving some moralistic lessons that could work better in another similar film. The advantage of the film is a more coherent storyline instead of a mosaic of characters that almost goes nowhere.Clay (Andrew McCarthy) takes a break from college by visiting his friends in L.A., the now drug addicted Julian (Robert Downey Jr.) and Blair (Jami Gertz), the latter who wants to help Julian to get out of his present situation of eternally owing money to Rip (James Spader), a guy who makes of Julian a male whore because he needs his money back and he needs it fast. The world of drugs is glamorously presented here with most of the characters having fun at parties all the time; this is pretty close to the book except that Clay, a more wrong doing type of guy gets transformed in the film version into a cool guy, who doesn't take drugs and is very helpful to everyone. Less Than Zero is a good film, simply because it knows how to impress its audience on a difficult subject; it shows how low wealthy kids can reach to get money, drugs, and the portrayal of Julian's addiction is very convincible, nervous, a warning to make people stay out of narcotics. But, on the other hand the movie covers things that are more impressive, more shocking and better executed in films like Christiane F. (1983) or Bright Lights, Big City (1988) for example, which makes it difficult to someone really relate with everything that was showed in this film. Let's say, while Christiane F. frightens you about the drugs problem, Less Than Zero might give you a light aspect about drugs, something more colorful, more appealing and less negative.Composed of a good soundtrack (but not as much as the book, if you read it Ellis really puts music references in his works), the 1980's great visual style, and average performances from the cast, here's a watchable film, not as bad as people say, totally easy to follow and with many good things to offer. Even that is different from the written work is quite good, though both materials are very regular. I've read better books and I've seen better films on the issue. 8/10 "},{"Title":"compelling movie, powerful performances","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Although many of the reviewers seem to criticize this movie for being a poor adaptation of the novel, I can't really comment on that because I have not read the novel. Besides, I'm not quite sure how I feel about penalizing an otherwise solid movie just because it may not have been a 100% faithful reproduction of the plot as contained in the book. At the beginning of the movie, it says based on the novel by... and not an exact replication of the novel by... I understand that every reviewer has the right to form his/her own view of a movie, but in my opinion I believe that at some point a movie should be judged on its own merits irrespective of its level of congruency to the book from which it got its inspiration.For me, the bottom line is that the performances in this movie by the three main characters - Robert Downey Jr. (Julian), Andrew McCarthy (Clay), and Jami Gertz (Blair) - were all very powerful. As a result, the depth of the plot and themes were truly compelling, including the destructiveness of drug addiction, the loss of innocence, and the gifts and burdens of friendship. The closing image of the movie (the picture of the three best friends after their high school graduation) was an emotionally moving one for me and it brought me back almost ten years to the time of my own h.s. graduation when it felt like anything was possible and definitive/permanent happiness was merely waiting in the wings as I went off to college.This film is an interesting look at an era and a tragic story of temptation. "},{"Title":"make you kids watch this","Date":"3 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It has always baffled me how Robert Downey Jr could become a drug addict after starring in this movie, playing a character who is literally destroyed by his drug addiction.For those of us who live comfortable lives and worry about out kids, this should serve as a cautionary tale of what drug addiction can and often does do.The movie is wonderfully acted and the chemistry between the characters and their motivations are all very well done. So even without the message, the movie is well worth the time.Just don't expect to be happy at the end. "},{"Title":"Good if flawed film about friendship and the nature of people being destroyed by drugs.","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Three close friends Clay (Andrew McCarthy), Blair (Jami Gertz) and Julian (Robert Downey, Jr.) recently finished high school. But their lives is completely different... since Clay is going to college, Blair decided to take modeling and Julian tries to have his own night club but with no success. When Clay decides to come home for Christmas in Los Angeles, his ex-girlfriend Blair wants to see him but she wants to talk to Clay about Julian. Julian's life is a complete mess, since he's been taking various types of drugs. Thanks to his low-life drug dealer Rip (James Spader). Blair tries to convinced Clay to help his best friend, while she has a bit of a drug problem as well. But Julian is in real trouble, since he owns Rip over $15,000 and he can't pay him off. Now only Clay and Blair might save him from his drug problems.Directed by Marek Kanievska (Where the Money is) made an interesting, although very flawed film about life, money, friendship and drugs in the late 1980's. Downey, Jr. gives an strong performance and Spader is certainly creepy in his role as a low-life drug dealer. Although McCarthy and Gertz do their best, they just feel wrong for that type of picture. Less Than Zero has become an cult movie over the years. Since it is based on a novel by Bret Easton Ellis (American Psycho, The Rules of Attraction). The novelist truly hated this film at film until he changed his mind about it over the years. He loved Downey, Jr. and Spader roles but he felt the leads were miscast and the premise was very far from his book.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an good Dolby Digital 4.0 Surround Sound. DVD special features are the original theatrical trailers and t.v. spots. Less than Zero is a good film but isn't for everybody. Since the movie could be downright depressing at times but that's the point. Worth a look for the supporting performances of Downey, Jr. and Spader if nothing more. (*** /*****). "},{"Title":"It is a movie, not a book. A stylish movie.","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I have not read the book so I cannot share the rage or disappointment of some of the commentators here. But I am aware of some discrepancies between the two, and I don't see how the movie could do a better job. For example, it is just not possible for a commercial film to depict a major character acting in a kiddie porn to work off drug debts, as happens in the book.The movie stands on its own and it is very solid. It has a form and style that is rare among commercial films and you really don't have to have a serious interest in the subject to enjoy this film, reminiscent of New Wave cinema. James Spader's character is diabolical, and entertaining. The film has a semi-voyeuristic feel to it, and none of the performances distract from this. It is absurd and pedestrian to expect movies to imitate books. A movie is a movie and a book is a book. The dramatic form has completely different limitations and strengths than does prose. If you want to read a book, go to a different website, or read the book. This is a good movie. "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings.....","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" well-written, by Bret Easton Ellis, who writes what he has lived. However, the characters are less than sympathetic. Morton Downey Jr. is tragic, however, and engages the audience.Jami Gertz is a statue. Model, coke party girl. Too shallow. Andrew McCarthy, who later in his career manages to encompass empathy, (witness his performance in Mulholland Falls) seems simpering and strident at the same time.It is difficult, Mr. Ellis, for most audiences to sympathize with kids who party in Palm Springs with their parents Porsches. This is simply a fact. He perhaps realized this, and thereby wrote the later American Psycho (which was quite well done), parodying and degrading the yuppie lifestyle. It needs to be done with finesse or candor, neither of which is evident in Less Than Zero. It takes itself too seriously.Nicholas Pryor, a decent veteran actor, is wasted as Julian's (Morton Downey Jr's) enabling father, a man who finally sees the eminent demise of his son and wants nothing to do with it.Overall, there is an interesting theme here, but it does not convey well on screen. Watch American Psycho (Christian Bale and Chloe Sevigny in excellent performances), for a brutal but real portrayal of what people are capable of. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Another DARE commercial waiting to happen","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Less than Zero is about some rich kids who just get bored and decide to destroy everything they have by doing drugs as usual. My only problem with this movie is the fact that I'm not sure if it was like a DARE movie or just another drug drama flick.But I will not doubt it, there are some great performances in here. Ironically enough more from Robert Downey, Jr. Gee, I wonder where he gets the inspiration from. Over all, Less than Zero is a pretty decent film, it is very dark though, not for kids at all. I'm not entirely sure how some scenes were worked in the film or even if Andrew and Jamie even had a story together.Realistic enough to be a DARE movie, but not enough where you're brutally scared into not doing drugs. Over all though, I can see how this was popular in the 80's.6/10 "}{"Title":"Bias, I suppose, is everything","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I love the movie. I believe it displays the apathy of the characters beautifully. I've tried to read the book. And this is where bias comes in. I can't get through it. I still intend to, someday, but now it is just too difficult for me. I get through one or two chapters and I feel the depression of it too much. I feel the pointlessness in life too much. I'm aware of Ellis's ability for this very reason but, for me, it's too much for now. But this is why I'll stand by the movie in the face of all those who say it does the novel no justice. I watch the movie and I see the same apathy and hopelessness in the characters as my brief experiences with the books but to a degree that is more bearable. The story is still tragic. The characters are still painful to see. It may be all sorts of flashy with TV stacks and pretty cars but that doesn't make the message any less there. It may be all drugs are bad but, sorry, where is that not in the book? Art can take human expressions to the greatest extremes so that only the most open minded and intelligent can see the true beauty of the work but, I argue, art is then only preaching to the choir. Sometimes it is just pretensions to claim that there isn't enough suffering. Sometimes great art reaches out to the masses, to those who won't get the message if it's too ugly but, hopefully, a few will if it's just ugly enough(and I'm not enough of a movie buff to claim this is an example of great art, just honest and secure enough to suggest the possibility that it has more worth than the intelligentsia seem to suggest). Could it have been uglier and still maintained enough appeal to make it past the film festivals and art house theaters? Maybe. I really don't know. But I'm quite certain that, so long as you aren't looking for an exact representation of the novel or some other ideal of apathetic perfection, as long as you can, at the very least, treat it as a work unto itself and suspend your disbelief in the theatric tradition it is more than a fluffy anti-drug movie. I don't use drugs and can still relate to the movie's version of Clay, Blair, and, even Julian. "},{"Title":"What screws up the movie somewhat is it's own internal time-line","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Not a bad 80's retro movie - especially if you graduated in 1987 like the characters.What screws up the movie somewhat is it's own internal time-line. The whole thing takes place in a 6 month period - but the events and decline of the characters seems like it should have happened over a couple of years. Main to this is the absence/presence of Clay back home and how quick Julian falls apart. They graduate in June it seems, Clay hangs out with Blair all summer and Julian takes him to the airport in late August to go to college. Things seem fine at this point. Even at the grad. scene, Julian's Dad seems to be on good terms with him. The we see in the flashback scene that Clay came home for Thanksgiving (late November) and caught them together in bed. Then Clay come home again for Christmas (a mere 4 weeks later) and he and everyone acts like so much has changed since he's been gone - but he was just there a month before!!! Plus, the business failures by Julian and his debt seem like they accumulated over a longer period, like a couple of years at least. "},{"Title":"Typical Portrayal of a Loser","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" As with so many of Americas films Less than Zero is about the prototypical loser, a man so riven with flaws that watching the movie is (almost) painful. Yes, Downey plays what is essentially his own life, and as such is not acting or a portrayal at all, merely a man placing on film that which he did (does?) in real life. The starkness and minimalistic home serves as graphic metaphor for the emptiness and overwrought empty people that populate Southern California.Playing a too slick for his own skin universal male, McCarthy would soon go nowhere after the making of this film. An effete isolationist, McCarthy is perfect for the role, waiting and waiting, and waiting yet some more for the inevitable death of a loser we are evidently supposed to feel sorry for. "},{"Title":"two reasons to see this movie. Downey and Spader.","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is far different from the book. Both are good in their own way. The book is a shocking, no hope, bleek, despairing, and amazing novel. The movie however isn't. Clay is a character is like an outside looking in. Almost a cold witness, which Mcarthy just can't act out. This film is beyond his acting skills. It needed some one like Jake Gyllenhall. Blair is the one who has dealt with it firsthand, but seems lost and helpless, and very hypocritical. Gertz can barley manage out a no at the end. i would have preferred to see someone like Scarlett Johansen or Kiera Kightly, or someone who has never acted before, to capture her sense of vulnerability and weakness. Julian is the one character that didn't change in the book. There is a sense of despair about him, a childlike quality. Downey is the only one who could pull this of. He gives a genuinely touching performance of Julian and makes that character so real you want to reach out and save him. The look on his face after he turns his first trick, that mixed look of shame and horror hit hard and and puts a sour feel in the pit of your stomach. The withdrawal seen is the most realistic thing i have ever seen. It is almost impossible to watch but impossible to stop. Then there is Rip the sleazy drug dealer. No one could do this better than Spader. Bottom line. Downey is horrificly, real and amazing as Julian, and Spader is a great sleazball  "},{"Title":"things to love, things to hate","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK, there are a lot of things to hate about this film, but there are a lot of things to love. I'll begin with the negative Andrew McCarthy and Jami Gertz are beyond horrible. They can't act to save their lives. They remind me of the comedy duo from that Wake up and Smile Saturday Night Live sketch. However, they were SO bad I started to think it must be intentional and that their hapless performances are almost effective, because it reflects the helplessness that their characters experience, and it makes them into puppets or props for the real stars of this film Robert Downey Jr. and James Spader. First Spader, he utterly rocks (as usual). Did any one else notice his catch phrase old sport? Nice little reference to The Great Gatsby. And the sensuality with which he hugs his former lover Julian before sentencing him to a night of hell in the Palm Springs suite could melt anyone's heart. But oh, Downey. RDJ just hits every line so perfectly and every aspect of his character just oozes his personality and emotes the heartache he experienced later on in life. I can watch this film over and over and I'm always moved by the scene on the tennis court with his father and the scene where he has the towel on his head. He WOULD have made it, you know. He WANTED to get clean. If it weren't for that darn Rip . . . Oh and you gotta love the sound track. The Bangles Hazy Shade of Winter was and is the best song of the 80's.  "},{"Title":"The best movie about drugs !","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Brad is a partygoer and a friend of mine told me she saw him. I need to watch this movie again and pay more attention on it! Robert Downey Jr. performance is simply wonderful playing a junkie (and it seems he became inspired by this story) and if you know someone who is addicted watching this movie you'll be able to understand and even help those you really care. The story is very well done and it shows the awful truth about this underworld and in my opinion is the best movie about it far better than The Basketball Diaries with Di Caprio, Traffic (a blockbuster movie with a lot of merchandise only) and even Christiane F. (the book in this case is better). You become involved with Julian (R.Downey Jr.) problems. He suffer a lot and it's very sad how he lose his friends, his family, his beliefs, his dignity and he even need to become a prostitute to pay his never ending debt with the drug dealers. He could be your friend, your brother or even your friend. He's a human being like any other but he is a victim of the traffic world who lost 'everything'!The movie shows more than I can write here so you'd better watching it, believe me it's worthwhile !  "},{"Title":"Underrated? No, just awful.","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film has a pretty good soundtrack, thats the only good thing I can say about it.The script is terrible, it misses out all the exciting/interesting scenes from the book in favour of a succession of crappy 'introduce the character' scenes, then, oh, it ends.The whole point of the characters in the book is that they are a contemptible bunch of rich scumbags. But they have FUN doing it! Where was the FUN in this film?Nowhere. All we had was Downey Jr's character getting wasted and Clay coming along to save him. Clay should've been getting wasted too! And Blair! And there should've been wild parties and orgies and, yes, that horrific rape scene (because it's a defining moment of the whole plot, not cos i'm a perv.)This film bored the crap out of me, barely made sense thanks to a terrible script/ directing, the acting was mediocre, and Blair wasn't even hot! Robert Downey Jr. didn't look eighteen back then either.In Conclusion Whoever made this piece of crap should be castrated. Not just a bad adaptation, a BAD FILM.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Beautiful film.","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not going comment on the narrative (it was adequate), I'm not going to wax on about the acting (it wasn't bad), and I'm not going to poke at the script (which was quite good).  What I want people to know about this film is the costumes, sets, and lighting, which by the by are stunning.Less than Zero is spectacular to look at.  The lighting of this film is nothing short of breathtaking, a masterwork.  The screen, almost throughout the film, is awash with amazing colour.  With much of the film staged at night the use of electric blues, neon pinks, and translucent greeny whites (that's right, you heard it right 'Greeny Whites'), paints an electric lit Bachanalian feast.  Look at Jamie Gertz's face and it is bathed in blue, the swimming pool is a wobbling diffusing-screen offseting a hot pink wall with Robert Downey Jr leaning against it.  The sets are sensational, a party scene is replete with fake snow and smooth white icebergs festooned with televisions and ferry lights.  The apartments are ecclectic, some are post modern eighties gems all faux palm trees, and mod lamps.  Others are Moorish palaces with cool marble floors and turqoise mosaics.  And everything looks lush, and everything looks decadent.The costume department appeared to have paid a visit to Rodeo drive.  Linen suits, and bright red pullovers, Deutschland tank tops, and hobnailed slippers, unheard of.  I won't even get started on the Jamie Gertz wardrobe, or Andrew McCarthy's suit selection, genuinely inspired choices the lot.To add to this array of flossy delights is the shore footed direction and the sumptuous cinematography.  The film is generously sprinkled with props that add to the feel, James Spader's floating cell phone, Andrew McCarthy's roadster, the ball machine, the modern art, even the cool freebasing lighters (sensational).  If you don't like the story then turn the volume down, but don't dismiss this film out of hand.  Visually it is a truly captivating experience.To add to all  "},{"Title":"Fine Performance","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  While it may not have done his personal life any good, this meaty role of a young addicted looser is brilliantly limned by Robert Downey, Jr.  His work is detailed, deeply felt, and powerfully executed.  A rather painful film to watch, Less that Zero effectively points up the no-win, dead-in world of drugs, and the gullible people it leads down a path of no return.   "},{"Title":"Read the book instead!!!!!","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Less than Zero is an adaptation on bret Easton Ellis' novel.  Now, i read the book first, and LOVED it.  It was great.  I rented the movie, and wow, it didnt follow the book at all.  The book is great, the movie is just okay. I would recommend reading the book.  it's 2 hundred pages, and a quick read.I read Less than Zero and Rules of Attraction, both Easton Ellis novels. They are both very good, but bret has said that out of books he's written that got turned into movies (Less than Zero, American Psycho, and Rules of Attraction), the only one he likes and thinks was a good adaptation is Rules of Attraction.  I agree, but the books are always better. "}{"Title":"laughably terrible, but a trip every time.","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie cracks me up, it is terrible, but i always watch it when looking for a laugh.james spader does make this movie, he is perfect in his villainous role. rdj, i think, is just playing himself. and brat-packer andy mccarthy's clay is hilarious when he tries to tell spader's rip his business as rip sits in a hottub w.a floating neon cellphone...classic!and jami gertz, well she is the typical jewish princess she plays in everything. however she does attempt to exhibit soul and redemption. (as well as a nasty coke habit)also of note the rockin soundtrack feauturing both the bangles and the LL cool J classic going back to callie....after you watch this, you'll be buying a one-way ticket to hollywood to chill w. rip, clay, and their cronies. "},{"Title":"A dutch comment","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very good movie based on the novel of Bret Easton Ellis Excellent acting of Jamie gertz (blair) and Robert D Junior(julian). I'ts a must see movie, you will remember. "},{"Title":"book was better","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  For a movie from the 1980s, Less than Zero is actually quite passable.  I enjoyed many of the visual elements.  However, the movie cannot even begin to measure up with the brilliance of Ellis' original book.  There are major plot points totally missing, and the character of Clay is too radically different for the major points of the book to be addressed.  "},{"Title":"Disturbing adaption of Bret Easton Ellis' novel..","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  You'll either love it or absolutely hate it I'm sure..Watching this film is in no way a pleasant experience, but I do have a grudging respect for it (much like I do for the book..) I'd advise anyone who wants to (TRY and) understand this film (and the world that this film inhabits,) to read the book, then watch the movie, then (if you can find any) read some interviews with the author Bret Easton Ellis.Robert Downey Jr is scarily perfect in the role of Julian, and his performance is, without doubt, the best thing about the movie dramatically speaking. He's truly quite staggering in some scenes.. The film is not really that similar to the original book by Bret Easton Ellis (of 'American Psycho' fame) but, in an almost absurd way, does it justice. The vapidity and apathy and emptiness of the cocaine Hollywood scene of the 1980's is all too clear, and makes for increasingly uncomfortable viewing. Overall it is magnificently depressing and will probably leave you feeling vaguely sick.Robert Downey Jr should really have won some kind of award for this..  "},{"Title":"Less Than Zero Remains A Powerful Film","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The hour is 4 am. and I'm caught watching Less Than Zero, unable to turn away to sleep, unable to dismiss this creature of the 80's, the Brat Pack actors, the groovy but over- enthusiastic sound of The Bangles...unable to resist watching this film. I had forgotten the profoundness to be found, at times, in the eyes of  Andrew McCarthy- in fact, I had forgotten Andrew McCarthy.  His character of Clay is the most complex in this story and therefore the most challenging to portray and his quiet and doubtful performance works perfectly to communicate a young man who has trouble expressing his feelings or even realizing his desires and yet is trapped in a time in life where new and strange feelings and situations come without warning or control. Clay has gone away to school in the East Coast and struggles to maintain a long distance relationship with his girlfriend, Blair. He returns to LA six months later to find everything and everyone predictably the same, with one exception.  Cocaine has become a major addition to the spoiled lifestyle of his wealthy ilk.  His best friend, Julian played with, at moments, gut wrenching pain, by Robert Downey Jr., has become totally addicted to smoking cocaine and has lost all his money and is in debt and cutoff from his parents and...etc. Since Downey has been in all the magazines and tabloid TV lately, concerning his arrests and continuous drug taking, watching his performance here was in some ways devilish fun yet too prophetic indeed.I was touched by the basis of McCarthy's numb performance being that in Clay's separation from his best friends and in turn their separation from him- that change in niche, seemed the root of all decadence. Those childhood years of both safety and recklessness pass away very fast and time forces all to grow up for the mere necessity of living, yet Clay has the angst of a young man who feels like he doesn't belong anywhere and latches on to those people who represent something familiar even if his feelings toward those people have, in time and absence, turned apathetic.Again, I was hooked by the film and surprised at how slick and ultimately powerful it was. I've read mostly bad reviews of the film, yet I tell you it is a well-acted, well-directed film focusing on characters and their unique predicaments and not simply a drug movie like countless others. "},{"Title":"this motion picture exposes the ordeals of drug addiction.","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In twelve years I have never seen this motion picture on cable. It should be aired, for our younger generation to see. I feel the candid nature of this film would hit home for those dealing with an addiction.  Robert Downey Jr. touched my heart with his powerful acting. "},{"Title":"Amazing ride...altered my life...","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie changed my life by showing me the ugliness of drug addiction in a way I was willing to listen to at the time.  I was a member of the Class of '87 and totally related to the characters as peers and found myself aspiring to live a life like theirs, full of glamour and money, in the beginning of the film, only to soon realize how good I actually had it. "},{"Title":"What a mess","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is one of the most unfortunate adaptations of a novel that I have ever seen. Ellis's books are all very intense, shocking satires of life among the young and wealthy; unfortunately they are all so intense that they require an unacceptable amount of sanitizing to earn an R rating. The story of less than zero was castrated in this film. McCarthy's portrayal of Clay is ridiculous. Don't judge Ellis's work based on this mediocre film. "},{"Title":"Friends Stick Together","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film starts out with two guys and a gal who graduate from high school and have their picture taken with champaign bottles. Clay Easton, (Andrew McCarthy) goes on to college and Blair (Jami Gertz) and Julian Wells, (Robert Downey Jr.) go their separate ways.After a year or so, Blair calls Clay Easton and tells him to come to California and help out Julian as he is drug addicted and needs help badly.The story gets very interesting as Blair tells Clay she has slept with Julian while she was trying to dry him out from drugs.Over a period of time Blair and Clay have a very sexy and hot relationship where they cannot be without each other and decided to get married, but their friend Julian keeps upsetting their hopes and dreams. Great acting by Robert Downey, Jr. and Jami Gertz. Enjoy "},{"Title":"Zero is right!","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" College freshman Clay Easton (Andrew McCarthy) flies home to L.A. for Christmas. He discovers his ex-girlfriend Blair (Jami Gertz) is now with his best friend Julian (Robert Downey Jr.)--but Julian has a huge drug addiction problem. Clay tries to help him stop but slimy drug pusher Rip (James Spader) isn't happy with that.**DEFINITE SPOILERS** Dreadful adaptation of Ellis' harrowing novel. In the book Clay is bisexual and hooked on drugs like everybody else--including Blair. Julian is also having sex with men to support his drug addiction. At one point Clay numbly watches while Julian has sex with a guy. The book ends with nothing solved and Clay going back to college--still hooked on drugs and bisexual.This movie whitewashes the book to a degree that is truly astounding. Clay is not bisexual, he's not hooked on drugs and he stops Julian before he starts sleeping with men. Also Blair just simply stops doing drugs in a unintentionally hilarious scene--she makes it look like you can stop doing drugs easily. Julian dies here of the drugs--he was alive and still hooked by the end of the book. Also Blair goes to college with Clay (!!!). Basically this destroys any message that the book had.The acting by McCarthy and (especially) Gertz is terrible. Only Downey, Spader and Nicholas Pryor (as Julian's dad) give good performances. As an adaptation of Ellis' book it's worthless. On its own terms it's dull, stupid and whitewashes drug addiction. This is bad enough to make you wish there were no anti-drug movies. The title of this film is very apt. Avoid. "}{"Title":"Amazing and Frightening","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" For some crazy reason, I wound up seeing this movie when I was about 6 years old. It has haunted me ever since - and I've never touched any form of narcotic. The scene in which Blair and Clay nurse RDJr after he has O.D'd is shocking and moving. Jamie Gertz in meek and submissive while Andrew McCarthy is meek, yet trying to gain control. I am partial to James Spader, but his character is solid. The inability of he and Julian to stay away from one another will drive you batty. The story is dark and glamorous, poignant and sad, sad, sad. You will be frustrated through Downey's ups and downs and Blair's ability to mask her problems from herself, but every moment of Less than Zero is truly captivating. "},{"Title":"packs quite a powerful punch.","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I did see this back in the eighties. I think I actually saw it in the theatre. I liked it then and I think it can stand the test of time despite the 80's feel to it. I don't understand at all, how one can think this is not  a serious movie. Granted, I have not read the book, as have many others but I did not and do not, think this film glorifies drug use at all. I have known people like the people depicted in this movie. I think anybody who has lived a life, or known others that lived a life, like, or at all similiar, to these characters, knows this film does not glorify drug use. Rather the opposite.I think this movie had pure realism to it and is quite underated.The film was not a morality tale either. I think it just told a story of these characters. It put out  a picture ,  bluntly and matter of factly, of the ramifications of living a certain lifestyle.  Could have been the leaving las vegas of the 80's....I've seen many 80's and 90's antidrug movies(Bright lights, big city, Firstborn, The boost and of coarse the more recent leaving las vegas.)Less then zero holds up against any of them-80's kids, trying to find their way against the backdrop of outward glamor and glitz. What's not realistic about that? Many saw it, many lived it, many fell victim to it. Good movie. Check it out if you haven't. "},{"Title":"The Robert Downey, Jr. E! True Hollywood Story","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie again after over a decade.  I remembered the movie as being very stylized and the story being rather simple, but forgot about the acting except that I had wondered why Jami Gertz was cast as Blair. She never seemed to be right for the part, but her career was hot at the time.As I watched the movie, I remembered reading the book.  I noticed that not only was Jami Gertz poorly cast, but also Andrew McCarthy as Clay. Both of their performances are really out-of-step with the story and their characters' types from the book.I remembered how much I disliked the character of Rip, played by James Spader.  Watching it again, I have realized that his was the only worthy performance of the entire film.  Even some of the extras were nervous or awkward when the camera pointed in their direction.The screenplay is mostly in-line with the book except for the level of Julian's involvement in male prostitution.  The screenplay, as well as the book, is very simplistic and the characters are poorly developed. Although the story only spans four days, we get to know very little about the characters and aren't really given much information about the falling out between Clay and Blair except that it has something to do with Julian.The movie's style is the only residual value of the film.  It is a testament to the sloth & greed of the 80s, but also the high style and the beginnings of the retro movement.The moral of the story is all too common, but it is amazing that it was lost on Robert Downey, Jr.  I used to think so much of him as an actor and only hope that he can overcome his addictions to contribute once again. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites!!","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I recently bought the movie on DVD - and it was worth the money. The last time I've seen it, was in the 80s, but it hasn't lost anything of its thrill and shocking story. By my opinion, one of the best movies ever against drug-abuse and one of my personal all-time-favorites..! Robert Downey JR. plays the role of his life and to see him acting is a way of shocking - it goes under the skin! And, as an extra, looking back, the movie is very much 80s-styled. All in total - I gave the movie a 10! Definetly! "},{"Title":"I remember Julian","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It has been a long time since I saw the movie--so long that I didn't remember its name.  But I've never forgotten Robert Downey Jr or the role of Julian.  This movie made me a Downey fan.  The guy's a terrific actor and, in many ways (at least from the outside looking in), as tragic as Julian.  "},{"Title":"If you want to see Robert Downey Jr. be a crackhead...","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  there are probably easier ways than renting this movie. If you catch it on cable it is worth sitting through though. I'm a sucker for 80's cheese, so this was like must see viewing for me. James Spader was playing the exact same role as Pretty in Pink. Great 80's soundtrack too. Run DMC's Christmas in Hollis, Queens! That's awesome. Oh, yeah, about the movie, um , Andrew McCarthy tries to get his friends off drugs. It's like Beverly Hills 90210 and Brandon returns to the show to get Dylan and Brenda off heroin. Or something like that. "},{"Title":"Wanna try Cocaine?  Check this film out first!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There have been some good films that deal with the anti-drug issue.  Films that take that issue and show it's seedy side are important because a lot of what you see in Hollywood simply glorifies drugs.  And I don't mean things like pot and weed and grass and such, those drugs, to me, are harmless if they are done moderately.  But what is harmful is something as potent as cocaine.  Less Than Zero is a film that takes that notion and runs with it.  There is nothing subliminal about it, nothing questionable and nothing really left to wonder what to think about heavy drugs and the affect they can have on a person.  Less Than Zero has been accused of glorifying drugs and making them look trendy and fun and popular.  But that is as far from the truth as saying that Angel Heart is a movie about a missing person.  Less Than Zero does not glorify drug use in here, it treats it like it is an abomination.There are three main characters in this film.  Andrew McCarthy plays Clay, Jami Gertz is Blair and Robert Downey Jr. plays Julian.  All three are incredibly wealthy kids.  So wealthy are they that upon graduation Julien's dad gets him into the recording indsutry and Clay goes to an Ivey League school in the east leaving behind his girlfriend.  By thanksgiving Blair and Julien are sleeping together and doing lots of cocaine and by Christmas Blair is calling Clay and begging him to come home and get Julien clean.  Julien is out of control and not only have drugs taken control of his life but he has lost everything that his dad has given him.  He has lost the recording studio, he has spent all of his money and his father has kicked him out of the house.  He is broke and now he owes his drug dealer in excess of fifty thousand dollars.  Played by James Spader, Rip, the drug dealer is actually not a bad guy.  He has given Julien many chances and lets his debt slide for longer than he should in the name of friendship.  As he tells Clay,  I'm not the problem, Julien is.  If this was another person that Julien owed money to, he may have been dead by now.  But these are friends that are dealing with each other so there is a grace period.  The end of the film is actually a bit of a shock as we are not quite ready to see the ultimate fate for Julien.  Even though we can see what road he is travelling, we are quite sure that somehow, someway Clay is going to get him through this.  But perhaps as in real life with a person that is controlled by any substance as dangerous and addictive as cocaine, fairytale endings are just that----fairytales.This film is powerful because of the performances, the subject and the direction, but what separates it from a typical film about drug abuse ( and this is probably why people say that drugs are glorified in the film ) is how it is photographed.  Hollywood is shot as though it was a music video.  Here we are introduced to clubs that open at midnight and are decorated with beautiful people that look like they are all models.  The cars are fast and expensive, people's clothing are Armani suits, Ralph Lauren polo shirts, Calvin Klein jeans and any other assortment of expensive threads.  Every house and even certain nightclubs have huge pools with aqua-marine water, there are ceilings that are littered with televisions that show constant music videos and Sunset Boulevard looks like it is the most happening place in the world.  But all of this is a disguise for the lure and appearance of pleasure.  Because what lies beneath all of this glitz and glamour and fame and parties is nothing but a troublesome addiction that ends up destroying a young man's life.  Less Than Zero will make you want to think twice about ever getting into that scene.  It may look glamorous but it is a dead end road.  This was one of the best films to come out of 1987 and Robert Downey Jr. really should have won best supporting actor that year.  His outing as the drug addicted Julien was something that legends are made of.  Many people have passed on this film over the years because many people heard that it did nothing but show drugs as being a positive in a young person's life.  Well if losing your fortune, beoming a prostitute, sleeping on the beach, puking every day, going through withdrawls, having your family disown you and ultimately suffer the worst of fates is a way to glorify cocaine then this does that.  I happen to think otherwise, and if you could ask any one of the three main characters that same question, I think they would agree with me. "},{"Title":"Excellent - should be shown to all high school students","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A powerful film demonstrating the problems of drug use and how it can wreck lives, families etc.  While the film might suffer from too much hollywood life the subject is well defined.  The performances of Robert Downey, Jami Gertz, James Spader and Andrew McCarthy are all excellent.  A must see "},{"Title":"Read the book, avoid the movie","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first realized that there was a movie based on my all time favorite book I was extremely anxious to see it.  Of course I had yet to see the movie.  After about five minutes of watching, I realized that the movie should have said very loosely based on the novel because other than the character names and the setting, this movie hardly followed the same plot line as the book.  Some people that actually liked this movie may argue that I'm judging it harshly.  They'd say that the book is always better than the movie.  This is true, especially in this case.  If you've seen the movie, and felt that so much more could have been done with it, I strongly urge you to read the book.  If you're thinking of seeing this movie, don't waste your money, just visit the library. "},{"Title":"Disappear here.","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If you've read Ellis' cynical debut Less Than Zero, it would be best to ignore the morbid urge to watch this shoddy adaptation. The movie takes Ellis' wild, rapid decent through the disillusionment of drug-addled, high class LA teens and warps it into some sort of half-hearted anti-drug flick. Clay, the main character, goes from being an sometimes participant, sometimes observer of the seedy network of coke, sex, power, money and beauty to some sort of moral compass, honorably struggling to fight his friends' addictions and help them get their lives back on track. The movie feels contrived, dishonest and flat-out cheesy, where the book feels unabashedly honest and sickeningly eye-opening. Yes, it is very colorful and shiny, but this is only to distract from the fact that the plot has been horribly convoluted and substance has been compromised for flash and cheap 80s gimmicks. And the music is nowhere near as good as described in the book. In the book, the mid-80s music/club scene is a constant underlying part of every surreal scene. The book has X playing at the Roxy, Blondie on the radio and unending references to the big new wave and punk groups at the time. The movie has Cheap Trick playing at a party. How many coke addicts danced to Cheap Trick?James Spader does fine as Rip. It's not his fault that his character was an awkward combination of very different people from the novel. As for Robert Downey Jr.... he does just fine, but honestly, playing a drug addict in the 80s isn't exactly a stretch for him. Andrew McCarthy's performance as Clay is very, very forgettable, and downright disappointing to anyone who's expecting to see the direct reflection of Ellis that Clay represents in the novel. Even if you haven't read the book, this one just really isn't worth renting unless you can talk someone else into paying for it. And even then, you'll lose an irreplaceable hour and a half of your life to this drivel. "}{"Title":"Not a good movie.","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie can be summed up in one sentence Jami Gertz and Andrew McCarthy look for Robert Downey Jr. for an hour and a half.Of course, IMDb won't let me write only this for a review. So let's see here... the characters are shallow, and not intentionally. The acting is wooden. Jami Gertz is awful in everything she's ever been in. There is absolutely no reason to care one iota about any of the characters in this trainwreck.Every scene plays exactly like thisJami Gertz can't find Robert Downey Jr. She wanders around until she finds Andrew McCarthy. They both look for Robert Downey Jr. They find him, he's trashed, he yells at them, Andrew McCarthy makes a face like he's been hit with a fish, and Robert Downey Jr. runs away.Shampoo, rinse, repeat.AVOID THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"A Poor Film That Could Have Really Been Great","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Less Than Zero is a really disappointing film about upper-class drug abuse by young people in Los Angeles.  Robert Downey, Jr. shows a great amount of potential at a very young age as the primary character who just cannot say no (sometimes art imitates life unfortunately).  Friends Andrew McCarthy and Jami Gertz do everything in their power to stop him, but in the end Downey's demise is the only real possible outcome.  Somehow this film just does not work.  Downey almost makes the film work by himself.  However, the paper-thin performances by McCarthy, Gertz, and James Spader ruin any chance that the film has to succeed.  The direction is fair and the screenplay is fair as well.  When all is said and done though, Downey is the only real attraction here.  2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"This is a very bad movie","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bad directing, very bad acting. Not even Morton, James and Nicholas could save this disaster. Its sad to hear such badly written dialogue come out of these gifted actor's mouths. A very appropriate title for this movie. "},{"Title":"Glossy visuals and a hot soundtrack do not a movie make...","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm always amazed when people tell me Less Than Zero is a touchstone movie for them (I hope for a moment they mean that in an nostalgic or perhaps tongue-in-cheek way). The film is on the same level as Showgirls; it continually seems embarrassed over itself, with the young actors shouting as if the whole world has gone deaf. Maybe a veteran director might have seen through the plastic din and gaudy art direction (like an MTV video) and brought something substantial out of this flimsy screenplay. Andrew McCarthy plays another in his stable of smug preppies, this time coming home from college during the holidays and finding his high school pals have gone to ruin. This basic plot mechanism would be highly recognizable to us if the characters themselves weren't so off-putting, and every time McCarthy gets passionate, it's like watching a worm in love. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"They turned Ellis's book into a 'just say no' anti-drug ad.","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"   'Spare me the morality!' This is a statement that Robert Downey Jr shouts at Andrew McCarthy. If only this is what the film did. I swear by the time the end credits rolled around I was expecting Nancy Reagan and Robert Evans to show up. Then there would be all those singing children and 'just say no' slogans everywhere. Great... I feel flashbacks of Punky Brewster coming on...no...no...no!@%!    I have not read the book. However, I do not think that Ellis would make a morality tale that is this heavy handed. The director almost literally tells you that if you take financial risks on something dodgy like the music business that you will lose all your money. It also says if you do drugs, cocaine in this movie, you will become a male prostitute that will be forced to service a very fruity looking James Spader. If you do drugs you will eventually die in a desert. However before that event you will also sleep in strange places and harass small children on swings. It is shown that if you are McCarthy's character, if you go to university, work hard and have a conventional life that you will be fine. There is certainly no way that you would end up as a man-whore who hangs out at spa pools with floating neon phones. FLOATING NEON PHONES!?!?! Boy did I laugh when I saw this. These things actually existed? HA!  This film has quite a bit of unintentional humor. I think it is because the director is a bit of a hack. Take the setting, this was almost too eighties for words! But hey, you have to have a Nam June Paik television set design when you film a party that is intended for 80's yuppies! McCarthy was part of the 80's brat pack and I am glad he is pretty much off the mainstream acting radar. Wasn't he in the atrocious, 'weekend at Bernie's?' He just does not have much talent and gets on your nerves fairly early. Jamie Gertz brings absolutely nothing to the role. Her acting goes from terrible to bearable. However it isn't much of a role and she just seems to be there to hold Roberts head as he vomits. Robert Downey Jr shines here though, his performance actually shows some talent.  However this is not hard as all the other performances range from camp to awful. Also this role is so close to the truth for him, maybe he did not click that he was actually in a film...What was funny was when he he was led inside and started to impersonate Frankenstein has he headed to the toilet too vomit. The film is also predictable because right from the start you know Julian is going to die. He has to because he sniffs that evil white powder and he also slept with McCarthy's girl. That is another thing. If you were an up and coming businessman. One of those power tie wearing individuals who says things like 'lunch is for wimps!' Or 'if you want a friend buy a dog!' Would you then start up a relationship with a former girlfriend who not only has a serious drug problem but also has cheated on you with your best friend? My god! It sounds like a Jerry Springer episode and is testing the story's credibility on a massive scale.    The other thing is James Spader. Now I like Spader, I like him when he plays weirdo's like the main character from David Cronenberg's absolutely abnormal 'Crash.' But here he plays a pimp, drug dealer who seems to have watched Spartacus one to many times. His hair has the sought of 80's gel perfection that would make you cross the road if you saw him on the street. Every time I saw him on the screen I laughed. He even wears a coat! Obviously this makes him a pervert! This is what the director is trying to get across with all of the the subtlety of a sledgehammer! I own a large black coat and  every time I wear it people either think I am going to kill a bunch of people. Or try and sell them drugs, or maybe flash them. Long coats are out! In fact Spader's character sums up the whole movie when he declares that everyone here is an a**hole. Not a more truer word has been said about these yuppie idiots. I give this a 3/10. 1 for Julian's expression just before he vomits. 1 for the floating neon phone. 1 for Spader's hair.     "},{"Title":"Jami Gertz","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If anyone has seen this film you can see that it is a darker version of Pretty In Pink. In Pretty In Pink Andrew McCarthy played Blaine, here it is Clay, (both times he is the good guy) and James Spader played the bad guy. There it was Steff, here it is Rip. The main reason to watch for me is Jami Gertz (Blair). I first noticed her on Facts of Life (as Boots), and I was hooked. I have seen 16 films of her (and except for The Lost Boys this is her best). I have read that Bret Easton Ellis did not like this adaptation of his book. Probably as a gay man, Jami Gertz was not his idea of a love interest, well as a straight guy, she was mine (although certainly not a nice wholesome girl). I give this film 9/10 stars (mostly for Jami and the soundtrack). "},{"Title":"Stylish and flawlessly filmed, but also extremely powerful","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Having often watched this film in the past, I cannot recommend it more as a quintessential 80's film. Although not perfect by far, I believe the film has received an unwarranted amount of criticism from fans of the Bret Easton Ellis novel and from critics, though regard for it seems to have increased with age. It is now undoubtedly a cult classic, one that seems to look better on screen than it did in the 80's, and in retrospect to portray a famously decadent period in history beautifully. The film focuses on the experience of college student Clay (McCarthy) when he returns to LA from the East Coast for the Christmas holidays. He encounters his ex-girlfriend Blair and best friend Julian, whose lives have dramatically disintegrated in the drug-fuelled club culture of 80's LA. The three main leads play their roles with sensitivity and poise, and not even the worst detractor of the film could criticise Downey Jr's virtuoso performance as Julian Wells, one of the most harrowing and bleak depictions of a drug addict I've ever seen. The problem is that people need to stop comparing the film with the source novel, because it is indeed a radical departure from the book. The novel lacks a serious plot, aimlessly examining a succession of nihilistic rich teenagers, bouncing from one sordid vice to another. The narrator, Clay, is indifferent to much of what is around him, and most of the time is as depraved as everyone else. Although I'm a fan of the book, it never would have translated into a mainstream film, the characters needed to have some level of sympathy and heart. Although I admit Less Than Zero could be a little edgier and have maintained the dark, cynical tone of the book, it still is a very insightful and hard-hitting piece. The film does at times feel like a Reaganesque anti-drug commercial, but McCarthy's moralising is kept to a minimum and his portrayal still maintains an observant coldness loyal to the novel's Clay. Jami Gertz's Blair is likewise hugely different from the novel, she is the emotional heart of the movie, desperately trying to keep her triangular friendship group together, nostalgically clinging to the past. And James Spader once again plays the quintessential villain, this time in the form of drug dealer Rip, managing to combine likability with a sinister evil. One of the best features of the film is its visual appeal, it is so well filmed, lit and glamorously designed it instantly draws you into the affluent and decadent world of the characters. Their world is beautifully superficial and over the top, and you can easily relate to Clay's disorientation after returning from the East Coast, and the lack of reality all the characters seem to struggle with. The soundtrack also complements this surrealness, with a strange mix of hip-hop and rock and a powerful early score by Thomas Newman (American Beauty, The Shawshank Redemption,etc...) "},{"Title":"Bad adaptation, pretty okay movie.","Date":"15 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I hadn't seen this movie for fifteen years, and as it turns out, it still holds up. Sure, it's a highly dated eighties flick, but in a charming kind of way. James Spader and especially Robert Downey, Jr give the best performances of their early years, and the rest of the cast is so-and-so, pretty much going through the motions, but I didn't catch anyone doing a bad job.Many people have talked about this, and it's a simple fact this is clearly a lousy Easton Ellis adaption, with the preachy second half and all the pathos throughout, but you can enjoy the film and the novel as two separate entities. The first time I saw it, I was barely sixteen years old and had never even heard about the book, and yet I hold this movie in even higher regard now, after reading most of Easton Ellis' work. It's simply a different medium and Hollywood tends to ham things up - what can you do.My personal favorite BEE movie remains The Rules Of Attraction, but that one completely ignored the quite essential 1980s setting. That's where Less Than Zero pretty much nails it the locations, the clothes, and let's not forget the awesome soundtrack! "},{"Title":"Awful film, but the photography is excellent","Date":"24 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I suppose that Bret Ellis's nihilistic original story would not have been acceptable to most moviegoers. It's further hindered by the fact that the characters are so privileged and throw everything away so needlessly. But this script goes so far in the opposite direction, it's laughable. The film certainly looks glamorous, kudos to cinematographer Edward Lachman, but the story is both bland and heavy-handed. In addition, Andrew McCarthy and Jami Gertz are completely miscast and give performances are as awful as the script. Robert Downey, Jr. certainly gives a prophetic performance as a druggie and James Spader is believable as a charming but evil drug dealer. "},{"Title":"great acting, shame about the script","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Its a shame the film-makers didn't have the guts (or studio permission) to stick closer to the book, the many shades of gray in the characters been cast into black and white and the more nihilistic edges in the story are dropped,reducing it to merely a 'dangers of drugs' story. This movie is well worth a watch for Robert Downeys star-making performance though and for the sheer 80's-ness of it. However as a fan of Bret Easton-Ellis(author of the book), I would suggest you watch 'The Rules of Attraction'(2002) instead. A much more faithful adaptation, directed by Tarintino collaborator Roger Avery, this shows the true dark heart and black humor of Ellis' work.'Sean's character is grimly fascinating, a non-homicidal psychopath in action played by the person you'd least suspect. Also worth noting that in the book Sean Bateman is the brother of Patrick, the preening serial killer/fantasist from Ellis's most successful and shocking work 'American Psycho'. "}{"Title":"Read the book, avoid the movie","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bret Easton Ellis is a great writer. His stories, however, seem to have a hard time doing well on the silver screen. Less Than Zero was written in 1987 and Hollywood quickly obtained the rights to adapt this novel into a movie. The movie, however, poorly reflects what the book is actually about.Ellis' intent in the novel is to show how empty everyone's lives truly are. Hollywod intended to make a strong anti-drug message and failed miserably as the movie was a box-office bomb.Ellis originally despised this movie, but his views have softened up recently. He is writing a sequel to the novel (don't be surprised if it eventually comes into theaters, his 4th novel, The Informers will be in theaters next year) and keeping the same intent as he has with the book. The best film Hollywood has made from an Ellis novel is American Psycho "},{"Title":"Much different from the book but still a good movie","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rated R for Language,Sexuality,Drug Use and Brief Violence. Quebec Rating13+ Canadian Home Video Rating18A(should be 14A)Less Than Zero was the debut novel of author Bret Easton Ellis who is one of my favorite authors.He wrote the novel Less Than Zero while he was in college.The book doesn't have much of a plot and its basically about a bunch of drug-addicted bi-sexuals living in Los Angelas.The film is much different from this.Bret Easton Ellis was said to dislike the film.I read the book before watching the movie.While it wasn't his best work, it was a good novel.I wanted to see the movie so I bought the DVD.You might have heard that the book was much different from the film and it is.Here are the differences.The book featured the character Julian only a little though in both the book and the film he is a drug addicted prostitute.Rip is Julian's dealer and pimp in this film yet in the book it was another person and Rip was one of Clay's friends.Also in the book, Clay and Blair were not trying to help Julian and also Julian was never Blair's girlfriend.I can go on and on like this but the point is, the book and the movie are two different things.When you watch this movie, forget everything about the book and watch it.The film is about Clay a young man who returns to Los Angelas for the Christmas holidays.While he is there, he meets up with his ex-girlfriend Blair who cheated on him with his friend Julian.They are happy to see each other but they are worried about Julian.Julian has become a crack-addict who owes money to Rip, a dealer.When Julian cannot pay Rip back, he asks Julian to be a male-prostitute in order to pay him back.Julian refuses and tries to quit crack with the help of Clay and Blair who are now boyfriend and girlfriend again, but Rip catches up with him and gives him crack.Then Clay and Blair get into a fight with Rip and escape with Julian.After this comes the conclusion which I will not spoil here.Robert Downey JR and James Spader play great roles in this film, however the two leads Andrew McCarthy and Jami Gertz are not so great as actors.The film has a great 1980's soundtrack featuring rap and pop music.Anyway Less Than Zero is a good movie but much different from the book. "},{"Title":"Average as an 80s movie and as a drug movie","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There are old movies we watch today either because we like eighties' movies, or because we are interested in the actors, or because we are interested in the subject. Less Than Zero has it all. Its a story of friends whose lives are threatened by drugs and other life problems like search for money and education. This takes place in a very eighties' like setting. You see all the fashions and style that you will immediately associate with the decade. I feel, however, that the captured eighties' feel here is not the kind that you would associate with glamorous new wave music, or fads like rubic's cube or pacman. Less Than Zero does present a pretty grim picture of a drug world that can destroy lives and make people very desperate. This could have become made it a very good movie, but there are just too many distracting scenes and irrelevant dialog that made it hard to watch.I don't get the point of inserting two graphic sex scenes that have nothing to do with the main plot. Its very annoying. Then there are these non-credible parties that everyone has access too, even though they have just graduated high school. I know these kids are rich, but I have trouble believing someone could simply ask their dad for 50k for no apparent reason and stuff like that.This movie gets a six out of ten. If you want to see good movies about the danger of drugs watch Light Sleeper, or a Requiem for a Dream. If you want to simply see good 80s movies watch the Breakfast Club or St.Elmo's Fire. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This was an excellent movie with some of the best actors from the 80's. The lousy actors of today could not replace Andrew. Robert, and Jamie. The soundtrack was great. This movie take me right back to the 80's and brings back many memories. The kids of today don't see movies like this anymore. Robert Downey is displaying his real life struggles with alcohol and drugs and he does a great job. Andrew is one of my favorite actors of the 80's and the ultimate prep pie which he plays in this movie. Jamie was one of the sexiest females of the 80's and you just melt looking at her eyes and she played an excellent part of a confused neglected teenager. This movie does a great job of outlining the many problems of the 80's and how many kids and young adults got caught up in this lifestyle. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who is curious about the 80's!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"did they read the book?","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" what is it with the works of brett easton ellis that drives people to adapt them to the big screen, but in such a manner as to imply they never read the book? 'less than zero' is a classic example of tailoring a previously existing work to appeal to a greater audience (ie make more money) regardless if the strength is lost in the trade. in ellis' version there was no hero, something critical to the essence of despair and hopelessness that drives the book. in the Hollywood version not only is he sanitized, but he is almost made a hero. originally when julian began prostituting himself to support his drug habit clay actually went and watched. for no reason other then he wanted to see if things like that really happened. in the movie, he runs in a nd rescues his friend from it. boo hoo...when is Hollywood gonna finally take a risk? "},{"Title":"An Underground classic...","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Time has not been good to LESS THAN ZERO, the 1987 drama about privileged California teens descending into a world of constant partying, drug, and alcohol; however, this film has obtained a sort of cult status among film buffs as one of those guilty pleasures that a lot of filmgoers might take pleasure at giggling at; however, I do not find a lot amusing about this film at all, unless you're talking about the wooden performances of Andrew McCarthy and Jamie Gertz as 2/3 of the star trio. LESS THAN ZERO will always be remembered because of the mesmerizing performance by Robert Downey, Jr. as Julian, a definite foreshadowing of his future and a role he played a little too well. Downey perfectly conveyed what cocaine addiction can do to a person. Julian eventually realizes there is no line he won't cross in an effort to get high, including prostituting himself with men in order to get his drugs. Downey is sad, tragic, heartbreaking, and terrifying all at once in the showiest role of his career that he completely lost himself in. Julian is so real it's scary, whether he is horrified at McCarthy learning he is prostituting himself or begging his father (Nicholas Pryor) to let him come home because he would like to wake up somewhere and know where he is...just once. LESS THAN ZERO is not great cinema, but the performance by Robert Downey Jr will stay with you for a long, long time. "},{"Title":"Love the book, hate the film...","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This may be a biased commentary, as this film is based on my favorite novel, but that aside, this movie sucks. I could see how someone who's never read the book could find this movie watchable, and perhaps even enjoyable. This, however, is not the case for me (or anyone else who's read the book, I imagine).The film reduces major characters (e.g. Kim & Alana) to what practically equals extras, and destroys the fabric of the original narrative. Clay goes from a hopeless junkie to a good guy, who's only trying to help his friend who's a hopeless junkie. The title of the novel refers to ALL of the characters, while the film title seems concerned only with Julian (who's not even in the first half of the novel).All in all, I'd say it's watchable if you've never read Ellis' masterpiece, but if you have, I'd say avoid this tripe at all costs!  "},{"Title":"Easy to enter...hard to leave.","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is deep, dark and often hard to watch. Sobriety is lost somewhere in reality. Stark depiction of cocaine era lost generation of spoiled, wealthy college kids in their own jaded private hell. Outstanding cast featuring Robert Downey, Jr., Andrew McCarthy, Jami Gertz and James Spader. The onset of depression is available. "},{"Title":"memorable, powerful, charismatic movie","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I hate to say it, but of all the brat pack type movies of my early high school years, this one was the most like the experience I was having at that time.  It is also probably the only one that I looked to for hints at style and clothing, etc.  If I ever thought I was starting to lose control (we are all melodramatic in those years) I would sometimes think I was becoming like Julian.  But I also wanted to be cool and sophisticated, like Clay. These weren't everyday thoughts that I had, but they floated around in my conscious and unconscious mind.  I don't know what the high school experience is exactly like for kids today, but at my high school in 1986-87, in a rich area in Houston, it was a lot like this movie (which actually deals with the year after high school).  We had keg parties in mansions, lots of drugs, lots of kids out of control.  It was actually considered cool to be out of control then.  I don't know if it is that way, now.  While not perfect, this movie is much better than the reviews here would suggest.  And, in the end, it comes down on the right side.  Drugs are bad, they really are. Most kids of that era figured that out by the time they graduated college, if they made it that far. (You might notice I am Khouston 86.  That is actually because 86 was my favorite sport year in Houston--Rockets in NBA finals, Astros in playoffs against Mets.  But it was also an incredibly exciting, if also dangerous time in my life).  "},{"Title":"Drug dealer pulls the strings (brutally)","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great depiction of a drug dealer who is in his early 20's, and pulls all the strings.  But wait, the movie isn't actually centered on him... as the film goes on you begin to realize that this in fact the case though.  He (Spade) pulls all the strings, and does a great acting job, partially since that is the only part he ever plays (the jerk who betrays his friends).  Andrew McCarty also very predictable and probably the weakest link in the cast - I'm just not buying into him as being the preppy college kid who comes home to try to save the day.  Otherwise, brilliantly written.  9 out of 10 "}{"Title":"If I could give this movie a score that was less than zero, I would","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am a film student and had to watch this film for class.  I would have to say this is the worse out of all the drug films we watched and that includes Reefer Madness.The acting was terrible.  Some of it seemed real, but most of it came off as very fake and grating.  Also, the movie never went anywhere.  There was some character development, but very little.  It followed a predictable pattern our hero is frustrated, talks to girlfriend, talks to best friend about drugs, best friends says everything is under control, hero has sex with girlfriend, best friend cries, hero fights best friend's drug dealer, repeat.  This kept on repeating over and over again in the movie.  Also, if I have to hear one more Van Halen song....The cinematography had some high points though.  There were some amazing shots such as the driving scene at the end.  Still, they can not make up for a badly written script and bad acting.  I would never watch this movie for entertainment.  Of course, it is a teen movie and does teach the dangers of drugs and I never liked any teen movie (except for the wonderful Ferris Bueller's Day Off.  I would avoid this one for fun. "},{"Title":"I prefer the book","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ok, it is a topic to say that the book is better than the movie, that is not always true, I have watched very good movies and books were very bad like Trainspotting, but if you see the film and you read the book you realize that the director didn't know how to adapt the book atmosphere of drugs, sex and alcohol that surrounds Clay and his friends. The character of Julian is specially blurry in the movie. "},{"Title":"Bret Easton Ellis is rolling in his grave and he's not even dead yet.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  For anyone who has read the novel that this film is 'based' upon, they will be severely dissappointed.  I recently saw this film after completing the book, and realized to my dismay that the film is not faithful to the book whatsoever.  Not that this neccessarily means that a film will be bad if it strays from the book on which it's based, but in this case, they screwed up.  Bad.The only redeeming element of this film is, of course, Robert Downey Jr.'s performance.One of the main points of the book was that the main character, Clay, was extremely disillusioned and apathetic towards the LA lifestyle and his relationship with Blair.  The Julian character was only in about ten percent of the book, and James Spader's character wasn't quite as much of an antagonist.Granted, the book didn't have too much of a conventional plot, so I can see why they decided to change it, but good Lord, do Bret Easton Ellis some justice!  It's no wonder why this director hasn't done much since.  C-/D+ "},{"Title":"Too close to reality","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I first saw this movie about 8 years ago and seeing Robert Downey Jr portray a drug addict is a little too close to reality. He was brilliant as Julian that it's such a shame to see he's followed the same path as he is a gifted actor.Andrew McCarthy stood out as well as Clay the best friend who went away to college and comes home to help his friend who betrayed him by sleeping with his girlfriend and a year later comes home to help his friend, but Jami Gertz was a huge let down as Clay's girlfriend Blair as was the usually reliable James Spader who played a character similar to the one he played in Pretty in Pink. He should have had a bigger part and another let down was that how the film ended. Besides that this is a movie worth checking out as it wasn't filled with the Brat Packers of the 80s. The only thing unrealistic was that we were supposed to believe that Blair, Clay, Julian and Rip were 18/19 years old. This is one of Robert Downey Jr's best work, and definitely worth a look even after all these years. "},{"Title":"A movie that shaped my life decisions","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Whatever people may think about the acting etc in this movie - I have to say its one of the key movies I saw as a teenager which confirmed my decision never to do drugs (This and a very sappy movie called not my kid which I found equally disturbing in a way)Have to say I hated the novel and the ending in the movie had a much great impact on me to the consequences of hard drugs.  I also loved the scenary shots when Downey dies. "},{"Title":"Wasted potential","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on a classic book by Bret Easton Ellis, this film tries to turn it into a typical John Hughes teen picture, which doesn't work. Clay is unrecognisable from the mixed up and coked up protagonist from the book, while Robert Downey JR. single handedly saves the film by breathing a small character in the novel into life. It's not enough to save the film though.Although it tries to keep some of the book in (Blair says to Clay''But do I look good?'' this film fails miserably from being watered down.Thank God that Hollywood didn't make the same mistake with Ellis' other classic, American Psycho. "},{"Title":"Spader and Downey Jr. make this movie","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bret Eaton Eillis is sort like of drug up John Hughes. This was a teen movie with sex, drugs , violence and true to revelations. Andrew Mcarthy plays a guy who comes home and finds out that Downey is boning his girl played by Getz, Spader plays a drug dealer and steals the film almost, but it's Donwey as Juilan who makes this movie. In my top ten of teen flicks. "},{"Title":"Still A Good One To Watch Even Now","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to say that this flick will always still be a fav of mine from the 80's. Hey growing up in that era we always watched movies with Andrew McCarthy,James Spader and the sexy Jami Gertz. Although I would say this has to be Gertz' worst acting, although I think she is portraying an airheaded rich kid here. Lost Boys and Renegades were her best. Seems after Twister her star just sort of vanished. Under rated actress by far.Anyhow McCarthy actually is good in this, finally he gets a main character in a film instead of a role shadowed from those other brat packers he always seemed to be following from movie to movie. He plays a preppie rich kid without the attitude and is the friend who cares about his long time friends. James Spader, unlike others, I have always liked. Seems he just never got that big break ever but he is under rated in my view. He play the rich drug dealer prick and like in Pretty In Pink, plays it well. And then there's Robert Downey Jr. He plays, no pun intended here, a drug addicted rich spoiled brat who owes big cash to Spader for the drugs. His family won't bother giving him handouts anymore and so he ends up doing, well watch it for his character. Seems Downey Jr plays this role PERFECT. Sad to see him end up as one in real life. Basically if you like the 80's brat pack flicks that all of us in our late 20's to 30's grew up watching, rent it for sure. I'm sure it will make you remember all those party days in your high school/college years and this flick is definitely not boring. The end is quite sad and it will show you that no matter what friends go through, the true ones will always be there in the end. A 7/10 from me. 3 for Jami Gertz automatically, I am a Jami Gertz mark. Wonder when it will finally come out on DVD. "},{"Title":"Movie itself is not less than zero.","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Adaption of Bret Easton Ellis's popular novel is pretty good despite its script problems. Andrew McCarthy returns to his hometown to find friends Jami Gertz and Robert Downey Jr. even more addicated to drugs than ever before. Entertaining, but the script is mixed. As is the acting, which ranges from mediocre to superior. One of Brad Pitt's first films. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Excess of the Eighties.","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gertz, Robert Downey Jr, James Spader, Tony Bill. The destructive excessives of the Eighties let down by the leading cast and weak script. Only saviour comes through Downey and sleazy Spader. You could label this film as the JULES & JIM of our generation. How sad can that be? "}{"Title":"it probably isn't faithful to the source, and it isn't anything great, but it has its moments and 80s vibe","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Less Than Zero takes a fairly critical eye on the coke scene in LA in the late 80s, trying (and probably succeeding for two minutes) to de-glamorize one of the most notorious of all substances of its time, particularly for those who could afford it. The crux of the story is that Julian (Robert Downey Jr) is a f***-up who burned his bridges with his wealthy father, drifted into a non-existent record producing career and spent up 50 grand on a drug connection (James Spader), and now needs his high school friends (Andrew McCarthy and Jamie Gertz) to bail him out and get him clean. At the least it does portray the total dregs of coke addiction on a wretched level late in the picture as Downey's character goes through terrible, cold-sweat/vomiting withdrawal, the likes of which, at the least, wouldn't be seen in a common after school special. Morale of the story kids, don't go to LA and act like a f***-up! I can't say for sure how faithful the picture is to Bret Easton Ellis's book (his first one), and from all accounts I've read it's at best loosely based. This doesn't necessarily mean it might have been better or worse if it were more faithful; Rules of Attraction may be totally true to the book but it's own ambitions- however more ambitious than Less Than Zero- are its undoing. Suffice to say in the spectrum of current Ellis adaptations it rests between the masterpiece American Psycho and the mixed bag of 'Attraction.' Aside from clichs in the story presented here the biggest problem lies in casting McCarthy and Gertz, however pretty together, are only OK cat best and at worst are what they appear pretty people who can't act very well (I almost though McCarthy and Spader could've switched places and made for an interesting change-up). Spader is very good, if maybe predictably slimy after seeing him play the kind of role a lot. And the music by the usually great Thomas Newman is soap-operaish.Why recommend it then, aside from those who can't get enough of 80s coke movies? First, Robert Downey Jr. I'm reminded here of his most recent turn in Tropic Thunder where he relays the theory on Full Retard/Half-Retard and how actors get completely acclaimed if they go halfway but if they overshoot it it's too much. On that quasi-scale Downey goes at about Three-Quarters Addict in Less Than Zero, which is to say that it's a perfect breakthrough performance; this is an actor who reveals himself and goes naked emotionally and occasionally goes so for broke it's genuinely frightening, and he's even amusing in little slivers to boot when not appearing as fatalistic as he is (and, as well, a mature performance, which at 21 or 22 is also extraordinary). The second reason, which may vary depending on the viewer, is the wonderful capturing of the 80s club scenes, where the music wasn't just New-Wave or Heavy Metal, but a variety of whatever there could be to dance to, and this is presented with great verve and song choices that blend and meld together.So, Downey Jr and soundtrack/80s LA scene terrific. Everything else ranges from levels of good to mediocrity and once in a while ham-fisted cinematic gesture (such as a death scene I won't mention here). "},{"Title":"It is a movie, not a book","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Some of he comments are comparing this Movie to the book. Forget that, the only thing that can be the same is the title, time and place, character names, etc. Look at it as a Movie - they did a nice job with it with a strong message and good acting. A movie that followed a book would be at least 15 to 20 hours long - not one that many would sit through. So read the book and enjoy it and see the movie and try to enjoy it for what it is, not what it isn't. I think that this is above average for movies, not the greatest of all but certainly not the worst. I do a lot of reading and see a lot of movies. When a book that I really liked is made into a movie, I don't go to it to see the book. I go to it to see someone's interpretation of it. If I go to it thinking that I already know the plot and the characters then I am not being fair to the movie. I try and just experience it and either enjoy it or not, just like any other movie I see. "},{"Title":"So much better than the book","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It may be because of when I watched this movie (in Grade 10 probably around 1988), but I really liked this movie and I still enjoy it. It is one of those movies that I will watch again and again. Robert Downey Jr is excellent as Julian and this was the movie that made me madly infatuated with Andrew McCarthy in high-school. Because, I loved the movie I later read the book. Not a big fan of the book. Probably due to my love for the movie. The book is a lot darker. It's not a great movie, but it's enjoyable and has some great scenes.  "},{"Title":"Downey's acting is the only reason to waste 130 out of your life","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie when it first came out. I thought it was all over the place and I still do. But there is one thing about this movie that cannot be denied and the only reason I would recommend that anyone waste their time watching it. And that is Robert Downey's performance as the hope to die junkie Julian. His role was comparable to John Travolta's breath taking performance in Saturday Night Fever which was a very good movie. If Less Then Zero was even a halfway decent movie Downey would have gotten a Oscar nomination and the same accolades Travolta got for SNF. It is a tragedy such a great performance is wasted on such a bad movie. I saw the movie last night on the Fox channel and I feel even more stronger about his performance then I did 17 years ago. It was like watching his future in retrospect. Spader was very good playing James Spader, a role he still plays to this day on TV. Jamie Gertz and Andrew McCarthy might as well stayed home because they are just bland and pitiful. MacCarthy comes home for the summer from College and acts like he just landed from Mars. In my experience going to private schools and having friends in which money is not a problem, they just don't mesmerize into party going druggies with nothing to do but spend money over night. Now I am not going to implicate myself, but this partying starts way before getting out of high school. It starts mainly when we got our cars or had friends who had cars. 10th grade for the most part. Also remember it was legal to drink at 18 back then so hanging out at 15 was not a unusual. Where was MacCarthy's at during high school...AlF the Alien would of been a better choice for this part Then we have the Jaimie Gertz character. I am not buying she is a model, I'm not buying it one bit. Why is she still living in LA hanging out with her high school crowd? I mean it might be summer break for the college crowd but it shouldn't be for her, she should be at work! Plus I think she was not the right actress for the role. One of the Bratz Dolls would of done better. I did like Julians father's character though. At least there was a parent in the movie who took notice of his child. He wasn't just fed up with his son and I liked that he was not just letting him do what he was doing. Believe it or not every rich kid doesn't have parents who don't care for them. The movie is like looking at a big MTV video when they played videos. I never read the book so I cannot compare it to the book. But the movie stinks. I have to think if the two leads were not so unsuited for the roles it might have been a little better. But if not for Downey's performance this movie would be forgotten and never seen again except in the 99 cent bin at the local 99 cent store. "},{"Title":"Bad because....","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was made obviously because of the success and impact of the novel. I don't think that the film-makers originally intended to make this a typical anti-drug film.  However, since there was obviously no conventional point of entry (no protagonist with whom the audience could identify), this dreck was the result.  This film is NOT AT ALL LIKE THE BOOK.  It doesn't even capture the books essence.  The book is about nihilistic rich kids in L.A. and their quest for nothing.  This film is about Robert Downey Jr. freebasing too much.  I'd stay away.  It's not even kitschy. "},{"Title":"The truth about drug use","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is an involving drama which follows three close friends -- Blair (Jami Gertz), Julian (Robert Downey Jr), and Clay (Andrew McCarthy) -- who live, grow up and party together in Hollywood in the late 80s. The main focus of this movie is on Julian's uncontrollable crack addiction and its destructive effects on himself as well as his friends and family. But the movie is much more than this it is a stylish, well-acted and skillfully directed film which stands out from its counterparts, both modern and old. It is also helped along by a cool soundtrack.It's a pity that, in the drug-crazed 90s, we seem to have forgotten about the cautionary tale told by LESS THAN ZERO. If you don't believe me, bear in mind that there are three times as many heroin users worldwide in 1999 than there were in 1989. I have seen no other film which portrays the reality of drugs in such a truthful and straightforward light, and it's a tragedy that LESS THAN ZERO is passed off for mere 80s melodrama when it has such an important and valuable underlying message. A solid, thought-provoking film; I give it *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"The title fits the movie","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The book and the movie only have in common characters names, places, and, of course, the title which resume quite well what that movie is worth  Less than zero! At least that was one good thing that they kept the same title.They took one little part of the book, Julian drugs problem, and they made the whole story about that while the book, as far as I can remember, mainly deal with Clay selfishness and out of control life.The only positive thing I can thing about is the soundtrack.I was curious to see what it was and I've been really disappointed in the end.!!!ONE NOT TO WATCH!!! Especially if you've read the book before. "},{"Title":"I would if I could but I cannot...","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" That is, I wish I could give this film a score less than zero. It deserves it. Why? Mostly because it's atrocious on every conceivable level. Except, of course, James Spader and Robert Downey Jr have wonderful roles as an absolute scumbag and an absolute trainwreck, respectively. Spader might have been acting, but given Downey's later exploits I'm reasonably sure they let him get coked up and let the cameras role. Nevertheless, he's an extremely convincing addict and, just like Downey, totally ingratiating. In spite of the sore on his lip (does he have the herpes? I do and my sores NEVER look like that), you can't help but root for him. Pity that he dies and agonizingly unattractive desert in the California desert with only Jamie Gertz and Andrew McCarthy at his sides. I cannot, in fact, think of two people I would want further away from me when I kick the bucket. Anyway, it's really not a very good movie. McCarthy and Gertz are as unappealing as you can get with zero chemistry and zero charisma. I had to laugh at their doing it against a trellis, but I don't think I was supposed to be amused. Truth be told, I suppose a movie needed to be made about the coked out excess of 1980s LA, but did it need to be this, I dunno, cartoonish? Whereas BE Ellis's novel was told in an eminently flat but readable voice, which underscored the ennui of these youngsters, the film is brash, bright, and loud. The simplicity of Ellis's prose replaced for glitz and glamor. Or something like that. I didn't love the novel Less than Zero lest you think that's why I don't like this movie (for all his skill in creating interesting wasted youths in his novels he cannot yet compose a coherent or involving novel length plot; this is why Rules of Attraction was a passable read--it wasn't plotted so much as strung together). What I'm saying is that even though Roger Ebert thought this a wonderful piece of film-making, he was wrong. Watch it if it's on TV but don't, please, rent it like I did; go read a book instead. "},{"Title":"Get away while you still can!!!!","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Question of the Day How would you rate this film on a scale from 1 to 10?Answer The title says it all.What a disaster!  The performances are just plain flat and the film rambles on and on for what seems like forever.  James Spader seems to be playing the exact same character he did in Pretty in Pink, only difference is that instead of being a rich jerk he's now a rich jerk drug dealer.  "},{"Title":"Less Than Zero is what I'd give this film...","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I can't say I am the biggest reader, but when I read Less than Zero it truly meant something to me. It spoke loudly with it's shocking situations and uncompromising depictions of the upper class youth gone wild/bored. The character of Clay was someone that I related to, and even at times when what he was going through was so alien to me I could still feel what he was going through. It was beautiful, and ugly, all at the same time. Then I pop this baby in and watch the rape of an amazing book! Wow, they completely missed the point! Not to mention half of the characters, almost all the really shocking scenes, and just about the whole damn plot. What they did replace it with was a pile of drivel that focused on a more secondary character which was fairly half-assed and uninteresting. The acting was bad, the music was fairly bad, and the story was really really horrible. I'd say the only thing that somewhat paid off this hour and a half of trite attempt at adaptation was the half-way decent cinematography. Some scenes, if you didn't look at what was going on, you could get lost in the semi-interesting lighting, or the juxtaposition of off-beat objects. Maybe the director just didn't give a crap about what story was being told and just wanted to show some pretty pictures! Either way, it's not good enough as a visual piece (go check out a Fellini film for god sakes!) and the story is pretty damn horrible, especially in comparison to Bret Easton Ellis's beautiful book. Mr. Ellis must've been paid a lot of cash, or it must be really true what they say about Hollywood Writers are treated like crap! "}{"Title":"Very well done","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Surprisingly well-done, well acted movie. It can be hard to have any sympathy for these kids, growing up in upper middle class circumstances, with too much money on their hands. But, putting that aside, the movie becomes a sad, heartbreaking tale of destructive drug use, and troubled, starved kids in an affluent lifestyle.The actors are all surprisingly effective, especially Robert Downey. His performance is remarkable but, unfortunately, would become a showpiece of a path he was personally very familiar with.James Spader nearly steals the movie with his performance as Rip', a cruel, icy, menacing drug dealer to rich, bored kids.I admit to being stunned by the ending. I half expected some kind of happy, hopeful ending, and was emotionally effected by the sudden, tragic ending.A movie that pulls you in; a very good job. "},{"Title":"it was less than zero","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  in fact it was less than zero divided by zerobrett easton ellis does not translate well to screen with the way hollywood butchers much of what is good in novels. the exception american psycho, but only because of christian bale. zero was bad, rules was very bad, and i'm sure the upcomming glamorama will be terrible. but by all means, read ellis' books, especially psycho and glama.thanks for letting me share "},{"Title":"Hits the Nail...","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  right on the head! Dead on 80's lifestyle for 20 somethings. It was likethe movie portrayed. This is a great movie for those of us who came ofage in the 80's. If you are younger or older than that generation youprobably don't appreciate or get what it was really like and thatdoesn't matter really. No one gets anyone else's generation. But somethings don't change. Maybe the clothes, hairstyles, and music change butthe attitude is the same. Balls to the wall partying and endless energy!Going to sleep at 6 AM and waking up at 6 PM and partying all night!What's new? The movie does have an edge of innocence and that may be the times. Yes,they have gotten harsher and people are more in your face and lesscongenial these days but that has more with the moral decay in society.Instead of hiding our addictions or kinkyness or fetishes, we live themin the open these days! The body-piercings, the tattooed bodies and theblaring profanity-laced music. It's like who cares if others don'tapprove? Screw you! But the movie was cool and has a nostalgic feel to it even if AndrewMcCarthy is a putz! David Spader was the perfect slimeba "},{"Title":"Brad Pitt?  I didn't see no Brad Pitt!","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Less Than Zero does little to distinguish itself with the only good performance coming from Downey who plays a rich kid who spends his coulda-been-college years doing coke until best friends Gertz and McCarthy have to come to his rescue. Everything about this flick is too pat, too commercial, too obvious, and too Hollywood. There are zero atmospherics and art; the screenplay is soap quality; the story hackneyed and bland; the characters are stereotypes; etc, etc. For whatever reason the critics gave Less Than Zero better marks than the public (Four stars from Ebert, go figure) according to IMDB.com stats which average a paltry 5.4 after 1500 votes. Recommended only as a nostalgic look back at some brat packers. (C) "},{"Title":"Pointless Mess!","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is horrible. There isn't one sympathetic or likable character. I hated it & couldn't wait for it to end. If you want to watch something meaningless this is for you, otherwise avoid this garbage! The ironic thing about this mess is Robert Downey, Jr. seems to be playing his future self. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie about life in the fast lane and its dangers","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the story of three friends Clay, Blair and Julian. The 3 friends come from wealthy families and live in LA. They graduate high school and go their separate ways when Clay attends college on the east coast and Blair and Julian stay in LA. We think they will have great futures ahead of them Clay attends college, Blair embarks on a modeling career and Julian will open up his own night club. When Clay returns to LA for Christmas, we see how wrong we were....His friends are drowning in drugs, sex and all the trappings of having too much too soon.  We see how wealth and youth are incompatible. Julian and Blair have become cocaine addicts. Blair's modeling career hasnt taken off, she does small jobs as a hand model. Julian's club is closed and he owes a huge amount of money to a drug dealer named Rip. He has borrowed money from his father and friends but still uses all the money to support his habit instead of getting a job and getting off drugs. He soon becomes alienated from his family and cut off financially. Then Rip is constantly after Julian about the money. Clay tries to help Julian but it's obvious that Julian needs more help than Clay can give. We know that it will all end badly for Julian, but we are shocked at how his life spirals out of control and that he does nothing to stop it. A startling wake-up call to people of all ages that drug addiction is a dangerous thing. You can lose your friends, family, money, dignity and so much more. Utterly brilliant.  "},{"Title":"Based on the book - Author went to my high school","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Brett Easton Ellis attended the Buckley School in the early 80's in Los Angeles California. It is a very posh and expensive school and many of the students were children of actors and other noted celebrities. While he was there, Laura Dern was a student, Matthew Perry, Sydney Poitier, Jackson kids...etc.  During the 80's these kids were really into drugs.  Really into the crazy lifestyle, and one summer, when Ellis came back from the expensive liberal arts college Bennington he experienced a summer situation on which the book is based.   The movie uses the book in a great way.  The performance by Robert Downey Jr. is masterful and memorable. Definitely worth a look- a Great movie and an even better book- The pre-cursor and symbol of Generation X.   "},{"Title":"Interesting attempt.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I prefer the book that Bret Easton Ellis wrote, for some reason theydecided to jetison most of the plot and alter the lead character ofClay, thus watering it down till it's almost unrecognizable. Perhapsthey thought they had to 'clean it up' for the movies, although themovie tries so hard to wallow in the shallow vapidity of the eightiesanyway that one is left wondering why- why alter a fine book at all?Everyone gamely tries, but few succeed. The performances that work thebest are, of course, the 'bad guys'- James Spader and Robert DowneyJunior, in a role that has him doing most of the things he's recentlybeen arrested for, and doing them very well. It's a little eerie towatch, a bit like watching 'Manhattan' now, knowing that Woody Allenended up essentially marrying his step child who is 40 years youngerthan he is. Does that stop the enjoyment of the film? No, but it informsit in a disturbing way. Less Than Zero has a bouncy sound track, acatchy Bangles song (remember them?) and a lot of posing, which wasessential to the book but when you put it in a film it doesn't hold yourattention as well. It's like the difference between HEARING about aperson who was pretty but vacant that your friend saw at a party, andactually SEEING that person at the party, just standing and trying tolook cool. I'd much rather hear about it than be forced to watch it.Andrew McCarthy puts in probably his best performance, but the role isso underwritten and uninteresting that he's left looking for Spader orDowney Junior to help him get through his scenes alive. Jami Gertz seemsvery nice but totally miscast in this role. Once again there is one ofthose 'keep the sheets up so that it covers your privates' love scenesthat make us all boo the screen and run to get popcorn. Actually, thisone made me think why is it that our culture is so hung up about nudity?Hung up to the point that when we show a love scene, it's done in themost unrealistic way possible? It makes no sense. But I digress. TonyBill is the 'adult', who is mostly absent, and he's well cast and does afine job. Everyone does a fine job, it's just that the whole doesn't addup. The parts must have looked very interesting when this film was beingmade, but it just didn't add up. The director apparently came fromcommercials and it shows- he puts a gloss and a shine on the pools andthe houses and the parties, but deep down you get the feeling he'strying to sell you something you don't really need or want. Stick withthe book, you won't be sorry.      "},{"Title":"A disturbing yet visual look at the effects of drugs","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I myself enjoyed this movie. Not just because Robert Downey Jr is one of my favorite actors, but because it is a good movie. The movie starts out at a high school graduation somewhere in the richer part of California.Andrew mcartney, Jami graz and Robert Downey Jr are best friends. AM goes to college,JG becomes a model And RDj tries to start a music career. While Am is gone, JG and RDj hook up and start sleeping together. Around Christmas time, JG calls AM and tells him he needs to come home and help RDj because hes real messed up on drugs and owes some drug dealers some money.She is also on drugs. And from there on you see the hardship of trying to help a loved one get off of drugs. Robert downey jr gives a stunning performance who looses everything because of drugs. He looses his family support, starts prostituting to pay of a drug dealer**MAY BE A SPOILER******and ends in a situation that is a true tear jerker. And thats why i give it a****1/2out of*****DarkChild  "}]