[{"Title":"Enormously entertaining b-grade sci fi thriller with an awesome body count!","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"57 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  'The Hidden' is one of those movies you might easily pass by on first glance, assuming it's just your standard 1980s b-grade trash. The thing is it's FANTASTIC 1980s b-grade trash! This is one of the most entertaining sci fi thrillers you'll ever see, and lovers of cinematic violence will be thrilled by its body count, which is one of the highest you'll see outside a Hong Kong action movie. Michael Nouri ('Flashdance'... yeah, I know) is a cop tailing an average guy who has seemingly snapped and turned into a homicidal maniac. He is teamed with a kooky FBI agent ('Blue Velvet's Kyle MacLachlan) who knows a lot more than he lets on. Very quickly Kyle goes all 'Starman' on us, and Nouri soon realizes that he's actually on the trail of an extraterrestrial psycho who is taking over people's bodies so he can go on a rampage of murder, car theft, fatty foods and heavy metal music! So okay, this isn't the most cerebral movie in the world but I defy anybody not to have a ball watching it! The supporting cast includes Claudia Christian ('Babylon 5') as a foxy looking stripper, Clu Gulager ('The Killers') as Nouri's superior, and even a blink and you'll miss it cameo from future tough guy legend Danny Trejo ('From Dusk Til Dawn',etc.) as a convict. 'The Hidden' is a non-stop action ride, and the cheesiest 1980s fun this side of 'Maniac Cop'. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Diamond in the Rough","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"46 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" What is the Hidden? Exactly what the name implies. It's like searching for a diamond in a pile of coal. There are a lot of stupid, inane sci-fi action pics out there with some boring spin on the alien possession story, but this movie has something that those lack. Compelling characters. What, you say? A character study in sci-fi? Well, yes and no. It is as far away from a after-school TV drama, but the characters do have depth and they aren't cookie board cut-outs. Kyle MacLachlan, before his dark days of showgirls, and Michael Nouri(Flashdance) star in this buddy-cop film, on the track of a killing-spree that seems to change with different humans. This film is a taught, well acted story. Sometimes creepy, sometimes genuinely funny. The score, although definitively 80s, complements the film with subtle overtones that enhance the viewing experience. A very good film that has a fair amount of blood and gore, but does not revolve around those genre staples. Overall, it's a safe bet for a good time. Watch it with someone you love. "},{"Title":"I Agree Entertaining As Anything!","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"44 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" I wrote the following three paragraphs and then scanned some of the reviews....only to find everyone else saying pretty much the same thing as I had written, namely that this movie is a hidden gem and enormously entertaining. Well, add my name to the list of admirers.Here's a low-grade sci-fi/crime story that is amazingly entertaining. It's a fast- paced account of normal people taking turns being inhabited by an alien being and suddenly turning into out-of-control killing machines. It guess it kind of sounds dumb, but seeing it is better than describing it. The characters in here are wild.Kyle MacLachlan plays his normal mid-80s strange character, a la Blue Velvet, Twin Peaks, etc. Here, he is the FBI agent....or is he?On the first viewing I found Michael Nouri's role as too abrasive, taking away from some of the fun of viewing this, but, in future viewings he was more tolerable. What also helps this film is a little bit of humor thrown in here and there. It will probably wind up as a cult classic. "},{"Title":"Cult favourite","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"40 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Sholder's allegorical B-movie offers unblinking aliens, loud rock music, car chases, and the presence of Kyle MacLachlan together with a quiet, emotional core. It's the sort of film that gives low budget science fiction a good name, one that effortlessly combines a sharp view of society together with the brisk pace of 'The Terminator' (1984)At one level, 'The Hidden' is a film about acquisition, by implication digging at the American Dream. The aliens acquire human bodies, much as humans might go shopping, casually discarding one form for another when it is worn out or no longer wanted. The possessed Jonathan P. Miller sees a ghetto blaster on display, takes it after clubbing the salesman to death. A little later on, after viewing the Ferrari just sold to a arms and antique dealer, he states glibly 'I want that car'. Its new owner has just mused 'Do I trade in my Mercedes or just hang on to it?' (his white suit ironically anticipating imminent mortality.) Later, in his final incarnation as Senator Holt,like a child who has made its mind up, the alien can announce just as decidedly and without any sense of irony 'I want to be President'. Power in American politics can be 'bought' just as easily as a cassette player, its accession just an impulsive decision by the strong. Apart from the scheming necessary to exchange bodies, what is most disturbing about this invasion is its relative guilelessness, how the alien 'Sees something. He takes it.' Other SF films might offer up a plan to be defeated; 'The Hidden' replaces galactic conquest with ghastly cupidity. Kyle MacLachlan makes an excellent Lloyd Gallagher, a weird 'FBI' presence instantly suggesting that of Agent Dale Cooper, whom he was to play 3 years later. MacLachlan had previously only appeared in two other Lynch productions  'Dune' (1984) and, more notably, 'Blue Velvet' (1986). Sholder was quick to take advantage of MacLachlan's quirkiness and androgynous appearance, ideal for a part in which ambivalence and social disorientation are essential. There's a faint echo too of 'The Man Who Fell to Earth' (1976) in this character separated from his loved ones, a lonely survivor on Earth. The title of 'The Hidden' refers most obviously to the invader lurking within humans, only emerging to swop bodies. But there's something else, equally hard to see, and only gradually expressed the emotional link which binds kind and kin. The recognition of these ties is one of the film's most rewarding aspects. Beck's home and family life are both a new, and a familiar, experience to Gallagher. His question 'Your little girl. She is very special to you?' is both naïve and affirmative, a means to assign the value of such relationships in a way initially quite lost on Beck. 'Gallagher's melancholia predominates during his visit to the Detective's home (despite the humorous nature of his indigestion). His sense of loss, which overshadows so much of his mood is only finally resolved in the last scene, as 'Beck' is welcomed back to life by his daughter.Men, a woman, even a dog, are all possessed by the alien before it ends up as the Senator. Both the bespectacled de Vries ('that Jack - kinda quiet. What'd he do? Rob a bank?') and the sedentary Miller are ostensible squares, mild-mannered citizens whose ensuing transgressions are completely out of character. Even the police Lieutenant, one of the alien's last victims, apparently lives alone with his dog. Their violent actions are faintly ludicrous, even to the point of raising nervous laughter. When Miller smashes the radio playing 'I believe in sunshine', after glaring at it with alien incredulity for a long moments, it invariably raises a chuckle in the audience, as does his belching in the diner. Far more of a frisson is created by the take-over of the stripper. Her already aggressive on-stage sexuality, and existing control over the patrons has been supplemented by something far more dangerous. To a (largely male?) audience, this is female empowerment brought home with a vengeance, her cool return of the gaze unnerving.Sholder's uneven career contains at least one other good film. 1201 (1993) is an effective and amusing variation on the 'Groundhog Day' theme co-starring Martin Landau. Others are best passed over in silence. It may well be that and 'The Hidden' will remain his best work, as they still play well and remains fresh on repeated viewings. A sequel to the present film followed, by a different director, but it was not in the same league. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie with fascinating twists and turns to the plot, a must see","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"38 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  This movie is best seen without knowing much about the plot. It starts off as standard action movie where you follow a policeman who is investigating some strange event of a seemingly normal person kind of going crazy and suddenly committing thefts, violence, escaping the police. As the story develops, the story turns in unexpected but very fascinating directions.The pace is kept high, never does ones attention wander. The acting is good and the story comes over as very real. I won't reveal too much here of what happens later as there are many elements of surprise which adds to the whole experience.This is one of the movies that I have enjoyed watching several times. My vote is a 9.  "},{"Title":"On my all-time top 50 list","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"36 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  The Hidden is an unknown gem of a movie.  That it's sci-fi probably kept its popularity down, but it's one of the best sci-fi films ever.Michael Nouri proves once again that he deserves every leading man role he gets, and the ever quirky Kyle MacLachlan is at the top of his weird form.Highly recommended for an evening of unexpected fun. "},{"Title":"The best performance of MacLachlan's Career","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  This movie is extremely well-made for what it is. Fascinating, thought-provoking, it surprised the Hell out of me when I first saw it. This could have been a gimmick sci-fi movie, but it's handled deftly by the director, who I had never heard of, and by MacLachlan, who gives a terrific, sensitive, multi-layered performance.For that matter, most of characters have real dimension to them. This movie transcends a rather bland, run-of-the-mill science fiction story with the chemistry between its characters and the snappy pacing. I like the way the themes of identity and compassion are actually explored instead of just exploited. "},{"Title":"Buckle Up...","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  In the 1987 sci-fi actioner The Hidden, an evil, body-switching alien with a taste for Ferraris, loud music, and murder is wreaking havoc. Only another alien, impersonating an FBI agent and teamed with an ordinary cop, knows how to stop it. The Hidden is an irrepressible, high-spirited genre flick full of screeching car chases, sprays of bullets, and shattering glass that leaves more than a few casualties in its wake. It has alot of fun with the body-switching premise and maintains a strong sense of humor throughout. Kyle MacLachlan's performance as the unearthly FBI agent offers another great reason to watch. This is the perfect film for those in search of a rock 'em, sock 'em good time. "},{"Title":"More Alien Bang Bang for the Buck","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" This starts out with a bang, literally, and doesn't let up for the entire film. The picture zips along, whether with speedy car chases or interesting suspense, keeping the audience on their toes. We can credit director Sholder for keeping things exciting but I also suspect this was one those scripts that wasn't tampered with much (which is as it should be for most scripts, but isn't in Hollywood). For sheer level of entertainment as a sci-fi thriller, this approaches Terminator (84) - the one to beat. Some of the premise is similar, featuring an unstoppable menace. You're always guaranteed an adrenaline rush with scenes of cops firing their weapons repeatedly at someone who just won't fall down; they may slow him or it down, perhaps stagger it, but in the end they need something more than just bullets.This pic represents a fortunate confluence of personnel and events. The two lead actors, MacLachlin & Nouri, had just reached their respective peaks in their careers and both were at the top of their game (both careers went into downswing afterward but it can't be blamed on this film). In fact, I'd venture that this film contains both their best roles. Nouri is the strong-willed earth-man cop and MacLachlan takes full advantage of his unusual persona to play an alien visitor (sort of like Jeff Bridges in Starman/1984, but Bridges had to try harder). The supporting cast are all great too, with many having to play two versions of themselves. Who can forget Christian as an exotic dancer suddenly gone gun-crazy? There's a lot of inherent humor in such scenes. The best and most memorable must be the one with Boyett acquiring a Ferrari in his own alien style. Just unforgettable.Unfortunately, there was a forgettable and quite awful sequel several years later. But this remains one of the most unique, vivid alien visitor/invader films of the eighties and nineties. "},{"Title":"Underrated Sci/Fi Action Thriller.","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" A series of bizarre, unusual crimes are committed by seemingly ordinary citizens of Los Angeles. L.A. Police Detective (Micheal Nouri) is totally baffled by these strange crimes. When a mysterious FBI Agent (Kyle MacLachlan) is helping the police detective with these inexplicable robberies and murders but not telling the detective that it is a demonic extraterrestrial creature is invading the bodies of everyday citizens and transforming them into inhuman killers.Directed by Jack Sholder (A Nightmare on Elm Street 2Freddy's Revenge, Wishmaster 2Evil Never Dies, Alone in the Dark) made a entertaining, wildly violent, kinetic, sci-fi action/thriller that is even touching with a sense a humor. This independent film has high production values and it was made with a budget of under $5 million. This was a Small Hit for then independent studioNew Line Cinema. MacLachlan and Nouri are good in the film.DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (Also in Pan & Scan) with an digitally remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound (Also in the original mono Sound). DVD has an running commentary track by the director and fan/friend of the filmmakerTim Hunter (River's Edge). DVD also has unused footage, never seen before special effects production footage with narration from the director and the original theatrical trailer. The film has become a Cult Classic and it is also one of the most underrated films of the 1980's. This film is a fast, violent, edge of your seat thrill ride. Written by Bob Hunt (Hunt-who is actually screenwriterJim Kouf). Kouf is best known for his screenplay of The Stakeout Films and the little seen Gang Related. Terrific music score by Micheal Convertino. (**** ½/*****). "}{"Title":"An alien body-snatcher declares urban war on society in this violent, high-octane thriller.","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" This post 'Terminator' inspired sci-fi/action crowd-pleaser features the most turbo-charged display of cinematic violence in its first eight minute opening to ever grace the screen featuring a no-holds-barred, out-of-control car chase/shoot-em-up attack on the senses directed brutally but not gratuitously by Jack Sholder who's 'Nightmare on Elm Street 2' was a rousing success for genre fans. It seems that some strange alien entity is invading the bodies of otherwise mild-mannered civilians, taking over their minds and wrecking all out war on society. This extra-terrestrial monster likes fast cars, heavy metal music, and destructive acts of terrorism just for the fun of it, a premise that seems like retread, but was quite fresh during this era of slam-bang action flicks. Audiences will be amused at the sights of normal looking people rampaging about on the unsuspecting public of America. Boyish looking Kyle Maclachlan is another good alien inhabiting the body of an F.B.I. agent who teams up with cop, Michael Nouri to destroy the evil E.T before it can jump from body to body and wipe out the inferior human race. This is exactly the kind of film that defined the science fiction/action genre during the 1980s, with just the right amount of comic relief to keep things on an even spread. Jack Sholder directs with a keen sense of humor and pacing, and the cast lives it up playing tough but believable characters. Some of the material seems quite vague at times, such as Maclachlan's connection with Nouri's daughter that is never explained, and its short on logic, but who needs total coherence in an action flick such as this. It never stops short of giving the audience what it came for. "},{"Title":"Cool move has an inside joke too","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" One of the coolest and most intense sci-fi movies I've ever seen. True, the body count is high, but it's kind of tongue-in-cheek if you actually pay attention to the movie. After watching it a number of times, I discovered that there appears to be a visual body count tally included on the screen. Five kills in the first killing scene - camera shows it took place on fifth street. There's an elevator scene in which the floor selected indicates the latest current count. Some are pretty subtle, you have to notice the time on the clock or maybe a hospital room number or something like that, but look for a number to appear after each killing or series of killings, and you'll find it. There are quite a few correlating numbers that are just too obvious and too frequent to be coincidental. Check it out. "},{"Title":"The Hidden - A Hidden gem","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" I have to admit that the 1987 sci-fi-/crime-thriller The Hidden is one of the most weirdly entertaining films to come out of the '80s. Directed by B-movie maverick Jack Sholder, it combines elements from many a distant film genres - science fiction, horror, the buddy movie and '30s-style film-noir, fused together with some sly social satire on Ronald Reagan-era American excess and consumerism - and what we get is one weird hybrid of camp and B-movie sci-fi greatness.That is not to that this film is anywhere near bad. It is actually quite good, even with an utterly preposterous script that may make this one of the most uniquely original sci-fi films to come out of the late '80s.The film's plot concerns the hunt for a killer in Los Angeles. This killer has a taste for fast cars, loud music, and violence. Tom Beck (Michael Nouri) is the L.A. homicide detective put on the case. Matters are complicated when a mysterious FBI man named Gallagher (Kyle MacLachlan) shows up and assigns himself to the case, and he soon informs Beck that this killer is not what he seems to be on the outside. (In fact, there's A LOT more to this killer than what he seems to be on the outside.)It seems that on the inside, this killer is actually an alien parasite that has embarked on what could best be described as an intergalactic crime spree. (How it got here and where it came from is never explicitly stated in the film.) This alien, a nasty, slippery-slither slug-type thing that looks like what you might find swimming around in the Toxic Avenger's toxic cesspool, has the ability to assume the physical identity of its host. And on a host-hopping crime spree through Los Angeless, said alien plays (and preys) on American tastes with a wicked streak.I have to say again that The Hidden is one of the most uniquely original sci-fi films to come out of the '80s. Even if the film is prone to genre conventions (buddy cop movie conventions), it doesn't lose itself in those conventions. In fact, it uses the buddy cop genre to turn itself on its head somewhat it turns out that Gallagher is not what he seems to be on the outside either, and that he is in fact an intergalactic policeman/bounty hunter looking to stop this nasty alien invader dead in its tracks.There are also plenty of cool-looking special effects that suffice this film's low budget. The most astonishing of which is the alien invader itself, and the disgusting ways it's able to move from host to host. (You have to give it to the filmmakers that any visiting alien invader would get swept up in the materialistic excess and violence of 1987. Said visitor could easily mistake that this is the way humans live and when an outsider begins doing it, we have no way to deal with the problem - this is where that sly social satire comes in.) There's also some cool intergalactic weaponry, and plenty of scenes of explosive violence to remind us that this is pure '80s excess of the highest degree.The Hidden has amassed a pretty big cult following in the time since its release all the way back in 1987. I seriously hope that this is one genre classic that doesn't get the big Hollywood remake treatment any time soon.8/10 "},{"Title":"Suspense; with a twist!!!","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I REALLY liked this movie.  It's a shame more people didn't see it.  I didn't think much about seeing it until I saw a TODAY Show interview with Michael Nouri and his discussion about how he was reluctant to do it at first.  He had said he didn't what to do a sci-fi movie, but after reading the script, and talking with the production team he was sold.  This movie played out as a straight police-caper type movie for the first half, and then it moves into the sci-fi stuff later.  The movie is kind of funny in that Mike N. plays it completely straight as a homicide detective, and can't believe his ears, or know what to make of Kyle's spacey FBI Agent character for the first 45 minutes or so.  They soon grow into a team, once it is realized what their up against.  I have rented it from time to time over the years, and it holds up well.  In all; a great movie!!  "},{"Title":"Other B movie sci-fi flicks must bow before this film's greatness!","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" The Hidden is a movie that should embarrass a lot of people. Everyone who's ever made some stupid, crappy, sci-fi action flick filled with lame characters, lifeless dialog and a plot that would insult the intelligence of a labradoodle should watch this film and be ashamed.Tom Beck (Michael Nouri) is a Los Angeles detective confronted with an unusual crime spree. A seemingly law abiding citizen has committed a rash of robberies and murders. After one final bank robbery and a high speed chase, Beck and the other cops blast the suspect with shotguns and blow up his car. But as he lies dying in the hospital, the suspect just sits up as though nothing is wrong. He goes over to the man in the next bed, props open his mouth, and a disgusting black creature crawls out of the suspect and into the other man. The suspect collapses dead and the other man sits up and despite serious illness, walks out of the hospital and starts his own crime spree. Beck teams up with an oddly serene FBI agent named Lloyd Gallagher (Kyle MacLachlan) and discovers that the murdering criminal he's chasing is an alien that possesses other creatures to take whatever he wants and kill anyone who gets in his way.This is a very good piece of entertainment. Most of the 1980s power rock music in it hasn't aged well but other than that, there's very little wrong and a lot right with it.To begin with, it's a genuinely clever idea. Alien who comes to Earth to make trouble is an old standby, but explaining why he's here and what he does by casting him as a simple criminal motivated by base desires is really clever. It grounds the sci-fi aspects of the story in something real and also elevates the cop vs. crook action story elements and takes them in a new direction.The writing lives up to the potential of that concept. It creates a lean, fast moving story and logically moves from point to point with an absolute minimum of exposition. Too many movies are filled with characters telling you what's going on in the story. Like all really good films, The Hidden shows you what's going on. You can see what the characters are like by how the behave, not what they say. And it doesn't explicitly explain everything that happens in the story. It gives you just enough information and allows the audience to figure stuff out for themselves. The writing also gives the characters enough to do besides serving the plot to flesh them out as real people, without being obvious about it.The acting in The Hidden is also quite noteworthy. Michael Nouri plays the heroic cop to a tee without lapsing into self-aware parody or trying to make the guy smarter or tougher than a real cop would be. The audience also knows a lot more about what's going on than Tom Beck does and Nouri handles that challenge perfectly. It's awful easy for a character to come off as stupid when the story allows the audience to be a step or two ahead of him, but Nouri keeps you engaged with Beck and concerned about him even though you know things he hasn't figured out. The Hidden also features one of the great performances of Kyle MacLachlan's career. I'm not sure anyone's ever played alien impersonating a human quite this well, behaving just differently enough to be noticeable but still letting relatable and understandable emotions come through. William Boyett also deserves praise as he spends the most time on screen portraying the evil alien in a human body. Again, he manages to be just enough off from a normal person to be noticeable without being over the top. He's also charged with telling us things about the alien through his actions instead of words and he pulls it off.Another noteworthy part of The Hidden is its level of restraint. Yes, there are bloody shootings, explosions, strippers with shotguns, hideously burned corpses and disgusting alien slugs but this isn't a movie that's trying to shock you. It's not about going over the top or assaulting you with craziness and disturbing imagery. It has a certain subtlety to it, which is not something you often find in sci-fi action flicks. Though, the fact it's probably the only R rated movie in history to have a scene in a strip club where the stripper never takes off her shirt is taking that whole subtlety thing too far.The Hidden proves that a film about an alien slug who loves fast cars, loud music and goes on a killing spree in Los Angeles can be just as smart and as good as any other movie. It doesn't use the fact that it's science-fiction as an excuse to suck. "},{"Title":"Marvelous!","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" The title has it all mystery, action, horror, science fiction, and little bit of humor. Movies like The Hidden make me have a liking to them mainly since they are low-budget and don't require any good CGI but carves out a really fun packed story. If you expect that The Hidden will be boring, bad acting will ruin it, Jack Sholder (Director) doesn't know how to make movies, then it shows that your predicament will definitely be wrong and that's (of course) by a mile. Kyle Maclachlan plays the (SPOILER!!!) quite Altairan who is on Earth to eradicate a fellow alien that takes over human bodies and unleashes evil with it. Michael Nouri is quite the opposite, he is confident in the way he talks, moves, argues, and he surely doesn't back down from a fight. The action in this film never gets depleted because chasing an alien who unleashes hell has to result in a major catastrophe and there will definitely be action in it. The scene which looked fake was probably when the Lieutenant shot the rocket launcher making the flames look really fake. An old Danny Trejo is in this but makes a cameo role, a very small role indeed. Car lovers will see some old-fashioned Ferrari's and an alien who wants one of them but doesn't know how.After an alien in an human body causes havoc in America, FBI agent Lloyd Gallagher and police officer Tom Beck team up to kill the trespasser and stop people from being controlled. As the film progresses you find out a lot of things about your two officers and one of them is not what we think. The story is really great because you can watch the last thirty minutes of the movie and still understand the full story.I really liked the story in this film and it's one of those rare stories that captivate me. The acting is not bad either and the alien looks very cool, nothing like we imagined. Horror is my favorite genre and many people say that this is scary but it is clearly not. How can blowing up stuff be scary? I am really surprised that only five thousand people voted for the film because there should have been more votes for this likable masterpiece. The humorous scene in this movie is when (SPOILER!!!) the dog knocks out the fat guy by bumping his head against the refrigerator. Hilarious! Any film critic or movie lover will like this film since it is already a cult favorite among many viewers. Final Thoughts A really nice crafted movie like this has to be on everyone's list of must-see films because if it isn't they are missing out on something that is very rare. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly suprised","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  You know how it is, you have time on your hands, there's nothing particularly on Video that you want to see - so you go to the shop, browse a bit, and pick a video based on the back of the box that you've never heard of. 8 times out of 10 you end up with a complete pile of rubbish. once you end up with something vaguely watchable. And once you end up with something very very good indeed. The Hidden starts with a bank heist and a car chase - in fact one of the best car chases I've seen in a long time with the robber in a black Ferrari 308 GTS going out of his way to hit people! He's stopped by a road-block and about 50 12-guage shotguns - he still manages to get through, well about 50 yards more dragging a cruiser with him. Turns out this was a mild mannered bank clark, well liked by his neighbours, who a short time earlier went on a murder spree. When visiting the multiply shot third-degree burnt murderer in hospital, the doctor tells Lt.Beck that he's not expected to last the night, to which the Lt says good. The Doctor follows the Lt and his sargent out of the room saying Lt.Beck, I don't care what the man's done - no one deserves to die like that Still walking, Sgt Willis (Ed O'Ross) turns back and says (something on the lines of) rapid fire  He killed 14 people in 12 days, he robbed four banks, two jewelry stores and a candy store. Eight of those he carved up with a butcher's knife - two of those were kids, if anyone deserves to go like that it sure in the hell is him. What a line! When they get back to the Station, their boss assigns Beck to a fresh-faced Fed over their Captain's protests. Meanwhile back at the hospital - something quite disgusting is happening. The killer is more than he seems and perhaps so is someone else................. The film shoots along at a rapid pace, shot extremely well and avoiding the hey 2 minutes have passed - let's blow something up trap of many action movies. The Acting is excellent - from the main stars (Kyle McClaughlan and Michael Nouri) to the support (Clarence Felder, William Boyett and of course...Claudia Christian) the special effects serviceable and not over the top, and the action pulse racing. This is a film I have seen a number of times, and is one of the extremely few leave your brain at home movies I genuinely go back to again and again!Dan Marcus "},{"Title":"One of the true genre gems of the 1980's.","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Everything simply comes together well in this exhilarating combination of the cop vs. killer movie, the buddy / cop movie, and a creature feature, all done with an impressive amount of humour and panache. Written by Jim Kouf (The Boogens, Wacko, Stakeout, Disorganized Crime) and directed by Jack Sholder (A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge, Alone in the Dark '82), it's about a subtly strange young FBI agent, Lloyd Gallagher (Kyle MacLachlan) enlisting the help of a frustrated L.A. police detective, Tom Beck (Michael Nouri) in his quest to hunt down and destroy a vicious alien slug that uses human bodies to move around, preferring to stay inside a body until it's no longer usable. This slug just LOVES hard rock, fancy cars, and never hesitates to use violence to get what it wants. And it WILL get whatever it wants. Featuring a kick ass soundtrack, a decent music score by Michael Convertino, a cast full of familiar faces, and some memorable, hilarious lines of dialogue, The Hidden gets off to one Hell of a start with its breathless opening car chase. Viewers will also be impressed with the amount of bloodletting, the enjoyable special effects, and the extremely high body count. The car chase is proof of this, and the filmmakers also decide to throw political correctness right out the window in terms of casualties. MacLachlan and Nouri get a good odd couple chemistry going, with the cagey Lloyd, obviously knowing more than anyone right from the get go, driving Beck right up the wall. Among the supporting cast, we have foxy Claudia Christian as a stripper, Clarence Felder (A Nightmare on Elm Street The Dream Child) and Clu Gulager (The Return of the Living Dead) as Beck's superiors, Ed O'Ross (Red Heat), Richard Brooks ('Law and Order'), and Larry Cedar (Twilight Zone The Movie, Dreamscape) as Beck's colleagues, Chris Mulkey (Ghost in the Machine) as bank robber Jack DeVries, William Boyett (When a Stranger Calls '79, Bloody Birthday) as ailing Jonathan Miller, and in smaller parts the likes of Lin Shaye, James Luisi, Duane Davis, Joseph Whipp, Jack McGee, Ted White, Branscombe Richmond, and Danny Trejo in one of his frequent pre-stardom jailbird parts. (Hey, hippie! What kind of dude are you?) Never, ever boring and always amusing, The Hidden rockets along with one entertaining sequence after another. And in addition to everything else, this is a movie with real heart that doesn't lose sight of its characters' emotions. It's clearly a fan favourite, which is entirely understandable as it's one movie that deserves a loyal following. It even got itself a(n apparently quite inferior) sequel seven years later. It's a career highlight for all involved, and holds up quite well on repeat viewings. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"A hidden (minor) gem of horror goodness.","Date":"27 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Not sure this is really a horror flick, more a tweener. But in essence the basic plot is slightly skewed toward horror rather than sci-fi.Speaking of plot, the opening scene is a violent bank robbery, followed by a high speed car chase that even includes the car running through the pane of glass held by two guys, and a shootout which ends with the action movie staple, the car that explodes when shot (even though the cops were seemingly aiming at the perp). Despite the cliché it actually isn't a bad scene.We are then introduced to the lawman Tom Beck who says that the bad guy went on a two week crime spree and is apparently about to die from the wounds from both gunshots and the explosion. He is then introduced to Lloyd Gallagher, an FBI man played by Kyle McLachlan who nonetheless needs to meet the criminal straight away.As you probably haven't heard about the film I'll try to minimise the description, but it is obvious early on that the criminal is being hosted by an alien being, who is able to transfer from one human to the next, as long as the new body is basically dead (not a positive sign if his host body is desperate to move!) Actually the coolest part of the film is the transfer process, though it is not pretty.The host seems to be the ultimate consumer, while he is in possession of the body he lives by the mantra drive it like you stole it, he eats what he wants, steals what he needs and for most of the flick conveniently carries his own dodgy 80′s soundtrack with him, the only recognisable song being from Aussie outfit Hunters and Collectors.Even though after about 30 minutes you have a fair handle on how this will end this Alien/Terminator rip-off adds enough to entertain, with a fair bit of action peppered with a little sci-fi and a teaspoon of horror.Equally entertaining is the pick that 80′s bit part guy, I saw actors from King Pin, Red Heat and The Last Boy Scout and I'm sure there are many others.Final Rating &#x96; 7 / 10. Not a bad 80′s B movie. You could do worse.If you liked this (or even if you didn't) try oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"A  hidden gem from the 80s!","Date":"24 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" THE HIDDEN is further proof that the 80s was the entertainment decade. As dated as a lot of flicks from that era were, many of them have the all-important re-watchability factor. While many are fun to re-watch just to make fun of them, there are a lot that I think still hold up because of elements that will always be important to films plot, dialogue, and character. THE HIDDEN is one of them on such film. A modern B sci-fi action flick, it is hardly forgettable and actually has a lot of truth in it. THE HIDDEN is in the vein of 50s sci-fi like THE THING or INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS that have now attained cult status. THE HIDDEN is the 80s version of those films and I think it's one of the best of its kind ever. THE HIDDEN starts off with a bang, literally, as a fast-driving criminal Jack DeVries (played by Chris Mulkey, who solidly sets the tone for the rest of the film) crashes into a bank, robbing it, then ends up in a police standoff. He is killed and the cops find out that he had no prior criminal record and was a mild-mannered insurance salesman before he went nuts. The next lunatic is a businessman Jonathan Miller (wonderfully done by William Boyett) who acts just like DeVries did driving fast, playing loud music and committing criminal acts for no apparent reason.Enter FBI agent Lloyd Gallagher (Kyle MacLachlan in a brilliantly realized portrayal) who is on the trail of DeVries and Miller, telling the cops that they were accomplices. The lead cop investigating this strange series of events is Tom Beck (stalwart, solid performance by Michael Nouri). Gallagher and Beck team up to track down Miller, who Gallagher says killed his wife, child, and his partner. Turns out that there is really only one killer, an alien that moves from body to body, first DeVries, and after he is killed, then Miller, and Gallagher is an alien, too, looking to stop it. Miller has a heart ailment and the alien can't survive inside an unhealthy human host, so it leaves Miller and enters the body of a stripper Brenda (played by the seductive and sultry Claudia Christian). The scene where Gallagher finally confronts the alien (in the body of Brenda) is exciting, tense, and pulse-pounding. Gallagher kills Brenda, but reveals to Beck that he is an alien and the alien killer is still out there somewhere and must be stopped.Branding Gallagher a lunatic, Beck locks him up. The killer had left Brenda's body and entered the body of a dog belonging to Gallagher's superior Lt. Masterson (played by Clarence Felder). The alien inhabits Masterson and then goes after Gallagher in the jail, a truly memorable, exciting scene. Now Beck believes him and they set out to stop the alien! It's amazing how this movie slipped through the cracks of 1980s action flicks. It's close to as good as some of the best of the 80s (TERMINATOR, ROBOCOP, DIE HARD, LETHAL WEAPON) and has elements of all those films, but does not feel like a ripoff at all. What's really stunning is how believable all the actors (Mulkey, Boyett, Christian, Felder) are at playing the same alien character. They all make you believe it is one alien. In addition to the cast mentioned, Clu Gulager as Lt. Flynn (Gallagher's other superior) and Katherine Gannon as Barbara Beck (Beck's wife) are fine as well. The pacing is perfect, the dialogue solid, effective, and memorable and the action is well-directed and exciting. THE HIDDEN is a classic! "}{"Title":"One of the best B movies of the 80s","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Clearly, this film has a following, but its shocking to me how this film isn't more well known than it is. I always saw this as Terminator meets Lethal Weapon. From the first scene, the plot just moves like a freight train. Besides the plot and the great action scenes, what really elevates it above the typical B movie is the humor and the quality of the acting...Typically, this genre piece would've starred Chuck Norris and Dolph Lundgren or something along those lines, but instead, we get McLachlan and Nouri, and they infuse a reality into the scenes that your typical monotone actor can't dream of. Even minor characters have good moments... Plus, I have a theory that any movie with Ferarris and hot girls is a masterpiece, and this movie didn't do any thing to shake my faith in this theory. "},{"Title":"extraordinary, fun, unique story","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" When more than one mild mannered person turns up on a wild rampage of stolen sports cars, indulgence and murder, cop Michael Nouri can barely keep up. But his low-affect new partner Kyle MacLachlan seems to know exactly what is going on. They're perfectly cast in a totally unexpected movie that unfolds with relentless action, surprises, and oddly believable absurdities. Claudia Christian is perfect too, as a stripper who won't take no for an answer.It's hard to do this movie justice without spoiling surprises, but once you tune in to it, the mix - violence strongly serving character and story, oddball humor, and tantalizing science fiction - is uniquely addictive. There's no other movie like it. Have fun! "},{"Title":"Men In Grey, perhaps?","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Premiere magazine once called this movie One of the best films you've never seen (or something to that effect).  They've never been more right!  The focus of this guilty pleasure is a bug-like alien that hops from host to host and the mysterious government agent and skeptical cop sidekick that have been ordered to kill it.  Sound like a recent 90's box office hit? Regardless, this low budget 1987 ditty succeeds on all counts.  A great story with a hilarious concept (an alien that likes fast cars and heavy metal?  Sweet!),  Outstanding special effects, and the cast is a wow!  For this type of film, genre veterans are nice (Kyle MacLachlan, Clu Gulager), as are action veterans (Ed O'Ross, Chris Mulkey, Clarence Felder, even ADAM-12's William Boyett).  Hell, it's nice to see Michael Nouri get something other than residual checks from Flashdance.  And then there's Claudia Christian, way before anyone heard of Babylon 5.For all it's worth, The Hidden may be the cinematic equivalent of junk food. But there are some days when an Academy Award winning classic just won't do.  When that urge strikes, I implore you to keep this film in mind.  "},{"Title":"Certainly a Hidden Gem","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" For what expectations might abound prior to this film confide in them no trust as The Hidden, despite its cheesy video box and relative lack of star power, and the fact it was made in the 1980s betray it. I went into seeing this thinking I would find some second-rate sci-fi film from the 1980s with second-rate special effects and second-rate acting, and a script that some one found as he/she stirred up the bottom of the tired, trite, and over-used scripts in Hollywood. Buy, was I wrong this film rocks - really. Kyle Mclachlan plays an FBI man going to a large Californian city(OK, I forgot!) to find a man who was responsible for killing the ones he loves. There he pairs up with Michael Nouri, a good cop with a nice family, and the two work together trying to find this killer who likes loud rock music, can be shot multiple times with little effect, and changes bodies when the host is about to die. You see the killer is from an alien world and uses human form to disguise itself. Trouble is this alien is selfish and self-centered, and what it wants when it wants it is its only concern. It steals cars, takes a boom-box, money from a bank, and so on. This is a layered sci-fi film that is both intelligent and explosive with regard to action and story. I really thought the movie was quite fascinating. MacLachlan and Nouri bring credibility to their roles Nouri as somewhat confident and normal, MacLachlan subtly strange in that way he can only do. The string of actors playing the alien all did fine jobs and this really is a treat for the unexpected or even predispositioned critical mindset. "},{"Title":"A b movie that should not remain hidden.","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" A cheesy science fiction/horror movie that has it all! Lots of kills, hot women, and a rather good body stealing plot which is a rarity for me to like as I usually do not care for the body invasion type movies. This one though does everything right considering it must have had a rather low budget and what not. A cop and an agent with a mystery team up to track down a killer alien that loves to swap out bodies and take new ones for a spin by killing and breaking the law. This alien brings the pain and after being shot repeatedly or when the body it is currently using gets to damaged it simply switches out to another host so it can continue the mayhem. The cops try to track it down, but it always finds a way out of trouble. The movie runs at a good pace and is rather exciting to watch, the budget shows at times as this film looks like it was made by one of those movie companies that does not exist anymore, still it has way more than enough to keep one entertained. You will recognize a couple of the stars as the lead guy was in a few movies in his day, the other movie role I know him from is Dune. With this movie though you will get your share of shooting and stuff and it is well worth a look see, unlike the sequel which in fact should remain hidden for no one to chance upon again. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" I love 80's horror and this move The Hidden is not just a horror movie but it has everything a grown boy needs.I't has Ferrari's,blood,comedy,sex,sex,sex,action,explosions,guts and the list goes on! Oh and it has sex too! This movie i first watched in 87 when it first came out and to this day i still love this film.I recently was able to get hold of an original ex-rental from ebay and boy was i glad i parted cash for it. You can't beat the old video, it brings back so many memories of watching the same trailers from the first time you watched it to this day and then the movie starts and you realise how fantastic it was compared to most of todays trash.A must for genuine fans of the video! 9/10,trust me... "},{"Title":"An 80s Gem That Deserves More Praise","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  When I see people refer to THE HIDDEN as a Cult classic I always get a little mad. Usually that title refers to strange curiositys like PINK FLAMINGOES or SILENT NIGHT DEADLY NIGHT. What is THE HIDDEN? A little bit action film, a little bit sci-fi film, a wee bit horror film...whatever it is, its an overlooked GOOD movie. I was at a friends house when I was a teen and he put this on. Thinking it was some sci-fi thing like DUNE I went NO no no! he said Just give it a chance  well around the time that one guy breaks into a car dealership (funny scene) I was hooked. As other posters have said theres a Heavy Metal current throughout the film which sort of kept me in there. The performances were good, the two leads likable(you CARE what happens to them).I dont want to ruin the movie by telling you too much so I'll just say that The Hidden is an alien that takes over human beings by crawling into thier mouths...quite disgustingly. Whenever one of the bodies its in is about to die it has to find another body to climb into. Some of the bodies it ends up in are quite amusing...and becasue it changes from one person to the next it keeps the movie rolling at a good pace. I really liked this movie, and I usually run screaming from most sci-fi and action movies. This movie had that extra little something, I cant quite put my finger on it, but if you havent seen it yet, its definatly worth a rental fee. "},{"Title":"a great movie!","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  wow! I rented this after reading up on this movie plenty of times. I finally got 2 see & am glad I did. This was a great SCI-FI/Action thriller. It really is like INVASION OF BODY SNATCHERS meets LETHAL WEAPON. This is 1 of Kyle MacChlagan(?) best movies. & I'm looked at the directors movies & this is easily his best movie he's made.Don't listen to the bad reviews, this is a must see classic from the 80's. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Hidden Gem","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" When the ordinary citizen Jack DeVries (Chris Mulkey) heists many banks and kills many people, the whole police department chases him under the command of detective Tom Beck (Michael Nouri). They capture him and seriously wounded, he is sent to the hospital, sharing a room with Jonathan Miller (William Boyett), a man with serious gastritis. The FBI agent Lloyd Gallagher (Kyle MacLachlan) comes to the police station looking for DeVries and is assigned to join Tom. When they arrive in the hospital, DeVries is dead and Jonathan is missing. This is the beginning of the hunting for a mysterious and bloody alien.I have seen The Hidden at least six times, now for the first time on DVD. This movie is certainly on of the best sci-fi ever, and one of my favorite cult-movies. The story is excellent, mixing sci-fi, action and horror in right doses; the soundtrack is fantastic, mainly due to the good taste of the alien that likes rock-and-roll; this is certainly the best film of Michael Nouri, and Kyle MacLachlan is excellent as usual. In my opinion, this movie is underrated in IMDb, maybe unknown to most users. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) O Escondido (The Hidden) "},{"Title":"Simply a great little B-movie","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" There's very little I can say about 'The Hidden' which isn't gushing praise. When cult sci-fi films are being discussed, you always hear talk of 'Alien' or 'The Thing,' yet The Hidden never seems to get a mention. I always find that surprising as it's so good and yet so simple. No complex plots here - just an easy-to-follow bad alien being hunted down by a good alien.There's nothing much to say about it because it's just so much fun. If you like horror, action, or sci-fi, then you really should see this film. It has all of those elements, wrapped up in a simple plot with simple special effects and simplistic performances from its actors.Just sit back, grab the popcorn and enjoy. But only if you have a strong stomach, as some of the scenes can be pretty violent.I'm giving it a 9/10 as it's just an absolute retro-fave of mine. In reality, it's probably more of an 8/10 for most people. My guilty pleasure.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "}{"Title":"B-Movie Classic&#x85;Definitive Cult Film","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Ignored, Dismissed, even at Times Ridiculed and at the NY Times Panned (Canby). The Movie has Steadily Gained a Reputation as one of the Best B-Movie, Sci-fi, Action, Black Comedy Combinations Ever.It is one of those All the stars in alignment kind of Thing that is Spontaneous and just Emerges as a Fully Formed Lightning Strike that cannot be Predicted or Contrived. Anyone Hip and Cool that saw the Film Immediately knew that this was Something Special.Everything comes Together with such Ease and Charm that the Process Looks Effortless. Nothing is Pretentious or Over the Top, it just Reaches for the Top and Peaks at the Summit of Delightful Entertainment. it Satisfies with just the Right Ingredients, Never Adding too Much or too Little. Just the Required Measure.The Film has a Dry Wit and is quite Funny at Times with Throwaway Lines and Laugh Out Loud Monologues. The Shoot em Up Violence is Visceral and the Alien is Horrific both its Appearance and Attitude. The Good Alien is Determined, draws Sympathy, and is Almost Aloof but Never Waivers. Its Humility is Directly Opposite of the Bad Alien's Hubris.The Casting is Spot On from Kyle Mclaughlin to Michael Nouri and the Supporting Cast is also Worthy of Mention. The Ending is Inspired and Touching after such a Brutal and Confrontational Film and is just One More Reason why this One Rises Above Many Others as a B-Movie Classic. "},{"Title":"Review for criminally underrated movie","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" When i first heard of The Hidden,i thought that it's gonna be some average sci-fi action movie. So with that thought i went and found it, watched it and...wow. This is one of the best action/sci-fi movies that i saw. Opening of the movie with random guy shooting people in bank and then getting into intense police chase while running over everything and everyone on his way blew me off my feet. I didn't expect that kind of violence and action scenes will be the first thing to start the movie. For the rest of 90 minutes it had it all; action, violence, suspense, humor, bits of drama, plot being changed from alien wanting to have fun to alien wanting to be president... After i finished watching it, i knew that this has become one my favorites. But what bugged me is how almost nobody from my friends and colleagues knew about this movie. Looking up about it on internet, i was surprised to see how originally it was almost unnoticed during its theatrical run. But what was nice to see is all the fans that it got over the years. Reading many good online reviews about this movie has only helped to make me love it even more. Although i personally don't think that every single movie that i or anybody else loves to death deserved better, The Hidden really did deserved a lot more. It's awesome, 100% fun movie that never gets boring. Come on, you have alien who likes heavy metal rock and ferrari's, you have another alien trying to stop him, and in between two of them a hardcore cop who can't figure out what the hell is going on in his city. About the actors; everyone do their job right. There isn't single one that does it half good or quite bad. I really enjoyed buddy cop chemistry that Gallagher and Beck had, and much of it is because of the actors Kyle MacLachlan and Michael Nouri. As for other known faces, it's was nice to have Ed O'Ross (Red Heat) and Clu Galager (Return Of The Living Dead) in supportive, but important roles. Script is well written and it has good,and quite often very funny dialogue. Plot is very interesting and with the way it's happening through the movie, you could say that it's realistic and another thing that helps with that is some of the reactions of characters on certain parts. Action scenes are top notch. Nothing blockbuster-spectacular, but still entertaining and quite surprising in places. Plenty of car chases and shootouts for action fans, that's for sure. Special effects; As far as blood and gore goes, just fine. But one thing that should be mentioned is great and creepy effect early in the movie where alien goes from one body into another. Not only that it looks cool, but it looks real,specially for the time when movie was made, and it's not created by CGI at all. Movies today should really have more of these practical special effects. Score - Solid. Creepy, tense, and when needed, even sad in places. Soundtrack - Awesomeness to the bone. From opening car chase/carnage till ending credits, pure 80's. My fave songs are Weapons Of Love and Hidden by The Truth, Still In Hollywood, Haunted Head and Over Your Shoulder by Concrete Blonde, On Your Feet and Go Down Fighting by Shock Paris. You can't love this movie without mentioning On Your Feet that plays during opening pursuit. I love that song ever since i first saw The Hidden. Few times when i was playing GTA i would play this song in the background while running from cops or running over everything in my way just like alien in the movie. What more to say but great, fun and very underrated movie that thankfully has its fans, and it's good to see that it is still mentioned amongst some movie lovers here and there even today. Something that i wanted to mention; I watched The Hidden as a double feature two times. First time i watched it with Wes Craven's Shocker, and second time with Dolph Lundgren movie I Come In Peace (1992). Let's just say, that i had a blast both of the times ;) "},{"Title":"brilliant underrated sci-fi action movie!","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" The Hidden is just one of those movies that you might disregard as crap. but oh, if you knew what you are missing! basically, law-abiding citizens are going mad and killing people. it turns out that they are possessed by an alien! one minor thing i don't like is that usually, in a movie, something very bad happens and the main characters (usually two) kind of under go a cold shoulder routine for five minutes, but here, it comes out of nowhere, the alien escapes from a stripper's body into a dog and everyone is in a bad mood? this is just a fun movie. the characters are memorable, well acted, the action is great, builds tension fairly well, the alien looks like nothing you'd ever expect, there is a very high body count, which is just great, Kyle McLoughlin's alien guy is really interesting, the car chase is great and the film has it's fair share of memorable quotes ('I want this car, I need the keys') Ultimately, this is a great, fun, cheesy 80's sci-fi action film "},{"Title":"Rock Loving, Girl Lusting, Ferrari Driving Alien - This Can Only be the 80s!","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" I have just watched The Hidden and cannot tell you how psyched I am! It's like catching up with an old friend and cracking open a couple of beers.This film has it all Great direction; superb performances & good locations and it's from the 80s! Really, you just can't gush enough when it comes to this cult, Sci-Fi classic. Yes, it's low budget, but at least its heart's in the right place and despite its B-movie premise, there's definitely an A-plus delivery in the proceedings. I know a few people have said this predates The X-Files, which I'll have to agree with (in fact, why couldn't the last X-film have had the feel of this??) Kyle MacLachlan obviously precurses his-soon-to-be famous Agent Cooper role in Twin Peaks and pulls it off convincingly. He handles guns with effortless cool and deadpans to great effect. Michael Nouri as Tom Beck (gotta love the cop names they came up with in the 80s) is just a legend (as is Ed O'Ross from Red Heat) and it's hard to believe this is the same guy who garnered respect in roles for The O.C and Damages later in his career. The weird thing is that he's hardly ever changed and has aged really well. And of course, Claudia Christian (smokin' hot!) who is just a badass stripper that has tons of fun with firearms. Oh, there's a blink-and-you'll-miss cameo from Danny Trejo, which is pretty funny.Forget the inferior sequel and watch this again and again - if only to watch how the writers had loads of fun with the running joke of who/what the alien would inhabit next - and trust me, when the dog gets it, you'll be falling off your chair with laughter! "},{"Title":"A charming 80's sci-fi action flick","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" The Hidden is one of those underrated and often overlooked movies that turn out to be great fun and entertaining, Jack Sholder who directed Alone in the Dark (Not based on the classic survival horror game since this was released in 1982) A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge and Wishmaster 2 Evil Never Dies directs this classic piece of 80's cinema. One thing that makes The Hidden entertaining is the action since it moves a smooth and fast pace never making the movie drag or seem dull. The Hidden also has some nice effects for the time and budget such has the Alien, originally there was going to be a scene where the Alien grows bigger but it wasn't used in the film but even though it was removed the creature effect still looks effective. The acting in this movie is good, Kyle MacLachlan does a great performance. His character always seems calm and cool, the way he pulls this off is really effective for this film. Michael Nouri does a great job, his performance has the tough detective makes the two characters sort of contrast. Like most buddy cop movies the two main heroes never get along at first but has they proceed through the film they start to get more acquainted with each other like Lethal Weapon, Red Heat and Alien Nation. The plot of the film sees a man robbing a bank and then becomes pursued by the Police in a car chase, after running into an roadblock the man crashes his car and is shot by the cops. In the hospital the man reawakens and then transfers a slug like Alien creature into the other man's body taking control of it. The Alien takes control of the body and leaves the hospital, meanwhile Detective Tom Beck is assigned to help FBI agent Lloyd Gallagher who's been after this perpetrator for a while now. The Alien steals a stereo and a car since this extra terrestrial has a taste for violence, music and fast cars, at the crime scene Llyod Gallagher tells Tom Beck that this criminal is the same person responsible for the other crimes even though to everyone else it's a different man. As they search for this criminal the Alien's body begins to reject the him meaning he needs to find a new one, at a strip club the Alien is interested in the body of one of the Strippers and after her act he goes to see her and transfers himself into her. The Alien leaves the strip club, Llyod and Tom arrive and find that body of the man they've been after lying on the floor dead but Llyod tells him that he's still out there. When the police pull the Alien up he shoots at them and quickly escapes, Llyod Gallager and Tom Beck then chase after the Stripper. The chase ends at a factory, during a shoot out Llyod pulls out a strange Alien weapon but the Stripper is shot down before he could use it properly. Tom Beck is intrigued to know what Llyod was doing and has him arrested, at the station Tom finds out that the real FBI agent Lloyd Gallager died in a fire some time ago and that this person was friend of his. Tom Beck confronts him and demands that he gives him a few answers about what's going on with these people, why he's involved with all this and who he really is. Llyod explains to Tom what's really going on and soon they must stop this Alien before he gets out of control. The Hidden is a great blend of science fiction, action and the buddy cop genre. This is one movie that should be seen. Check this out. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The Hidden = Outstanding 80's  sci fi/horror gem!!!","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" The Hidden (1987), WOW, what a great movie this is, it's grabs you right from the very first scene, and once grabbed, you become hooked!! It's a rare movie and it's highly entertaining, as we follow the dastarding alien, who goes from body to body, and has a love for ferraris!!! Very original stuff.The acting is fantastic from Michael Nouri and Kyle Maclachlan (who plays the good alien, on the trail of the bad alien).This film really is a HIDDEN gem, and is far superior to all this mainstream rubbish they churn out these days, you can keep your CGI you fools, i'll stick to quality film making like this.This film gets a highly deserved 10/10 from me, a guilty pleasure for sure........ this was followed by a turkey sequel. "},{"Title":"A great Sci-fi that gets better with age","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" I've seen this movie over 10 times and the acting performances of Kyle MacLachlan and Michael Nouri get better every time. Spoilers ahead.This Sci-fi thriller combines aliens who masquerade as humans with a police detective pursuit of a murderous killer. As special effects become more common the allure of this movie is its story line and acting performance. This movie easily holds its own against other Sci-Fi flicks because the acting is really, really good.MacLachlan's performance really seems to get better every time I see the movie. Nouri's acting gets better with age as well primarily because it provides a great contrast to MacLachlan.Its been a couple of years (at least) since I last saw this movie and I really enjoyed seeing it again. "},{"Title":"A Hidden Gem","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I totally recommend this to fans of Sci-fi and horror and action. It features one of the all time great car chase scenes feraturing a Ferrari and a terrific pounding metal song by Shok Paris, On Your Knees. This film is really violent and gory but the story is interesting and it is very well done. It didn't make much of a splash when it was released in the late 80's but it's definitely worth your time.  "},{"Title":"Underrated sci-fi classic","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Having only seen the watered-down-for-TV version, my viewing experience is slightly different than what other viewers may have experienced, but the amount of carnage in this film is astounding.  Even the network's cuts can't make this much less of a disturbing and gritty film, which is still fun to watch by today's standards.Memorable moment After the first alien body is riddled by gunfire, he chuckles, right before the cops open fire on the car next to him, exploding and knocking him down. "},{"Title":"HAS EVERYONE FORGOTTEN THE WRITER","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  In the few comments I read about this movie, everyone keeps saying it's too bad Jack Sholder didn't make more good ones like this.  Perhaps he didn't have as good a script as this one had!I haven't seen Sholder's other work, at least I don't think I have as I haven't looked at his credits, but it would seem that the script by Jim Kouf may have had something to do with THE HIDDEN being a quality movie?  After all, Sholder's name doesn't appear as the writer!!!!And it's always been said that a good director can make a terrific movie with a good script, because it inspires him/her, but not even a good director can make something from a bad script.I liked this movie when i first saw it and every time it's on I try and catch what I can of it.Someone also said this is a leave your brain at the door type movie.  I don't think so because this movie lets you guess what's happening without explaining everything or hitting you over the head with superfluous dialogue; it doesn't insult your intelligence, and I thank both the writer and director for that. "}{"Title":"Fast cars, heavy metal, and needless violence - Quality!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" 'The Hidden' is a true gem of a film, satanically underrated by the critics on it's release, and long forgotten by most, which is a damn shame, though with the new DVD release things may finally start to change.Plot; Alien parasite comes to earth, moving from body to body to stay 'fresh' and goes on the rampage - stealing exotic cars, robbing banks, killing anyone (even some poor schmuk in a wheelchair) and headbanging to thrash metal all the way - Why? You ask, because he's a bit of a b****d and he feels like it.Considering the budget and time period (no knock to the eighties - most of my favourite horror flicks and every good movie Arnie ever did were made then!), this film is made amazingly well - the car chase scene for example, not only does the alien use a Ferarri 308 (my personal favorite Ferarri - in black too!), but it's done extremely well - and I'm going by todays' standards! The acting is also up to par, with strong support from all the cast.This is a classic film from the 80's that not many people know about, if this applies to you then listen up!Aliens, fast cars, heavy metal, and needless violence - what more could you possibly want from a sci-fi horror flick, hmmm? A spaceship?! Why you ungrateful so and so. "},{"Title":"Invasion of the Body Snatchers meets The Terminator meets a buddy cop movie....SPOILERS!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  This is a great film. The opening hook car chase is phenomenally filmed. It is comprised of a bank robber trying to flee from the pursuing LAPD only to end up face to face with a road block of cops with 12 gauge shotguns. There is a first person POV shot as the car comes over the rise and we see the massive wall of cops and their roadblock......I loved that.Jack Sholder does a lot of 1st person POV cuts in his films. Anyhow, this film was produced during the heyday of NEW LINE CINEMA's breakout from it's small studio in the mid 1980's. They made a slew of genre sci-fi, action, and horror films, (ie. NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET) and eventually, went on to bigger and better things. (ie. DUMB AND DUMBER etc. etc.) This film was one of those films produced. THE HIDDEN, was imitated on tv shows and in later films profusely (ie. I COME IN PEACE). Imitation, it has been said is the best forms of flattery. This is a film that was ingenious, yet, still didn't take itself too seriously. It had a dark, sly, humor to it, and even managed to mock a few action movie plot conventions and lines. The acting was good and the producers and writer gave us characters that weren't bland. The plot is simple a alien police officer pursues a evil alien entity to this planet that can assume different human hosts...wreak havoc in the host body and then discard the body and find a new host.  There are lots of car chases and gun fights and MICHAEL NOURI, just loves to use his hands when he says his lines, but all in all this is a FINE film. This is one I love to watch again, and again. Of note is the fact, that it was written by legendary LA screenwriter, JIM KOUF under the pen name BOB HUNT. Only when the film was re-released, on video in a collectors edition back in 1996, did he have his real name restored to the credits. It is unclear why he did this.  "},{"Title":"Violent, suspenseful, and sometimes witty","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  The Hidden is not your average 80's action movie. It has good acting, strange direction, and a witty screenplay with a bit of parody added, and the obligatory gross special effects.The story is about an alien lifeform that hides inside a human body and turns the human into a psychopath. However, it is suspensful, funny and even sends up the alien-within genre.The film is perfect late Friday night entertainment, but don't expect your average monster movie.PLOT 4 DIRECTION 8 ACTING 8 SCRIPT 8 MONSTER EFFECTS 8OVERALL 8 "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Sci-fi buddy cop film about a parasitic alien that hops from one body to another while on a deadly crime spree through Los Angeles. Tough detective Michael Nouri teams up with mysterious FBI agent Kyle MacLachlan to track it down. Buddy cop movies were all the rage in the '80s and we still get them today, recycling one tired cliché after another. This is one of the better movies of this type due to its sci-fi twist and the good performances of Nouri & MacLachlan, who work well together. Also appreciated is sexy Claudia Christian as a stripper. Some very cool effects for the alien. It's a good piece of entertainment with a little bit of depth. Quite an interesting ending, too. Worst part? The soundtrack is made up of crappy generic metal music. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable 80's B movie","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Not even five minutes pass before a man in a wheelchair is run over for laughs and the next hour or so becomes an unhinged series of violent comedic escapades. An odd FBI agent played by Kyle MacLachlan teams up with a detective played with cheesy earnestness by Michael Nouri, who are after an alien who takes over the human bodies he invades - and goes on murder, theft and mayhem causing rampages. This is a B movie and proud of it and the sight of a scantily clad alien controlled stripper who's heavily armed and a geezer with a boom box who's out of control, are a few highlights in this absurd film. Jack Sholder directs with energy to spare and it's a shame his big screen career sputtered out after his '89 film Renegades and spent the next two decades directing TV movies - before briefly resurfacing in studio filmmaking by directing some of the reshoots for the doomed big budget fiasco Supernova. "},{"Title":"Is this movie a hidden gem?","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Yes, it is. This may be called a B-movie (which it may be, but only because of quite cheap effects), but it surely is better than some first grade movies. What you get with this movie is a solid sci-fi/mystery/suspense/action movie with enough body count for those who care about it. What you also get is solid acting, a cop buddy story which is not too much stereotypically, a strange but likable MacLachlan character and for those who grow up in the 80ties, a déjà vu not only with MacLachlan, but also with Nouri and Claudia Christian, which most will best know from B5.The best thing about this movie in my view is the fact, that the real story, the reason for the chase and especially the true face of MacLachlan's character are revealed very subtle, just so much that you notice that there could be something weird but not so much that it becomes too obvious. It's not a blatant uncovering of the real, underlying motives, which gives a touch of mystery in all the action, too.So, The Hidden gets seven out of ten from me; this makes it clearly above average in a ten star rating where you have to give one star so that 5 and 6 are the average (little below/little above). I would give eight stars if the ending (the kill of the bas add) wouldn't be a little weak and the effects would be better. But seven is okay and everybody with an inclination for such type of movies can easily watch this movie, he/she won't regret it. "},{"Title":"A Hidden Success.","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Michael Nouri plays a cop trying to get to the bottom of some brazen and bizarre murders, Kyle MacLachlan plays the human-looking alien cop sent to Earth to stop a renegade criminal alien from his home planet. They team up to track down and kill this menace, who has become very ambitious as it seeks to gain more power(it is a slug-like creature that can jump in & out of people, taking over their mind and bend it to its will).Fast-paced and entertaining science fiction takes a potentially nasty premise and at least presents it intelligently. Cast is good, as is Jack Sholder's direction. Little known, but an underground hit that even had a sequel. "},{"Title":"Another hidden gem from the 80s...","Date":"16 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" ..and one that almost begs for a high-budget remake in these retread days, The Hidden opens with a bang and takes off down a hellbound highway at full speed. Its rather simple tale of what turns out to be an alien criminal on an earthbound spree being pursued by an alien cop features a nice gimmick each of these beings resides within a human host, typically a dead one, and can shift from one body to another when required. The baddie has to do this physically, while the hero does so via energy transfer. The audience never learns how they got here, but that's not important; what matters is the dog-and-cat chase and the relationship the good alien strikes up with the human partner he acquires after the rousing opening sequence.Leads Kyle Twin Peaks MacLachlan and Michael Flashdance Nouri form an appealing team as they pursue their nefarious quarry jumping from one host to another while enjoying the pleasures of loud music, fast cars, and indiscriminate carnage. All sorts of recognizable character actors pop up along the way, including a blink-and-you'll-miss-him Danny Machete Trejo, but the real pleasures of The Hidden are on display in its straightforward storytelling and honest humanity. Claudia Babylon 5 Christian fans already know that The Hidden was her very notable film debut; not so many folks remember that it was only the third film for Kyle McLachlan, after Dune and Blue Velvet. Sadly, it was pretty much the high-water mark for director Jack Alone in the Dark Sholder, who after another few decades in the trenches of television, finally left show business to go into teaching. That's okay; he left us one truly fine guilty pleasure to enjoy.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Captures the real feel of sci-fi","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Having been a fan of sci-fi since the 1940s, I have watched a lot of films and read a lot of short stories and novels. This film captures the spirit of sci-fi as well as Forbidden Planet and Star Wars. It plays out just the way the stories about alien criminals and lawmen always did. There is scarcely a false step in the whole film and the cast is nearly perfect. Kyle McLachlin has that quirkiness that makes him so believable as the nice alien and Claudia Christian....The pacing, which I thought was too slow the first time I saw it, is really right. The music was a little jarring the first time around, but that too fit in much better the second time around. The film lays out the classic plot of the alien bad per.. uh, thing, coming to earth and hiding amongst us and being pursued by another alien.Everyone knows the story but it is so well told in this version, sort of like hearing the same old joke again and laughing because it was told so well.This film never got the exposure it deserved, but if you get a chance, get a copy of it, sit back and enjoy. It is about as good as sci-fi gets and one of the only DVDs I own. "},{"Title":"I guess a career in the police didn't really prepare you for this, did it?","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  SPOILER WARNINGS!  This is a great sci-fi/horror picture.  It gets off to a great start with a stockbroker robbing a bank, taking off in a black Ferrari and leading the cops on a great chase.  Said stockbroker is shot by police after crashing through a roadblock and whilst in the intensive care unit, a black slug creature slithers out of his body and possesses the body of another patient.  This patient then goes out on a crime spree, just like the stockbroker had done.  Around this time, mysterious FBI agent Kyle MacLachlan teams up with local cop Michael Nouri to try and track down the killer.  There is more to MacLachlan than meets the eye as well.  It's certainly not every day you meet an evil alien hooked on rock music, sports cars and sex (but world domination is on it's agenda as well) and that's one thing that makes this movie so fun.  It's got great music, two great car chases and great performances from MacLachlan and Nouri.  The film, in my opinion, essentially becomes a two-man show between the pair as all the other characters aren't given all that much screen time.  Recommended for all who want to have a great time at the movies! "}{"Title":"Surprising Action Horror Film","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  This was a pleasant surprise.  I do not normally watch gory horror movies but this was very well done and actually seem to have a plot which reasoned what was happening very well.  Nice to see an old idea done in a very different way.  I though Kyle was very watchable and well supported by the other actors/actresses.Worth watching! "},{"Title":"A Totally Awesome Film","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I enjoyed this film totally, you can tell from the first ten minutes, that it is going to be great. I liked, the action, the music, the characters, etc. To me, The Hidden 2, was a dissappointment, because the first film is hard to top, I would also, assume, it had a much smaller budget. One thing, I also, find interesting is that, there was a soundtrack, although hard to find, it didn't include the songs by, Shok Paris, and Concrete Blonde. I would have to say this is one of my top ten favorite films! "},{"Title":"Why doesn't this film get more praise?","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I found this film solely by accident when I was on a big Kyle MacLachlan kick (which is a pretty weird and wild ride to be on) and was shocked at how good this film was!! The plot deals with an alien who is going around and possessing other people bodies. He get's his kicks by killing and stealing anything he wants. Kyle MacLachlan plays an FBI agent, who's just a little bit weird. But then again, plot is not the driving factor in the action/sci-fi genre. The real question is what is the adrenaline factor of the moive? Needless to say, it's pretty high. The action is stylishly done and the effects hold up quite well for a movie that was made before the digital revolution of the 1990s. This film deserves its place on the sci-fi mantle with Aliens and The Terminator (The Hidden is obviously influenced by the two) as one of the best of the 80s. "},{"Title":"A real sleeper","Date":"17 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" I saw The Hidden as a teenager when it was first released on home video, and I really enjoyed it. When I found a used DVD of the movie recently, I decided to give it another watch. More than twenty-five years later, the movie still works surprisingly well. True, there are a few details that are now a little dated (computers, people listening to music on cassettes), but for the most part the movie feels really fresh and could have been made yesterday. The action sequences are exciting, the pacing is swift, and the occasional attempts at humor are amusing. However, the star feature of the show has to be Kyle MacLachlan. He plays the mysterious FBI agent very well, not seeming to totally comprehending the world around him for reasons that are eventually revealed. However, praise also has to go to Michael Nouri as the cop saddled with the mysterious MacLauchlan - Nouri gives good support. If you really like B movie features, The Hidden will more than entertain you. "},{"Title":"For an alien-slug, it has great taste in cars, music and gals!","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" In Los Angles normal, law-abiding citizens are turning into raging homicidal criminals and the reason for this is that an insect-like parasite from outer space is making a home in its victims. On the case is Detective Tom Beck and an unusual FBI agent, Gallagher, shortly joins him. Who is more than meets the eye. Through Gallagher, Beck learns that things are going to get whole weirder and they sure do, when tracking down these cold-blooded killers.Just let me get a glass of water and a towel to wipe the sweat off my face. Now this was some outrageously strange *#%*! Oh yes, this zesty, overblown piece never lets up the thrilling chase in this very well made excitement vehicle by director Jack Sholder. There are no pretentious marks here or anything meaningful about it, as it knows what is and plays it accordingly with the absurd material to deliver jam-packed action and morbidly witty humour. This hybrid Sci-fi / cop film follows the same-old-same-old trend of buddy flicks of the 80s, but adding its own unique spin to the recipe of an alien invasion that the authorities must face. This inter-galactic concept resulted in many copies (Dark Angel 90, Peacemaker 90 and Split Second 92) and then followed by an insignificant sequel The Hidden II (1993). By far this is the best.At heart its appealingly passionate b-grade fun, but delivered with an aggressive punch that kicks you in the guts and clocks up healthy dose mayhem and startling jolts. Like mentioned the body count is high (!) and its relentlessly violent. The campy material is quite simple, despite its vague motivation and emotional input. The oddly sappy ending was rather disappointing. It manages to cook up spontaneous surprises and add onto the bigger picture surrounding the situation. Soaring in the rigid script is a large dose of wit and black humour that certainly raises a smirk. The technical production is high quality. A blisteringly hip rock soundtrack amongst the forebodingly yo-yo-like electronic music score makes a huge dent in the rapid mood. Frenetic camera-work stays on the move. Kevin Yagher's grotesque body hopping creature design looks top-notch and the make-up was equally up to scratch.The performances are very fitting with the style of the film. The crunching chemistry between Michael Nouri and Kyle MacLachlan click very well and the underfoot banter amongst them rolls off successfully. Nouri as the dry, no-bull cop Beck, is superb and MacLachlan kills it as the strangely space-out FBI agent Gallagher. The support cast with the likes of Clu Gulager and a very raunchy Claudia Christian add to the cheesy fun.The highly original romp The Hidden is a ridiculously cracking sleeper. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Top notch genre film-making","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Hard to believe that this genre masterpiece is approaching its 20th anniversary, but not hard to believe that it is still as powerful and effective now as it was when first screened in cinemas all those years ago. A repulsive, power-drunk alien jumps from body to body on its way to the US Presidency. This simple premise opens the door for non-stop mayhem, grisly sci-fi action, pitch black humor, heavy doses of sleazy sensuality and spectacularly staged action. The opening car chase sequence is one of the most amazing, adrenalin-charged, take-no-prisoners pieces of kinetic film-making ever. Jack Sholder's direction is spare and dynamic, and his ability to inject a little pathos into the bloody goings-on is very admirable. From Jim Kouf's tight, clever script to Michael Convertino's sensational and moving score, The Hidden is top notch genre film-making. "},{"Title":"'It's only human on the outside...'","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Superb blend of sci-fi thriller and action film, The Hidden is a terrifically exciting and very well made movie!L.A. cop is trying to figure out why random people are suddenly going on violent rampages. Turns out there's an alien creature that's inhabiting person to person and causing its victims to go wild! Cleverly written by Jim Kouf, this movie is a fast-paced ride from its shocking opening to its surprisingly moving conclusion. The story packs a number of good twists as well as some nicely developed characters. The Hidden is another intelligent and highly entertaining film from B movie director Jack Sholder, in fact it's his most acclaimed film and arguably his best. Sholder's direction in this film is top-notch. He creates lots adrenaline-pumping action, with great suspense, stunt work, and the occasional touch of humor. The opening sequence has one of the most intense car-chases ever filmed! There's plenty of violence, gore, and impressive creature FX to boot. Yet, for all its action film trappings Sholder also gives this film a surprisingly up-lifting angle about what a pleasure it is just be to human. The rock soundtrack is great, the theme song by The Truth is especially good.The movie is well acted, its two stars turn in outstanding performances. Michael Nouri is genuine and likable in his role as the bewildered L.A. cop. Kyle MacLachlan (of Blue Velvet fame) is wonderfully moving and truly believable as the 'good' alien who, disguised as an FBI agent, seeks to destroy the evil alien.An excellent film all around, The Hidden is sure to please any action or thriller fan to no end! Its a gem worth finding.*** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"great sci-fi premise and wild violent action","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Jack DeVries has no criminal record but he goes on a two week crime spree that culminates into a violent bank robbery. The LAPD sets up a roadblock and puts him in the hospital on his death bed. An alien parasite leaves DeVries and enters patient Jonathan Miller. FBI Agent Lloyd Gallagher (Kyle MacLachlan) arrives searching for DeVries and LAPD detective Thomas Beck (Michael Nouri) is assigned as his partner. Miller goes on a crime spree pursued by Gallagher with a confused Beck. Then the alien is transferred to stripper Brenda (Claudia Christian). Gallagher corners Brenda on the roof but she jumps. The parasite escapes again. Gallagher finally tells Beck the truth but he doesn't believe it.This is a great sci-fi indie classic. It has touches of the Terminator with an irreverent streak of dark humor. William Boyett and Claudia Christian are my favorite alien-possessed characters. I would prefer the movie kept these two longer and not keep switching so much. The movie is filled with great violence and car chases. Certainly some of it can be improved and cleaned up but this needs to be seen by more people. "},{"Title":"tgchan says YES~! / www.tgchan.pl","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Ratings 7.0/10 from 12,164 users, good enough for me. The story seems to be interesting too.2 minutes - and the action is already rolling 8 minutes - lots of nice action straight from the magical 80's 13 minutes - oh my f... god, creepy and disgusting! wow... make sure you don't make the same mistake as I did, don't eat...22 minutes - I am watching and thinking... what a great idea for a film52 minutes - it is funny when needed, it has got an interesting story and it doesn't bore you 1h 18minutes - the special effects are great as well. I love the old films because everything you see is real, done with creativity. Those effects will be always on top of the ones generated from a computerAfter so many years, it is still a solid film.tgchan's rating 7 /10 "},{"Title":"Very well done, entertaining sci-fi","Date":"2 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" For some odd reason, I don't even remember The Hidden coming out in theatres, so I'm glad I came across a copy of it years ago at Vidiots in Santa Monica (recently bought my own copy at Title in Sydney, totally chuffed). It's quite a little gem of a sci-fi slash action film. It's well-scripted, well-paced, full of great practical non-CG action and quite well-considered performances.It's basically a cop buddy film in many respects, but with some very strange revelations, a mashup of Carpenter's The Thing, The Terminator, 48 Hours and Men in Black. It's also a time capsule, especially if you lived in L.A. back in the '80s. (Check out the scene with George's Diner on Vermont and Franklin, now Fred 62.)What sets The Hidden apart from other action-sci-fi films is the quirkiness&#x97; especially Kyle MacLachlan, pre-Twin Peaks&#x97;and that it has a heart. It manages to make you empathise with each of the main characters' predicaments and actually care what happens to them.If you're bored with formulaic, soulless Hollywood action films, I highly recommend The Hidden for an evening when you just want to kick back, not think too hard and have some fun. "}{"Title":"Rock-and-roll body snatchers","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" There are many films based on the idea that aliens take over humans, or human form, from Invasion of the Body Snatchers to Carpenter's The Thing.' Many of them are loosely based on Heinlein's emblematic novel The Puppet Masters.The Hidden is a fun and entertaining entry in this genre, for those who can handle a bit of screen mayhem. The premise is that alien slugs will take over your nervous system, and while trying to get themselves into a position of power (like, the presidency of the US!), they cannot resist having fun while inside you, from hookers, to fast cars, to loud music. It seems these slugs are enjoying the human body for all it's worth!Don't expect serious fright/yech factor as in The Thing, or anti-conformity polemics as in Snatchers. This movie is packed with action, well-timed comedy, and even a bit of bittersweet ending. And of course, sex, rock-and-roll, and sports cars, along with flamethrowers and of course slugs. The film shows that you can produce entertaining and good quality fare with a small budget. Not quite the price/performance ratio of the granddaddy of all SF action flicks on a tight budget, The Terminator, but definitely a fun evening. "},{"Title":"B movie with A thrills!!","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" I agree with many... this film was highly underrated, and nearly forgotten in the slew of scifi action films that have come afterward. But this one is special. If you've read any of my reviews, one of my key points in the creation of any great film is the CASTING, and this is a prime example. With few exceptions, the acting was first-rate, in every way. The two leads, headed by a extremely capable Michael Nouri and a fabulous Kyle MacLachlan, were noteworthy, with Nouri as the world-weary detective, and MacLachan's nuanced, tortured role adding a dimension of scenic truth and pathos to the entire production. I've always been a fan of Michael Nouri, and his easy, believable performances never fail, a worthy counterpoint to this highly interesting mix of protagonists. But what impressed me the most about this film was that it clearly had heart, a tender through line of humanity and dare I say it, LOVE, that runs continuously through this piece, without ever getting in the way. How many scifi action movies can claim the same thing? The scene at the end makes me tear up every time. The thoughtful score by Michael Convertino added in full measure to the uniqueness of this film. If The Hidden isn't already isn't a classic of science fiction, it certainly will be. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Science Fiction Gem","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" An alien parasite with the ability to possess human bodies goes on a violent crime spree in Los Angeles, pursued by a human cop (Michael Nouri) and an alien cop inhabiting a human body (Kyle MacLachlan).Until this film screened at the Patio Theater in Chicago in April 2015, I have to admit I had never heard of it. Which, for a fan of genre films and Kyle MacLachlan in particular, that is a bit of a sad thing to admit. But it does have the nicest consolation I was able to experience that joy that can only be received from seeing a good movie the first time.This film not only had great performances from great actors (as well as cameos from horror icons Danny Trejo, Ted White and Lin Shaye), but just an incredible story from the very beginning. The opening car chase may be the best ever put on film, and calls to mind Death Race 2000 without the cheese factor. "},{"Title":"Hideous of the hidden","Date":"21 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Here was something fresh and original for it's time, which starred a few actors you saw a lot around this 87-90 phase. We have an alien parasite slipping into innocent folk's mouths, turning them into killing machines, with two cops, (Nouri) one of those cool lone types, we all love, and his new assigned partner, one mysterious and intriguing cookie, played beautifully by Kyle Maclachlan. The result is one exciting action fare, a slick thriller that has you from page one, especially the first half hour which is so much fun. Nouri, an underrated actor, and Maclachlan, work wonderfully off each other, where again Maclachlan must be praised. It's fun too watching the alien bug enter a new body, claiming it, where just the low scenario and our cops, makes this film, which does show a bit of style, and would make a lot of other filmmakers, out there, envious. With a reputation as being a cult pic, The Hidden is a hidden gem from 88, which is well worth the view, especially for science fiction horror fans. "},{"Title":"Before The Men in Black came the Man in grey","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Hugely enjoyable film predating MIB by 10 years and with a similar theme.However this film is deeper - 'The Hidden' at one level is just a body hoping alien but at another the alien possession is symbolic of our continuing lust for more and better things - plus the urge to do just as we want when we want that probably resides in most of us.Of course we do our best to keep these urges 'hidden' away but like the alien they sometimes claw their way to the surface.Perhaps a slight weak point is when we discover that the alien is an Altairan (like something out of a 50's SciFi film). In this respect - with reference to what 'The Hidden' really represents - sometimes it's better not to know! "},{"Title":"Buddy picture from beyond the stars.","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" The story of the cop buddy picture isn't new, not even in 1987 it wasn't a new. But THE HIDDEN is a new twist on an old concept. The alien and the human cop bonding to stop the alien menace that's out to conquer the world and it almost impossible to stop is cool. The acting is cool, the chemistry between the two lead actors works. The story is cool, the creature effects what you see of them is cool. Now comes to my complaint, I wish they had showed more of the alien and that it had a name other then it was a criminal that likes hot chicks and fast cars and does what it wants when it wants. But that's a minor complaint as a whole, this is a really fun movie that is worth watching time and time again. I know I've seen it several times. 8 STARS. "},{"Title":"Easy to pass this movie by, which would be a shame","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Absolutely the best alien cop + Earth cop buddy film ever! (I'm only partly joking. Around that time it seemed to me that films like that were about to become a genre of their own.) There's so much I like about this movie. Especially the humor, often conveyed through Kyle Mclaughlin's face on the occasions when Nouri is learning that the guy's an alien, like in the interrogation scene and when the other alien is coming after them in the jail. And I love when Mclaughlin agrees to have Nouri cover him, even though he thinks he'd be safer without it, just so (in my interpretation, anyway) he won't hurt the guy's feelings.- Tom "},{"Title":"It's only human on the outside...","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" ~Spoiler~ I give director Jack Sholder a lot of hell for the abomination that is A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2. I hate that film with a passion. However, Sholder worked with New Line and Bob Shaye on two other occasions and those films were actually good and he showed promise as a director. The first film was 1982's Alone in the Dark. The second was The Hidden. In The Hidden, Kyle MacLachlan stars as an F.B.I. agent (we think) on the trail of an otherworldly criminal. Said criminal is a nasty, little creature who hops from one body to another to stay one step ahead of his pursuer (Claudia Christian, Ed O'Ross, and Chris Mulkey play three of these bodies). He also loves heavy metal and fast cars. My kind of alien. MacLachlan's character enlists Detective Tom Beck (Michael Nouri) to help him track down the galactic menace. What follows is a damn entertaining ride of science fiction, action, and horror. This is a relatively low budget feature, but you can't tell that by looking at the screen. There are explosions, car crashes (Ferrari's no less), superb creature effects, and an excellent cast. Along with everyone I've mentioned, The Hidden also features Clu Gulager, Richard Brooks, Larry Cedar, Lin Shaye, and even pop-up appearances by Branscombe Richmond and Danny Trejo. The Hidden has become a cult classic for many good reasons, even more than I've listed here. So I can happily recommend this Jack Sholder feature. However, stay FAR away from the sequel. "},{"Title":"An explanation is not going to help, replied the movie.","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Even though the title may imply otherwise, the plot and plot twist is reveled to us from the beginning. This is an action/science fiction mash up from the 80's, starring Lynch alumni Kyle MacLachlan, Michael Nouri and B-movie diva Claudia Christian. This sounds like the perfect cast for a Tarantino movie, just add Sizemore or Michael Madsen. Danny Trejo (who makes a cameo here) will be the common link. It is definitely a hidden gem for those that know about it.I can remember watching this movie on Cinemax in the middle of the week, around the early afternoon. It was always in the 330 - 400 PM slot. It is not overly ambitious, yet the end product has infinite replayability. The soundtrack is a combination of stock 80's music (which sounds cheesy, catchy and quite indicative of the period) and some synthetic alien sounds. I can compare this movie to Alien Nation, I Come in Peace, Dead Heat, Total Recall, the Running Man, the 6th Day, My Best Friend is a Vampire (another catchy 80's soundtrack) and even the Peacemaker (which strangely enough has a similar plot, just a different type of alien). The main elements throughout all of them is the buddy cop/tag team concept, occurring in unusual situations (for example, with aliens, postmortem, clones,etc). They are a somewhat of a guilty pleasure, but still not as guilty as after you have downed 3 double shots of Southern Comfort, before watching this movie (my new rating system). While the shots are not necessary for the pain or enjoyment of movie, it does pass the time.This is classic good guy, bad guy. There are cops and crooks. The twist is that it's a revenge/duty story about aliens (another world and not just across the border) in L.A. These aliens, like fast cars (Porsches and Ferraris), loud music, women and money. Who doesn't?, you're thinking. It's the 80's, when sealing the deal involved a drink and a snort. The concept of taking by force is not lost on the aliens. The plot is based in the detective procedure, in which a lot of gunfire appears to be a requirement. The progression of the plot is relatively brief, albeit logical (if not a bit visor-vision) and entertaining.I would attempt to figure out if there is any social commentary hidden in there, but who am I kidding. Thats why you were watching this movie on Cinemax, Tuesday afternoon, right after that nap on the coach. You aren't looking to relish in the human condition by empathically connecting to some talk show host. You want to be woken up by the sheer visual bloodlust and auditory force of the movie. Thankfully this movie has enough of that or rather enough gas to get you there comfortably and as quick as possible. The views are passable. It is perfect on lazy Saturday/Sunday afternoons as well. *Use with caution, as the results have a risk of dependency. "},{"Title":"Amusing and fun sci-fi-horror.","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" The Hidden is a fun 80s Sci-Fi/horror hybrid that works like The Thing meets They Live meets The Terminator. An alien being jumps from human to human, taking what it wants and killing anyone that gets in it way. What does it want? To drive fast sports cars and listen to Concrete Blonde! Isn't that what we all wanted in the 1980s? Some of the special effects here are dated, but others hold up surprisingly well. Look for Claudia Christian in a funny small role as a stripper/alien. Michael Nouri is great as the lead character and Kyle MacLachlan, who I find bland in everything outside of Twin Peaks, is perfect in the role of a, well, bland FBI agent. "}{"Title":"wild sci fi thriller","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" From the start the hidden is a wild action flick,with some slices of sci fi.an evil alien keeps transferring from one body to another,while a cop(Micheal nouri)and a good alien posing as an FBI agent(kyle maclachlan)are in pursuit.there's some real wild car chases,and mayhem.i've seen the hidden a few times and its never boring.its an action film made by new line cinema during the Freddy Krueger years. look for beautiful sexy Claudia Christian as a stripper.and a great supporting cast;ed o'Ross(dick Tracy,red heat)clu gulager,Richard brooks,Larry ceder,and Cris mulkey(hank on TVs twin peaks)there was a sequel that was pretty bad and more of a rehash of the first one.the Friday the 13th film;Jason goes to hell borrows from the plot of the hidden.i highly recommend the hidden for fans of action and sci fi thrillers.call me crazy but i give the hidden 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Deserves a wider audience","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  It's nice to find a hidden gem like this once in a while. The Hidden blends the humor of Repo Man, the creepiness of the X-Files and the action of The Terminator into a qwerky sci-fi thriller. I don't know why this movie never had a larger cult following, but if you liked Repo Man you should love The Hidden.  "},{"Title":"A Hidden Gem!","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I first rented this film years ago after watching a Siskel & Ebert films you may have missed episode.  I was probably about 14 years old and I loved it.  Now 14 years later I bought the movie and watched it and loved it again.  Loving The Hidden as a 14 year old says alot for this movie.  It doesn't have a lot of special effects what it does have is a excellent story with strong acting.  This movie is proof that a good science fiction movie doesn't need a huge budget or special effects every 2 seconds on the screen.  The Hidden is a nice refreshing change of pace from your typical special effects extravaganza Hollywood has been churning out (like Independence Day).  It has a couple of plot holes but they are easy for the viewer to overlook and may well lead to conversations after the film is over (imagine that!).  The Hidden rates an 8 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Do NOT put that on my desk...I haven't seen my wife in a month!","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  'The Hidden' is a film that, to people I know, is vaguely remembered from the time it first came out on video and unavailable on video/DVD in the UK. Which is a shame, as it's BRILLIANT.Great acting by Michael Nouri and (especially) Kyle MacLachlan as the leads, and a few familiar faces helping out.  The script is funny and fast-paced, with a perfect amount of character development and emotion to help us take some investment in the far-fetched proceedings.  The music by Michael Convertino, while certainly an acquired taste, is excellent, especially during the rooftop scene on the Neptune warehouse.The film has many great scenes; the opening bank robbery/car chase, Gallagher at Beck's house for dinner, the rooftop shootout with the stripper, and the confrontation in the police cells.Why didn't Jack Sholder make more like this?  4 out of 5.Buzz the gate, Joe.  BUZZ THE F***IN' GATE! "},{"Title":"Good Cop-Bad Cop (only one of them is an alien)","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Action Sci-Fi is a popular summer movie genre.  Most summer films are at best a pleasant diversion (where it is always 10 degrees cooler).  The Hidden is an terrific exception.  Good concept, amusing script, and great casting resulting in chemistry between the leads.  Kyle MacLachlan portrays another somewhat eccentric FBI agent (see Twin Peaks) with a twist. Director Jack Sholder knows how to direct action sequences so that they are both exciting and they communicate the action (which many directors don't seem to know how to do).  I want that car is a great line which has stayed in my vocabulary for years.  Less than a thousand people have voted for The Hidden at this time.  I hope this review encourages more to see this gem now that it has been re-issued on DVD. "},{"Title":"Stylish and intelligent thriller","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Some icky space slugs have no conscience at all. This one, however, sure likes to party, Earth style. Even worse, he finds he develops a taste for mayhem and serial murder. Pursued by a non-icky non-space-slug alien detective, he (it?) lands on Earth and finds humans are such easy prey -- they're completely defenseless against his hopping inside, baby-Alien style, and taking control. Earth is such fun he likes fast Italian cars, guns, greasy diner food, loud bad music, and mangling people. Enter Earth cop Michael Nouri, who is wondering what the hell is going on --why are normally sane and law-abiding citizens going insane and going on murderous rampages? And just who is this baby-faced, barely-out-of-his-teens FBI agent who knows what's going on, but won't tell? And why does Claudia Christian have _any_ clothes on at all? If you like a lot of violence leavened with just as much wit, then this movie fits the bill. (By the way, avoid the sequel --it's hideous.) "},{"Title":"And seek","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  This low budget crossbreed of The terminator, Invasion of the body snatchers and The fugitive remains one of the forgotten treasures of '80s science fiction. It seems only fitting that New Line Cinema, an outfit that first paid the rent by making decent genre fare like A nightmare on elm street and Critters would produce such a great looking edition of this underrated thriller, which stars, Kyle MacLachlan as an alien police officer tracking a body-swapping sociopath from another world.  "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"22 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" I agree with what a lot of other reviews have written, in that this is a somewhat unknown gem, but was pretty good.However I have to say that I found a couple of bits to be a bit unbelievable, even given the genre and plot of the film.1. The hard bitten experienced local homicide detective is teamed up by his boss with the new-in-town FBI agent. First off, surely the cops wouldn't straight away have checked the FBI agent's credentials and discovered that in fact he was thought to have been burned up in a fire.The detective is asked to help with a particular murder suspect - which he promptly does, informing the FBI agent that the guy is in hospital and expected to die, which duly happens. You would think this would have been the end of the matter, but for some reason the detective then allows himself to continue to be used as a sidekick seemingly without good reason on a variety of other enquiries, starting with looking for a seriously ill guy who has suddenly gone missing from hospital. A quirky and interesting case yes, but hardly a priority for immediate homicide detective attention surely?But even when the body count is rapidly piling up, the detective seems to just accept that he isn't going to get any sensible answers about what is going on out of the FBI guy. Remember, this is a successful and experienced homicide detective we are talking about, surely he would be very experienced at questioning people effectively and would not allow himself to be fobbed off or his questions to just be evaded in this way.It isn't until quite late in the film and after going to about half a dozen murder scenes, and nearly getting killed himself, that he really tries to get to grips with things. 2. The ultimate weapon proves to be a flamethrower. The moment this was on screen in the police station early on in the film, being paraded for no good plot reason, I wondered when this was going to make an meaningful appearance in the film, and so it does near the end of the film. The good guy is under heavy fire but gets into position, gets out his flamethrower from a bag he is carrying and torches the bad guy. You would think the good guy wouldn't have been able to use the flamethrower long before someone exploded the thrower's gas tanks with a bullet, but conveniently everyone stops firing at the good guy while he uses his flame thrower. It has also to be asked, if the flamethrower was going to turn out to be this ultimate weapon, why oh why didn't the alien good guy think to use it earlier instead of trying to engage the bad guy throughout the film with a pistol which had as about as much effect as a pea shooter?Oh, and highly creepy ending too. The detective dies of bullet wounds in hospital, so the alien inside the FBI agent decides to jump bodies and then we see him at the end of the film trying to get the detective's daughter to accept that he really is okay as her dad, or something like that.That's creepy enough but goodness knows what the detective's wife will think when she finds out that her husband has had a total personality change; yet alone her horror and revulsion if she ever discovers that while her husband's body is still walking around, in fact he is dead and she is living and presumably sleeping with a stranger who also happens to be an alien and is controlling the functions of the dead body. "},{"Title":"well made entry in the sci-fi genre","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" i thought this was a well made movie,especially for the sci-fi genre.the production values are good,as is is the acting.the dialogue isn't cheesy or corny.there's plenty of action and excitement.the movie is very well paced.the story is original(as far a s i know)and the ending is very good.i was very surprised at how good the movie was.the only thing i would have liked to see was the motivation of the villain,maybe a bit of backstory,(though i realise that would have slowed the movie down considerably),but that's just my personal opinion and doesn't really detract from the quality of the film.for me,The Hidden is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"suspenseful sci-fi classic with cop movie twists","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" My wife and I found this old favorite the other night and gave it a watch after a hiatus of many years. A sci-fi/cop flick hybrid, The Hidden is one of the best sci-fi movies ever. Nourri and MacLachlan are outstanding as the two cops. Nourri is a courageous, street tough do-gooder who is completely bewildered by the mild mannered F.B.I agent he finds himself teamed with.All of the clichés are in place but the straight forward embrace of the roles by the two principles and the excellent effort of the supporting cast leaves one with no motive to even begin to scoff. Timing is impeccable so that the notes of humor, suspense and moral message never sound jarringly off key or leave one to smirk when it is uncalled for or roll ones eyes in cynicism. The viewer is drawn into the bubble of suspended disbelief and held there throughout the fast pace of the film. This flick holds up remarkably well both in terms of plot and special effects (which are kept to a minimum as far as the sci-fi theme, full tilt, however, from the car chase, shoot-em-up cop side of the story)despite its ripe old age of 18 years.No plot summary is possible, there are too many twists and surprises that cannot be given away. However, when you're ready for some old school sci-fi escapism look on the classic rack for The Hidden, you will not be disappointed. By the way, this movie is very violent at times and kinda gross here and there so make sure the under thirteens are out of the house or otherwise unavailable. "}{"Title":"One of the greatest movies ever! Best Sci-Fi movie ever!","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I have seen millions of movies - good ones, great ones, bad ones, utterly unbearably terrible ones, but there are None that I have such high regard for as this, the Hidden! I love it, and no movie, no, not even Sleepy Hollow tops it. It's gives one such a feeling of satisfaction unparalleled! It has a great story - one may think there are some holes in it, but if carefully observed, one finds that there never were any holes after all. It's hilarious, it's sad, it's action-packed, it's fun! The cars are great, the music is 80's heavy metal - that is to the liking of the listener, the acting is superb...it's just the most fun I've had! And every time i watch it, I get a different emotion at the end - elation, sadness, excitement, etc. The action is often and well spaced and timed. The action isn't too much, nor is it too little - just enough! Very little sex/sleaze (thank goodness). Most satisfying in all respects. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!  "},{"Title":"they say it's a B-movie, but it's one of my favorites","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  when I first saw it on TV I was surprised that I had never heard of it before. Now it's one of the few movies that I like to watch again and again.Recommended! "},{"Title":"Excellent blend of action and science fiction","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Very few films can effectively combine the gritty drama of a police action flick with science fiction (save for Blade Runner), but this film achieves that. Basically, a police detective played by Michael Nouri, along with a supporting cast played by Richard Brooks, Ed O'Ross and B movie veteran Clu Galager, are at wit's end with an epidemic of violence. Seemingly normal citizens are going beserk and shooting up the city. Adding to Nouri's headache is a mysterious FBI agent (played by Twin Peaks star Kyle McLachlin) who seems to know more about the crime spree and its cause than he is letting on.The film features great car chases, exciting gun battles and even a surprise ending. It's not a spoiler to say that the hidden is actually an alien parasite that invades the body of its hosts. The parasite craves power, altering the pleasure sections of the brain and removing annoying things like morality and common sense. When the body is too damaged to continue, it simply leaps to another body.The film is actually an allegory on crime in America, especially drug use where seemingly normal people use drugs like cocaine to get high or use guns to feel powerful. Then, they literally change overnight and begin to do things they've never done before in order to maintain the high or feeling of power. All the victims in the film represent the hapless members of society who have to deal with these jackasses. Nouri and friends represent the police who do everything they can to stop the problem, but still find it's not enough.Overall, the film can be hard to follow. The sound on the tapes can be a little hard to hear at times, but just seeing Claudia Christian of Babylon 5 as a possessed stripper will make you overlook this flaw. She's dynamite, especially in the scene where she gets hot and heavy with a polyester-wearing pimp wannabe, who definitely doesn't die with a smile on his face.Oh, and beware. The Hidden was such a surprise hit that the producers unwisely made a sequel. Avoid it at all costs. Even with the surprise ending, this film doesn't need a sequel. "},{"Title":"What kind of dude are you?","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" The police are hunting a man, who has committed several crimes, mostly auto theft. They eventually captured but not after a long chase and only after he crashes his car and is burned. At the hospital, the man rises and then proceeds to the man in the room with him. He then proceeds to open the man's mouth and a creature comes out of his and enters the man. The man then stands up and walks out of the hospital. An FBI agent goes to the police and says he is looking for the man they just caught. When he goes to the hospital, he takes a photo of the man and gives it to the police and says that they have to find him. After a long chase, the detective, who is frustrated, arrests the FBI agent and demands to know what is going on.....There is a plot somewhere in the hidden, something about an alien wanting to take over a senators body to become president, but the story isn't what this film is interested in, it's interested in having one of the coolest aliens in cinema ever.What alien would not want to drive fast cats, listen to music, and 'explore them self as a female.It's a daft concept, but it works very well.The cast are good, but never do much more than look concerned or perplexed, and it's a typical eighties sci-fi. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" The police are hunting a man, who has committed several crimes, mostly auto theft. They eventually captured but not after a long chase and only after he crashes his car and is burned. At the hospital, the man rises and then proceeds to the man in the room with him. He then proceeds to open the man's mouth and a creature comes out of his and enters the man. The man then stands up and walks out of the hospital. An FBI agent goes to the police and says he is looking for the man they just caught. When he goes to the hospital, he takes a photo of the man and gives it to the police and says that they have to find him. After a long chase, the detective, who is frustrated, arrests the FBI agent and demands to know what is going on. He says that he is an alien and that the people they have been pursuing have each been taken over by an alien that he is pursuing.This is a really, really good movie. This is one you could worship.Rated R for Strong Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"First-class B-movie sleeper","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Referred to by some reviewers as a cult movie, this terrific low-budget science fiction film would be more correctly called a sleeper, a movie that was missed by the majority first time round then belatedly picked up an audience.OK - that out of the way, THE HIDDEN is an entertaining mix of familiar elements and story ideas. The alien jumps from body to body has been done before (Wolf in the Fold in the original STAR TREK series). Non-human cop hunts non-human criminal is also a staple of the genre. But these are not criticisms. It's been said that there are no new ideas under the sun. It's what the writer does with them that counts. And here, writer Jim Kouf keeps everything boiling away ...Sure, the movie looks like it was made for TV, but I've always said that good ideas don't cost any more than bad. Watch out for BABYLON 5's gorgeous Claudia Christian, just 23 when she made this, looking very hard here as a downmarket stripper.THE HIDDEN is a real don't miss science fiction actioner. Track it down now! "},{"Title":"A deftly crafted little suspense film.","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  A quiet, modest stockbroker suddenly goes on a rampage. He steals a Ferrari car, robs a number of banks, and kills many people.  The police end up chasing this guy on a high-speed pursuit.  Later, another ordinary citizen escapes from a hospital and stars murdering bystanders as well.   What's happening to the citizens of this once quiet and peaceful city?  That's the basic premise for Jack Sholder's (WISHMASTER 2 EVIL NEVER DIES, ALONE IN THE DARK) witty and well-made riveting thriller, THE HIDDEN.A mysterious FBI agent, Lloyd Gallagher (Kyle McLachlan) has arrived at the city to assist Det. Tom Beck (Michael Nouri) on the circumstances behind the sudden killing sprees of one time ordinary citizens. However, as Det. Beck gets closer into finding out the truth, he realizes that Agent Gallagher is not quite what he seems...It turns out that an alien predator is taking over the bodies of random citizens...and transforming them into unstoppable killing machines.  This particular alien has a propensity towards fast cars, heavy metal music, beautiful women, and heavy artillery.Only Beck and the eccentric Gallagher can stop this alien before it turns Los Angeles into ruins...THE HIDDEN is a surprisingly excellent film with plenty of action, suspense, and touches of black humor.  What is cool about this movie is that it gives a glimpse of the seedy side of L.A. and the different personalities who inhabit this place.  From the blue collared stockbroker to an exotic stripper, the viewer gets an opportunity to meet a variety of life-like `caricatures.'  Even the skeptical police detective looking for answers and his weird partner who knows too well about these incidents are marvelous characters.  Both share a very peculiar relationship.Another interesting aspect in this movie is how the fugitive alien tries to adapt itself in a human society.  Ironically, the alien finds itself enjoying the many worldly pleasures offered at Planet Earth...For once, the audiences can actually show sympathy for these characters, especially the two protagonists.  Character development is exceptionally strong and kudos goes to co-stars Claudia Christian (TV's `Babylon 5') as a stripper gone psycho, Chris Mulkey (GHOST IN THE MACHINE) as a maniac stockbroker, and Clu Gallagher (many B-movie roles) as the police lieutenant.  THE HIDDEN is a very exciting film that has tons of violent action to appease those into the genre but enough emotional value and emphasis on character development to draw in other audiences as well.  From the explosive car chase in the beginning to the rip-roaring final confrontation, THE HIDDEN is an action-packed joyride which will leave you energized...THE HIDDEN is one of the finest cult classics ever.  This movie has a lot of rewarding moments, but I think that the ending in this movie is definitely original.  Still, avoid the sequel at all costs.RATING *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Hide and seek with extraterrestrials","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Apart from 'essential', 'groundbreaking', 'mesmerizing' or 'brilliant', there's also another appropriate term to describe must-see films...COOL! This film is simply put cool! The Hidden is a quickly-paced and blackly humorous science fiction thriller with a gigantic entertainment value. No morals or pointless gibberish here....only high-speed action, lots of gunfire and very violent images. The premise isn't exactly new and centers on extraterrestrial intelligence using human bodies as a host and immediately control their handling. When the body becomes too weak (too many bullet holes, for example), the alien critter moves into a new host. And what did we learn from SF-epic? Aliens are nothing but macho men with exactly the same desires fast cars, loud music, long-legged prostitutes, money and power! Only they just claim it when they see it and therefore catch the attention of the police forces. Lawabiding, respectable citizens who overnight turn into killing machines are suspicious, to say the least. Tough but friendly copper Tom Beck teams up with a silent FBI-agent Lloyd Gallager who knows more about this enemy than he lets on... The film already opens terrific, with an adrenalin-rushing car chase and a lot of roadkill! The body count throughout the entire film is enormous, by the way, and will definitely bring a smile on the faces of typically 80's action fans. The buddy relation between the two heroes is well-constructed and the oppressed humor (especially coming from MacLachlan's character) is simply sublime. Add to this a few nice surprise twists, impressive make-up and a blasting soundtrack and you've got yourself a regretfully overlooked 80's trash classic. Director Jack Sholder made more than one crappy film in his career (Nightmare on Elm Street 2, Arachnid...) but The Hidden definitely is a winner! And Kyle MacLachlan is the funkiest weirdo of the 80's! "},{"Title":"greatest genre bending film ever made","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" action/science fiction/comedy/horror/thriller/mystery/romance everything is in this movie it is so amazing. The greatest alien ever is featured in this movie a male alien who likes sick cars, hot women, big guns, loud rock and lots of money. the alien goes on a rampage just for kicks and has plans to take over the earth. To stop him another alien poses as an F.B.I. agent and teams up with local police to destroy the alien. Plenty of action, awesome weaponry, awesome opening sequence with a bank robbery / car chase and a great story. Awesome guy flick and a great movie to just chill out and watch go rent it now you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Inspired by Hal Clement's Needle?","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I saw this in the theater in its original release and was immediately reminded of Hal Clement's early 60's SciFi novel called Needle.  Same alien-cops-and-robbers-on-earth theme but the protagonist host is a young boy and the setting is a remote Pacific island.  Much more suspense and intrigue and originality (no alien weapons!) in the 'original' story. Think about it - how does a boy and his gelatinous host smoke out the bad guy? The processes of deduction, reasoning, and elimination are interesting.The movie is fun and is, in some ways, a commentary on U.S. culture in the late 20th century.  My guess is that a movie based on the original story could be a bigger hit than The Hidden. "}{"Title":"Fast-paced and exciting sci-fi adventure","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  Inspired by Alien, Invasion of the Body Snatchers, and The Terminator, The Hidden is an exciting action-packed sci-fi flick that never lets up. A burnt-out L.A. detective (Michael Nouri) teams up with a mysterious FBI agent (Kyle MacLachlan) to  track down an alien that's invading humans' bodies, causing them to go on murderous rampages and steal fancy cars. There's also some funny moments; in one scene, MacLachlan chews on Alka Seltzer tablets.  My evaluation *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"A definite must see for Sci-fi/Action fans!","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" In this super charged Alien/Cop thriller, an evil alien lands on earth one day & takes over the bodies of humans, thus enabling it to go around & butcher, rob, kidnap, listen to heavy metal rock music & drive only the best/Hottest of cars, hot on his trail is another alien, only this one is a good guy, who is after the alien to kill it after it killed it's family. Inhabiting the body of a detective, the alien seeks the help of a human detective to help him catch & kill the alien, only the cop & the entire police force does not know it's an alien that has a nasty habit of jumping from one body to the next after it used up (A plot device later stolen for another New Line movie six years later, JASON GOES TO HELL) leaving behind a trail of bodies of both victims & it's former host that it used to kill people in, what's more baffling to the cops, is the fact that the murders are being committed by seemingly normal everyday nice people, that as far as they know, just turned crazy, with the two cops in tow after him, this leads to several shoot outs, chases & lots of alien slime & human take overs, because that's what aliens in these types of movies do best! THE HIDDEN is a fun movie for fans of this genre, the film never lets up for a second, there's plenty of action to satisfy action fans & plenty of Science Fiction stuff to please Sci-Fi fans, there's also a great display of good acting on hand here & some superb special effects & direction, the plot is also crammed so there's plenty to watch through out the films running time, a good time for anyone wanting a good Sci-Fi film to watch. Great fun all the way. Look for CLU GULAGER & ROBERT RUSTLER both of whom appeared in New Line's/Director JACK SHOLDER'S, A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 2 FREDDY'S REVENGE. Followed by a direct to video sequel, THE HIDDEN 2 ***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Classic 80's Action-SF-Horror...  now with Power Metal!!","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" The Hidden, Science Fiction Horror/Cop DramaThe Hidden is a horror film about an alien criminal that has ended up on earth running around a major city. The alien loves violence, crime, and apparently, cheesy 80's Power Metal. What a guy! But there's a catch! The alien hides inside the bodies of people--so you never know who he's gonna be! To make things fun, the ever-placid Kyle MacLachlan plays the other alien--the one hunting the criminal alien. He's teamed up with a street-tough cop who spends a lot of time thinking that the FBI agent-alien (MacLachlan) is merely some sort of lunatic. Here's the breakdownThe Good--Good acting and an interesting story, even if it was made to bring in the big bucks--violence, fast cars, cheesy Metal--these are just some of the cliché's of the 80's--and the movie is chock full of them.--Fairly realistic in it's execution, it's believable despite the cheesiness. The cop, Michael Nouri, behaves like one would expect.--MacLachlan and Michael Nouri make a good team--Nouri is the perfect counter for MacLachlan's generally stale demeanour--This is the only way I've ever seen this guy in movies!--Rampant gun violence!Didn't Hurt It, Didn't Help--The atmosphere is somewhat weak--almost the entire movie takes place in daylight.--Aside from the constant screeching Power Metal, the rest of the music is alright.--Car chases--love 'em or hate 'em--here they are--but at least with cool cars.--Decent cinematography.--Pretty good special effects when we see them.The Bad--I personally would've loved to see the alien a little more. But it's hidden, so nuts to that.--Some dialogue.The Ugly--When we see what the good-guy alien looks like. Oooo! A creature made of light particles!!Memorable Scene--The film's nice climax.Acting 8/10 , Story 8/10 , Atmosphere 5/10 , Cinematography 6/10 , Character Development 8/10 , Special Effects/Make-up 7/10 , Nudity/Sexuality 1/10 , Violence/Gore 8/10 (lots of violence) , Sets/Backgrounds 7/10 , Dialogue 8/10 , Music 7/10 , Writing 8/10 , Direction 8/10 , Cheesiness 3/10 , Crappiness 0/10 Overall 8/10 Well, there you have it. The Hidden is a pretty good film, just light on the gore and a pretty weak overall atmosphere. If you can get the first movie alone, go for it. Classic 80's science fiction horror--with a touch of cop drama.www.ResidentHazard.com "},{"Title":"Hidden eighties gem - don't miss this!","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" The phrase 'hidden gem' was invented with films like this in mind! Quite how this film has been out for nearly nineteen years without me even hearing of it is a mystery; but I've seen it now and I sure am glad that I did! The film starts as it means to go on, with an explosive bank robbery, followed by an entertaining and boisterous car chase! In the vein of The Terminator, The Hidden doesn't waste time on building it's characters too much or even explaining the plot - we just get what we're given, meaning that the film can focus all of it's attention on creating entertainment value - which, it's safe to say, it does rather well. The plot is reminiscent of several previous Sci-Fi films, but it doesn't matter because entertainment is the name of the game. We follow an extra terrestrial parasite, which jumps from body to body after the one it's currently occupying becomes too decrepit. The alien has a penchant for money, woman and fast cars; which soon catches the attention of the local police department. Tom Beck is put on the case, with FBI member Lloyd Gallagher in tow to help him out.The name on the cast list that stands out the most belongs to David Lynch's favourite muse, Kyle MacLachlan. MacLachlan is perfectly cast for his role in this movie, presenting just the right amount of weirdness for the audience to suspect that there might something more about his character. Michael Nouri joins him, and does well starring opposite him; and the only other name I recognised on the cast list belongs to Clu Gulager. The Hidden isn't the sort of movie that will affirm your life, make you think or reinforce anyone's argument that movies about more than entertainment; but it is exciting, it's lots of fun; and there's certainly nothing wrong with that! The plot isn't genius, but it plays out well and the special effects are rather nice also. Jack Sholder, director of the second Nightmare on Elm Street film and cult eighties hit 'Alone in the Dark' does an excellent job in the direction department, which the film owes much of its success to, and the music is right on cue, helping to enforce the fact that this is very much eighties trash. Overall, I liked this movie a lot and won't hesitate to recommend it! "},{"Title":"A Hidden Great gem","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" A good alien (Kyle MacLachlan, fresh from the excellent Blue Velvet and a few years away from his breakthrough role in Twin Peaks), along with a human detective is on the trail of a body-hopping fugitive alien in this great '80's sci-fi movie. Any true man would love this relatively low-budget movie. Many explosions, much gunfire and car chases. The story is very involving and it's just a VERY fun film. To think that the Director of the atrocious Nightmare on Elm Street 2 and the writer of the abysmal Whacko and Operation Dumbo Drop also gave as this classic boggles the mind. Followed by a sequel that was so bad that it made CHUD 2 look good.My Grade B DVD Extras both widescreen and fullscreen versions; Commentary by Jack Sholder and Tim Hunter; early effects footage; cast and crew filmographies;Theatrical Trailer; and 3 Easter Eggs (Trailers for One Night Stand,Twin Peaks Fire walk with me and Nightmare on Elm Street 2) Eye Candy an extra or two gets topless "},{"Title":"COOL MOVIE !!!!!!!!","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot. It had a interesting story, and great special effects. It was a bit violent, but it was still fun to watch. The monster is awesome, and the characters are like-able. **** stars out of *****. "},{"Title":"Quite disappointing but still a good movie WARNING!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" Quite disappointing but still a good horror/Science Fiction/action movie it was never boring and the two leads had great chemistry together and there is plenty of VERY bloody gunshot wounds and it is kind of a mix between The Terminator and Invasion Of The Body Snatchers it had a cool concept and a great story but i found this to be pretty disappointing still i liked it. This Body Snatcher has a thing for Loud Heavy metal music fast and expensive sport cars Weird. The script is a bit uneven though and this isn't really big on brains but it's well written. The Acting is very good Kyle MacLachlan is very good here he was pretty mysterious and did fine here i liked him lots.Michael Nouri is just as good here these two partners reminded me Mel And Danny in the Lethal Weapon films. he did fine here.Clu Gulager and Ed O'Ross both do there jobs well. Overall well worth the watch but it's a bit disappointing *** out of 5 i will be seen the 2nd pretty soon. "},{"Title":"He killed 12 people, wounded 23 more, stole 6 cars most of them Ferrari's, robbed 8 banks, 6 supermarkets, 4 jewelry stores & a candy shop. Entertaining Sci-Fi horror.","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" The Hidden starts with black & white footage from a banks security camera as Jack DeVries (Chris Mulky) enters the bank, pulls a shotgun out & robs it. He makes his escape in a black Ferrari but Los Angeles finest are hot on his tail as they speed through the streets, eventually DeVries is brought to a halt when the cops shoot his Ferrari up. DeVries gets out of the car & is repeatedly shot, the Ferrari blows up. Lieutenant John Masterson (Clarence Felder) receives a visit from FBI agent Lloyd Gallagher (Kyle MacLachlan) who is looking for a suspect & requires a partner for a few days, Masterson gives him Detective Tom Beck (Micheal Nouri) who tells him that he recognises his suspect as Jack DeVries & he is lying in a hospital bed badly injured & will not make it through the night. Meanwhile at the hospital DeVries happens to have an alien inside him that can switch bodies, a patient named Jonathan Miller (William Boyett) in the next bed will do. The alien switches bodies & starts yet another crime spree, he steals another Ferrari, beats a shopkeeper to death, kills some-more people & most seriously plays loud music in a restaurant on his radio annoying everyone in there. All of this criminal activity filters back to Beck who is now told by Gallagher that their suspect is Miller. The alien continues to jump form body to body to evade detection, it becomes aware that an important Senator named Holt (John McCnn) who maybe the next President is in town & the alien likes the idea of being President of the United States...Directed by Jack Sholder I thought The Hidden was a decent film. The script by Jim Kouf moves along at a nice pace & never becomes boring or dull as it mixes various genres including Sci-Fi, horror & action. The aliens origins & motivations are left unclear & the taking over the Senator to become the next President sub plot feels like an afterthought that isn't really developed or used until the end but as the characters say in the film itself the alien commits these acts of violence 'because he likes it' & I guess because he can, when you think about it no other explanation is needed I suppose. The Ferrari car chase at the start is cool but the Ferrari never sustains any damage as it keeps hitting other cars, pedestrians & roadside objects but in the next wide shot the Ferrari is almost brand new again, there are some glaring continuity flaws & errors in this sequence. The Hidden also suffers from the usual 80's action cliché where everyone is killed by the baddie except the two heroes whom it can't seem to shoot unlike everyone else for some reason. There are a few gunfights, the alien only makes two appearances & there isn't any explicit gore in The Hidden. I thought the ending was a bit sickly & overly happy, it felt like something out of a Disney film! I would have liked to have seen more of the stripper Brenda (Claudia Christian) who looked great in a mini-skirt & thigh high boots as she posed with big guns & engaged in firefights. Technically The Hidden is good with nice production values even if some of the optical effects look a bit crap compared to todays CGI & I thought the acting was pretty good as well especially Nouri as the likable Beck. Overall I thought The Hidden was a good solid, entertaining film that was an enjoyable way to spend 90 odd minutes but seemed a little silly at times & the plot was a bit sparse when all said & done. Definitely worth a watch though. "},{"Title":"The action's thrilling, but most everything else is ho-hum.","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  6 out of 10A parasitic alien jumping from human to human is wreaking havoc on the streets of Los Angeles and it's up to two cops (Kyle Machlachlan and Michael Nouri) to take it down.  This late 80's sci-fi action thriller jumpstarts with a bang, the opening car chase is an absolute blast, ranking among the best I've ever seen.  Unfortunately, the movie slows down considerably afterward, with lots of plot exposition that leads nowhere.  To have an intriguing premise build up with virtually no thorough explanation for the situation is frustratingly unsatisfying.At least the second half picks up in the pacing, delivering another car chase (decent, but nowhere as exciting as the opening) and giving us three consecutive shootouts.  The highlight of these action scenes is definitely the hotel gun battle, a tense and pulse-pounding setpiece.  Machlachlan and Nouri both deliver good performances, making some of the more dialogue-heavy scenes watchable and even sometimes enjoyable.   "},{"Title":"Long","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":" This film is more an Action-film than a Horror-movie. I want to have more horror than action in Horror-movies! It is too much science-fiction in this film.The Hidden it is not so good I expected to be. The atmosphere of the horror is very silly and bad.I want to have more serious horror in Horror-movies. The monster in humans bodies is very silly and ridiculous.The directing by Jack Sholder is good and some of the actors acts very well.It would be a weak 2. "}{"Title":"Awful, just awful","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  I've never stepped on a nail, but my aunt did once.  It went through her sneaker into the bottom of her arch.  That's kind of what watching this movie was like.Mindless action, unexplainably silly possession of bodies by alien slugs, and low low B-movie grade acting.I like bad movies, I really do.  I've read a lot of cruddy sci-fi too and am a major Kyle M. fan.  Even I couldn't overlook the general shoddiness here though.  Steer clear. "},{"Title":"A strangely dull, cheesy, and moronic thriller","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Horror","Review":"  * and 1/2 stars out of ****The Hidden is many things, but it can never be mistaken for a good film. For a thriller, there's not much in the tension factor, almost no suspense, and you have to wait for an hour to get a decent shootout.  This is the sort of low-budget sci-fi disaster that makes you wonder how this was even released in theaters in the first place.  The Hidden reeks of straight-to-video quality, and it's not even trashy enough to be entertaining on an it's-so-bad-it's-good level.Crimes begin to occur all around the city of Los Angeles.  Well-respected citizens are robbing banks, stealing ferraris, and killing innocent civilians mercilessly.  After the death of one such man after a foiled robbery, Detective Tom Beck (Michael Nouri) believes they have their killer. But FBI agent Lloyd Gallagher (Kyle Machlachlan) knows better.  These citizens aren't really killers.  It's caused by an intergalactic space slug that likes heavy metal music and cars (no kidding).  The ensuing showdown is rather slimy.For the first hour, there's very little to penetrate through the dull pace. The murder investigations are simply routine, and a lot of the dialogue is excruciatingly lame.  For this first hour, the only action scene is a car chase in the beginning, which is probably the best thing the film has to offer.The second half is more riveting, but it's surprising to see how many bad choices director Jack Sholder makes.  First, by making Gallagher an alien, it disappoints because it would have been interesting if the FBI did know of the existence of extraterrestrials.  Another mistake is simply not explaining anything.  There's no discussion on what the alien is made of, or how old it is, or how it got to Earth.  Anybody looking for intelligent material should skip this and just watch another episode of The X-Files.Granted, this isn't meant to be thought-provoking cinema but it could have been far better.  There are three shootouts in the film, but each is just too short to be satisfying and there's not enough excitement to fill in for the sluggish scenes.The acting isn't much better than anything else.  Credit, however, should go to Kyle Machlachlan for trying hard, and he does come off better than everybody else.  Michael Nouri is boring as the standard issue cop.  My goodness, this must be one of the least interesting cops I've ever seen portrayed on film.Though acting and a lot of little elements (including a terrible musical score) are substantial flaws, most of the fault should lie squarely on the shoulders of, well, Jack Sholder and writer Jim Kouf.  Sholder's direction is uninspired and routine, and Kouf's script cares more for incoherence than anything else.  This is a partnership that is best forgotten. "}]