[{"Title":"Camp or campy?","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Misunderstood and ultimately quirky little entry in the HOWLING series. Absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with the original film, being simply an antipodean tale of lycanthropic maladjustment!Way better now than upon its release, the full low-budgetry inanity of Mora's little pet works quite well if you can get on its wavelength, that is, down to a primordial level. Beautiful redhead, Miss Annesley (shame she can't speak as well as she looks) is the aptly named Jerboa, a girl with a rare secret. Biologically er, different, she has the cutest little pouch just above her more R rated parts, which following a night of passion, soon gains the tiniest of new inhabitants in a scene one can only describe as different!A subject of extreme interest to the medical profession, trivia buffs may notice none other than film historian and TV presenter Bill Collins making his rather pedestrian debut here as a hospital doctor, somewhat enamoured with Jerboa's never-seen-before physiology.Played strictly for laughs and non-conformist fun, the budget constraints were such that at the point of anyone actually being attacked by a werewolf, all the viewer ever gets to see is a back-pedalling actor with varying expressions of laugh-out-loud fright. In hindsight I think this adds to the quirkiness rather than detracts!Ever reliable Barry Otto (first up on anyone's list with a fully left-field flick in the offing) is Professor Harry Beckmeyer who takes it upon himself ultimately to protect Jerboa from those who would harm her. Michael Pate and son Christopher make a suitably stilted (as in  What the hell am I doing in a film like this?) contribution and Australia's grandest thespian Frank Thring, camps it up shamefully as a Z-Grade horror-movie director.  Pontius Pilate (In Ben Hur) to THIS????    Hmmm, its a worry!IN the wash-up, what we have here a one-off film experience, one anyone can miss and be none the worse off for! If you ARE unavoidably entrapped one night, well at least you can say, Yeah I've seen HOWLING III, my life is now fulfilled!  "},{"Title":"Horror-comedy with a heart","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Despite this being one of many sequels to an acclaimed original, don't let this fact put you off from watching this under-acknowledged film. Howling III - The Marsupials is a surprisingly good werewolf spoof with a twist; set in Australia (and let's face it, an Aussie horror movie is a rarity - only Body Melt and Razorback spring to mind), it deals with the plight of a dwindling pack of marsupial werewolves who are in danger of becoming extinct.The movie focuses its attention more on character development and emotion rather than the usual random slashings that prevail in such similar movies. The premise is novel and therefore makes for some interesting watching and genuine involvement.  Horror fans need not dismay, as there is also a fair share of scares and realistic (if a little corny) human-to-wolf metamorphosis sequences.  Some nice welcome comic touches are present, including a Hitchcockian horror movie director played by Frank Thring, relishing every moment of the role.  Barry Otto is likeable as the anthropologist who joins the werewolf clan to help save them.  And let's not forget the exquisite Imogen Annesley as Jerboa, who shines as a beautiful young human marsupial, escaping from her abusive stepfather and running off to the big city (Sydney) where she finds fame and romance (no, she's not Joan Collins).The movie comes off quite well on the whole, and has a very moralistic and humane message, dealing with the preservation of dying species.  "},{"Title":"One of the most unusual werewolf movies","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I realize that this is not one of the more popular films in the howling series. I still haven't seen Howling parts 2, 4, or7, but I've read some pretty bad things about them. The Howling 3 is my favorite one. Yes, I pick it over the first one which seems to be everybody else's favorite.It has it's flaws of course but it also has a lot of insignificant firsts like werewolf nuns. We call them insignificant firsts because nobody else ever did the same thing but they are still neat ideas. It's also one of the few werewolf movies based on the idea that werewolves are people too and at times it seems that the people hunting the werewolves are the real bad guys. I really felt something for them and the plight of the thylacine (marsupial wolf) that was wiped out decades ago.It really seems more like an action comedy than a horror movie. The director claims that gore was the furthest thing on his mind. It also might be the only Howling movie with a PG-13 rating. My only real gripe is the dragged out ending that just keeps on going. It seems they had a hard time figuring out how to end it. All in all, I think they did pretty well with what little money they had. (1 million dollars Australian.) Notice during Jerboa's run through the arcade you can see a Rampage arcade machine. One of the characters in that game is a giant werewolf.  "},{"Title":"Is this the most catastrophically awful movie ever made?","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"19 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The original Howling was a fun little Werewolf flick. Nothing too serious, just a simple but original premise, some well-handled tension, cool makeup effects and a nice healthy dose of gore and violence to round things off. Compared to its most immediate rival, An American Werewolf in London though it comes up second place, so why in the name of heaven it spawned so many follow ups is something of a mystery. The series is up to its seventh entry thus far and if the diminishing laws of sequels is anything to go on, they must be unspeakably terrible because Howling 3 (the only one I've been bored/curious/stupid enough to sit through) is so bad I'd have to say it's one of the worst films I've ever seen.The principle reason for this is the premise, as director Philippe Mora decides to do away with the original's everyday people versus rampaging monsters approach and instead, provides us with what must be the only Marsupial Werewolf Romance Epic in movie history. The script is massively overambitious, the acting so bad the cast might as well have been made of cardboard and any promise of bloodthirsty violence a la the original goes forever unsatisfied. You might get a few laughs out of it, but ultimately it's just a very poor film.The overambitious storyline considers an anthropologist, Dr Beckmeyer (Inspector Clouseau lookalike Barry Otto) and his studies of a race of marsupial werewolf people discovered in Australia. Mixed up in all this is a Russian ballet dancer who is secretly a non-marsupial werewolf herself come to breed with the Australians, a B-movie actress from the countryside who is also a werewolf and an idiot movie talent spotter who's fallen in love with her. So blindly in love with her in fact that he doesn't bat an eyelid when he first notices how hairy she is. Dr Beckmeyer is determined to prove that the werewolves are not to be frightened of and that studying them is the best approach, the Government is not so certain and wants to destroy them and eventually, after a painfully long set up, he joins up with the lycanthropes in an attempt to lead them to safety in the outback.You might think a film with 'Marsupial Werewolves' in might be entertaining. It isn't. The delivery is slow and tedious, with characters and subplots being introduced with no concern for cohesion and what should have been a campy, violent and fun film instead is dull, pretentious twaddle. Indeed, the only attraction to come from this is Imogen Annesley, a very attractive young woman whose career has failed to take off since the high point of stripping naked in a barn, giving birth to a rodent thing and having it crawl up her belly and into a kangaroo pouch on her abdomen. She might be gorgeous in a I wish you weren't a hideous mutant freak monster kind of way but she's more or less the only noteworthy thing deserving praise in the entire sorry enterprise. Oh and Dame Edna pops up at the end.So there you have it, a werewolf movie with a humanitarian message. Great, that's just what we needed. If you're a film student looking for a lesson in how not to make a movie you might just be capable of scraping some little residue of a hint out of this, but if not, I'd advise avoiding this movie like the bubonic plague. "},{"Title":"Could have been a classic... if only...","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Howling 3 is yet another horror effort, where excellent ideas and even the mood and atmosphere of a horror classic are not cultivated or nurtured throughout the film.I was brought up in the era of The American Werewolf in London, definitely the classic, archetypal werewolf flick. Tough competition by anyone's standards. Yet Howling 3 has just as many good ideas, just as much depth, just as much potential... but just doesn't make it.The basis of the film resides upon some old Cine8 footage of a werewolf's capture by some natives. Grainy, snowy, short lived images, set the scene well, and could be perceived as scary. The idea of the werewolf being a type of marsupial species, a separate development of human life is interesting, and could be scary in that they have always lived amongst us. Separate werewolf societies, driven to the bleakest habitable places on the planet, but in contact with each other spiritually and genetically... yes, yes, this is definitely going somewhere.And then three of said werewolves dress up as Nuns, and travel to the big city to retrieve their runaway teen-wolfette, and gain entry to a fancy dress party having changed into actual habit-wearing wolf people... oh perleeease! A serious film, even a horror, can carry some comedy, but in Howling 3 the comedy is inappropriate, badly timed, and too farcical for words. The more serious horror aspects of the film being ruined by these interruptions. I remained unconvinced by any of the man-to-wolf changes, in fact, they were equally farcical, with their obvious fur means fear reliance.So, a film with potential, which obviously had serious horror intent, became a farce, even a spoof, by it's own making. A real shame and a real sham all in one. Stick to American Werewolf in London or even Dog Soldiers for that fur-fear-fix!! I rated a 3 "},{"Title":"Imbecilic in-name-only sequel","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" After the complete failure of a sequel that Howling II was, Philippe Mora returned for yet another installment, trying a different (more spoofy) approach this time....but it didn't work out much better. Most of the blame must go not to the direction, but to the awful, disconnected script, which makes the film feel thrown-together almost at random. The werewolf effects are mostly pathetic, though those involving Imogen Annesley's newborn baby somehow manage to be good (and disgusting). Obviously this film was also intended to be a spoof, but it could have used more subtlety we know that that director is meant to be an Alfred Hitchcock - lookalike, we don't need to hear him talk about Janet Leigh and the shower scene in Psycho, we know that flow is wolf spelled backwards, we don't need to see it reflected on a mirror, etc. Perhaps the only two good things about Howling III are two of its actors Annesley (definitely the cutest werewolf I've ever seen) and Barry Otto, who gives an honest performance as the compassionate scientist. (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Weirdly enjoyable","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I'm a hardcore werewolf movie fan and I love watching them more then anything(next to romance movies.) So I took it upon myself to start buying all of the howling movies that were made after the original. Most don't even have anything whatsoever to do with the original, and they are all extrememely B-rate.Other then the fact that the way they filmed this movie sucked, the storyline and some of the acting was pretty appealing. It was actually better acting than most b-rates and you could sum it up in the phrase The best of the worst. I watch this movie whenever I'm bored mostly, but it's fun to watch and I may be a girl, but that Jeboah sure is a hotty.Some things didn't make much sense to me, though. For one thing, the constant change in the way the werewolves looked was rather confusing. Another, Donnie had sex with Jeboah even though she had a hairy stomach and a weird pouch. He didn't seem to notice it much before until she was asleep and he had nothing better to do but stare. Weird.Well anyway, this one is better then most b-rates so give it a chance and enjoy it for what it is...good crap. "},{"Title":"You'd need  a lot of beer to wash this one down.","Date":"14 November 2009","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The box says 'just when you thought it was safe to go down under.' That's got to be a reference to the pouch, right? That's no accident. No one slips on bananas.This movie was difficult to watch. Confusing and directionless plot, strange characters that appear without warning or purpose no logical connection between scenes...its a mess.I find it difficult to believe that this film ever saw the big screen. The effects were laughably bad. As far as acting...I caught a little schadenfreude off the quiet desperation of some bit players, particularly the announcer from the final scene. I guess Hollywood has its share of heartbreak.This film was a disaster, just a disaster. That sad magic mix of bad and boring. I sat down tonight with a whole pile of Howling sequels. This was my first and it fills me with trepidation. "},{"Title":"It's different that's for sure","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" In addition to being entertained we want films to take us to new and exciting places. They are an art form, but when they lack imagination and are too much like other films people lose interest. It's great when filmmakers experiment and attempt new things with a story that may have hit a block. However, this is not always totally successful and this is where 'Howling III' comes in. The first film is considered to be one of the best of it's kind while the first sequel bombed the big one at the Box Office. In an attempt to make up for II, director Phillipe Mora cooked up the next installment. The result is interesting and unlike any film in recent memory, but as to whether that's good is up to the individual.Pros Performances are quite good. Engrossing, if out there story. Plenty of memorably weird moments. Moves at a good pace. Lots of beautiful shots of Australia, including Sydney and the Outback. Respectable attempt by writer/director Mora at something different for the series and werewolf films. Some of the goofy humor is amusing. Great ending that's an homage to the original's.Cons Unconvincing effects. Completely lacking in scares. A lot of the humor falls flat. Forgettable score. Pretty bland direction this time from Mora, who did a much better job on II. Hasn't aged well.Final thoughts This film, which unlike the previous one is a sequel in-name-only, is difficult to judge. There is a really good movie in here, but the quality of the production and effects plus an uneven tone keep it from being all it could be. It also doesn't succeed as a Horror film since it's neither scary nor suspenseful, but there is just something about it. If you go in with an open mind you may find it worthwhile.My rating 3/5 "},{"Title":"We are turning into a little monster. Aren't we?","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" What comes to mind when you think of director Philippe Mora. Who's that I might hear&#x85; but Philippe Mora is truly a one-of-a-kind filmmaker that cult fans would know in some shape (Mad Dog Morgan comes to light). For good or bad&#x85; his ideas are unique (if crazy) but the end product is usually an unhinged mess. A baffling mess. How did it come to this mess? Its head scratching, although entertaining at that. I thought Mora's Howling 2 was strangely bad&#x85; however he tops it with the Australian based The Marsupials The Howling III. Well more so in the bewildering weirdness, although it felt purposely campy despite some mock serious contributions. Not as incompetent, but hypnotically tacky with its beaming personality. Mora takes one audaciously original idea (a twist on folklore to relate to specific culture and sense of place; marsupial werewolves!) and clumsily patches it together into an Aussie werewolf soap opera filled with shocks and laughs. Like no other could do. He's a man of pure vision who's never heard of the word cohesion. Maybe he doesn't know the definition. Please could you put in to a sentence. The direction of the material simply lacks cohesion. You could say that it might just benefit from that, as everything is so outrageous so why confine it in a sensible manner. Mora's surrealist direction is just as random and erratic, like the busy plot and choppy editing. There's no denying how ambitious the concept is, as it's quite different from the norm. Where else can you get werewolf nuns, a Soviet werewolf ballerina, aboriginals that don't look like aboriginals, a determined but love struck Barry Otto (a sincerely good turn), an eye-opening birth scene that sees a baby marsupial werewolf in a pouch (while the father doesn't seemed to be too fazed by making love with a she-wolf and having a werewolf baby&#x85; It's beautiful) and for the locals the never ageing Bill Collins, Frank Thring portraying b-grade horror director and Barry Humphries' Dame Edna getting close and personal to a snarling werewolf (which could be seen as a homage to Dante's original's ending). There are references aplenty from home grown to feature films (like the amusing quip in the cinema --- gotta love the facials of the audience, it's priceless), but being a Sydney resident it was nice to see some familiar scenery on screen. When the action leaves the city (which looks like it's during a heatwave) and heads out bush to the town of Flow is when I found it to fall away. Really the werewolves are not the threat, but the humans that don't understand and fear them turn out to be. Specialists are called in to deal with this threat. These so called military specialists (two of them) are anything but&#x85; and I don't think it's purposely done either. The local hick hunting party seem better equipped and last much longer then those nervous wrecks. The performances of the leads (Imogen Annesely, Lee Biolos, Max Fairchild, Dasha Blahova and Ralph Cotterhill) are fittingly good. The make-up FX of the werewolves was quite uneven, cheap and rubbery although with some colourful shots. It's laid-back air and offbeat charm is simply hard to resist. "}{"Title":"Imaginative, unique... and absolutely does not deserve all this hate.","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Having no relation whatsoever to THE HOWLING (1981) or HOWLING II YOUR SISTER IS A WEREWOLF (1985), this is pretty much a standalone film... and what a strange film it is! Director Philippe Mora had previously made the critically-abhorred second entry and wasn't completely happy with the finished results himself. Since he'd purchased the rights to the Howling brand name from the original author, he decided to take a second stab at making a comic werewolf flick. Though the opening credits claims it's based on Brandner's third book in the series, it in fact has nothing at all to do with the book and is based on an original idea by the director himself. Aside from the abysmal HOWLING NEW MOON RISING (1995), this is the lowest-rated Howling title here on IMDb, which I find utterly perplexing. This is extremely bizarre and sometimes off-putting in its weirdness, but it's also frequently hilarious, often very clever and filled with interesting ideas. Instead of being the 2nd lowest rated film in this series on here, I actually think it deserves to be the 2nd HIGHEST rated.Silent film footage from 1905 depicting Australian natives tying a werewolf to a tree and killing it as well as current reports of werewolf killings in the village of Leovich in Siberia send anthropology professor Dr. Harry Beckmeyer (Barry Otto) - later joined by colleague Professor Sharp (Ralph Cotterill) - on a quest to prove the creatures actually exist. Meanwhile, in the small village of Flow, Jerboa (beautiful Imogen Annesley) is getting fed up dealing with her abusive stepfather Thylo (Max Fairchild) and flees her tribe. After a bus ride, she ends up in Sydney and is immediately discovered by Donny Martin (Lee Biolos), assistant director on a horror movie called Shape Shifters Part 8. He takes her to meet director Jack Citron (Frank Thring, doing his best Hitchcock impersonation), who immediately casts her in his film. Well, if she doesn't mind being gang-raped by four monsters. And she doesn't. After he takes her to the theater to see It Came from Uranus, Donny and Jerboa end up falling in love, but what he doesn't realize is that she's actually a werewolf... and a marsupial one at that! Things really take off into the realm of strange once the scientists get hold of a pregnant Jerboa and her tribe sends three female tribeswomen decked out as nuns to get her back.This movie is literally all over the place with its tone. It begins as a campy horror-comedy with a bizarre sense of humor and then, in the second half, begins aiming more for poignancy. It doesn't always work, but it's a consistently interesting film and one of the most original werewolf films ever conceived. Mora deserves more credit than he has gotten for trying something completely different here. The plot makes room for an odd werewolf birthing scene (it's a cute little thing that lives in the protagonists belly), a posse of hunters sent to eradicate the werewolves with machine guns and bazookas (!) and a Russian werewolf ballerina (Dagmar Bláhová) who flees her homeland to meet up with the Aussie tribe and ends up transforming mid-performance. Hell, even the President of the United States (played by Michael Pate) gets involved at one point!The werewolves themselves are handled completely differently than in any other film of this type. These are not monsters who kill for pleasure or even food, and they are not cursed humans, they are depicted as a misunderstood separate species who resort to violence only when they have to as a means of survival. The film draws a fascinating parallel between the werewolves and the thylacine, which were striped marsupials commonly called Tasmanian Tigers that lived in Australia and Tasmania until the mid-1930s are were driven to extinction by man. Like the werewolves here, the thylacine had patterned stripes along their backs and were misunderstood and feared by humans, who wrongfully blamed them for killing their sheep and livestock when that wasn't actually the case. The few surviving thylacine in zoos were apparently mishandled and poorly treated until they existed no more. The film includes rare film footage of the now-extinct animal taken at a London zoo.The expected lycanthrope mythology is also refreshingly thrown right out of the window. Full moons and silver bullets don't factor in at all and the transformations of man to wolf can be willed by the werewolves or caused by fear, stress or flashing lights. Mora also includes both nods to his previous films (a poster for THE BEAST WITHIN 1982 hangs above a bed) and some amusing references to the first Howling film, including a mock Oscar ceremony with a cameo appearance by Dame Edna (Barry Humphries) directly referencing the the original film's ending. "},{"Title":"much better than anticipated as an exploitation picture (or Ozsploitation)","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Howling III The Marsupials has very little if anything to do with the original Joe Dante film of the Howling, except that, in a sense, these are werewolves, and at the end of this film like in the original there is a scene where a character transforms into the horrifying creature on live TV. So, with that in mind, the director Philippe Mora does his own thing. It might not always gel completely, and some of the acting is just downright bad... but it works on its own terms somehow. It's a splatter movie that takes little into account in the way of logic, whether it's with how a character actually turns into the werewolf-marsupial, or even where the camera is in a certain scene (at one point two characters make note of a camera looking at them, breaking the fourth wall, and it doesn't seem to be mentioned much again).The story concerns a woman who is, in fact, such a werewolf-marsupial type, distinguished by having an actual pouch, and when a young man, an assistant director on a splatter movie, comes up to her and after a date has some hot sex with her, she's pregnant with her little baby marsupial. We see in some excruciating detail this inter-breeding taking place, and the cute little marsupial baby in the pouch (think of the cute little velociraptor in Jurassic Park perhaps, albeit this one, sadly, never attacks in the course of the film). But really this is just a backdrop as our heroes try to evade capture or killing by some who are fascinated by it like a very mustached man who may be in love with a Russian werewolf, and some poachers on their trail in the outback.Oh, and of course as it's an Aussie exploitation flick there are some various things to keep audiences on their toes. Such as, of course, didgeridoos, and a brown, white-bearded shaman figure who at one point goes all in white with red war paint and attacks a bunch of people (perhaps the most bad-ass moment in the film, as we get to see some real brutal carnage). But what is kind of odd is how funny scenes and dialog end up being, sometimes unintentionally and sometimes not (a key at looking at this split is when the two scientists are, once again, trying out their lets see what happens when we do a lot of strobe light things and aggressive manipulation in front of a big baldie who turns into another were-supial. You see that the director is going for some serious terror here, but at the same time some crazy laughs are meant to be had, just by the cut-away shots put in to the scientists in close-ups from a TV monitor.And even crazier still is how Mora, after having what would appear to be so much carnage and a climax and a half with a big torpedo blasting away a wolf, there's a sappy interlude showing the passing of time and years and little marsupi-man kids growing up! It gets a bit tiresome, but it was kind of subversive for a horror movie of this sort, which, per the course for Mora, has some bizarre camera-work and very obvious references (the Hitchcock director anyone?) Howling III doesn't pretend to be anything like great art, but it comes in and impresses with its bizarre qualities and self-mocking sense of the genre and movies in general. Not all of it clicks, but enough of it did to make it worth watching. "},{"Title":"Extremely poor quality werewolf horror.","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Howling III The Marsupials (Quickie Review) This film revolves around a group of werewolves of some sort that live in Australia and are marsupials with a backdrop where a film crew is making a really awful werewolf film. Almost as bad as this one.The effects are sub-standard at best and poor when compared to the original, far superior, Howling. Mediocre acting carry along one of the film world's first bastard PG-13 sequels in a previously R-rated franchise. As we all know, the Robocop, Alien, and Predator franchises are just a few following instances of such creative destruction. The writing is fantastically weak and cliché at times with the movie rounding out with an ending that just screams that the writer was just in a hurry to finish up his monstrosity.Recommended to Not really anybody, werewolf fans may hate this as much as they tend to have hated Wolf due to it varying wildly from werewolf norms. The Marsupials could've been a good idea, but they went about it all wrong. 3/10 www.ResidentHazard.com "},{"Title":"ouch","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Yeah so i made two no three mistakes with this one, the first being that i bought it, i actually spent 5 dollars on it, new, two i watched it all i got out of that was a good nap and three i did not burn it after wards please just save yourself the trouble and bypass this movie completely you will save a lot of time this way. While the movie did display an interesting if not slightly insane plot it did have some funny although under budget special effects. Also the acting in was mediocre at best you could never really tell when the actors where being serious or not. So if you decide to watch this movie do it with some friends so you can all laugh about how ridiculously stupid it really is. "},{"Title":"not funny","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  my friend bought this so i watched it. he regretted buying it, i regretted watching it. i thought it might be quite funny, with bad acting, bad effects, bad script, but it's just bad. it's obviously trying to be deliberately tacky but it's just useless. don't bother. "},{"Title":"Oh my God.","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Oh my God.Hey, hey - it's not my fault - the blasphemy, I mean...it's the movie.I had nothing better to so, so I watched this movie on t.v. - well what I could abide at any rate.  And, well, all I can say is if you find yourself in a similar situation - go out of your way to FIND something better to do.No substance, no believable props, or acting for that matter...this reeked of a low budget (which in some cases works out just fine...just not this time).  I just seemed to me like they weren't even trying to make anything really fit to be watched.Sorry guys, better luck next time...that is if there's a next time.  I doubt any sane person would let this happen again.1/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is very disappointing, considering that it had real possibilities to be decent.  Every time you think it might start to get good, it doesn't. Most of the acting is REALLY bad.  The plot wanders aimlessly.  The town where the werewolves live is called Flow (Wolf backwards.  Real creative, guys.)  Why are there 3 werewolves dressed up like nuns??  Who knows.  Dame Edna (Barry Humphries) has a cameo.  Imogen Annesley is the only good part of this movie, for what its worth. "},{"Title":"Low budget horror","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Saw this film on TV the other night for the first and last time.  Low budget special effects and production.  Saved only by some nice Sydney Harbour and Blue Mountains scenery, and the beautiful Imogen Annesley. "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I think this has got to be one of the worst films to ever have been produced in Australia.... Imagine almost every Australian 70's/80's soap star celebrity thrown into one big silly mess of a script that isn't even scary or thrilling....Bad effects, bad acting and an embarrassing anticipation which emanates from the actors that they may perhaps have been starring in a huge blockbuster horror....think again. The soundtrack was bad (just think of those pointless old synth pop 80's flip sides) ....as were the costumes. The wolves looked like paper mache puppets made by pre-school children. Avoid this stinker....its not even funny in a cheesy way...its just a waste of time. "},{"Title":"What a joke!","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" my friend and I were bored, walking through my hometown, so we headed into Crazy Clarks to the DVD section. Naturally, the DVDs in question were of no commendable standard, but rifling through the various self-help and unknown films my friend found one which made her laugh out loud, not only at the ridiculous title, but the blurb. We bought it for a laugh, as it was only two dollars. The next hour and a half brought many a squeal, but none in fright or suspense, but in the laughter that the poor acting, effects, and script brought us. By the time the film ended with a tacked on cut, possibly the worst twist in the history of awful twists, we were in stitches, wondering how on earth this pile of junk ever got to be made. "}{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The sequels.","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Howling III (1987) was a big improvement over the last film, part two.  But by all means it's not a great one either.  Philippe Mora directs once again but this time with better results.  The film takes place in Australia and the werewolves this time are marsupial in origin.  Filled with a not of in jokes and tongue in cheek humor, this film is not that bad but the problem is that the film get's a little to glad handy and it collapses upon itself.  Oh well, Mr. Mora should  know better next time because he almost got it right.  A plethora of aussie film stars have supporting roles as well,  A big step over part two but nowhere as brilliant as part one.Maybe next time!Slightly recommended.CFor some reason, the director went Mad Max and made part three P.G.-13.  He should have stuck to his guns and made it an R rated flick.  What happens when you take a film of this genre and try to conform it for the major market?  You'll lose money and produce a mediocre film.xxx "},{"Title":"Pretty awful stuff","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The only reason I remembered this movie is it had one scene which was filmed right outside my house! Not that I was there at the time, but I recognised a set of steps instantly (for anyone curious, the High steps leading off Kent up to Observatory Hill in Sydney) and it was kinda cool to see some place like that in a movie. Of course, years later in The Matrix there were tons of scenes in Sydney near where I live, but it wasn't the same.A pretty sorry excuse for a horror movie in a very weird series where movies aren't really related to one another.But if it's on telly late at night and you're got nothing else to do, better to watch something new than pop in a tape you've already seen a hundred times. "},{"Title":"a commercial for bestiality","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I am shocked this movie is not a stoner/camp classic. It is at times meta and knowingly funny, and at times painfully earnest. The effects are laughable, the horror minimal. I don't know quite what this movie was trying to be. Take the title The Marsupials. That term does not invoke any sort of horror; it invokes cuteness. And indeed the lead female werewolf/marsupial gives birth to a Gizmo looking thing who grows into a tow headed child actor then a slightly studly monosyllabic brunet. Plot-wise, at first you think you're watching an origin story, with evidence of werewolves in early 20th century Australia. Then you get a comedic modern story where one werewolf woman escapes a Deliverance like town and is cast in a movie with a pervy director, and another werewolf woman tries to join a ballet co. but is thwarted when she accidentally turns during a performance. Then a horror action plot where some soldiers and medical types attempt to ID, study and eliminate the were-whatevers, and then the plot comes to a halt with both werewomen giving birth and a 20 minute, filmed like a dryer sheet commercial, montage in favor of bestiality, otherkin/human relations, furry-ism, nudism or some thing or another. I think if these filmmakers had had Tumblr, this movie would never have been necessary. The movie ends on a laugh line and a Dame Edna cameo. Had it been 20 minutes shorter, I might have totally recommended it. "},{"Title":"The Ramblings of a Genetic Mutant on Psychodelic Drugs","Date":"31 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" OK.OK.OK. It is surely VERY,Very easy to put this film down. It has for intent and purpose absolutely nothing to do with the two previous Howling movies - much like Halloween III - but, unlike that film, there is no doubt in my mind that this is miles and leaps better than Howling II. Set in Australia a professor of strange phenomena goes, after interceptions of Russian transmissions, to Australia to find the werewolf. He does. No surprise there. Holed away in the Australian bush is a group of barbaric lycanthropes. One wants to go to the great opera house, leaves, falls in love, has sex, is captured, and then rescued by three werewolves dressed as nuns. The film definitely has campy elements, much like Howling II. The story here is pretty absurd for the most part, and the ending about a new race surviving and coexisting...ahhhh...let me put that yawn down! There are such scenes of ineptitude that you cannot do anything but laugh. Such as the special effects sometimes are pretty good, but other times appear shamelessly hokey(like the faces of the three nuns). How about that scene in the hospital when the bald dude goes berserk? Or when an old werewolf named Kendi takes a group of hunters on and not one of them, even though all are armed and hunting for lycanthrope, ever thinks to shoot the werewolf but rather watches each in the group get killed one by one? How about the story of the marsupial werewolf and the werewolf baby that instinctively climbs to his mother's pouch? Or, for my money the most bizarre and ludicrous, the ballerina-turning-to-werewolf scene? Despite all this - the baby werewolf special effects were rather good, to me, and surprisingly tender. The acting is not bad either. All the leads can act. The director can direct. They all went on to do quite a bit more. Barry Otto in particular does a very honest and workmanlike job as the professor out to find out more about this lost race. Unlike the camp effects in Howling II, some of them actually work here AND this film, even if misplaced, has heart. It looks like effort was attempted. I laughed at quite a few things that were intentionally funny. How about the movie It Came from Uranus. Funny. The bit at the end with Barry Humphries - aka Dame Edna Everage. FUNNY! And Frank Thring - the stoic Pontius Pilate from Ben-Hur - giving an over-the-top portrayal of a horror director. He is literally and figuratively larger-than-life. A real hoot too. CUT! Anyway, I liked this a lot more than my 4 might suggest yet know it is dreck and drivel, BUT compared to that piece of cinematic waste called Howling II...this is a minor masterpiece. Take Christopher Lee and Sybil Danning's chest out...you have absolutely NOTHING. "},{"Title":"Just about made it to the end","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Howling 3 1987This was more of stand alone as it's as it own story and back plot and it not connected to last two moviesand I really don't know what to make of this movie as this is even worse then second one,I actually found the movie very boring from start to end Even the werewolf were not interesting at all and those scenes were so god dame awful , it was so bad , it wasn't so bad that it funny , it just worst effects I have seen for a werewolf movie.saying that I did laugh out , when the nuns turned up at the party , the make up effect for nuns were unbeliever bad . The acting in this was also really bad , everyone felt limed they forcing there lines, tell the truth I think they knew the movie would suck , so they could not bothered to there best. Ionly seen movie last night , I forgot how it ended or my brain is trying to block out of memory for goodI going to give this 2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Imagine Pacific Rim... without the effects show... and somehow less character...","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Howling III was terrible. And don't for a second think that it is terrible in the campy and hammy and ultimately fun sense of the word. I use the word the way it is generally used when preceded by Ivan the.I can't say much about it. It's a werewolf film set in Australia, so the werewolves are actually werethylacines or something. It really doesn't matter that they are marsupial rather than placental (seriously, it doesn't), all that really changes is that some of them have pouches.There is a desperate story under all the wooden acting and characters with literally no character traits, but it slowly insulted me more and more until I had less than zero interest in it, which is actually something of an achievement given this film was rocking werewolf nuns and the aforementioned werethylacines.I guess the only things this film has going for it are some werewolf costumes I'd happily wear, marsupial werewolves and werewolf nuns. And I guess my main point would be to point out that story, characters and atmosphere are not anywhere on that list. "},{"Title":"It's Just Odd","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Determined to prove to the world he could in fact make a good werewolf movie after the disastrous Howling II Your Sister is a Werewolf, Philippe Mora bought the rights to the sequel from hack novelist Gary (take the money and run) Brandner and set up production in his native Australia to film The Marsupials The Howling III. The end result is a werewolf movie which is neither good nor bad. It simply defies description. It's odd. From beginning to end you'll sit there watching with half-interest thinking; Oh, that's odd.. A marsupial werewolf tries to make it in the movie business with the help of an anthropologist who wants to introduce the world to our werewolf brothers. The girls tribe may have other ideas. The special effects are odd. The screenplay is odd. The director is odd. "},{"Title":"The agent of Satan is at large...","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" From the bleak waters of Siberia to the searching heart of the outback, the menace is spreading and breeding fast. Only maverick scientist Professor Beckmyer can understand the torment of a freak species when he experiments on a captured WEREWOLF in his lab. But to the government and the military, it's an experiment way out of control. For them, an agent of Satan is at large - a dreadful threat to mankind. It must be haunted down and eliminated. This film starred Barry Otto, Imogen Annesley & Max Fairchild.Howling 3 is another bad film as the 2 before this film, the first one is poor 5/10, the second film 3/10 and this one 4/10 they are all just awful.*/***** Very poor. "},{"Title":"The agent of Satan is at large...","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" From the bleak waters of Siberia to the searing heat of the Outback, the menace is spreading and breeding fast. Only maverick scientist Professor Beckmyer can understand the torment of a freak species when he experiments on a captured werewolf in his lab. But to the government and the military, it's an experiment way out of control. For them, an agent of Satan is at large - a dreadful threat to mankind. It must be hunted down and eliminated.This film starred Barry Otto, Imogen Annesley & Max Fairchild.Howling 3 is not is good as the first but better than the second, however when I say that they are all bad films. Not recommended like it's two predecessors. */***** Very poor. "},{"Title":"A Delicious Serving of Campy Werewolf Movie!","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" While some people say this is the worst entry in the Howling series, I actually think it is one of the best of the sequels following the Joe Dante classic. Let's get one thing straight, this is an intentional camp film and takes great glee in being as cheesy as humanly possible. Here we are introduced to a new breed of lycanthrope from the Land Down- Under, a were-creature based on the long extinct thylacine. I don't want to give anything in the plot away but I would of really preferred if the movie focused more on giving us lots of werewolf action instead of focusing almost entirely on a certain romance-subplot. So in closing, I feel you should sit down with your friends and have have a laugh while watching this campy film..... "}{"Title":"the howling terror","Date":"30 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Phillipe Mora, the director of Howling 2 was asked to make part 3 but he was certain of his abilities, this was going to be better than part 2 because this time it was going to be a spoof. Once the end credits start rolling I asked myself, were was the spoof, this was terrible.This is in fact a flick on his own, this has nothing to do with the first two entries. This story is simple, suddenly in Australia human-like marsupials appear. This fact on his own has nothing to do with werewolves. In fact, the only real werewolves you see is on the set of a horror flick that they are shooting. And even they look like 50's werewolves.Not funny and only laughable werewolves to see. The only thing that looked great was the effects used to make the baby from Jerboa. The only thing worth seeing. And we all know that the following entries into The Howling franchise were even worse.Gore 0/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 3/5 Story 1/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Not sure about this one.","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I am a huge horror movie fan, and I wanted to get more into the Howling series.  I am very accepting of bad horror movies.  When they are bad, they usually have a classic redeeming factor about them.  This one doesn't have much going for it other than how different it tried to be. Not a great film by any standards, but I certainly don't regret the time I spent watching it. For all you people who love it, I can understand where you're coming from... sorry I'm not with you.  "},{"Title":"The Marstupials","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Philippe Mora's mind must be a strange place. I can think of many different ways to tell a story about werewolves, but anything I could direct wouldn't be half as creative as The Howling 3 The Marsupials. It's an amusingly self-aware parody of the previous entries deeply rooted in loving Australian stereotypes. As weird as it is, I almost feel uncomfortable reviewing it as part of my bad movie series. The movie is stuffed with strange and sometimes sudden jolts of humor that are too effective to have been by chance.Mora separated himself from Gary Brandner's novels, and created an unrelated new story. There are a few nudges to the first two films for fans (including a cool last scene parody of the last scene from the first Howling), but this one is a name-only sequel and takes place in Australia and the United States. The humor is increased and the violence is reduced (this is the only one so far to be rated PG13). It was also the final Howling film to be released theatrically in the States.As the movie begins, we see a disheveled young woman riding on a bus full of nuns. One of them asks her why she left her family, and the girl says, My stepfather tried to rape me and he's a werewolf. The actress says the line curtly and I can't tell if it is a misfire or subtle comedy. It's worth a quick chuckle before the story gets going. The girl, who we soon learn is called Jerboa goes to Sydney where men immediately start to leer at her suggestively. She sends them packing with a cute growl and rests for the night.The next day some guy chases her for a while to ask her if she would like to star in a werewolf movie. She agrees and goes onset to a production of a movie that looks like one of the many knock-offs of The Wolf Man. The production values are so poor that you can clearly see the actor's hand throbbing about in the werewolf costume. After the first day, Donny, the guy who asked her to be in the movie, takes her to see a real werewolf movie in theaters. Whatever they watch has similar transformation effects to the first Howling film, which Jerboa says is unrealistic. Real werewolves transform whenever they want by gaining a lot of hair as the camera cuts away or if exposed to bright lights (possible nod to Gremlins, helmed by Howling director Joe Dante).The two of them become intimate and Jerboa becomes pregnant with Donny's child. At a hospital visit, we learn that she has a pouch on her abdomen. She is a marsupial human (sort of)! Doctors and professors all over the world are curious to investigate other cases of wolf people and trace Jerboa's path back to her rapist stepfather's village. One such professor, Harry Beckmeyer, helps capture some werewolves and learns that they are descendants of a man who had an unnaturally close relationship with his pet wolf. His brood extends all over the world, from California (get it?) to the U.S.S.R.Jerboa and Donny return to her village where they meet Harry and one of the werewolf women he has apparently fallen in love with. We are then treated to the birthing sequence of the baby, while Jerboa moans soft core. It would actually be very sexy if they puppet child wasn't there crawling into her pouch in close up. The two couples reside in the wilderness for many years until the Pope declares that werewolves are not agents of Satan (another in-joke) and declares they are also the children God, even though there is no afterlife in the werewolf religion. One of them actually says to Jerboa, I'm just gonna die! when some poachers (murderers?) get him. In a movie about marsupial werewolves, the idea of an afterlife seems impossible? The third Howling film is a vast improvement over the second one in nearly every aspect. Even the visuals are better, despite a lower budget. The werewolves actually look canine when transformed. Tacky attack scenes are avoided by focusing on the jokes. The convalescence of unintentional humor with the in-jokes will leave you with continuous giggles.Recommended "},{"Title":"Howling III - Underrated Film","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This film is actually revolutionary in it's concept and ideas.First off, like many people I bought this title expecting a horror film due to the Howling name and cover art on the poster/DVD cover. What I got was certainly not a horror film and i thought it was the worst film I had ever seen.However, I watched it again soon after, and watched from a different view point. This is not a horror film, it is a narrative story about werewolves being a evolutionary step or anomaly. The film is rich in sub-text and reflects attitudes within society at the time. The US/Soviet hostility, humans fearing the unknown etc etc.This film is not without its flaws, the plot is sometimes muddled and some characters are not needed. The main thing that betrays this film is the Howling name. If the film had been released away from the howling franchise it may have stood a better chance and be recognised for what it is, a great work of film narrative. "},{"Title":"Just when you thought it was safe to go down under","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Howling III is the first sequel that brings us a new plot and new characters, the plot is basically about a group of Marsupial Werewolves living in the outback but one of them named Jaboa hates her tribe and leaves only to be followed by three of them dressed as nuns.She meets up with Donny Martin who is working on a film meanwhile Prof. Harry Beckmire and his friend Prof. Sharp are trying to uncover the Werewolf myth, Harry believes Werewolves are not evil creatures but a evolution.Soon a Russian ballerina exposes her Werewolf form on stage and is taken foe Harry to study only for her to break out and kill the Detective who caught her.Donny meets with Jaboa in the outback and soon joins with Harry, Olga and Thilo who are trying to avoid the hunters and Omega Team.Howling III is different from most Werewolf films since they are the good guys in this film unlike the supernatural appeal they had in Howling II. Basically Stirba's powers make Werewolves seem supernatural.One of the most memorable lines is the tracker telling the hunters about the Werewolf spirit Eh Moonan. He has long teeth, imagine if he put one tooth in you it would come out of your arsehole A decent Werewolf film. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Werewolfs from Down Under","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Wardrobe changes were lacking, music needed more synthesizers, but the reference to a space rocket was totally awesome (sorry if that was a spoiler, but check the definition on Urban Dictionary!). I would watch it again and again to see the scene where Jerboa and her mate scream at each other and at the baby in her pouch. It should attract horror movie fans from all over! The bald dude reminded me of the orange outfit dude from Star Trek TNG - you know, that guy! The aborigine gentleman named Kendi reminded me of the dude from Crocidile Dundee. Crikey! This film has inspired me to see the wonderful outback called Australia. I hope to find a wonderful marsupial lover of my own. This screen writer's cinematic vision was brought to life. It has encouraged me to see his other films so I can study him. His artistry is as Steely Dan's music was in the seventies - ahead of its time and unreproducible. "},{"Title":"Subtle balletic reference","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Interesting feature of the film is not explicitly revealed, but is an excellent in joke - there's a scene where the Russian ballerina turns into a werewolf during a rehearsal. Anyway she's playing the part of Cinderella from Prokofiev's ballet, and the point at which she changes is midnight at the ball!!! Very moving and intense moment and typical of the subtle referential style of the film, which is generally acute and unobvious. Other notable moments include various allusions to An American Werewolf in London including parallel transformation scenes and a wonderful Mozartian arrangement of Bad Moon Rising. The scene after the birth of the main female lead's baby is really beautiful and grotesque, with a gorgeous animated marsupial baby that looks really quite rude against her peculiarly pubic-looking hairy belly! Other great touches include the hilarious film director character who's almost libellously caricatured!! (No comment no spoiler!!) And of course a wonderful cameo from Dame Edna Everage!!!AND of course Carole Skinner, who plays one of the werewolves, is the supremely evil Nola McKenzie from 'Prisoner Cell Block H'! "},{"Title":"Horror-comedy with a heart","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Despite this being one of many sequels to an acclaimed original, don't let this fact put you off from watching this under-acknowledged film. Howling III - The Marsupials is a surprisingly good werewolf spoof with a twist; set in Australia (and let's face it, an Aussie horror movie is a rarity - only Body Melt and Razorback spring to mind), it deals with the plight of a dwindling pack of marsupial werewolves who are in danger of becoming extinct.The movie focuses its attention more on character development and emotion rather than the usual random slashings that prevail in such similar movies. The premise is novel and therefore makes for some interesting watching and genuine involvement.  Horror fans need not dismay, as there is also a fair share of scares and realistic (if a little corny) human-to-wolf metamorphosis sequences.  Some nice welcome comic touches are present, including a Hitchcockian horror movie director played by Frank Thring, relishing every moment of the role.  Barry Otto is likeable as the anthropologist who joins the werewolf clan to help save them.  And let's not forget the exquisite Imogen Annesley as Jerboa, who shines as a beautiful young human marsupial, escaping from her abusive stepfather and running off to the big city (Sydney) where she finds fame and romance (no, she's not Joan Collins).The movie comes off quite well on the whole, and has a very moralistic and humane message, dealing with the preservation of dying species.  "},{"Title":"Piece of wolf poo.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Howling III  The Marsupials is one of the most horridly atrocious movies I've ever seen.  It's movies like this that give the horror genre a bad reputation and crappy representation.  It's got horrible acting (I've got a funny feeling.  Indigestion?  No, fear.). It's got a horrible story (Some Alfred Hitchcock-looking guy is making a horror movie and they hire a real werewolf to star in it.  Then throw in the National Intelligence Agency, the KGB, a ballerina, werewolf nuns, and a town called Flow...Oh my, that's wolf spelled backwards!  Give me a break.).  It's also got horrible effects (worst werewolves ever).  And the Marsupial baby thing was just plain gross.  The movie within the movie, It Came From Uranus, seemed more interesting actually.  I mean, Part II was bad, but nothing can save this piece of wolf poo.  The original Howling was such a name brand horror film. How could they degrade it this much?  Who in the world thought that this was going to be a good movie?  Howling III's only saving grace...it's better than Part 7. "},{"Title":"One of the Better Howlings","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" On amusement value alone this sits head and shoulders above most of the other Howling films.As long as you're not looking for a well scripted film, then it's your classically amusing Bad film.I'm shocked it's in the worst 100, as it IS entertaining.The baby scenes can be pretty gross too.Even if the other effects are a bit lacking.For fans of the series it's a must, unless you're of the opinion the series can actually by ruined, in which case you might be offended!There's some semi intentional humour within the scripting too, as one would expect with a spoofing of this type "}{"Title":"A little flawed, but acceptable","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Howling III The Marsupials is a decent, if unspectacular werewolf film.**SPOILERS**After being transfixed with a video shot by his grandfather years ago, Professor Harry Beckmeyer, (Barry Otto) is asked by the US Government to fly to Australia to investigate a series of werewolf reports with Professor Sharp, (Ralph Cotterill) an old friend and colleague. In an isolated part of the bush, Jerboa, (Imogen Annesley) runs away from her stepfather, Thylo, (Max Fairchild) and escapes to Sydney . Spotting Jerboa, Donny Martin, (Leigh Biolos) offers her a small role in a horror movie and start a relationship together. When it's discovered that Jerboa is a marsupial werewolf and pregnant, they all team up to save the group from being hunted to death.The Good News There is a few really nice things about this one. The focus is on its rather intriguing central premise of a specifically Australian colony of werewolves, called were-thylacines, since these are marsupial werewolves. Now, this notion is one of the most creative and original ideas out there, and what merit it has rests largely on the fact that it came up with this outlandish premise and it follows through on it, giving the chance to learn more than they probably ever wanted to know about these kinds of creature. The sequences devoted to them are quite ingeniously written out and paint a fully developed picture of their family life, which goes a long way in here to making the outlandish family life all the more believable. When it decides to go all out, it can deliver some amusing scenes. The transformations done are quite nicely handled, especially the one forced on by the strobbing light nearby. The sequence at the ballerina exhibit is one of the more inventive ideas around and is a full-on cheese scene that plays out wonderfully. The attempts at comedy are also nicely done, as an exchange on a bus gives off a great line, and several lines later on during the werewolf hunt worthy of a chuckle. The most amount of laughs occur due to the film-within-a-film scenes, which greatly pokes fun at the entire werewolf genre with a couple of great moments. There is some rather good things in here.The Bad News There is still a couple of things keeping this down. The most obvious is that the film is way to cheesy to ever take seriously, whether this was intended or not. The werewolves look really terrible, with over-elongated snouts, non-threatening eyes, and more of a dog look to them than anything. The transformations occur in unusual places, but really can't hold up that well and come off very unconvincingly. There's plenty of other examples spread throughout, but those can't be spoiled. The lack of gore is also a big problem, as there's a large amount of bodies knocked off in here and it would've made the film a tad more tolerable had we seen them getting their kills on-screen. The ending chase through the bush is really hard to sit through, when it delves into a large amount of political debate over tolerating the species of werewolves more than the action shown. It's largely out-of-place and slows the movie down when they all go off on those rants when it should've been carrying through on its action scenes which showed lots of potential. Even worse is that it's a message carried out through the film, and really didn't need to be told to us in the manner given in the film. It's also one of the most confusing films around, as it delves into a couple different subplots that are adequately explained, but are not really in the right film. The different subplots aren't necessarily that bad, but only make the film far more confusing than it needs to be. It could've done with scaling a couple of them back or eliminating them altogether. That would still leave the explanation for the werewolves, which is one of the hokiest and most unbelievable ones offered, and is such a giant U-turn from normal werewolf lore that it needs a couple of views to acceptably get it down.The Final Verdict Sure, it's a giant cheese-fest, but there's some good ideas in here that may not be all that original but it at least showed that there was some creativity used in the process. This is still only recommended to the most hardcore werewolf fan though.Rated PG-13 Violence, Nudity, a mild sex scene and some Language "},{"Title":"Cool if you're from Sydney or know of Burnum Burnum","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" So. This is a bad horror movie. Most are in some way. But this one has humour and is fun to watch. The Australian setting and well known local people from the 70s and 80s make it especially fun for Sydney-Siders.The movie is also notable for the appearance of Burnum Burnum, as Kendi, in one of his few movie roles. He got into some trouble over his part from certain quarters. But as he said, ...it's just a movie and it's entertainment, nothing serious. Watch it for the period piece that it is and enjoy something a little off-beat.Also, watch out for Alan Dargin, the famous Aussie musician, as the Tracker. "},{"Title":"eeehhh!!!!!","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Howling III is the third movie in the famous Howling series, and this one came right after the 1985 hit Howling II - Stirba - Werewolf (bleep). (Sorry; I just had to say it!!!!! LOL)This movie took place down in Australia, hence the tagline as well as the title (Howling III The Marsupials). Being extremely hot here in my area, as well as the Northern Hemisphere, I decided to check this turkey out seeing that it was close to the wall of shame here at IMDb. And man, was it intense!!!!! The horror, the violence, the gore - all were very realistic and it totally changed my mind about going down under!!!!! Just kidding; I wish I was down there in 50-60 degree (Fahrenheit) coolness!!!!!So far, I am quite impressed with the Howling series. If you like horror, then this movie is just right for you.10/10 "},{"Title":"Not up to the first films standards. A comedy/horror film to cash in on the comedy/horror craze of the late 80's.","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Third instalment to the long running Howling series shifts the action to Australlia where a young assistant director on a horror film falls in love with a runaway girl, whom is really a special breed of werewolf. Soon her relatives from the bush country come looking for her & that's not all, the government is now aware of the werewolves existence & they may soon come to the bush country to try & make them an extinct breed. After the badly panned HOWLING II & seeing how good the original was & just how bad his sequel was, Director PHILLIPEE MORA'S second try at the Howling series, offers more of the same as his first sequel, only it doesn't feel as if he was just writing the script as he went along, nor does the film use extensive nudity & sex to cover up & make up for it's bad qualities & surprisingly the films special effects are much better (as is the acting & directing) than what Part II had to offer. The werewolf effects, were pretty decent. I wasn't as fond of this film as I was with the first two, because this film can in no way match the first & is nowhere near as cheesily bad as the first sequel, which was so bad, it was actually enjoyable in a PLAN 9 FROM SPACE sort of way. HOWLING III, is unrelated to the first two films & is the only one in the series that is a stand alone, with Parts 4-7 connecting with each other. The director pokes fun at previous werewolf films of the past & even makes fun of B movies, with FRANK THRING putting in a good performance as an ALFRED HITCHCOCK like B movie director, working on a bad B movie. That said, although I admire the director for realizing that it was probably best to make a non serious, werewolf movie here, since it would obviously fail when compared to the first, if it were attempting to be serious (Like the last film that tried but wound up to laughably bad). I feel he over did it here. The original film had a perfect balance of humour & horror (& like this film poked fun at previous werewolf pictures) HOWLING III, relies to heavily on the comedy to bring it through & I felt this damaged a lot of of scenes the film did have, that could have added up the chills & surpassed the second, while at the same time could have rivalled a few scenes in the original & I found the Australlian accents to be a little off putting at times & like HOWLING II, it all falls apart once the film switches into the second half & seemingly ends on an even more ridiculous note than Part II did. Still it's better than Parts 4, 5 & 7. In short it makes for an interesting watch, but I highly doubt it will ever make it on your top ten favourites horror movie list & will be more than likely to fade you memory. A good shot, but really Like Part II & the sequels that followed after, these didn't even come close to topping the first & were better off not being made. Followed by an another unrelated sequel, HOWLING 4 THE ORIGINAL NIGHTMARE **1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Another Dreadful Sequel.","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Part III is a change of direction for this franchise, set in Australia(no overt links to the first two) where a young woman finds herself involved with an oddball film director and some very strange werewolves related to a secluded aboriginal tribe, where expedition members are being killed.Though different from Part II, this is no less bizarre and ridiculous, with a plot that doesn't hang together at all, truly bizarre characters and music, and an ending sequence so self-defeating and crass that you would think returning director Phillippe Mora was intending to kill this budding franchise(not a bad idea really...shame it didn't happen!) "},{"Title":"The MarsupialsThe Howling III","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Philippe Mora returned to the director's chair once again to direct the third Howling movie, again going for comedy satire. Barry Otto is Professor Harry Beckmeyer, interested in locating authentic werewolves, doing so when it is discovered that a tribe led by Thylo(Max Fairchild)exists in Austrailia. Thylo's stepdaughter, Jerboa(the stunning Imogen Annesley, even with body fur and a kangaroo pouch)flees the tribe and meets a movie director's assistant, Donny Martin(Lee Biolos), the two eventually falling in love. Their union produces a Marsupial human child. Meanwhile the Australian government decides that werewolves are a threat to the human race when some of them attack people out of self-defense(in one instance, though, a whole hospital staff is annihilated which fuels the wrath of the military, afraid that werewolves would go on a rampage, hostile towards innocent bystanders). Beckmeyer assists Thylo and his new girlfriend, Russian ballerina, Olga(Dagmar Bláhová), in helping them escape into the wilderness as two hunters are sent in by the military to find them. Jerboa, along with her half-wolf/half-human infant, joins Donny as they also hide in the woods away from those who wish to harm them. Mora's camp cult item has an actual werewolf birth and some Velveeta make-up effects which will induce giggles instead of terror. The werewolf transformations and costumes are hokey. Each entry in the series distanced itself more and more from Joe Dante's classic werewolf film. A protracted poke at the long transformation in the first HOWLING film and other gags taking comedic jabs at werewolf films are included by Mora who seems to care little about atmosphere or horror and more about satire and humor. "},{"Title":"A good Bad Movie","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The 3rd Howling movie came out hot on the heels of the success of Crocodile Dundee, at a time when Australia was just THE holiday destination for most of the planet. Surprisingly this movie is based on a published novel written by the original author and in many ways deals with some quite intelligent themes concerning man's extinction of species. The way this film manages to crudely handle these ideas though, whilst also attempting camp humor and schlock horror, result in a truly awful mess that will have a room full of B-Movie fans rolling around in fits of laughter. Pack the fridge with Fosters and put some shrimp on the barbie - but be afraid if the host suddenly brings out their album of holiday snaps from 1986... "},{"Title":"bad Aussie accents and even worse plot","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" lets just say I'm lucky that my mum paid for the film and not me...and she only spent $5 on it, anything more would be criminal. the film has a terrible plot, besides the underlying themes that obviously came from the book it was based on. the concept of a human/marsupial-like tribe of people in the Aussie bush is quite enlightening to say the least. i personally saw the film as a satire, and not a true attempt at a horror film...particularly when it tried to make fun of horror films in its own fake horror film 'it came from Uranus' in the beginning of the film. for one thing the film dragged on and on...i was reading the blurb and was over an hour through it before what was described on the blurb actually occurred, plus the ending was dragged out too much. Yay for the Dame Edna cameo at the end, a strange Australian icon to say the least. one thing that made me laugh was the terrible Australian accents, and the way they interpreted the Australian culture. those Aborigines at the beginning were hilarious, they looked like pacific islanders, not Aborigines...how hard is it to dress the actors in loin clothes and ceremonial paint instead of grass skirts and coconuts? the special effects are bad but I've seen worse. lets just say the movie was bearable but id never really think of watching it again unless i need a good laugh. bad but hilarious at times, and as a whole. i wouldn't bother buying this unless it was cheap..and i mean really cheap. otherwise rent it. "},{"Title":"One of the worst Horror movies ever","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I actually rented this with a friend many years ago, it was recommended by the same friend not for scariness but for its unintentional funniness. Did we laugh! Jiggling rubber werewolves,and bodies plummeting out of hi-rises accompanied by hilariously inappropriate cheery music had us rolling on the floor. It was painfully obvious the filmmakers had limited resources. In some movies this lends a somewhat creaky charm, but here the effect ranges from embarrassing to surprisingly humorous. Maybe, looking back on it, this movie was supposed to be a spoof of werewolf films, who can tell? "},{"Title":"The Best In The Howling series","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I've rented this movie about 20 times now and still can't get enough of it. It's hilarious. Definitely the best movie in the Howling series. It is however nearly impossible to find a copy nowadays. "}{"Title":"Kangaroo people...how can ya lose?","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I am entertained by bad films...this film was exceptional in its badness, so I was definitely entertained. That said, I can't recommend this with a good conscience. My wife moaned and rolled her eyes throughout this movie...it is certainly for the lovers of bad films (such as Plan 9 from Outer Space). I won't even get into the story, or lack there of, because everyone else has touched on it in their reviews. If you read the basic plot line and are still interested, maybe you should rent this. You may very well have what it takes to endure this film. You will note that others mention that this has a good story line, but its confusing. In other words, it DOESN'T have a good story line. I am curious about the setting of Australia for this film. I was 13 when this film came out and as I recall there was a strong surge of Australian culture in the mid 80's. Men at Work, Jocko the battery guy (Oi!), Crocodile Dundee...maybe I'm reading a bit much into this, but I wonder if they were trying to cash in on this pop culture movement. It seems like its a year or so late, but who knows? Just a thought....Another interesting note is that they didn't bother to reformat this for television in the DVD transfer...very wide title slates and 2 shots would seem to insist that this film would be in widescreen, but apparently they didn't find it necessary, so at times you can't read a title or you're looking at 2 people with half of both their faces cut off. No pan-and-scan or any attempts to rectify..not a big deal, just a bit telling of how much they cared about this movie when bumping up to disc. A bit of editing could have possibly helped a bit (although not much). The pacing is a bit slow at times. The movie also doesn't seem to want to end...it just goes on and on...getting more and more ridiculous as it trudges along. Maybe that's a little harsh. It's pretty ridiculous throughout.But like I said, if you like the bad films run, don't walk, to your local yahoo-hayseed mom 'n pop rental place and get this movie. "},{"Title":"Werewolves in Annoy-o-vision. (spoilers)","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Though the first Howling will, to me, forever be the greatest (and one of my favorite werewolf movies of all time), and though the sequels tended to be rather insulting, the third one does something a little different by way of werewolf lore. The Howling III takes place in Australia, where a team of scientists have discovered a tribe of half-human-half-werewolves living in a rural plot called 'Flow' (you get it?). While the government wants to kill this carnivorous clan, the scientists merely want to study where the tribe came from; how did they become a werewolf? What we have is a scientific, though highly bizarre (the main character, an American man, has sex with the other main character, the wolf girl, who gives birth to a little wolf baby and no one seems at all disturbed by it) and rather unique, exploration of werewolves that I have only really seen done in a similar way with zombies in Romero's Day of the Dead (where the crazed scientist wanted to know about the psychology of zombies). The story is indeed, only somewhat captivating, especially if you like traditional werewolf tales and lots of action. Supplanted, instead, is lots of scientific jargon about this particular tribe. Your not faced with the kind of eerie werewolf transformations or malevolent shadows lurking in the dark, which were essential elements of the first in the series, and many of those that followed (in fact, probably all that followed other than part 3). Indeed, the special effects crew, does not leave you hanging with too much technical information, and offers a few transformation sequences, but which pale in comparison with many werewolf films (even the bad ones). There is a sequence in the movie where the main character, an American, takes the strange Australian wolf-girl (in human form) to a horror movie. It is a shoddy werewolf movie, and one done so badly, you might actually laugh (I think that was the point, anyway). The werewolf costume looks so stupid, but many of the transformations in the movie do model it quite closely.I would say that if you're in the mood for something different by way of werewolf tales, then this may be just right for you. If you enjoy all the pulsating action and incredible scenery and special effects of the first Howling, or of any other fantastic werewolf film, then you might find yourself rather bored at times (if not bored entirely with the whole thing), and possibly amused here and there by getting something different (in this story, the werewolf tribe descended from dingos and they are marsupials), though not very 'scary.'However, before recommending this movie, I must warn prospective viewers that, about three quarters of the way into the movie, the picture dramatically shifts gears and turns into an absolute cheese fest, complete with dreamy unfocused shots and orchestral score. This, too, is about the point when the story becomes slightly confusing, as though the filmmakers had run out of ideas at this point. The main characters return to America to raise their marsupial child while the scientist and his werewolf mate stay behind in the isolated town to raise their children. While, up to this point, the filmmakers may have been able to sustain my attention at least with some of the uniqueness in story (though somewhat lacking on craft, nonetheless), this point in the film nearly had me laughing this completely bizarre and rather sudden turn in the story. The remainder of the movie is totally lost by this point. Not to mention, it ends too abruptly. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies of all time","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" An unbelievably bad sequel so devoid of talent behind and in front of the camera that it just boggles the mind. It makes you wonder how a film this terrible ever got off the starting blocks; at times it's unbearably poor and not even the unintentional laughs can make up for the stink it creates. This grubby lump is easily a contender for the worst film I've ever seen.Scientist Barry Otto heads to Australia to investigate werewolf sightings and becomes involved (very involved) with a tribe of marsupial werewolves, including pregnant Imogen Annesley, who eventually gives birth to a rubber baby that looks like a doggy chew toy. The transformation scenes are pitiful, the acting is as bad as bad acting gets, the editing is shoddy, and when we move forward 23 years for an epilogue the actors don't look any older than they did in the previous scenes.Director Phillipe Mora puts this thing together with no indication that he has even the most basic clue about the fundamentals of film-making, framing his shots like inept holiday photos, blundering his way through his sloppily-structured plot without ever coming within hailing distance of the quality of a porno movie. It's painful to watch, just awful, awful stuff. "},{"Title":"Oz effort gives Howling series a bad name","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Just another in the long list of crappy horror films Oz makes. With the exclusion of a cameo by Michael Pate, my favorite scene, in the messy schlock, and the hot Imogen Annesley, this fails to satisfy on all levels. The movie is a garbage viewing experience, which grants some laughable bits here and there, one funny line on the future of actors, spouted by the late great Frank Thring, which goes over as a memorably classic one. Homeless Annesley is picked up by a talent scout, an assistant on a new horror film. They have sex, though Annesley isn't what she seems at all. She harvests a secret. She's a yeah.... a marsupial werewolf, but she's got bigger problems, she's having babies, offspring marsupials, half human, would you believe. Of course. Couldn't the movie get any sillier. Wait, here's a line you thought you'd never hear, uttered by scientist, Otto, his talents totally wasted here- We believe werewolves still exist. Pate, replies Where for god's sake. Now, get ready for it- Otto's reply. Australia. As if. Pate's character, here signals his cameramen to stop filming for some reason. A woman, Otto falls in love with, an early Neighbours regular by the way, holds the key to breaking the curse and ending the vicious slaughter. If to compensate by how crappy these movie is, at least we have laughable moments, eye rolling ones like at a cast party, or when an aboriginal sneaks up on Otto, with that all famous line, Wanna put a shrimp on the barbie which would of been more of a shock if not shown in it's preview. This movie is just so crappy and bad, where not even good cheese can come from it. It's an insult to this series that wastes a cast of some bloody good actors. Even No. 4's better. "},{"Title":"When most of the jokes are bad, why should you care?","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" To say Howling II...You're Sister's a Werewolf did bad would be an understatement. Critics savaged it, horror fans were mad, everyone else was confused as to what kind of movie they had seen, and the movie tanked in the box office. So, did director Philippe Mora own up to the movie being a disaster? Of course he didn't.Like many directors whose movie was poorly received, Mora said it wasn't his fault. Nope, it was the studio and the producer's faults, as they compromised his vision. Well what luck for him-the studio wanted nothing to do with the series after Howling II, so Mora could now make a second sequel, and this time, he could do it in his vision. He could show those studio execs what's what, and he could show the world that the failure of the previous movie wasn't his fault.It didn't work out that way.Oh sure, like Howling II, it was a bigger hit on video than it was in theaters, and it's gained a cult following, but also like that movie, it was poorly received by horror fans, critics and the general audience alike, and did poor box-office, only this time it killed any chances of another Howling sequel getting a theatrical release. So, is it bad like everyone says it is? In a word yes.Having nothing to do with the prior movies, Howling III revolves around a strange Australian race of werewolves that are part man, part wolf and part marsupial. You can't say there isn't any originality in this movie. Anyways, Jerboa (Imogen Annesley) is trying to escape her tribe after her stepfather attempts to rape her. Traveling to the city, she meets Donny (Leigh Biolos), whose the assistant director for a horror movies called Shape Shifters 8. Donny offers her a role, and they soon fall in love. However, it soon becomes apparent that something other than her lycanthropic tendencies is acting up, and to make matters worse, Professors Beckmeyer (Barry Otto) and Sharp (Ralph Cotterill) are after them. Then there's that Russian Ballerina Olga (Dagmar Bláhová).Like Howling II, much of the humor here falls flat-the only times I laughed are when Olga kills her ballet partner and the poster for Mora's The Beast Within hanging on Donny's wall. In fact, the humor here is even worse than the prior effort's. Say what you will, but at least Howling II tried to come off as a horror movie. Here, Mora goes for a full on satire of horror movies, but none of his jabs at the genre (such as a fat, Alfred Hitchcock looking director played by Frank Thring, and a few parody movies and a tribute/spoof of the original's conclusion) hit the mark. As it's been said a billion times, balancing horror and comedy is a tricky thing, and there's nothing wrong with opting more for laughs. However, when most of the jokes are bad, why should you care? When Dame Edna and a town called Flow (ha ha) are all you got, and even werewolves disguised as nuns can't be interesting, your movie has problems.It also doesn't help that only Annesley stands out as far as acting is concerned. Everyone else here ranges from mediocre (Biolos makes for a bland love interest) to terrible (Thring is really annoying and all around bad as main director Jack Citron), and they don't really do anything to warrant a reason to care about them. To make things worse, Mora's direction is even worse this time. Watching this, it was hard to believe that this came from the same director of Mad Dog Morgan and Communion, as he shows none of the skill those movies offered.Needless to say, the four sequels that followed it went straight to video, and it somehow manages to be slightly worse than Howling II. At least that movie had moments of inspiration. This movie will mostly just inspire fits of boredom. "},{"Title":"Not As Bad As Everyone Says, If You're Drunk","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" A new species of werewolf is discovered in Australia. Not unlike other Australian animals, this breed is unique and contains a marsupial pouch. A professor and a casting director for a horror film come across the species in two very different ways -- one as a field of study and the other as a love interest. Needless to say, the military would prefer killing what they fear and don't understand rather than accept it... even if she is incredibly hot.I watched this film at a friend's house unbelievably wasted on Scotch (for those who care, the brand was Passport Scotch and it was a sweet treat mixed with Diet Cherry Pepsi). So, in the movie's defense, I wasn't really giving it the thorough care I normally would. But then, I believe it's one of the lowest rated films in the Howling series, so if I said horrible things about it, I wouldn't be alone.Maybe it was the booze talking, but I actually really loved Howling III. The gorgeous werewolf chick, the marsupial pouch, the professor (played by Barry Otto) who is so distinctly Australian looking (he bears a resemblance to Professor Peter Singer). I don't normally like my ladies with a hairy belly, but I might make an exception.I got the feeling that the film decreased in quality as it went on, though I can't be completely sure because I talked to my friend throughout the viewing and I missed pretty much everything. But what I saw looked alright and didn't seem nearly as bad as the other genre sequels (this means you, Leprechaun in Space).Sadly, I wasn't a big fan of the original Howling. I love Joe Dante, but something about that film just didn't hit me. I'd give it another chance, but this is the weird part... I think I enjoyed part three better. I never saw part two (with Christopher Lee), but I hear it's a complete flop. I'd probably love it. If you like bad horror sequels and cheap booze, The Howling III is your film. Otherwise, check out the review for the other film I watched the same evening (when I began to sober up), Gremlins II (coincidentally with Christopher Lee, directed by Joe Dante). "},{"Title":"Human vs Werewolf World","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A rather poor second sequel to the original Howling film. The only thing that was worthwhile to watch was Professor Beckmeyer played by Barry Otto. The good professor has search many years for the truth about a new species of life, a human/wolf. Finally the professor has found the truth about them but he is caught up with humans trying to kill every werewolf in existence. Normally the professor would join in step with the human race but he falls in love with a werewolf and they have a child. He hides in the wilderness for over 15 years to protect his new family. The professor is really the only character in the whole film that you can like. The professor finally leaves the safety of the woods but can he return to mankind and be safe again? "},{"Title":"Another Good Installment","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A Fine Addition to the Howling Series. This one is not Rated R, so Do not Expect too Much Gore and Nudity. Also, There is Really no Scares, Because Believe it or Not, These Werewolves are Plant Eaters. This is really Just a Fun movie that Delivers a Plentiful amount of Entertainment. I Give it 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Howl!Howl!Howl!Woo!Wee! This movie rocks!","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is the best of the sequels, and is actually as freaky as the first one! Though the first one is of course, is made much more professional than all the sequels, and the acting is greater and everything, but some of the sequels are very, very entertaining B-horror movies. "},{"Title":"People do not give this movie enough credit.","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" It has to be one of the top 5 worst movies ever made and that's an accomplishment. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who loves bad movies.The acting is fantastically bad, especially the at the end when the main character's son mentions his mom will be at the academy awards. The son's acting is honestly worse than the skills of a porn actor.Just make sure you watch it with a group of people for maximum entertainment value. Definitely worth renting.Great cameo by Dame Edna. 0 out of 10 for quality. 10 out of 10 for unintentional laughs. "}{"Title":"Could have been sooo much better.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A man falls in love with a werewolf and she bears his child, but a problem arises as hunters start killing off the werewolves. The script is a lot more deserving than this. It is witty and offers great characterizations. But the direction is flat, the film is given the standard low budget treatment and the movie fails despite good intentions. My rating 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie makes me embarrassed that it was made in Australia. I haven't seen it for a few years and don't ever want to see it again. The main crap that sticks in my head is when Team Alpha is dispatched to hunt down the marsupials. These guys are supposed to be the best, but all the producers could afford in their budget was for two guys with a bazooka. When nightfall comes the two elite soldiers sit inside a $5.00 tent and waits till one of the marsupials enters their tent before firing the bazooka, killing everyone in the tent. How ridiculous. It is surprising to see the cast of the Barry McKenzie movies and Dame Edna would associate themselves with the most disgusting movie ever made. "},{"Title":"Another great big, heaping, steaming pile of werewolf caca","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Gary Brandner's book, The Howling III, was a sequel in-name-only to his two earlier books, so I guess it is appropriate that this third Howling film is a sequel in-name-only to the two earlier films. But that doesn't mean the film should suck so badly. An attempt (I think) at humour falls flat here with this horribly boring movie about a young werewolf girl who moves to Sydney and is cast as the lead in some cheeseball horror movie, directed by an Alfred Hitchcock clone. I think. To be quite honest with you after a decent start, the first 20 minutes or so, I could barely pay attention to what little story there was to this movie.Good on location photography in Sydney, but you can watch the Travel Channel or National Geographic to see that. That seems to be the only real appeal to the majority of these Howling sequels on-location photography (part 2 was filmed in Czechoslovakia, part 3 in Sydney, part 4 in South Africa, part 5 in Hungary) "},{"Title":"Werewolves Down Under","Date":"13 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Howling III (1987) * 1/2 (out of 4) The third film in the series has no connection to the first two so this here works best as a standalone episode or at least a different werewolf film that has the HOWLING tied in for commercial reasons. There are two stories going on here with the first being a scientist trying to figure out if the werewolf footage his grandfather shot in 1905 is actually a real wolf. The second story deals with a young woman breaking away from her family but this isn't your typical woman, she's actually a werewolf. Soon the two stories come together and the end result just isn't very good. HOWLING III has a pretty poor reputation and a lot of this seems to be from fans who simply don't like the fact that this film has no real connection to the first two movies. I can see how that might be disappointing to people but the real issue is the story itself, which is just silly and never really makes too much sense. This entire thing is more Oxploitation than anything else as we get some pretty silly sequences that pop up out of nowhere and don't go anywhere. I think the highlights of the film has to be the pregnant woman giving birth to a werewolf baby and of course since we're talking Australia you have to have her carry the baby around in her pouch just like a kangaroo. These scenes are just so outrageous that you can't help but smile at them and wish the entire film was about these patches. There's no question that the film goes for many laughs and I think this is part of the problem. It seems to try and be more like the first film in the series but there's simply nothing clever going on here. The performances aren't too bad but these aren't what people come to see. For a horror film there's really no scares and for a horror film of the 80s there's not any gore either. "},{"Title":"LOW BUDGET BORE FROM DOWNUNDER!!!","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie has an 80s feel. I watched this movie on Sci Fi and the only thing going for it was the dated soundtrack. I thought the acting is non-existent and sophmoric. The female appears to be bored half the time. I would not waste my time with this. I'll watched the Howling II before I'll sit through this non-related sequel. "},{"Title":"Maybe you have to be an aussie to like this","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  it seems most of the people who dump on this film here are american, now me, i saw this on tv a few years back and loved it. it's true it does not make sense, and it is absolutely stupid, but it is just taking the p**s out of everything and the acting in it was so over the top. now i don't remember to much about the direction or script, but i do remember recommending it to everyone i knew. it's kind of like welcome to whoop whoop, if you don't like weird stupid stuff that is laughing at it's self, then you won't enjoy this film. but if you like a good laugh and don't go in expecting a normal horror film, you should enjoy this. and hell, it is worth seeing just for the beau guy from the beau repairs adverts, hahaha, classic. "},{"Title":"Strewth, mate!","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Intended as part tongue-in-cheek comedy and part horror, Howling III is sadly neither funny nor scary. French director Philippe Mora once again calls the shots, this time transplanting the action to the outback of Australia, where a small group of half-human/half-marsupial shape-shifters live in isolation, away from the persecution of man. However, when the beautiful Jerboa (Imogen Annesley) leaves for the big city, and falls in love with Donny, a member of a film crew, she unwittingly exposes her clan to danger...The plot to this second sequel to the original 80s horror hit is so stupid, and so far removed from the first film, that it is bound to find a small audience amongst werewolf fans keen to see just how truly bizarre and totally crap it actually is. Those that do seek the film out and watch it in its entirety will be treated to a mind-bogglingly awful (but definitely one-of-a-kind) experience, that features such dubious delights as a trio of werewolf nuns, a top horror film director who looks and acts uncannily like Hitchcock, a birth scene with a difference (the newborn crawls from between Jerboa's legs and into the furry pouch on her stomach), and a Russian ballerina transforming into a hairy monster mid-performance.Whilst all of this sounds like terrific fun for fans of cheap, trashy horror, it isn't although the whole film tries desperately to be 'so bad, it's funny', the slow delivery, dreadful acting, awful effects and cheap production values ensure that it just ends up being embarrassing to watch. Throw in a cameo from Barry 'Dame Edna' Humphries as the host of an awards show, and you have one hell of a bad film! "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Man falls in love with a marsupial werewolf, but a group of hunters are tracking the wolves down and killing them even though they aren't dangerous. Re-working of part II (which was pretty bad to begin with) features poor special effects and lacks any thrills or chills, but has some very funny moments. Rated PG-13 for Mild Violence, Torture, and Nudity. "},{"Title":"It has the features of the werewolf in a different way of life needs work, a lot of work.","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I didn't like the movie because of how it was set up on werewolf history. Werewolves are real but not the way this movie describes it. Everything in this movie was not as it was told and you show a movie about werewolves then you put the Queen of the Werewolves in shame because of the awful skin texture and the information of the title i feel very offended by the way this movie was put coming from the Queen of the Werewolves. Since i feel offended by this movie but the facts were mainly true if read of the history correctly. Also for the fact I did like this movie because of most of the fact i was very unimpressed by most of the fact given in the movie. But seriously don't make more movie just on facts and imagination but put imagination into the fact of the movie. People want entertainment for the werewolf lovers people don't want to have to yell and scream at this movie because it is wrong the the feature of the movie. Whish is unexceptable from the Queen of the Werewolves. "},{"Title":"THE MARSUPIALS HOWLING III (Philippe Mora, 1987) **","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I'm not a big fan of THE HOWLING (1981), so I didn't expect much from one of its myriad sequels. Ever since the release of the original film and AN American WEREWOLF IN London (1981), it seems that all werewolf films have been done with tongue-in-cheek (including the recent Ginger Snaps trilogy and CURSED 2005); this one's no exception and is actually campy in the extreme (despite its attempt to merge the myth with modern science)! The result is alternately silly and obnoxious, but manages to be amusing on occasion. Surprisingly, the film isn't all that gory but the make-up effects are pretty cheap-looking...though the baby werewolf (which the leading lady holds in the pouch in her belly, like a kangaroo - the film was shot in Australia, after all) is rather cute. The cast is largely unknown (apart from Frank Thring as an eccentric film director, Michael Pate as the President and Barry Humphreys - in his Dame Edna Everage persona - as, of all things, an Academy Awards presenter) but, at least, Imogen Annesley makes for a lovely lead and her performance isn't too bad either.I will be following this with my second viewing of two other werewolf films from the era THE COMPANY OF WOLVES (1984; via the R2 SE I purchased recently) and SILVER BULLET (1985; a DVD rental)... "}{"Title":"Aussie werewolves don't care if there's a full moon or not","Date":"30 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Wow, I almost feel tempted to generously reward this movie with a couple of additional points just for giving such a uniquely original and never-before-seen spin on the contemporary derivative theme of 80's werewolves. Like Philippe Mora's previous sequel Howling II Stirba already was, The Howling III The Marsupials is 100% pure trash with a demented plot and preposterous situations, but at least you can't claim that our director only wanted to cash in further of the success of the original classic. Personally, I can't help thinking the basic idea behind the Marsupials is terrific and highly inventive. The concept of werewolves with a pouch, half-human descendants of the in 1933 extinct Thylacine (also known as the Tasmanian Wolf) that live together in a remote isolated community because humans want to exterminate them, is very ingenious and clever. The Marsupials don't necessarily change when the moon is full, but merely when they feel anxious or threatened, or when exposed to heavily flashing lights. The gorgeous female Marsupial Jerboa is tired of living in the outback community, with all its restrictions and dominant male leader, and flees to the big city. She quickly gets offered a small part in a horror film and falls in love with the assistant director. Meanwhile the American scientist Dr. Beckmeyer &#x96; who has an unhealthy obsession for the Marsupials &#x96; is on track of the community by following around a female Russian ballet dancer who suddenly transformed on stage. So far so good, actually, but then the film inexplicably turns into a bizarre type of soap-opera. Jerboa gets pregnant and nurses the supposedly cute (?) hairy wolf embryo in her pouch, while Dr. Beckmeyer deliberately releases the captured Marsupials and battles for their rights. The sudden change in tone is hard to digest, since Howling III pretty much started like an outrageous B-movie with elements of parody and camp. The film-within-film sequences are very tongue-in-cheek and the werewolf effects are done with a big fat wink towards previous genre classics, like American Werewolf in London and The Company of Wolves. There's even a nifty little joke hidden in the name of the Marsupials' community Flow when you read it backwards. The idea predates the infamous Nilbog from Troll 2 with over three years. Then suddenly the whole thing turns into a semi-serious Werewolf Rights Activist flick and it becomes a lot more difficult to interpret it as a fun bad flick. "},{"Title":"*shrugs*","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" While better that part 2, this peculiar second sequel comes across as a satire of horror films, and while it's watchable enough it all seems to light and fluffy. To tell you the truth I don't know what to make of it, but any film with Dame Edna it it loses points. Still worth a watch once. And the fact that the Austrailian werewolf town is called Flow is just silly.Eye Candy Imogen AnnesleyMy Grade C-DVD Extras Director Philippe Mora commentary; promotional trailer; TV spot, and stills gallery "},{"Title":"My stepfather tried to rape me & he's a Werewolf. Bizarre but sort of entertaining.","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Howling III starts at the 'National Intelligence Agency United States' where a technician has intercepted a message from Russia in which it is claimed Werewolves exist in the small village of Leovich. Unsure what to make of it the message goes to the President (Michael Pate) who calls in Professor Harry Beckmeyer (Barry Otto) who investigates 'weird' stuff for the American government, Beckmeyer has a theory that Werewolves exist in Australia so he heads down under to uncover the truth. Together with his friend Professor Sharp (Ralph Cotterill) Beckmeyer begins his search for the truth. Meanwhile a young woman named Jerboa (Imogen Annesley) runs away from the outback & her stepfather Thylo (Max Fairchild) who tried to rape her & is a Werewolf, good reasons to run away I'd say. Jerboa ends up in Sydney where she is spotted by assistant director Donny Martin (Leigh Biolos) who gives her an acting job & falls in love with her, however at a party Jerboa transforms into a Werewolf & is taken to Hospital where Professor Sharp informs Beckmeyer that he may have found his Werewolves for him...This Australian production was written, co-produced & directed by Philippe Mora (who also directed the previous Howling film Howling II Stirba - Werewolf Bitch (1985)) & was the third entry in the Howling series of films that to date number seven. I have to admit that I found the entire film totally bizarre but sort of entertaining, I mean it's a hell of a lot better than Howling New Moon Rising (1995). The script is all over the place & has some really strange ideas & themes, from Werewolves dressed as nuns, Russian & American political intrigue, Aboriginal spirits & rituals, Russian Werewolf ballerinas, Werewolf communities, scientific experiments, it even tries to suggest the origins of Werewolves using the extinct Thylacine & it even has the campy transvestite Dame Edna Everage (Barry Humphries) in it! It doesn't work perfectly that's for sure as it feels very fragmented & bitty as it shifts focus all over the place, it starts out as a interracial love story, then it goes into military territory & then ends up feeling like Little House on the Prairie (1974 - 1983) as the Werewolves isolate themselves from civilisation & live happily all by themselves for years in a house in the middle of nowhere! There are so many things about Howling III that I could talk about but I doubt I could do it justice like how the Werewolves in Howling III are treated as a persecuted species & it's us humans who are the bad guys, when all said & done it's far from boring, at least it entertains & doesn't take itself seriously (or I certainly hope it doesn't because I couldn't).Director Mora makes a pretty incompetent film, some of the special effects are among the worst ever put on film, the Werewolves look absolutely awful & they add a certain amount of comedy value to the film themselves. I wasn't keen on the ending either, I thought it was all going to build up into something but it just sort of peters out into nothing & then when you don't think it can get anymore strange Dame Edna Everage pops up in a quite unbelievable cameo, talking of cameos eagle eyed viewers will notice Mora pays homage to the fantastic Turkey Shoot (1982) & the hairy mutant Alph makes a brief appearance. There isn't much in the way of traditional horror or scares as that's not really what the film is about. Forget about any real gore, there's a few dead bodies & a bit of blood but that's it & there's a nice subtle scene in which Jerboa gives birth & a little puppy looking thing emerges from between her legs...The budget for Howling III must have been very small & it's a pretty shoddy production with the special effects in particular looking awful. Some of the Australian locations look quite nice. The least said about the acting the better I'm afraid as it's not very good & Dame Edna Everage's cameo is truly embarrassing to watch.I liked Howling III, it's bizarre & strange & doesn't feel like a film as it's all over the place at times. However I was entertained & that's all I can really ask of a film. I'm not sure I could recommend it to anyone as when I think about it logically it's crap but what the hell I liked it anyway. "},{"Title":"Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha!!!!","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The film begins with a goofy professor trying to convince people that were-creatures do exist. For some odd reason, people think he's crazy (imagine!). However, when it turns out that the Russians might be having a werewolf problem, some people in the government begin to take him seriously.The film then goes to the Australian outback. A young lady seems pretty upset and runs away from her clan....who turn out to be were-marsupials!!! She goes to Sydney and meets a young film maker who gets her involved with the production of a cheap-o horror flick. In the interim, they do the nasty and she soon becomes pregnant with a freaky marsupial thingie. When this comes to the attention of a local hospital, they contact the police and the professor. Now they begin to take it seriously AND more were-marsupials are discovered. They're having a freakin' epidemic!! If you look at Howling III as a horror movie, you'll be horribly disappointed, as it isn't particularly scary. After all, how scary can marsupial were-creatures be?!? I mean, they raise their young in pouches like kangaroos and koalas!! However, if you look at is as a comedy, it's full of unintended laughs and gives you insight into the excruciatingly horrible films they were capable of making in the 1980s. In fact, the 1980s was THE decade of sequels upon sequels--situations where so many sequels were made that the original source material was completely lost in the process. What else could explain were-kangas and were-wombats?! There are a lot of stupid things I enjoyed about the film. The best were the were special effects. By this 3rd film, any attempt to create realistic creatures is out the window--they are strictly 3rd rate (at best). Now a few times, they get it close to right, but other times I think that a group of 12 year-olds could do better!! I loved the goofy wolf-like masks as well as the childbirth sequence where a weird thingie pops out and migrates to the leading lady's super-hairy pouch, the baby that looked a LOT like Ren from Ren and Stimpy! I also like how given her very, very, very hairy nether-regions, I am amazed that the idiot guy didn't notice this while they were having sex. I mean, she looked almost like Zira from the Planet of the Apes films around her crotch!! Ewww!!! I also loved how the film was done with such deadly earnestness. The serious tone only serves to make you laugh all the more, as it looks like the film makers actually thought they were making a real movie! Finally, being in my teens and twenties during the 1980s, the film was like a stroll down memory lane with its bad music and fashions. While much of the music of the era was good, much wasn't--and it's fun to listen to a really cheesy soundtrack.Overall, a cornball mess that is great for a laugh...and not much else. The fact that it's rated #100 on IMDb's Bottom 100 list is odd, however, as there are many, many horrible films that are MUCH worse that never made the list. None of Ed Wood's, Al Adamson's or William Grefe's films made the list and such classic crap films as Robot Monster, This Stuff'll Kill Ya and The Wild Women of Wongo failed to make the list. I'd put Howling III on perhaps the list of Worst 500 or 100 Most Laughably Bad films.By the way, Al Gore might be on to something. Some of these were-marsupials in the film look EXACTLY like man-bear-pig!!! Also, listen to all the supposed Americans in the film--they all sound amazingly Australian and needed to work on their accents a bit more. "}]