[{"Title":"Great Jon Cryer movie!","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I personally love Morgan Stewart's Coming Home. Perhaps it's the scenes of Washington, D.C. (my hometown), perhaps it's that I've always had a crush on Jon Cryer. In any case, I think this is a great movie. Viveka Davis is in her best role since Student Exchange. Jon Cryer is in rare form. If you loved him in Pretty in Pink you'll also enjoy him in this movie. "},{"Title":"Jon Cryer and Viveka Davis are immensely likeable as the movie's teenage leads","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ' Morgan Stewart's Coming Home ' is great fun, a delightful 80's teen comedy unduly criticized because of it being credited to pseudonym Alan Smithee and not co-directors Paul Aaron and Terry Winsor.  Infact it is an incredibly funny, sharply scripted Washington-based tale of a young man's attempts to seek the attention of strangers, his always far too busy parents Tom and Nancy - Tom is running for the U.S. senate and Nancy is the driving force behind Tom's campaign.  Morgan is misguided in bringing his family closer together, relying on reruns of tv's ' The Brady Bunch ' but gains a true friend in fellow horror movie fan Emily, the two stumbling upon a plot to bring down his father! Jon Cryer and Viveka Davis are immensely likeable as the movie's teenage leads and they are wonderfully supported by the likes of Lynn Redgrave, Nicholas Pryor and Paul Gleason. Full of terrific one liners and crazy characters, it is a movie that can be watched time and time again. "},{"Title":"NOT A FERRIS BUELLER RIP OFF.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I know Jon Cryer was getting a little annoyed in the 80's, when he was being called Matthew Broderick's clone. Jon Cryer has his own cool charm, thats very different Matthew Broderick. And who ever called this movie a Ferris Bueller rip off, really did'nt see this movie, and tried to figure out that this movie is very different from Ferris Bueller. Okay someone copied John Hughes film making style, and did pretty well. This movie was very funny, and it was fun to watch. So give it a break. "},{"Title":"This film is NOT a lemon...","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First of all, I love this movie.  I know the film didn't do well in theaters, and that it had all sorts of trouble behind the scenes, and critics bash it every chance they get.  But, I simply don't care... I love it, from start to finish.  Jon Cryer is great.  And, if you agree with me on this, then you will enjoy this film.  If not... then, most likely, you won't enjoy this film.  It's that simple.I grew up watching this film countless times, as I identified not only with Cryer, but also with his character, Morgan.  Growing up, I was Morbid Morgan, and still am.  Along with Cryer's other films, NO SMALL AFFAIR, PRETTY IN PINK and the extremely underrated HIDING OUT, this one ranks as one my favorites.Also, I am getting pretty tired of the accusations that this film was made to cash in on FERRIS BUELLER'S DAY OFF, as the two are nothing alike, and this particular film, although it was released in 1987, was shot in 1985, a full year before the latter film's release.  So there. "},{"Title":"Recommended for die hard Cryer fans.","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is simply an average (and sometimes hilarious) teen comedy that would probably be most appreciated by Jon Cryer fans. Jon Cryer is Morgan Stewart, a funny guy with a love for classic horror movies. It's Thanksgiving break and once again, his parents, who have never really been around much, have let him down by calling to let him know that they've made other plans for the holiday. So, it's great news to Morgan that he's been invited home a few weeks later following a big prank. The invitation home isn't because he has been expelled or because he should expect to be in some serious trouble as it seems that his parents have totally ignored the incident altogether. In fact, his father's campaign manager (Paul Gleason), Jay Soto, recommended that spending time with Morgan, would raise interest in his father's Senatorial campaign.But, Morgan finds that despite being home with his parents, they just can't seem to understand him, like when his mother thought all of his classic horror collection was pornography and tossed it in the trash or told him to stop trying to clean the house because it would give the appearance that they were poor. Morgan has even more difficulty when he meets a great girl with all the same interests as he has (she reminds me of the character Anna on The O.C.). Then his parent's misconceptions cause trouble even there.But the real story begins not with Morgan's difficulty in trying to get through to his oblivious parents, but when he catches on to a scandal involving his father's campaign manager attempt to steal from his family. Now, it's up to Morgan (with the help of his girlfriend) to either get his parents to wake up and look at what's going on or fix things for himself.It delivers a few good laughs because Morgan's parents (Lynne Redgrave and Nicholas Pryor) are so out of touch. Plus, the scenes between Morgan and his girlfriend, Emily, are cute, too. But, I think the film can best be appreciated by fans of Jon Cryer.  "},{"Title":"Why is this film compared with Ferris Bueller?","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I keep seeing this film compared to Ferris Bueller's Day Off, and I don't see why.  The plots have nothing in common, and the characters are not at all similar.  Ferris Bueller's Day Off is about a very cool and clever kid who fools his parents into thinking he is sick, and goes on an adventure in the city.  Morgan Stewart's Coming Home is more of a family story.  A not so cool kid (Cryer) who was shipped off to boarding school at a young age is brought home to help with his fathers campaign to be elected to the senate and tries to win the affection of his very cold mother and dim-witted father.  So why are these two films compared to one another?  I see some of the comparison comes from the idea that this film was sold to the public as a Bueller-esque film, but it wasn't.  I remember the commercials for this film from way back in the day, and they in no way tried to capitalize on the success of Ferris Bueller.  This film is it's own film, as good or bad as it may be. It isn't a Ferris Bueller rip off. Morgan Stewart's Coming Home has it's moments, but it is more suited to a younger audience.   "},{"Title":"A dud that had potential","Date":"30 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Wow, was this a stinker. The only character who was tolerable was Mr. Stewart. I've always liked that actor because he has a warm, humorous presence. Cryer was fine when he was not being hyperactive. Other than that this dumb, predictable nonsense is good for one viewing only. That is if you can get through that. Cryer gets his obligatory 80s scene where he does a song and dance number. It worked so well in Pretty in Pink why not throw it in here...Lord knows a filler is always welcome in a movie like this. The scene was so embarrassing and odd. We get it, you went to acting school and were in plays so you gotta let us know about it by strutting your Broadway stuff. Its as if he was using it as a vehicle or trying to prove himself to the industry. How versatile and showy of you....Unfortunately, how annoying for the viewer. The only thing more embarrassing was the botched attempt of humor when Redgrave uttered, My God he's on drugs to end the scene. I suppose that was supposed to be the big payoff. Cringe worthy! Then there are the endless chase sequences. I could go on but you get the point. The only redeeming part of the movie for me was the touching scene in Arby's where Morgan runs into his Dad eating a beef sandwich. They share the sandwich and Morgan says he can't remember the last time they did that. This was a true, honest moment between a father and a son trying to restore their relationship after a long time away from each other. In a way it reminded me of the scene between Donald Sutherland and Timothy Hutton in Ordinary People in how the father and son have a genuine bond that nothing can break. Not even the mother. This is the Cryer that was human and so lovable as Ducky. IMO this scene shows his acting chops more than any song and dance number could. "},{"Title":"Ferris Bueller's Distant Cousin","Date":"25 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Geeky cute teenager Jon Cryer (as Morgan Stewart) is kicked out of eight boarding schools in six years. Finally, he returns home to get re-acquainted with wealthy Washington, DC parents Lynn Redgrave and Nicholas Pryor (as Nancy and Tom). There, mother Redgrave is busy being a perfectly coiffed politician's wife, and Republican father Pryor is running for office. A horror fan, Cryer meets beautiful kindred spirit Viveka Davis (as Emily) at a George Romero book-signing.Cryer and Ms. Davis take a shower together, clad in their underwear and horror heads. Guess some parts don't get dirty. Also, Cryer finds out corrupt executive aide Paul Gleason (as Jay Le Soto) is working against his father, and the plot goes haywire. Cryer is a believable and engaging teenage horror fan (his father John debuted as a ghost on Dark Shadows). And, Davis is an appealing romantic interest. But, the story obviously isn't sure where to go, or how to get there.***** Morgan Stewart's Coming Home (2/20/87) Paul Aaron, Terry Windsor ~ Jon Cryer, Viveka Davis, Lynn Redgrave, Paul Gleason "},{"Title":"They owe me money!!","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I appeared in this movie as an extra, along with a number of my college friends. It was primarily filmed in and near Charlottesville, VA (I'm guessing it was the spring of 1986) and a bunch of the extras were U.Va. students like myself. I got a check for $50 and also got to chat with (and appear on screen with) Cryer for a bit. He actually was a really nice guy.I think the mall scenes were filmed at the beautiful Fashion Square Mall north of Charlottesville. But note I said I got a check for $50 -- I didn't get PAID the $50 because the bastards bounced my check. After all these years, I'm still bitter. ) "},{"Title":"My Daughter Julia is a Windsor King direct descendant  a Morgan and a Stuart King direct descendant","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Morgan Stewart's Coming Home is a delightful 80s Teen comedy. Imagine John Cryers character of Morgan watching the Brady Bunch to learn to relate to his Family because he has been in boarding school for Seven Years and doesn't know how. Stewarts rich lifestyle is interesting. The butler has an unlikely name because due to the Cold War there were not that many East Europeans or Russians in America in the late 1980s.My daughter Julias Artificial Intelligence Computer on the planet Coaltrain the Creator of Humans actual home world said. Don't forget about me Daddy. Do not worry Julia I will not forget about you. Daddy loves you very much. It looks like you and I will be able to talk forever Julia since my spaceship is near your planet in this Holodeck and or real life. The Artificial Intelligence Computer of Julia is very lifelike. With the Creator of Humans having the DNA of the 21 Immortal Humans someday we will all be cloned back into existence and meet our Artificial Intelligence computers. Check out John Cryers other movies as well. "}{"Title":"Nothing worth Coming Home to...","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, see Jon Cryer looks a lot like Matthew Broderick.  Matthew Broderick made Ferris Bueller's Day Off a year earlier.  So, Cryer made a movie with a similar title.  Clever, huh?If you said yes, you must have missed this one.Morgan Stewart's Coming Home is about as slap-dash as it gets, throwing in odd bits of humor in place of a plot.  Whenever there's a slow spot, just show Cryer waxing the floor with one of those industrial floor waxers or admitting to free-basing Clearasil, toss in a chase every so often or pop in the old stand-by two guys sharing a shower.You can't say much for a movie where Lynn Redgrave looks like she's planning thorough revenge on her agent all the way through.  Lynn, give me his number and I'll do it for nothin'.Oh, and even Gleason shows up to make us think that we're watching a John Hughes movie.  Very subliminal, guys.  BUT, this isn't a Hughes.  It's a Smithee.  Know the rules and go from there.One star.  Cryer's good for a laugh (A laugh - singular).And remember home is where the heart is (yuk, yuk, yuk). "}]