[{"Title":"Why so Low?","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Why is this movie rated so low?  I admit that it is the fourth in the series and that is getting pretty ridiculous but this one has many memorable moments in it.  Also where else can you go see Sharon Stone, David Spade, and a speacial appearance by a young kid at the time named Tony Hawke.  No where else can you get so many people in one of their first movies.  It is also still highly entertaining and causes me to laugh often.  This is where you should stop watching the series however b/c they lose Steve Guttenburg and he is the only reason the series kept on for as long as it did.  So don't give this a low score.  Help it get out of the lowest 100 where other real horrible films belong. "},{"Title":"Another great movie gangster of the 1980s &#x96; David Spade!!","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" So what's happened so far? A gaggle of society's goofiest citizens have taken advantage of a new policy to loosen hiring standards at the police force and actually made it through despite efforts from all directions to get them thrown out. They embark on their first assignment, which is to turn around Commandant Lassard's beloved precinct 16, which has been dubbed the worst precinct in the city and given 30 days to turn around or suffer some major employee turnover, a fate which is relentlessly helped along by the eternally butt- kissing Captain Mauser. They display a spectacular feat of water-borne police work, saving the academy and then return in the next movie to beat the city's other police academy when it turns out that the governor decides it's not worth the money to keep them both open.Oh, and of course you all realize who is in this thing, right? None less than Sharon Stone, David Spade in his first film, and Tony Hawk in an early stunt-skateboarding role! You gotta see this!This time, Commandant Lassard has come up with a scheme he calls Citizens on Patrol (C.O.P. Get it? Get it?), in which he elaborates slightly on the plot of the original movie. You see, the police force has been stretched a little too thin and the public has developed a negative opinion of them due to the fact that they can't be everywhere at all times to stop every single crime in the city. So the natural solution, of course, is to train the public as deputy police officers and basically have briefly trained undercover cops all over the city. In fact, so close is the resemblance to the first movie that we are even treated to a couple characters who are forced to join the police academy or face jail time &#x96; an idea suggested, of course, by Mahoney himself. This is the best part of the movie, by the way. There is a hilarious gang of skateboarding punks who are disturbing the peace left and right, headed by none other than David Spade, who is a hardened urban predator if I've ever seen one. Thug life, baby!!Sharon Stone also has a relatively small role in the film, although probably one of the ons that she would like to forget about, and Lieutenant Harris is back after being gone for the last two movies. All of the other relevant cast members return, with the addition of a new group of misfits, like the token fat black guy, David Spade and his idiot skateboarder friend, and Tackleberry's FATHER-in-law. Remember that guy? Who is always gleefully punching out his son? I can't wait until the grandparents start joining!But don't worry, until then we have Mrs. Feldman to hold us over. Here's this sweet old lady living in a nursing home/military barracks and who has more of a love of all things camouflaged than Tackleberry himself. In fact, I was waiting the whole movie for her to tell her that she's his long lost mother, but no such luck. Something went wrong with the screen writing in there somewhere, but ultimately she turns out to be one of the most consistently funny characters in the movie. She's played with a good-natured smile by Billie Bird, who clearly enjoyed herself while making the movie. You can always tell when the actors are having a good time, and it always makes the movie better, which is good because this movie needs a lot of help!Of course, it's not much different than the last three movies as far as being worth watching. Bud and his father are still trading punches and it's still more groan-inducing than laugh- inducing, people are still accidentally wandering into the Blue Oyster Club, which hasn't been funny for three movies by now (Proctor inadvertently wandering in naked was the high point of this gag, but also the point where it becomes the most clear that the joke has lost its steam), and Jones is still doing that Bruce Lee impersonation which was funny in the first movie when I was a kid, but as an adult not so much&#x85; But, Callahan has a great wet t-shirt scene that makes the whole movie worthwhile!Oh, and was Mahoney's mischievous grin ever amusing? That poor guy, man. His reputation has for some reason become so tarnished that he is seen by most of the public as even more of a washed up has-been than, umm, well no one else really comes to mind. Bill Paxton? Nah, he's cool, I think. I never needed to forgive him for Weird Science, but Guttenburg unfortunately has a whole string of bad sequels to make up for, and Cocoon and Short Circuit are just not gonna cut it! At any rate, super-gluing the loudspeaker to Harris' face was funny, but why they missed out on the opportunity to have Harris screaming through it at high volume at the doctors in the hospital I just can't understand. The screenwriters are not scoring many points in this one!But still, this is one of the better Police Academies so far. This one and part 3 are the best ones in the series that I've seen so far, despite the hilarious 1980s badness (there's a boot- legging crime lord, for example, who operates his illegal warehouse standing around with a fistful of cash and a hula hoop around his shoulders), but there definitely are some fun gags. Harris macing his armpits is one is one of the more memorable gags in the whole series, along with Mauser getting his hands glued to his hair, and I have to admit that I enjoyed some of the scenes of the original recruits trying to recruit the public for the new C.O.P. program. It's not a good movie, but it's a good Police Academy movie! "},{"Title":"Best sequel and at least it was better then part 3","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  OK. here we go. This movie has the same feel of the original, which was if i say so myself, a funny movie. this one, is the best sequel and is just as funny. It's pretty much the same thing as all of the sequels but It works, it made me laugh. The plot is, lassard is making a citizens on patrol program, which is a bunch of citizens are put through training and act like cops or something like that. I suck at remembering plots. It's a police academy sequel, It doesnt need a good plot. Our good friends Harris and Proctor try to ruin them, and some of the citizens in the movie were pretty funny.This was the best of all of the average to bad sequels the original police academy movie got. If you liked the original or ANY of the sequels you should pick this one up. 7/10 "},{"Title":"PA4 Not just another funny movie","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Citizens On Patrol, the fourth installment of the Police Academy is again shaped in the same mold as it's follow-ups the slapstick, the crude humor, and sexual innuendos.It's too bad that the writers of these movies couldn't think of something different than the same old thing, but what works works!Kudos again to Michael Winslow and his vocal effects.  Also thanks goes to the writers for giving Zed (Bobcat Goldthwait) a new love. "},{"Title":"For Fans Only","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The police academy misfits are trying to help make Commandant Lassard's Citizens on Patrol neighborhood watch program work. Jealous Captain Harris does everything he can to make sure it fails. Most of the gang is here and likable as usual. Glad to see G.W. Bailey back from the first movie. Oddly, Art Metrano's sidekick from the last two sequels is still in this and is now Bailey's sidekick. I actually think it works better this way. Film debut of David Spade as a skateboarding recruit. Sharon Stone plays the requisite pretty woman Steve Guttenberg works his charms on. Love the '80s fads and clothing. The series is running on empty here but there are still some funny parts here and there. Bobcat Goldthwait gets most of the best lines. This was the last of the series to feature Bobcat or Guttenberg. The series really shouldn't have tried to continue without them. "},{"Title":"Citizens on Patrol","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" So I watched Police Academy 4 Citizens on Patrol last night, the one thing I really noticed here on IMDb is that the ratings just keep going down after each movie. But I still wanted to see them and judge for myself, I loved the first Police Academy, the second and third are cheesy, but they were fun still. Now onto Citizens on Patrol, I honestly liked this film, I know it was cheesy and cliché, but with G.W. Baily back in his game, you can't go wrong. Again, one of the things that surprised me is that they've been able to get the same cast back over and over again, we also have two of my new favorite characters Zed and Sweetchuck. It was great to have the old gang back together, even if the movie needed a little work, they still made the movie very enjoyable.The Police Academy is given a new assignment, there is a new program called C.O.P., Citizens on Patrol, taking regular people off the streets and turning them into cops. Mahony has taken a few misfit punks off the street and made them join, there's an old lady, there's the average or less then average people in the program as well. But Captain Harris hates this program and will do anything to shut it down, but when there is a jail outbreak, he may just have to rely on the C.O.P. program to help him out.Police Academy 4 Citizens on Patrol has it's good laughs here and there. I always love to watch the jokes the gang plays on someone, my favorite this time was how they super glued the mega phone onto Harris's lips. I would recommend this if you are looking for a couple laughs, I think people are bing a little too harsh on these films. They're the Police Academy sequels, they're light hearted and fun, they're meant to just relax and laugh for a bit at the stupid stuff. But I did feel like this is the weakest I have seen so far out of the sequels, it could have had more laughs, but it is worth the watch.5/10 "},{"Title":"Adult gags and Juvenile gags do not mix.","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a hard Academy movie to define. The humour is generally more smutty, keeping up the standards of the original, yet it also has awful gags about people slipping on skateboards and pidgeons secreting on policemen's shoulders. There are also jokes about farting, a sure sign of desperation. On the plus side, we see the return of G.W.Bailey as Captain Harris. That's about it on the plus side. The whole film looks rushed and is mostly set at night or on grey skied days that make it look awful. Not a pleasant film to watch. However, the public, including myself, flocked to see it. But, hey, you don't know what you're gonna get until you have paid your admission. "},{"Title":"Starting to clutch at straws to get a laugh.","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'll admit, I enjoyed these Police Academy movies back in the eighties. Honestly, I really only have seen the first two in the theatre. The third one I saw on cable TV. Now that I've bought the box set on DVD, I can honestly say that it is at this 4th sequel of the Police Academy films, that they really should have stopped right here. A lot of the humor is predictable and (most annoyingly) often repeated. For example, Winslow (Larvell Jones), was doing his silly karate man humor excessively though many of the Police Academy films. If he only did this in one film, the humorous impact would have been cherished more. The first three Police Academy films are the best. Taking this predictable slapstick into four more follow-up films (with totally forgettable stories, was just a bit too much.) On a positive note, Police Academy 4 Citizens on Patrol starred Corinne Bohrer as Laura. What a gorgeous blonde babe she is! And also, I'll have to admit that on the documentaries of the making of the Police Academy films, Leslie Easterbrook is still quite an attractive looking woman. Marian Ramsey still looks good, too.  "},{"Title":"I laughed til I bled. I split my pant laughing.","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I am loving this movie very nicely.I love the scene where the pigeon drops its shite on the policeman's shoulder. I split my pant laughing at this. I am still laughing now.I also like the woman with the big tits. She has very big tits, indeed...Nice. Pant splittingly amusing.I am laughing at the farting noises made by the black man. Very amusing. Pant splittingly funny.I am laughing at the dog sniffing the crotch of the policeman. Very amusing. Nice. Pant splitter.I am laughing at the golf ball smashing through the car window. Very amusing. Nice. I split my pant. Such was the hilarity.I must go now as I am urinating due to laughter as I think of this superb movie. I have wet my pant. Damn. I must go now. "},{"Title":"Better than the Third Movie in the Series","Date":"20 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When Commandant Lassard (George Gaynes) comes up with a brilliant idea to develop volunteer citizens to help the police in their neighborhoods, he naturally turns to his best former students to train them. What nobody knows is that Captain Harris (G. W. Bailey) still harbors a tremendous resentment towards those in the police academy and will stop at nothing to make Commandant Lassard look bad in the eyes of all of his superiors. Now rather than reveal any more, I will just say that this movie wasn't quite as good as the first two films in this series--but it was better than the third. Much of this success can be traced directly back to Bobcat Goldthwait (as Zed) who I thought was extremely funny. On the other hand, there were several scenes which reused the same tired, old scenarios from the first three movies which just weren't very effective the fourth time around. Likewise, in my opinion Sharon Stone (Claire Mattson) was terribly under-utilized while Billie Bird (Mrs. Feldman) was featured much too often. In any case, I have rated the movie accordingly. Slightly below average. "}{"Title":"Police Academy 4 Citizens on Patrol","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Well here we are again and its back to training...again! Yep this fourth time around Lassard calls on his most loyal men to train up a group of civvies for his new programme 'citizens on patrol'. Naturally the resident bad guy (this time its back to Harris) doesn't agree with Lassard's plan so he and Proctor are out to foil their plans, so dastardly.The idea behind this isn't too bad really, its a bit like special volunteer officers which we have here in the UK. So the general concept is sound, the problem is we are back at the academy focusing on training these new civvies and we're seeing all the same stuff all over again!!To cut a long story short, seeing as I've explained what happens in the academy for the last three film reviews, we see every character doing their unique thing all over again. This means more martial arts from motor-mouth Jones, Callahan is in the pool getting her huge tits wet, Tackleberry is on the shooting range (where else), Sweetchuck gets thrown around the place a lot, Hightower is on voice commands and Mahoney is lurking around the stereotypical blonde bit of fluff and dishing out his good deed speeches left right n centre.Everything in this film is virtually a replay on everything we've seen in virtually all of the last three films. The last three got away with it because they were more adult and the idea was still reasonably fresh, no longer does this apply. The whole film is very boring and extremely childish, on top of that nothing makes any sense now, its just bits n pieces thrown together.Mahoney, Tackleberry and Hightower perform a very elaborate prank on the three young guys simply to prove they aren't ready for the real beat. This whole sequence is completely nonsense, as if you would go to all that trouble for nothing, its total filler that isn't even amusing. There is a fight sequence on a docked ship against some ninjas (!), no idea why this happens or how the officers end up at the docks but hey. I honestly feel they stuck this in simply to utilize Nogata who cameos here, also another martial arts sequence for Jones who appears out of nowhere. He just pops up for this fight from literately nowhere.Add to that a vast amount of terribly cartoonish visual gags, pratfalls, blatantly obvious stunt doubles, terrible audio dubbing and pretty much no actual main plot (accept for the civvy training crap). There is a jail break midway through which serves as the big finale, this time its in the air with hot air balloons and old biplanes. Now I admit its all performed well with nice aerial stunts and whatnot but its so completely ludicrous. Why on earth would they chase the bad guys in hot air balloons? surely you'd just call in police choppers?? how the hell does everyone seem to be a dab hand at flying biplanes?? why am I even questioning a Police Academy flick? I might add that Hightower completely disappears for the last half of the film, odd, Bubba must have had better things to do.This film is quite 'famous' I suppose for a few things, firstly its one of Sharon Stone's early films as she was slowly getting more recognised. Secondly there is a young Tony Hawks in the film showing his skateboarding skills and thirdly there is also a young David Spade as one of the civvy recruits.This is easily one of the worst PA films in the franchise simply because they reuse every old trick and story sequence idea all over again. Yes I know most of the PA films do this but like I said up to this point in the franchise its been reasonably fresh. This just feels terribly dull, uninspired and has some of the worst comedy I've seen, you can't even call it slapstick, its just sh*t. Goldthwait as Zed is responsible for some of the worst acting, dialog and sequences in this film, not even Bailey as Harris can save this turd.Just to really hammer home the final nail in the coffin, right at the end out of nowhere, Mahoney and Sharon Stone's character are seen floating off together in a customised Police Academy hot air balloon. No explanation about how or where this special balloon came from, its just there, one final silly sequence to really take you out of the moment (if you were in the moment in the first place that is).3/10 "},{"Title":"This sequel lacks steam.","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is the third sequel to Police Academy, where basically the filmmakers recycle the main plot from Police Academy 3. Instead of training new police cadets, Sgt. Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg) and company are assigned to train a group of civilian volunteers to fight crime.While the acting is OK, I thought the plot lacks any captivating action and is consumed by the same old gags and mediocre jokes. You might get a few chuckles here and there from the ongoing jokes, but you probably won't find much thrills in the action-less plot.The subplots involving Zed (Bobcat Goldthwait) and Laura's (Corinne Bohrer) fling and reporter Claire Mattson (Sharon Stone) were not elaborated upon and some of the more memorial characters were only on screen for a very short time, including Nogata (Brian Tochi), Kirkland (Colleen Camp) and Commandant Lassard (George Gaynes).Overall, it's not a very exciting sequel. Stick with Parts Two or Three.Grade D "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This one and part three are the best ones in the series that I've seen. Harris macing his armpits is one is one of the more memorable gags in the series. The cinematography is stark and bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. It's not a good movie, but it is a good Police Academy movie. The acting is very effective. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. We watch here a deep study of the rural countryside of the deep America. Great performances help to enhance this amazing story. "},{"Title":"Decent Sequel!","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Steve Guttenberg, Bubba Smith, Michael Winslow, David Graf, Marion Ramsay, Leslie Easterbrook, Tim Kazurinsky, Bobcat Goldthwait, Brian Tochi, G.W. Bailey, Lance Kinsey and George Gaynes star in this 1987 comedy sequel. In this installment, Commandant Lassard (Gaynes) begins a program called, Citizens On Patrol where members of the community help stop crime and learn techniques the police use. Mahoney (Guttenberg), Hightower (Smith), Jones (Winslow), Tackleberry (Graf), Hooks (Ramsay), Callahan (Easterbrook), Sweetchuck (Kazurinsky) and Zed (Goldthwait) help instruct them. Bailey returns as Harris who thinks the program is a bad idea, Kinsey returns as Proctor who now works for Harris and Tochi appears as Nogata who is reunited with Callahan. Sharon stone (Basic Instinct) is also featured as reporter, Claire who ends up with Mahoney, David Spade (Tommy Boy) plays skateboarder, Kyle and Zed also finds romance with a photographer (Corinne Bohrer). This is a decent sequel, it's nice to see Bailey back as Harris, but it's too bad it's Guttenberg's last appearance in the series. I still recommend this. "},{"Title":"Maybe they serve seafood......","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Commandant Lassard decides that the police force is overworked and understaffed, so he comes up with the idea of recruiting civilian volunteers to work side-by-side with officers in a program called Citizens On Patrol.Mahoney and his friends are in charge of training the civilians.Captain Harris wants to take over Lassard's job, and that's why Harris is determined to see the COP program fail.But it's Harris and his right hand man Proctor who mess up by allowing every inmate at the precinct 19 jail to escape....Part four and even Guttenberg had had enough by the end, he flew off with Sharon Stone. But as you may have read on my previous reviews, I was never a fan of Mahoney.It's more of the same here, little sketches before some random criminals escape and they can have a big showdown.Zed is the main draw again, and this time he has fallen in love with some seriously hot woman.That's the highlight of the movie. The makers knew that the series had run it's course, so they were churning these out as quick as they could.But while this film is one of the worst of the series, it still has some funny (albeit brief) moments.Plus, there is a random scene on a boat involving ninjas for no reason at all.If your a fan of the series, it gives you all the characters in funny situations, and then they all get together at the end.But just not as funny. "},{"Title":"Police Academy 4 Citizens on Patrol (1987)","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I certainly laughed a bit more than I did with the previous sequels. Once again it's all a bit overcrowded, with characters from the previous 3 outings now being mixed together. Bailey is a welcome return as the antagonist, but he is joined by the sidekick of the last two films' villain. This kind of works, as we get the best of both worlds. On top of this we are also given new characters, everyday citizens wanting to help out. This looks interesting at first, with David Spade and a skateboarding buddy forced into the program, but they are soon lost in the background. An entertaining airborne finale is rather impressive as well. So, with Bailey back, and this being Guttenberg's last, this may be a good stopping point for most viewers that made it this far. "},{"Title":"Commandant Lassard heads off the cuff to leave Captain Harris in charge of general public.","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The fourth instalment in the Police Academy franchise gets by more on the charisma of the characters and goodwill of audiences than it does on the material but it's passable entertainment that lets you feel as if you've spent some time with good friends as the end credits roll. In fact, it's the last one to feel that way because there are a number of characters here making their final appearance in the series (with Steve Guttenberg's Mahoney being, arguably, the biggest loss that the following sequels could never really compensate for).Our gang of misfits return to help Commandant Lassard (George Gaynes) once more, this time training members of the public for his new and innovative Citizens On Patrol scheme (COP, see?). Captain Harris (G. W. Bailey) returns to be a pain in the backside, as does Proctor (Lance Kinsey), and we get the usual mix of pranks and dirty tricks played out before a finale involving some jailbreakers and fancy aerial acrobatics.Gaynes, Guttenberg, Bailey, Kinsey, David Graf, Michael Winslow, Bubba Smith, Leslie Easterbrook, Marion Ramsey, Tim Kazurinsky, Bobcat Goldthwait, Scott Thomson and all of the others on screen who have appeared in any of the preceding movies do just fine, continuing to milk as many laughs as possible from their comedy characters. There's a role for an attractive young actress by the name of Sharon Stone, the film debut of David Spade, some enjoyable skateboard stuntwork (featuring Tony Hawk) and roles for Brian Backer, Billie Bird, Corinne Bohrer and Randall Tex Cobb, among others.The script is again by Gene Quintano (as this was supposed to be filmed back to back with the third movie before the declining health, and subsequent death, of director Jerry Paris) and Jim Drake gets to sit in the director's chair.There aren't that many big laughs (though one prank involving a portaloo is as funny as it is ridiculous) but things roll along merrily enough and the familiarity of the cast and signposted gags make this an enjoyable and undemanding viewing choice. "},{"Title":"Still pretty much entertaining but the quality goes slightly down","Date":"16 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie shows us the first signs of decline of the series. The jokes are getting more and more childish and one-dimensional and there are many things and scenes we have already seen in the first three movies. There are no new interesting characters that have been added to the series and especially the young Sharon Stone does a quite disappointing job and even the presence of David Spade and the cameo appearance of the young Tony Hawk don't help in here and are just interesting side notes.But surprisingly the movie still works as we are happy to meet the old and well known characters again and even if most of the scenes and jokes are predictable, they are still funny and have their moments. When Mahoney and Jones capture two killers with some arrogant citizens on patrol, I really laughed out loud and felt entertained. When Proctor and Harris get fooled over and over again, especially in the toilet scene or the microphone scene, the whole thing is funny as usual even though it is nothing innovating or surprising. While the ending of the third movie and the chasing scenes with the boats was rather dumb, the ending of the fourth part with the air planes is really entertaining and quite spectacular.On the other side, there are many scenes that are somewhat overlong, ridiculous and boring for example the first minutes of the movie or the ninja fighting scene on a boat in the end. The entertaining parts are though still in the majority.Anyone who liked the first three movies should also watch this one as the quality only got a little bit lower and as important characters such as Mahoney and Zed are still on board for a very last time and funny as usual. I would suggest to rent this movie and have some fun and finish the series on a higher note. Only the hardcore fans should maybe go further than part four. I would give between five and six points to the movie and ultimately rate it up for this site as the average vote of this mostly enjoyable flick is still way too severe. "},{"Title":"The last Police Academy with Steve Guttenberg","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Commandant Eric Lassard comes up with an idea to recruit civilian volunteers to the police force.The program is called Citizens on Patrol (COP).Captain Harris is very much against the idea and wants to see it fail.Police Academy 4 Citizens on Patrol (1987) is directed by Jim Drake.This is the last part where Steve Guttenberg stars as Mahoney.Of course we can't tell yet if he will be seen in one more part in the future.Then there are those familiar faces Bubba Smith, Michael Winslow, David Graf, Tim Kazurinsky, Leslie Easterbrook, Marion Ramsey, Brian Tochi, Lance Kinsey and George Gaynes.G. W. Bailey makes a return as Capt. Thaddeus Harris again.George R. Robertson is Hurst.Bobcat Goldthwait does his crazy Zed again.Corinne Bohrer plays his love interest Laura.Sharon Stone, before her bigger stardom, plays Claire Mattson.Derek McGrath plays Butterworth.Scott Thomson plays Chad Copeland.Billie Bird plays the tough old lady Mrs. Lois Feldman.David Spade is seen on a skateboard playing Kyle Ault.Backer, remembered from Fast Times at Ridgemont High, is his buddy Arnie.Also Tony Hawk does a cameo.The late Tab Thacker plays Tommy House Conklin.Randall 'Tex' Cobb is Zack.The Kirkland family is there again with Colleen Camp, Andrew Paris, Arthur Batanides and Jackie Joseph.The movie has a lot of fun stuff, even though not all of the jokes work.But I really liked Zed getting all romantic with that cute chick.And Jones doing some ninja action.And all the action including hot air balloons and airplanes in the end.The rap song by Michael Winslow and the L.A. Dream Team is really neat. "},{"Title":"And you thought Police Academy 3 was dross","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The only laughable aspect of this harrowingly pitiful, putrid sequel is the fact it was ever made.Noted feminist Sharon Stone humiliates herself in an early non-role as a reporter. She is the sex interest for head clown Mahoney's latest lechery. If the yearning was ever reciprocated it failed to make it through the editing process...if indeed there was one.In common with #3, this smear of celluloid woe features a humour-free chase sequence, the elongated nature of which can only be explained by a lack of gag material. This is especially unfortunate given it arrives so earlier in proceedings.An abysmal black hole of joylessness, perhaps the most dismal aspect of all is Bobcat Goldthwait's screeching, speech defective moron Zed. He finds a girlfriend instead of the spear to the balding pate which he so patently merits. "}{"Title":"The poor reviews from the press","Date":"21 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Having first watched this among a group of teenage friends or any other films related to these series of films would have kept you laughing throughout its length and it certainly did with me but as time wears on through the length of poor reviews often given by the press, then I have to accept and say the same after having watched it alone or with a common sense family individual. In the whole, everybody there seems to be enjoying themselves in this lame slapstick that just drags on through swamp and muck since it was originally launched a couple of years back and Steve Guttenberg quit after this one. Of course, some say the series should have stopped after the second one was received with poor reviews yet it beats one in why it should have continued with silly and unfunny slapstick scenes. Just gave the whole lot of these a miss. "},{"Title":"About the same as the third and second","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The movie starts off with a howling theme song and from there on; this movie is just as typical as the three before. POLICE ACADEMY maybe never tried to be even original or that cool, but it least it had have been trying to be entertaining, and sometimes funny. But the laughs are so un-original and poor, that it all simply falls into nothing of a movie. The story is as in all of the others (despite the first) very little interesting.And the characters; they're so boring and finished already! The cool making-sounds Negro doesn't charm, and neither does certainly not the big guy, the big breasted chick, the crazy former rebel, the cruel sergeant, the shrieking little woman... they're so freaking tired! POLICE ACADEMY 4 CITIZENS ON PATROL is the last movie of the series that makes you laugh out sometimes because it's a slim twist between ridiculous funny and harmless, after this it went even more downhill than it already had. "},{"Title":"You know what you get...","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There's nothing new, fresh or original in this fourth Police Academy, but that's all right, once you don't expect too much. If you didn't like the first PA, just don't watch the rest of them, as it will only get worse.In this fourth offering, the familiar misfits such as Mahoney and Hightower want citizens to participate with the police. Hence 'Citizens On Patrol (COP)). And it shows not all lunatics already signed up for the police...The fans of the genre and the series will probably love it, and loads of others will hate it. I'm a bit in the middle I had my share of laughs, but not so much as in the first PA. I've seen worse movies though!4/10. "},{"Title":"Fair","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Police Academy 4 (1987) ** (out of 4) The police force is overworked and understaffed so they come up with an idea to train citizens so that they can patrol their own streets. Of course our gang gets a group of rejects that they must train into shape. This was the beginning of the end for this series and while there are a few funny scenes the thing still can't keep afloat. The regular cast including Guttenberg, Smith, Winslow, Graf and Easterbrook are back but we've also got G.W. Bailey coming back as Harris, the main villain from the first film. Harris actually steals the film and gives an energized performance but that still isn't saying too much as the screenplay is very weak and basically just recycles jokes from previous films. Even the regulars seem rather tired and bored. Bobcat Goldthwait is back as well but most of his jokes seemed aimed at his bad speech. Heck, we even get a pre-fame Sharon Stone and David Spade but neither add much. The best sequence for me has always been the one where the veterans try to teach the new guys that they aren't ready to be police and take them out on the case of a voodoo man who is actually being played by Smith. "},{"Title":"This academy has seen better days","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Police Academy 1 was good, 2 wasn't bad, 3 was bad, this one is worst. Why keep watching? Well, to rate it! There's only a few laughs in Police Academy 4, a movie that should have a lot more. Painfully long scenes like the one where the kids are skateboarding themselves into trouble or the final chase on the sea-doos. The acting is the only bright spot (although some of the actors look tired). Good to see Harris back with his sidekick Proctor, but it's not enough to save the day. Don't rent this one. Take it out for free at your local library like I did.Seen at home, in Toronto, on January 2nd, 2007.58/100 (*) "},{"Title":"Was this scene cut???","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Okay, back in 1987 I was only five years old, but I was a little 'actress' at the time, and I did shoot a scene for this movie. Thing is, I think they cut the scene but I'm not sure because I haven't seen it since I was a child. If anyone's seen P.A. 4 lately, please let me know if there's a scene with a mom, a little boy (in a stroller) and a little girl eating an ice cream cone. The mom is talking to one of the cops who takes of his hat to say hello, and the little girl (me!) dumps her vanilla ice cream into the cop's hat. Not looking, the cop (I don't remember which actor it was) places his hat back on his head, and the ice cream splatters everywhere. It was a funny scene, so I don't know why they would have cut it! Lots of fun for me to shoot because they gave me a new ice cream cone for every take, and I laughed as the actor had to clean his head each time! LOL. Any help would be appreciated, thanks! Tabitha. (btw, I'm not in the credits... I looked!) "},{"Title":"Police Academy 4 Citizens On Patrol","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first film deserved to be an international success, so sequels were pretty inevitable, and they seem to get worse as they go on, still with few things to laugh at. Basically Cmndt. Eric Lassard (George Gaynes) decides the Police Academy is overworked and understaffed, so he comes up with the Civilians On Patrol (COP) program, allowing civilian volunteers to help the police. Obviously ex-graduates Sgt. Carey Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg) and old friends, Sgt. Moses Hightower (Bubba Smith), Sgt. Larvelle Jones (Michael Winslow), Sgt. Eugene Tackleberry (David Graf), Officer Zed (Bobcat Goldthwait, you may remember him being the bad guy in the 2nd film), Lt. Debbie Callahan (Leslie Easterbrook), Sgt. Laverne Hooks (Marion Ramsey) and Officer Sweetchuck (Tim Kazurinsky) are in charge of training the new recruits. Capt. Thaddeus Harris (G.W. Bailey) wants Lassard's job, so he is determined to see the COP program fail. Besides that, it seems the main villains are some skateboarding troublemakers, hardly what you'd call evil master criminals, just naughty kids. What surprised me was the appearance of young pre-Total Recall Sharon Stone, as Claire Mattson, a small love interest I guess of Mahoney. Also starring Derek McGrath as Butterworth, Colleen Camp as Mrs. Kirkland-Tackleberry, Home Alone's Billie Bird as Mrs. Lois Feldman, George R. Robertson as Police Commissioner Hurst, The Emperor's David Spade as Kyle and Ace Ventura Pet Detective's Randall 'Tex' Cobb as Zack. Guttenberg hardly has any highlights, well, neither do many of the other regulars, and you could tell Guttenberg wanted to move on to other films, Winslow adds some entertainment with his self-made sound effects, including a rap while some civilians are exercising, but it's very pointless. It was nominated the Razzie for Worst Original Song for Let's Go To Heaven In My Car, why wasn't it nominated any others, same for the two previous and just as awful sequels. Poor! "},{"Title":"I grew up with this movie and I am still laughing!","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I grew up with the Police Academy movies, well 3-6 because the others were R-rated and I was too young. This one was by far my favorite, too many hilarious scenes to mention, but a few classic include the unforgettable lifting of the portable toilet with Sgt. Mahoney inside onto a full football stadium. Every time I pass a portable toilet or a building crane now I think of that scene and smile. How great would it be to really be able to do that? Or the grand finale with the hot-air balloon chase. Movie magic indeed. The classic mix of new characters thrown in with the group from the earlier films. All I can say is this movie will make you laugh no matter what, I know it did it for me. These films shaped my life and made me become the person I am today.  "},{"Title":"Why? Why did they let it get this far???","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Indeed, that is the question many were asking in 1987, as the series soon turned into too much of a not so good thing. Sadly, it was only going to get worse from here. I've tried no less than three times to sit through Mission To Moscow, and it is just impossible. About the only reason to bother with episodes three through six is so you can see the final episode where Cast Member X decided they'd had enough. Or when Event Number X that was referenced in a sequel took place.Another big problem with PA4 (and boy, there are many) is the change in target audience. Sure, episodes 1 through 3 could be enjoyed by children with two digits in their age, but the primary audience was adults who didn't have very high standards. Unfortunately, someone in the film studio must have decided that the writers have to please everybody, and so they watered down the humour as far as they could without getting a G rating. That, more than anything, is what hurts Police Academy sequels 4 onwards.Steve Guttenberg must have taken one look at the finished product and wondered why he didn't quit about three films ago. Bob Goldthwait picks up the slack in terms of comedy, but his act is also watered down a tad too far, ditching any vocal expression of his character in favour of shouting and screaming at anyone and everyone. Which might work for a comedy about mental patients who have been neglected by the system for too long, but not when your character is meant to be a police officer. But then again, the whole premise is built on a notoriously shaky ground.Every Police Academy film has at least one celebrity (other than George Gaynes) who wishes they had never appeared in the film. Sharon Stone gets her turn her, and despite what they say about her appearance in everything after Basic Instinct, at least she looks capable of acting. But amongst this lot, I'm sure a dead goldfish would appear to be emoting effectively.Overall, PA4 gets a 2 out of ten from me. It stands as a good relic of what happens when you try to appeal to everyone, and it does have some genuinely funny moments, but it just cannot hold a candle to its predecessors, especially the first. "},{"Title":"The beginning of the end...","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Attention, all units; be on the lookout for a criminally bad sequel to a slowly devolving comedy series.  All involved give new meaning to the term bad cop.But let's be fair...momentarily.The first one was actually funny.The second was negotiable.The third had a lot more sight gags (I love sight gags).But Police Academy 4 Citizens on Patrol began to show the wear that the series and its regulars was going through.  As a rule, every even-numbered sequel usually isn't very good and this one carries on the tradition.At least while watching it, it gives you time to consider certain plot pointsa) How do complete idiots stay on the police force for so long?b) Sharon Stone?  David Spade?  How desperate were they to get their bills paid?c) I wonder what Steve Guttenburg is doing nowadays?d) How many drugs did they let Bobcat Goldthwait take between scenes?e) Why doesn't Leslie Easterbrook do more scenes standing in a swimming pool with a soaked-through t-shirt and no bra?f) Corrinne Bohrer is kind of fetching when she stares into the camera, isn't she?g) Tim Kazurinsky really SHOULD get contacts.h) Does anyone else notice that the more writers it takes to write a movie, the worse it is?i) Really, what IS Steve Guttenberg doing nowadays?And by the time you've thought all these points through, you've actually generated more plot than this entire movie could muster in its whole running time.  Congrats.Just a couple of stars this time, guys.  And seriously, just watch the first three PA movies; you'll be a lot better off.By the way, if anyone can figure out what happened with Steve Guttenberg, let the rest of us know. "}{"Title":"The worst of the bunch for me.","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Of the Police Academy movies the worst of the bunch for me is the final movie in the series to star Steve Guttenberg as Mahoney. The jokes are the same, the cast is the same the only difference here is they are training citizens to help fight crime in a neighborhood watch type deal. Mauser is gone, replace once again by Harris and I liked Mauser better as he and Proctor to me worked better. Bobcat is back which is bad, as is most of the jokes in this very forgettable movie. Seriously, other than a plot point or two here and there it is very hard to recall this movie other than I did not care for it except for when Proctor ends up letting a whole slew of criminals escape and we have our typical Police Academy ending. I also remember the end with a hot air balloon and Harris. This one also tries to introduce new characters to the gang one overweight dude and an older lady stands out in my mind and for some reason in the next movie the overweight guy would be a cop which makes no sense. "},{"Title":"A Big Letdown","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The first three Police Academy films were brilliant and extremely funny. Police Academy 4 was unexceptional.It does have it's good points; we see the return of Harris, who is now a Captain and Zed continues his crazy antics but there's nothing particularly funny or memorable in this film. The first three films had you laughing again and again but Part 4 was lacking anything truly funny.The ending was a bit of a letdown compared to the climaxes for the first three films.It's also goodbye to Steve Guttenberg as Carey Mahoney who quit the series after this film.Police Academy 4 was painfully average. It will probably be a disappointment to fans of the first three films. "},{"Title":"not funny","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Commandant Lassard creates a new program Citizens on Patrol. Of course, Captain Harris is against the idea and works to undermine it as the temporary commander. Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg) and the gang have to train the ragtag group of new citizen recruits. The newcomers include elderly Lois Feldman (Billie Bird), Laura who likes Zed, skateboarders Kyle (David Spade) and Arnie. Reporter Claire Mattson (Sharon Stone) is doing a story on the program.The franchise is tired. The old gang isn't doing anything particularly funny. The new people aren't given great material. Laura and Zed could have been good but everything else sucks. Even the return of Harris can't save this. None of this is funny. "},{"Title":"Where did the laughs go? Unfunniest Academy ever","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was an unfunny PA if there ever was one. I watched it 24 years later, got a few more laughs, then had me wondering was it this funny? I saw it recently. Go with first impressions. I'm sorry but this number that brings Mahoney and the his crazy gang back with their original nemeses, Captain Harris. I guess that was the one good thing. I warn you, the laugh ratio in this sloppy fourth is low, laughs a scatter. It too had another asset a younger Sharon Stone, before his Basic Instinct'ish days, that movie making her career, skyrocket. At least a couple from number 3, stayed, with really not much material to act upon. The city is a riot again, where police and community band together. This not so funny comedy, lays fault with lazy writing. As a PA fan, I wouldn't blame fans for being peeved with this one. Sharon Stone was cute in this, but like Deadly Blessing, and others, this is another pic that didn't do her justice, like it won't do for most PA fans. "},{"Title":"More","Date":"24 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Paul Maslansky unpacks the usual cast from their crates, brushes the packing foam from their hair and wheels them in front of the camera for the fourth 'Police Academy' movie in as many years. It is, not unexpectedly, a series of barely-connected sketches with very few laughs, leading to the sudden appearance of a vaguely finale-shaped chase sequence.The plot forgets the premise of its own series, revolving as it does around the introduction of a scheme that allows ordinary citizens to join the force. I thought that was the whole point of the original movie, insofar as the original movie had a point? Clearly the comedy opportunities inherent in the character of a gun-mad old lady were too good to pass up. At least G.W Bailey is back, and Bobcat Goldthwait and Tim Kazurinsky are an entertaining double act. If only that were enough.I can see where the movie is trying to be funny, but the writers and director Jim Drake can't stage even a cheap laugh without mucking it up. In one scene Bailey has a megaphone glued to his mouth, which is supposed to be a jolly prank but comes off as mean-spirited. In another, the ever-amiable Lance Kinsey is winched into the air in a portaloo and deposited in a football stadium, where he stands in front of a huge crowd with his pants around his ankles. In some other movie this might get a laugh, but not in this one; there's a lot of set-up for very little reward. Ha ha, that underarm deodorant was actually mace. Hee hee, you've accidentally wandered into a gay bar. On and on, predictable and flat and crude, and not crude in a good way.The surprising highlight is a skateboarding sequence, which is directed with flair and has a few genuinely impressive stunts in it. It's not funny and its not supposed to be, and that's probably why it's the highlight. "},{"Title":"Argh!!","Date":"27 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Argh! How bad is this!? From director Jim Drake and writer Gene Quintano, the typical decline of the movie series finished with this film, Police Academy 4 Citizens on Patrol. Police Academy went from very funny to indescribably woeful in just four tries. They were still churning these out at the rate of one a year back then.No wonder Steve Gutenberg bailed after this one. I guess none of the others could find alternate work. Michael Winslow, David Graf, Leslie Easterbrook, Bubba Smith and even G.W. Bailey all returned. Also starred Sharon Stone!Sunday, January 9, 2000 - Video "},{"Title":"Money drain","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" G.W. Bailey returns as Harris and we find ourself face to face with pre-Basic Instinct (dammit, pre-Total Recall!) Sharon Stone. The premise is a rerun of the second film - the 'Citizens On Patrol' bit allows the incorporation of the recruitment/training idea from the previous sequel.David Graf has now positioned himself as one of the favourite characters in the franchise. This is basically because he can act a bit. Concealed behind his warped, pyromanic character he also knows that when it's all over he can emerge without having compromised himself as, by now, Guttenberg knows he has done. I expect that Guttenberg wasn't sufficiently dejected not to make sure he got paid well for it all this time. 1/10 "},{"Title":"*1/2 Out Of Five","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This time the cadets (Guttenberg,Smith,Winslow,Ramsey and Graf) help Lassard (Gaynes) conduct a citizens on patrol unit, however Harris (Bailey) is there to muck everything up by being extra hard on the cadets which of leads to some pranks by the citizens and instructors in this definitely below-par sequel. As far as comedies go this is usually about as effective as the genre goes. (Yes there are ones like Airplane, Stripes and effective black comedies) but the majority of them are about as effective as Police Academy 4, in that they provide maybe one or two chuckles (No belly laughs mind you) and that's all for the next 90 minutes. Police Academy 4 has a couple of laughs which rise it above the rest of the subsequent entries, although as far as i'm concerned they should've stopped at the very least at # 3.1.5/5 Matt Bronson "},{"Title":"Good, but....","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this movie uncut on t.v. It is good but not that great. At the end you don't feel like you want to shout and say That was so crappy, it was excellent! One thing, Leslie Easterbrook jumps into a pool with no bra, and a soaked through shirt. see where im gong? ( Repeat i'm not a girl)5/10 plus one for Leslie. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Ignore that other review.","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  OK. Here we go. This movie has the same feel of the original, which was if i say so myself, a funny movie. This one is the best sequel and is just as funny. It's pretty much the same thing as all of the sequels but it works, it made me laugh.The plot is, lassard is making a citizens on patrol program, which is a bunch of citizens are put through training and act like cops or something like that. I suck at remembering plots. It's a police academy sequel; it doesn't need a good plot. Our good friends Harris and Proctor try to ruin them, and some of the citizens in the movie were pretty funny.This was the best of all of the average to bad sequels the original police academy movie got. If you liked the original or ANY of the sequels you should pick this one up. 7/10  "}{"Title":"Stupid, stupid, stupid. What were they honestly thinking?","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"    After this sequel, I didn't bother with Police Academy anymore. I heard they get worse and worse anyway, so I'm glad I didn't bother with the other 4. After this film, all the original cast members pretty much left, except a few desperate actors (So why did Guttenberg leave). So if you saw the other three like me, you might want to see this just to close the orignal cast members off. Bob Goldthwait is once again, the only funny actor in this film (and Michael Winslow-the guy who makes all the noises). 1/5 stars-don't see it unless it's on tv some weekend afternoon and you're too lazy too get up and ber working around the house like you should. JOHN ULMER "},{"Title":"Sometimes funny","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Police Academy 4 Citizens on Patrol, the fourth film in the popular series, has some laughs here and there, but the series started to wear out its welcome. Police Academy 4 isn't real bad, but some of the humor became too juvenile which was even more evident in the next two Police Academy movies. One point of interest Sharon Stone makes one of her early film appearances here before she hit it big in movies such as Total Recall, Basic Instinct, and Casino.**1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Great, if you're 12","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie wasn't that bad.  The first one in the series is the pinnacle of Bad 80's sex romps, and this is the only other one in the series that seemed to have any thought put into it.It's still incredibly silly, but not painfully bad like the ones that bookend it. "},{"Title":"last good one","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Here we have the final one in the series with consistent laughs, though you really have to stretch your funny bone at times to like them.  But this still had enough for me as our favorite cops train city folk to be kind of like honorary policeman.  Its a little like part 3 where they were molding newcomers to take the streets, except here its regular citizens rather than cadets.  Notable scenes are Kinsey being dropped on a baseball field while hes inside an outhouse, and the relationship between Graff and Bird is great.  And I have to tell guys you get to see big busted Callahan in a wet t-shirt.  What else could you want from a fourth movie of a series?  Stevie Guttenberg wisely made this his last go round in the uniform with number 5 being so lame.  And yes, that it thee Sharon Stone as Mahoneys love interest. "},{"Title":"The 3rd best in the series!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Police Academy 4 is the 3rd best in the series. It's entertaining, and sometimes funny. It's just a hair better than part 3. Part 4 is not as entertaining as the first two, but it's still a fun movie. I have watched it since 1988. I give this movie **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"PA4COP Best in series!","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Best film in the series, thanks to Corinne Bohrer and Sharon Stone. It gets one star for each girl, which is two stars more then any other film in the series. "},{"Title":"SPARKLING GLIDDER DOME WITH FLYING BUNNY RABBITS.","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was really good, it was funny, entertaining, and just down right fun. I really don't like people that can't sit down and enjoy a silly comedy for what it's worth. People like that should be put to sleep. -*** stars "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The last of the 'good' Police Academy movies, probably as Guttenberg left the cast after this one. This is almost as good as the first, as it has a better plot than 2,3, 5,6,7. Faith in the Police force is low, and crime is high, so a new ploy to solve both dilemmas is introduce-COP-Citizens on Patrol, which sees the police force opening its doors to the everyday citizen, for training and the opportunity to work along side real Cops. The old gang are assigned to the job, and go about trying to find recruits, while Harris and Proctor try to sabotage everything.New recruits include Corrine Bohrer, a vastly under-used actress, who is excellent in the role, and outshines Sharon Stone, who plays a reporter. Bohrer falls for Zed, providing many comedy moments. An old woman who has the same penchant for violence as Tackleberry, Two skateboard punks, and The House, a big guy Hightower used to babysit. When there is a prison break out, it's up to Jones, Mahoney etc, and the COPs to apprehend the bad guys.Many funny moments include- the 'Yumma yumma yumma yumma yuuummma' scene- The underwater biking scene, quickly followed by the Zed calling Harris 'jerk' moment. All the usual antics are back, with each character doing, admittedly the same jokes, but they are used better here than in the other films. The acting is all good, but it is obvious to see why many people hate this. However, this kind of humour will always be funnier to me than two men dressing up in women's clothing and prancing about with M. Monroe. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Citizens in Petrol.","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" That's how I envisioned the end of this movie.  Everyone on the set being drenched in high octane superunleaded grade A petroleum and then being set on fire in front of a live studio audience.  That would have at least been entertaining.There is not much good about the movie.  The acting is bad.  The writing is vomitous.  The characters are so lame that you just want to hit them over the head with a Black and Decker toaster oven.  I don't know what happened here, but this movie sucks. "},{"Title":"The First of the Worst...","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Just when you thought it was safe to flock back to the multiplexes, Police Academy 4 swaggers along like a drunken friend who thinks his jokes are funny, but yet he is the only one laughing at them, and he's too arrogant, ignorant and obnoxious to realize that no one else is.The eighties were one of my favorite decades for films, simply because I enjoy some of the cheesy, low-budget comedies that were shipped out by the hundreds. Lesser years were a bit more conservative, but the eighties produced hoards of stupid little funny movies that were let upon the public and instantly forgotten. But along with the funny ones there were the terrible ones. Police Academy 4 is one of the terrible ones. For that matter, all of the films were horrible ones.The bumbling cops are back. This time they are training a new pack of cadets who have signed on for the C.O.P. (Citizens on Patrol) program, looked over by the naive Commandant Lassard (George Gaynes, once again impersonating Leslie Nielsen to little effect). Carey Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg) is still around with his stupid little grin, as well as Moses Hightower (Bubba Smith), Larvell Jones (Michael Winslow), Eugene Tackleberry (David Graf), and Zed (Bobcat Goldthwait). A disguised Richard Harris - er, Captain Harris (G.W. Bailey) is determined to make the new C.O.P. program fail...at any costs. So it is up to Mahoney and Company to save the day...once again.I've covered all my problems with the Police Academy series in my previous review. I don't see what there is to criticize here. As a film, Police Academy 4 Citizens on Patrol is simply horrendous, the type of movie that should never have been made (or any of the sequels, for that matter. Nor the first film, for all it's worth). This is just another entry into the bumbling series about bumbling cops. The first film was basically a repeat of the underdog formula seen so effectively and more humorously in Stripes and Revenge of the Nerds. Now Police Academy 2 had more potential for the first, because it was more original than the first -- it was actually about cops in their daily routine of combing the streets for trouble. But the film's director, TV veteran Jerry Paris, simply used dumb physical and sight gags that were mixed with horrible sound editing (imagine a man slipping on a banana with a big SSSSSSLIP! and BOING! sound as he falls). This is horrible physical comedy.The sequels past that entry just never should have been. What ground can five sequels (count 'em, five) accomplish that the others have already not? Absolutely nothing. This is a huge cash-in franchise. The only problem is, I don't see what there was to cash in on -- was anybody interested in Police Academy at all after the second one? By the low ratings the films have achieved over the years, apparently -- and rightly -- not.Perhaps the only thing that Police Academy 4 has accomplished, or can be remotely respected for, is setting up both Tony Hawk and David Spade's careers. Yes, that is correct -- Hawk and Spade are in this film. They play two skateboarders in the beginning of the film. It's amazing to think that some low-grade agent out there was watching this sorry little film -- probably to see if the bad hype was all it was worked up to be -- saw them, and also saw stars. This movie, in one way or another, pushed them forward into the showbiz spotlight -- Hawk with skateboarding (he was slightly famous among fellow skateboarders at the time, having won some competitions), Spade with acting. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is one bizarre fact of life.The big question may be this Is Police Academy 4 worth sitting through just to see how bad it is? No way. It's not even unintentionally funny in a sort of Hercules in New York kinda way. This is just a bad movie, no matter which way you slice and dice it. It's almost painful to sit through. Scenes just appear and disappear and jokes just fling about at us, one after another, with no comic effect whatsoever.Whatever respect the outrageously unfunny Steve Guttenberg may have achieved with such outings as Diner and/or Cocoon are simply wasted in these films. Even Steve Guttenberg didn't return for the fifth film in this franchise. And so I suppose this fact proves that the talentless hack has an ounce of sense in him afterall.One of the film's tagline is, On land, on sea, or in the air, no place is safe from them! And you know what? I wonder if that tagline was meant to be humorous.Police Academy 4 Citizens on Patrol is rated PG for Please God make it stop.0.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "}{"Title":"This had a lot of potential","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Police Academy 4 Citizens on Patrol isn't a bad film; it's just uneven and underdeveloped. And even though none of the previous three films were masterpieces, exactly--although for my money, Police Academy 2 comes pretty close to that designation--Police Academy 4 is something of a letdown in context.I just finished writing my review for Death Wish 3 (1985). In that review, I also referenced Aliens (1986). I mention this here because writer Gene Quintano and director Jim Drake take a similar approach to those films in breaking the Police Academy template--they broaden the character scope, introducing a virtual army of protagonists. That move is the main source of the problems here, but it's also the main source of a mostly untapped potential for a great film.The idea is that Commandant Lassard (George Gaynes) is initiating a program to train citizens in basic police skills and procedures, so that they can help crack down on crime. As just a trivial example of how Police Academy 4 is underdeveloped, the program is Citizens on Patrol, so that the acronym is C.O.P.--you can't get a much thinner pun than that.Of course, there are bigger problems. Quintano and Drake fill some of their time with 1980s trends--like a long skateboarding scene (featuring a very young David Spade and skateboarding by a just as young Tony Hawk). There's some good skateboarding there, but it doesn't exactly fit a Police Academy film. Much of the first hour is filled with jokes based around core Police Academy characters' personalities, as in the previous three films, but whereas the material was fresh if underdeveloped in Police Academy 1, quick-witted and breakneck-paced in Police Academy 2, and more sequentially gag-oriented and slightly hit and miss in Police Academy 3, here it is too often a bit flat and stale. There are some funny bits, of course, but in light of the multilayered quick delivery and nonstop gags of some previous films, settling in as a rehashing underachiever on this end isn't going to entail success.Mixed in with this standard material is the introduction of the C.O.P. program and its characters. Many of the new characters are good, but Drake is comfortable to let the film be a slow cooker, far too slow for where he eventually goes with it. While it's slow cooking, he treats the C.O.P. characters as an expanded core Police Academy cast--which is okay, because they all have their quirks just like Mahoney, Hightower, Tackleberry et al do, and those need to be established.But here's the problem. In the final 20 &#150; 30 minutes of the film, Drake does something very different for a Police Academy film and clever for this plot. He breaks the settings wide open, sets all his characters in chaotic motion, and achieves a madcap misadventure feel ala It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World (1963). What a great idea! But why did it take almost an hour to get there in a film that's just over 80 minutes long? The C.O.P. program and the new characters should have been introduced in 20 &#150; 25 minutes tops, and the madcap misadventure stuff should have been developed far more so that it built momentum over the next 70 or 80 minutes. That would have made this an excellent film instead of a cursorily enjoyable one, because the last 25 minutes are good, with quite a few flashes of greatness. "},{"Title":"Not the worst of the lot....","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Now don't get me wrong. All of the sequels to the first Police Academy were just that... sequels. But, the fourth one is the top of the heap as far as I'm concerned. The range of characters brought in were hilarious. Plus, Sharon Stone, David Spade, Tony Hawk... who could ask for more?The additions to the cast in this one breathed some minor life into the franchise and (unfortunately) opened the door for more sequels (ouch).But, if you like to laugh, this one is guaranteed to make you chuckle. The scene where Tackleberry goes over for dinner with the family of his girlfriend is so funny I almost lost my lunch. "},{"Title":"Not a Bad Movie","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It wasn't the best out of the Police Academy picturesbut it should not be listed on the bad movies of all time. Leslie Nielson always plays a funny part in Police Academy movies. Something for you to watch when you need to laugh. Sometimeslaughing so hard you are crying. Its been a while since I have seen it.  But I still watch it when it comes on reruns.  My children have the tape and if I saw it on DVD I would probably buy it. I would advise watching this movie with your teenage children.DianeWatts "},{"Title":"Steve Guttenberg's Last in the Series","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Police Academy 4 is another tiring entry in the long-running series.  The only thing that really sets this one apart from the others is the fact that this is Steve Guttenberg's last appearance in the series.  Also look for future stars Sharon Stone and David Spade in very prevalent roles.  2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Some people know nothing about Comedies.","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie was the best of all the Police Academy.And personally the best comedy I have ever seen.I completely disagree with the person above about his comments.This movie was excellent because all the best characters were in this,Mahoney with Harris and Zed with Sweetchuck.I hope the eight movie will be made with Zed and Sweetchuck because they are the funniest couple i have ever seen.It's simply the best because all the scenes were totally funny and this film was made with a lot of humor.You just don't get bored of it a minute.I hope they make much,MUCH more police academy movies like this one.I give it a round ten with no doubts.Excellent movie. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Police academy 4 Citizens on patrol was made in 1987, i thought that this movie was another fantastic one, the actors and the actresses are so brilliant at doing things like this. I give this movie 10 out of 10 because i just think that police academy is so fantastic. "},{"Title":"The best of the septet","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Despite the fact it has an average Mark of 3 out of 10, I feel this movie was the best of the lot for a number of reasons. I think its been dragged down because of the fact it is from 1987 and seems dated like anything else from the 80's that was not mega budget like ET, and also it had the misfortune to produce a number 7 seven years later. It is significant as it is the last to feature Gutenberg and Goldthwait who went off to make those horrid movies, the one with the horse afterwards. It is also very funny, Captain Harris has prank after prank played on him by Mahoney who he bumps into the first time since the first one (The one that most people actually liked). When the microphone gets glued to his face is too funny to be true. And then theres the Madullah/Freddie Kruger scene with hightower going yama yama because hes hungry!!! There are even a few gimmicks between Sweetchucks and Bobcat that will make you laugh at the end and the balloon scenes are classic filmed in the scenic backdrop of an Ontario October afternoon. Hightower and Hooks also provide some laughs especially where helium is placed in the canister so Harris sounds squeakier than here after abusing her for her voice. All in all the best comedy of the 80's after Ruthless People. 8 out of 10, hint hint people. "},{"Title":"Great off-the-wall inanity!","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  You have to be the kind of person that likes screwball comedies to enjoy this one.  I remember seeing this in the theater when I was 9 and I just rented it recently (I'm now 22) and laughed my ass off.  The idiotic antics of Lt. Proctor (I wonder where he is now?) are what makes the movie so great.  I loved the scene where he is dropped off in an exposed porta-pot into a stadium and he rises for the national anthem with his pants down. Or the scene where the new recruits are standing at attention and Capt. Harris catches David Spade chewing gum and says I hope that wasn't bubble gum and then Proctor sees Spade blowing a bubble and says It's definately gum sir...bubble gum...cherry I think.  If you like this kind of inanity then you will love Police Academy 4.  I still can't get the opening song (Citizens on Patrol) out of my head. "},{"Title":"goofy at best!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  why do you people ensist on hating it? the best police academys were number 2 number 3 and this one the rest did not have sweetchuck or bobcat. which what makes the film worthwhile. every time they appear on screen I laugh like a fool! I cant help it. all I can say people is LIGHTEN UP!!! "},{"Title":"The best of the 'Police Academy' movies!","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  POLICE ACADEMY 4 CITIZENS ON PATROL is in my opinion, the best of the POLICE ACADEMY movies. It is extremely funny for a sequel. I have seen this movie at least ten times on television and I feel that this movie is one of the best movies of the 80's. It is truly hilarious. I love it. I think it is one of the best comedies ever made. "}{"Title":"What will they do next?","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love this film more than any film on the planet. My favourite is when they go Citizens on Patrol! Baba bu daba buh ba ba! That is so funny.Who can forget when the crazy man shouted? Or when the quiet black woman suddenly shouts? Or the man with A BIG GUN shoots at things inappropriately?But my favourite is Noise Man. Ting! Ting! Ting! Swish! Swish! He's an alarm clock in a shopping bag! Then he pretends to be dubbing and I laugh.But there is also a serious point- early policemen are dangerous and are not to be trusted. I sympathise with the general for he is living in a vortex of buffoonery!All in all, I would recommend this film to anyone with lungs.PROCTOR!!!!!! "}]