[{"Title":"Okay, then...","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"82 out of 119 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those surreal experiences that make you wonder whether or not you laughed at what you saw or what you THOUGHT you had seen.  Of course, being concocted by Joel and Ethan Coen makes it even more surreal.As repeat offender H. I. McDonnough, Nicolas Cage creates yet another strange, offbeat character that gets under your skin for days after.  After returning to the same prison time after time under the eye of Officer Ed (Holly Hunter), he goes straight and they get married, planning to have a big family.  It is only then, he finds that Ed is a barren, rocky place. So, what's a couple to do?This is where the Arizona of the title comes in, when they steal one of the quintuplets of the Arizona family.  Naturally, the father (Wilson) goes all out to find the culprits, even enlisting the aid of a tracker (Cobb), who is kind of an existential bounty hunter with a good nose.From this deceptively simple story line, the Coens create a dreamscape that is mesmerizing, serpentine, loaded with all matter of visual input, deft one-liners and characters that are so off-the-wall that it's hard to forget them and the situations they get into.Coen Brother stalwart John Goodman plays yet another flaky loon - this time an escaped con - who, along with his little brother (Forsythe) complain that the prison had no more to offer them.Of course, the chases, fight scenes and getaway scenes are elaborate, well-choreographed and exciting, as well as funny.  How could they not be?  This whole movie is one huge snowball rolling down the side of a mountain, growing larger and rolling faster as it reaches the end of its trip.But to try and explain this movie is an exercise in futility; you'd be better off explaining Kierkegaard to a room full of second-graders.  You just have to see it yourself.  If your sense of humor is a bit on the dry side and you love fancy camera work and Fellini-esque characters, it's your kind of movie.Trust me.Ten stars and a complimentary pack of Huggies for Raising Arizona, the best Dadaist head trip film with kidnapped babies, exploding bunnies and Frances McDormand in the desert you'll ever find...that has a fight in a trailer. "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant! Possibly the Coens brothers funniest movie.","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"58 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I always say that my favourite Coen brothers movie is the last one I watched. A slight exaggeration, but as they have had very few real misses in their career it's easy to forget just how great most of their movies are. For me 'Raising Arizona' ties with 'The Big Lebowski' as their single most entertaining movie, and Arizona is arguably the funnier of the two if you are looking at sheer belly laughs. This movie is the Coen's most cartoonish and shows that they learned a lot from their involvement in Sam Raimi's 'The Evil Dead' and 'Crimewave'. The movie is full of fun, clever touches and infectious energy. It just never lets up. Calling a movie a roller coaster ride is a cliche, but it's a perfect description for this. The opening pre-credit sequence has more packed into it than most movies do in their complete running time! Nicholas Cage has recently got sidetracked making dumb action movies but back in the 80s and early 90s he was one of the most interesting and adventurous leading men in Hollywood, making unusual movies like 'Birdy', this, 'Vampire's Kiss' and 'Wild At Heart'. 'Adaptation' is a step back in the right direction for him. I hope he continues in this vein instead of say, 'Con Air 2'. Cage is just terrific as H.I. and I haven't enjoyed Holly Hunter as much in any other movie. Together they make one of the best on screen couples in many a moon. The supporting cast are all fantastic, especially John Goodman and William Forsythe as H.I.'s prison buddies. The psycho biker played by Tex Cobb is a also a brilliant touch. There are so many memorable bits in 'Raising Arizona' I could be here all day pointing them out. Just see for yourself. There were lots of lousy movies made in the 1980s, the Spielberg/Lucas/Simpson/Bruckheimer/John Hughes decade that dumbed down mainstream movies forever, but there were also thankfully some wonderfully inspired ones like this, 'Blue Velvet', 'Brazil', 'RoboCop', 'Repo Man', 'Eating Raoul', 'Beetlejuice', and 'The King Of Comedy'.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant oddball comedy","Date":"4 July 2009","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are really few directors that are as consistent as the Coen brothers. Their strange sense of humour just works in every movie they make, and it's extremely fun and addictive. With that said, it's difficult to decide which of their movies is the best, but this one is a worthy contender. It's incredibly outrageous, wild and crazy, but at the same time it's close and heart-warming. It has a very surreal look, yet the emotional scenes still look very genuine, which is quite an achievement. The characters are also vintage Coen, they're all offbeat and weird, but that just raises more sympathy for them. It also helps that they all express themselves through some razor-sharp dialogues. I could barely make out the lines because I was too busy laughing at the previous lines, you wonder where these keep coming from. This movie just isn't like anything I've ever seen. It's astoundingly funny in all its weirdness. "},{"Title":"Hysterical, each time I see it","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"45 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A lot of things come together to make this film highly enjoyable; acting, writing, music, pace, directing... It's over-the-top fun. It took me several viewings before it sunk in that the film's base story is about child kidnapping; which is an extraordinarily serious crime. But this film makes you enjoy every minute so it's easy to forget the seriousness of the base story.While I'm not a fan of Nicholas Cage, I thought this was a perfect vehicle for him. Holly Hunter is always excellent, IMHO. Their attention to detail in crafting their characters was on point and thorough.Well alright then. ) "},{"Title":"Reminiscent of the humorous two-dimensional anarchy of Warner Bros. cartoons&#133;","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"26 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" For all the visual flair and deft performances on display in their films, the Coens' greatest virtue lies in writing&#133; In terms of cheerful stories, witty dialog and the creation of a coherent, plausible fantasy world peopled by vivid characters, their ability to work original and entertaining variations on a genre indicates well for the future&#133; Opening with a brilliant pre-credits monologue, Raising Arizona tells of an incompetent, compulsive petty criminal's love for his prison warder married but infertile, the couple kidnap a baby, whose tycoon father hires a crazed biker to find and kill the culprits&#133; A surreal, slapstick satire, it takes intense pleasure in exciting plotting, showy and cheap colors, and hilarious screwball characters&#133; "},{"Title":"A Coen Classic","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"35 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Coen Brothers first masterpiece black comedy was a 1987 surprise hit that raised the bar in the comedy genre. Future Academy Award winners Cage and Hunter star in what may be one of the most original stories ever to come out of Arizona. Goodman shows the world he can be funny as the misunderstood and somewhat crazy escaped convict. Cage and Hunter have so much love to give, they steal a baby from Mr. Arizona himself. A modern day (80's) fantasy that chooses an interesting setting to tell its tale. The hilarious innocence is non-stop as Raising Arizona showcases relationship, friendship, vanity, ignorance, and the search for peace and forgiveness. Who knows....maybe it was Utah?  "},{"Title":"If H.I.'s dream of the hellion Biker is not a phantasm, his dream of being blessed with descendants might come true some day.","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Parentless recidivist H.I. regards prison as his home. No matter it is a partiality or a revenge in his own words, he robs convenience stores; he goes to jail; he talks nice to a parole board; the cycle repeats itself. And finally falls in love with a policewoman, ED. Life goes easy on them at first. They bask on the folding chairs, dreaming to have a youth to share their thoughts and feelings.Then the story abruptly turns sad. ED.is barren. what should they do? Tempe is a rock place that bears women deprived of the happiness at conceiving babies.Their wombs are barren and hard like the rocks in the desert. Florence,Dot and ED are the victims of the metaphor.One takes fertility pills,another adopts orphans,the other after being turn down adoption,steals a baby named Nathan Jr. Nothing could be more exciting than a rebirth. The film tells us what a rebirth is like. Push hard through the saturated mud above your head at the 99% risk of being stifled to death. One second delay would be too late. That's Gale and Evelle's narrow escape from the jail. It sounds surrealist. But that's Coens's wit lies. They twist reality and exaggeration into knots to spin our noggins.Snatching a packet of diapers in a convenience store can be a life-or-death chase scene, without mentioning the leather-clad,bonehead,bounty hunter Biker, who can browbeat nothing except little animals. Troubles arrive in sequence. That's the way the life is. At the end of the film, H.I. and ED returns the Nathan Jr.to his parents.It doesn't belong to them and will never be theirs.Why not keep the dream of having kids go on? If H.I.'s dream of the hellion Biker is not a phantasm, his dream of being blessed with descendants might come true some day. In despite of the superficially hilarious scenarios, it is a sad story to the marrow. H.I. and ED's sorrow is not skin-deep and can be felt by any of us who puts heart into this film. "},{"Title":"They GOT more than they can handle!","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"32 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Raising Arizona is one of what I consider to be the five instantly classic films by the team of Ethan and Joel Coen, the others being Blood Simple, Fargo, Oh Brother Where Are Thou, and The Big Lebowski. But Raising Arizona is my personal favorite, and probably the most quotable films I have ever seen, with some of the best dialogue ever written for film. The story in brief H.I. (Nicholas Cage) and Ed (Holly Hunter, in one of my favorite roles of hers) portray, respectively, an ex-con and a cop who meet when he keeps getting arrested for robbing convenience stores. They fall in love, get married, decide that there is just too much love between them, and they need a critter to share it with. Upon finding that Edwina's insides were a rocky place where H.I.'s seed could find no purchase, they try to adopt, but are turned down because of H.I.'s record. Then they read in the newspaper about local unpainted furniture storeowner Nathan Arizona (Trey Wilson), owner of Unpainted Arizona, and his wife having quintuplets as a result of fertility pills, and who joke that They got more than they can handle. The couple hatch a plan to take one of the babies and raise it as their own. What results is an ongoing, fast-paced, hilarious set of misadventures, complicated by the appearance of a ruthless, heartless outlaw named Leonard Smalls (Randall Tex Cobb) Nathan Arizona hires to find the missing baby, and two felon friends from H.I.'s past (John Goodman and William Forsythe), who make a childbirth-like escape from prison. Sam McMurray (the smarmy dad in Drop Dead Gorgeous) is H.I.'s....smarmy boss, Glen. Frances McDormand (real-life spouse of Joel Coen, and star of other Coen films such as Blood Simple and Fargo) is his excitable wife Dot. M. Emmet Walsh (Blood Simple) has a scenery-chewing cameo role as H.I.'s talkative co-worker.When Ed finally opens up her 5'2 can of Southern-fried whup-ass, throwing her badge to the dirt, striding towards Leonard Smalls as she bellows with all her might, Gimme back that baby, you warthog from HELL!!! I always fling my arms up and shout You go girl! Kick his ass! And the way Hunter cries is hilarious.Holly Hunter was great in this role, as one would expect. She's a very talented actress, in both serious and comedic roles.Nicholas Cage and Holly Hunter made a great on screen couple, Cage with his hair standing out in every direction, looking like a hapless, browbeaten puppy half of the time, and Hunter as his diminutive firecracker of a wife who loves him and tries to keep him honest (oh yeah except for that little kidnapping excursion). I could go on and on about this film but suffice to say that so far I haven't met anyone who didn't find Raising Arizona hilarious. And as any great Coen brothers film, it has a certain mythic quality that's hard to describe, but is present all of of the brothers' best efforts. When I was single, I often used Coen brothers films as a barometer of sorts for prospective boyfriends. For instance, I remember seeing Fargo on a first date, and when we came out of the theater, the guy (whose name I have since forgotten anyway) remarked Huh, I didn't think much of that, while I was thinking how blown away I was by the film! I immediately thought to myself So much for him! This relationship won't last long.For more great Coen comedy, check out Oh Brother Where Art Thou (2000), which is loosely based on Homer's epic poem The Odyssey. Another great Coen comedy is The Big Lebowski (1998), which also includes my favorite singer/songwriter Aimee Mann in a brief cameo, and boasts a cult following that has resulted in an annual Lebowskifest for fans of the film.Blood Simple (1984) is probably my favorite film noir modern-day classic tale of lust and betrayal, and is my personal second-favorite Coen brothers film. Fargo (1996), which won the Screen writing Oscar, and an Oscar for Frances McDormand, is another must-see Coen classic. "},{"Title":"Genius on so many levels.","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Raising Arizona is one of those rare American films that seems to capture the essence of what this country is all about. From first light, with that banjo strumming and breaking into the Arizona sunset and song, we are treated to the lush landscape of a bygone era That of the 1980's American southwest. Trailer parks, barren desert plains, jutting red rocks, desolate highways and small town Tempe...it's a testament to the film-making ability of the mighty Coens. The cast is perfection; each worthy of a spot on Mount Rushmore and a hand print on Hollywood Blvd. Each line in the script should be savored and reviewed over. And over. It makes me laugh, it gives me chills, it makes me cry. This is what film-making is all about. An absolute must-see.These guys should have won an Oscar twenty years sooner.10 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"pure lunacy","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"18 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Pure lunacy is what Raising Arizona is.  It's got everything you could ask for in a film; kidnapping, jailbreaks, Hell's Angels, explosions and guns, guns guns.  Nic Cage is great in the role of a very befuddled conveniance store robber who falls in love with Holly Hunter's Ed.  Throw in John Goodman and William Forsythe as a couple of car stealing, bank robbing brothers and you got yourself scenes that will make you giggle when you think back about them.  The entire state of Arizona seems trigger happy in the Coen's eyes.  Clerks, cops, and crooks pull out firearms and let loose like the finale of the 1812 Overture.  Plus, where else can you hear really good yodeling? "}{"Title":"Son, you got a panty on your head . . . ","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hilarious! Two then-unknowns, Nicholas Cage and Holly Hunter - both future award-winners, and deservedly so - play the most unlikely of couples. Cage is Hi, an armed (I use quotation marks because he normally makes sure the gun he carries is not really loaded) convenience-store robber. Upon being arrested, he meets a lovely little police officer named Ed (Hunter) and does not let the circumstances stop him from flirting with her (What kind of name is Ed for a pretty thing like you? Her answer Short for Edwina. Turn to the RIGHT!) Upon the occasion of his second arrest, he notices that his Officer Ed has clearly been crying. She reveals to him that her fiancée has dumped her for another woman, and he responds by calling her ex a fool for leaving her. Hi serves his time and meets other inmates including a trustee (I assume) who simply growls at him as he passes by and two other convicted armed robbers/brothers (John Goodman and William Forsythe; these guys are geniuses at casting). Upon his release, He and Ed are married (Okay, then, says the pastor who performs the ceremony after they say their I-do's). But something is wrong in paradise. You see, Ed BADLY wants to have a child - or children - and after some time trying to conceive on their own, they decide to see a doctor, who gives them the news that Ed is infertile. Upon trying to adopt, they are rejected because of Hi's, as Ed herself puts it, checkered past. But then, they see on television that a local millionaire furniture-store owner who goes by the name Nathan Arizona and his wife have just had a set of quintuplets due to the wife's use of fertility drugs. Rationalizing that it won't be so bad to take one baby from a couple who already have four others, they proceed to kidnap one of the tots (Nathan Junior, they think) and bring him home.But of course, complications ensue. You see, our two brother-convicts have escaped, and who do they seek out? None other than their prison buddy Hi. Needless to say, Ed is not thrilled with this turn of events. Meanwhile, Hi has lost his job due to beating up his boss (after said boss, while at their house for a barbecue, tells him that he and his wife are swingers and wants to know if Hi would ever consider wife-swappin.) Hi cannot bring himself to tell Ed that he lost his job for defending her honor, and this causes tension between the two. So much so that, although he has turned down a chance to join in a bank heist with the escaped-con brothers, he decides to rob a convenience store he goes into with the intention of getting diapers for the nipper (which he does, just before he pulls an unloaded gun on the clerk and orders him to empty the till). Seeing what he is doing, Ed decides to leave him there, driving off and taking the baby with her. Meanwhile, it turns out the teenage, braces-wearing clerk has a (loaded) gun of his own, and has no qualms about using it. There follows a chase scene that must be seen to be believed. The words fall on the floor funny come to mind. Ed finally shows up, picks up Hi, and they retrieve the diapers, which had been abandoned on the road somewhere along the way.The Arizonas, in the meantime, have troubles of their own besides a missing baby. You see, a bounty hunter (Randall Tex Cobb) has shown up and promised to find the child. But he is not satisfied with what they have officially offered as a reward and threatens to sell the baby on the black market if they do not agree to his price.Poor Hi, meanwhile, has to deal with his outraged boss (the swinger) who shows up at his trailer again to officially fire him. But that's not all, folks - he has figured out the baby's true identity for himself, and wants the baby for himself and his wife (who seems to have a baby obsession; she wants another as soon as the youngest one they have is too big to cuddle). But the brother-cons overhear this and decide to kidnap the baby for the reward. Hi, of course, refuses to let Nathan Junior (he thinks) go without a fight, but he loses. The brother-cons take the baby and attempt their bank heist. But they decide to take the baby into the bank with them and then forget to put him back in the the car as they make their escape. Upon discovering they have forgotten him, they scream - and then scream some more when a cannister of blue paint that was put in their bag along with the money from the bank explodes.It all leads up to a final confrontation between the bounty hunter, Hi, and Ed. I won't give anything else away, just say that this is one of the funniest, most original films I have ever seen. Cheers. "},{"Title":"20 Years Later, This Is Still One Of The Looniest Films I've Ever Seen","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first saw this I thought it was one of the craziest movies I'd ever seen. Twenty years later, I still feel the same way. No matter how many times I view this, I shake my head in amazement at some of the things I see and hear. It's definitely one-of-a-kind.The wacky characters and outrageous story, of course, are the attractions here but I also enjoyed the low camera angles employed here by the directors, the Coen brothers, and I've always enjoyed Nicholas Cage's strange dialog in the narration.Everyone in this film - everyone but the little babies - are totally insane, beginning with the lead people, the husband-and-wife team played by Cage and Holly Hunter. I got most of my laughs, however, from the supporting cast of John Goodman and Bill Forysthe as escaped convicts, Trey Wilson as the father of the quints and Randall Tex Cobb as Leonard Smalls. For a pro boxer, Cobb turned out to be a pretty good actor.If you're looking for something different, something really far out and funny, look no further. "},{"Title":"Cohen brothers comedy with great entertainment and fun","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This amusing picture concerns about an ex-convict (Nicolas Cage) who falls in love for a policewoman (Holly Hunter) who takes him a picture each time he goes to prison . Both of whom wish sons but cannot have any . Then they decide to abduct one from a couple with five children . Meanwhile , a pair of ex convicts (John Goodman and William Forshyte) meddle themselves in their marriage life . Besides , a bounty hunter (Randall Tex Cobb) called the ¨lone biker of apocalypse¨ sets off in pursuit the protagonists for obtaining the reward offered by the child's dad . The film blends irony , humor , tongue-in-cheek , chase scenes , slapstick and is very amusing and entertaining . It's a splendid comedy with set pieces cartoon where the action and humor is continuous from the presentation until the ending . The film was influenced by the works of Preston Sturges and writers such as William Faulkner and Flannery O'Connor , known for her southern literature . Enthusiastic performances by the two main stars , Nicolas Cage is perfectly casted , though his relationship with the Coen Brothers wasn't respectful , but turbulent . When he arrived on-set, and at various other points during production , Cage offered suggestions to the Coen brothers, which they ignored . And Holly Hunter is sympathetic , giving an attractive acting . The movie that was shot in 10 weeks has its moments here and there and being pretty enjoyable and bemusing . Many crew members who had worked with the Coen Brothers on Blood simple (1984) returned for this film , including cinematographer Barry Sonnenfeld , co-producer Mark Silverman , production designer Jane Musky , associate producer and assistant director Deborah Reinisch , and film composer Carter Burwell . Breathtaking cinematography by Barry Sonnenfeld who makes a great camera work , after becoming a famous director with many smash hits (Men in black) . Excellent musical score by Carter Burwell (Rob Roy) , he's habitual musician of Cohen brothers films . Rating  High recommendation. Above average . Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Wall to wall silliness..A joy to watch.","Date":"27 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Normally,I have a problem with any film or TV series that depicts child endangerment,but Raising Arizona is the exception to this.At it's core,the story is a fairly serious one,but there is so much wall to wall silliness permeating the film that it is impossible to take seriously,so all is forgotten there fairly quickly.Each character has his or her own unique quirkiness which adds to the humor.It was perfectly casted with very well known actors and actresses willing to take a chance on these newcomers,the Cohen Brothers,who were still fairly new to Hollywood at the time.The gamble paid off.We have a winner here. "},{"Title":"A Very Funny And Original Film","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Raising Arizona is full of the weird and hilarious Coen brothers style of humour that really works so well. It's a crazy and unique ride that is a total classic, for good reason. Raising Arizona has a lot of great and funny performances, the highlight being Nicolas Cage. His crazy and unpredictable nature works well here, and you can't help but laugh at his antics. Holly Hunter also does a great job as his wife, who has some pretty good laugh out loud moments. John Goodman also has a role among some other recognizable faces that all come together really well.The humour is the biggest strength in this film, because it will really have you laughing out loud. There's lots of really witty and well thought out jokes, including some slap stick humour which works wonderfully. One stand out comedic scene is when Nicolas Cage decides he needs to get some Huggies for the baby, and he resorts to his criminal ways to do so, leading to a really funny chase scene that keeps you laughing throughout. Overall, I would recommend this movie. It's very light and funny, making it a quite enjoyable and easily watchable movie. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest comedies I've seen in a long time","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first heard of Raising Arizona, I was 8 years old. I was spending a weekend with my dad and it was on a Friday night. Usually when I see a movie for the first time on television, I either direct my attention to the screen to see what it is or direct my attention to something that I was doing. I came in right in the middle of the movie and I didn't know what it was about and I certainly didn't understand the concept behind it. But, I do remember laughing and having a good time while watching this movie. Now, looking back on it, it still makes me laugh even harder and longer.The story centers around a convict/loser named H.I. McDunnough, (Nicholas Cage). His friends called him Hi. For the last several years, Hi has been robbing convenience stores and ending up in the slammer. After three times, Hi decides to go straight. He seeks the attraction of a pretty cop named Edwina Ed McDunnough, (Holly Hunter). Soon after, Hi and Ed get married. But, there's just one problem. They want to raise a family. So, the couple decides to keep trying. But according to a local gynecologist, Ed is infertile, meaning that she can't have kids. According to Hi's perspective, he can't plant his seed into Ed. Hopeless, the couple decides to steal one of the Arizona quints. One night, Hi and Ed steal one of the quints from a very wealthy businessman, (Sam McMurray), who owns a furniture store in Arizona.As the movie progresses, the humor starts to kick in when the local police and the F.B.I. conduct a manhunt on the missing quint. Meanwhile, two prisoners, (John Goodman and William Forsythe), escaped from prison and take shelter in Hi's home. But, the two prisoners want Hi to go along with them to pull off a heist. While that is going, another character comes walking into the story. An deranged and hellish lone motorcycle driver, (Randall 'Tex' Cobb), enters the story through Hi's dreams and his job is to find the quint and find the people who stole him. You can see that the movie is quite ambitious for its own kind. To tell you the truth, it is. This is the first comedy being made by the always entertaining movie-making duo, Joel and Ethan Coen. Their movies never ceased to amaze me. They have really carved out a reputation of movie- making with their witty scripts and their zany approach to a story. What surprises me is that this movie is actually their first comedy. Before the Coen brothers made Raising Arizona, they wrote and direct a very dark and violent neo-noir film, Blood Simple, which was released three earlier. This is quite surprising because Blood Simple was a very serious and sometimes bloody film that had a lot of twists and turns in it.Here, it's a change of pace. How they were to pull this one off is something that strikes me dumb. Watching the movie, I found myself laughing more than ever since I now understand the themes involved. One of the funniest scenes that I saw and it is the most significant one is when Cage's character robs a convenience store and disguised himself by putting pantyhose on his head. This plan doesn't since his wife leaves him behind, having him deal with the trigger-happy clerk and the police. The chase goes all over the place with Cage being chased by the clerk, the police and a pack of dogs. Even in the middle of the chase, Cage is even given a lift with an screaming hayseed driver. The way the chase sequence is shot makes it seems that the chase is being played as a cartoon. Maybe that's why the scene made me laugh the first time around. It's that sense of wacko humor that generates a laugh out of the audience. Not only the film's humor made me laugh, but toward the end of the movie, there's a bittersweet sense that ties the movie together with the characters trying hard to have a family.The writing by the brothers is very funny and even the performances by Cage, Hunter, Goodman and even Forsthye are excellent. I did believe that Nicholas Cage was really Hi. The fact that he sports a mustache and a dopey appearance when he is getting his mugshot done is very funny and also interesting. I'm not really a big fan of comedies because most of them are done pretty badly and never seem to hit me with their humor. That is true in today's movies. In today's movies, you can get away with everything. You can get a kick out of a audience that admired slapstick humor or bathroom humor. I understand that perspective. But, I enjoyed watching comedies that have funny dialogue in it. i believe that if you can make an audience laugh out loud with the dialogue, then that can be funny alone. The Coen brothers know how to generate a laugh out of the audience with their style of writing.Even in the today world, the Coen brothers are still going strong. Last year, they written and directed the Oscar-nominated picture, Inside Llewyn Davis. The brothers seem to really be shifting gears according to the genres. They can frightened you and tantalizes you with Blood Simple. They can make you laugh with Raising Arizona. They can compel you with Miller's Crossing. And they can jolt you with The Big Lebowski. I wonder what they're going to do next. ★★★ 1/2 3 1/2 stars. "},{"Title":"Power of the Pen","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As well received as it is, I don't think this film gets the credit its due. It is quite literally the first of the modern scripts, utilizing actual writing and making it as key to the experience as the actors. Its not cliche in this instance to say its not whats being said thats so funny, but how it is being said.  By fully exploiting the heretofore under utilized treasure that is American English, the Coens reintroduced mainstream cinema to the screenplay. The rest is pretty damn good too. Its affably off kilter like every Coen venture, Cage and even Hunter are superb, the supporting cast even better. Must see.    "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Starts with Nicholas cage's narrating and southern style score,this movie happened to catch my attention from the inception like usual Coen movies do. Quirky cast of character,surreal sequence and goofy scenes makes it memorable. You got young Hi (Nicholas Cage),an ex-con and Ed(Holly Hunter) ,an ex- cop .As odds even out they both marry each other which is the most interesting thing. Incapable of giving birth to a baby ,and Hi's past stops them from adopting any. Ed breaks down and find an illegal way to get a baby ,and that is.....stealing it from the owner of biggest unpainted furniture owner in Arizona. That's the whole plot ahead,the idiosyncratic characters and dialogues and the situations they get in. It is replete with these funny slapstick situations and deft camera-work which seems really entertaining. John Goodman and William Forsythe as two criminal and fugitive brothers are really funny and good. The character of Leonard smalls is very well written and it is like hound slash killing machine which can track anything. Shooting rabbits through the desert it gets in the way of Hi and Ed ,the way it has being depicted is amazing. Highlight of the movie is undoubtedly the climax ,filled with soaring emotions and pathos generated narrative. If you want to enjoy a good comedy with every element of crime in it,this is the one. "},{"Title":"Cartoony and Fun","Date":"22 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Love them or Hate them, the Coen Bros. bring their Quirky Sensibilities to all Their Films in a Brash and sometimes Belligerent Style that in no uncertain terms says, here it is take it or leave it. Darlings of the Critics, Their Mainstream Appeal is at times Elusive.This one is Their second Film following the Cult Hit, Blood Simple (1984), a Low-Budget Winner that took Everyone by Surprise and launched one of the most Artistically Acclaimed Careers in Modern Cinema.Here Nicolas Cage is Superb, as is the Entire Cast. The Cinematography is Stunning and the Pace can be summed up in two words...Beep Beep. It is relentlessly over the top Funny, Witty, and full of Slapstick. The Script is Clever Coen Speak with a Story that is Touching, Heartfelt, and Bizarre.This one would seem to appeal to both Eggheads and Low-Brows and it manages to be a Movie that feels Comfortable on both sides of the Road. A Place where the Sun Shines on Frolicing Fun and Biting Satire. "},{"Title":"Pure hillbilly fun ...","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" You've gotta hand it to the Coen brothers, they sure know how to inject style and flamboyance in their creations. And to think that Raising Arizona was only their second feature film makes the accomplishment even more impressive&#x85; although Blood Simple. was powerful enough an announcement of two upcoming talents threatening to shake Hollywood's conventions with a unique sense of eccentricity, and human depth.Blood Simple. was still borrowing some elements from film-noir and Hitchcock movies, and, no matter how effective it was, it could have easily been targeted as an exercise in style. This is why the Coen brothers couldn't have made a better choice by making a zany comedy with a tender and more optimistic tone. And not only the film works but Raising Arizona is now a comedy classic, so special that it doesn't even deserve to be mentioned in the same breath than 80's comedies for the simple reason that it differs from what was made in that decade. And that's the thing about the Coen brothers, they make timeless films, set in universes, playing like crossroads between fantasy and reality, where their stories float with a bizarre but so penetrating poetry.I know this is a Coen brothers' so we're tempted to get deeper on the subject. Granted it's not just a story about two people who kidnap a baby because they can't have one, there are far more symbolism and philosophical material lying underneath the screwball carapace, but how about enjoying the film for what it is one hilarious piece of cinematic greatness carried by the kind of colorful cast that made the Coen's films so lively. And what a cast! Nicolas Cage is H.I. aka Hi McDunnough, a multiple recidivist specialized in robbing market stores and Holly Hunter is Edwina aka 'Ed', the photographer who took so many mug shots she ended up proving that indeed, opposites attracted.But the Coen brothers are not the type of directors to comfortably sit on the presence of two solid protagonist, they know supporting characters are the spices that give the film its flavor. So, we have the two escaped prison buddies, two brothers played by two Johns, John Goodman, who'd become one of the Coen's greatest asset with such a physical presence he'd steal the show anytime, anywhere and Forsythe as his dim-witted brother. There is Sam McMumurray as Glen, the bourgeois pain-in-the-ass and the late Trey Wilson as Nathan Arizona, father of cute blonde-haired quints, the furniture magnate whose motto consist on concluding all his statements with or my name isn't Nathan Arizona.Each character illuminates the screen with a unique presence, even little Nathan Jr. makes you believe people would kill each other to get him, and Frances McDormand is given a less important play but plays it with the required over-the-top way you'd expect from the woman who chose a guy like Glen for husband. Speaking of Glen, nothing against Sam McMurray but I would have loved to see John Turturro playing his part, if only because it would have made Raising Arizona's the consummate Coen brothers' film, with characters before stories. Hell, it goes even to the point where the most seemingly inoffensive market-cashier can tot a gunshot and become a Dirty Harry-like figure, no one is to be underestimated, not when laughs are at stakes.Naturally, such story deserves a worthy villain and this is where Randal 'Tex' Cobb makes his entrances, as a man coming from nowhere, supposedly incarnating the devil, whenever he goes, grass never grow back and this modern Atilla of biker of the apocalypse first emerges in HI's dream after he stole Nathan's kid. He symbolizes HI's conscience, something that will torment him until he finds the way to redeem himself, and this is the philosophical stuff hidden beneath the film, it's about characters doing morally wrong things, and finding their own path to redemption. When a recidivist teams up with a cop and both stole parents' fruits of love, you know this ain't the way to reach marital happiness.And the whole narrative is cooked up up in typical Mid-West accent, flirting with caricature but giving Raising Arizonaits colorful spirit, the same as Fargo with its overuse of Scandinavian accent made of Yah and You betcha. This is the Coens' signature and it doesn't limit to dialogs but goes to the soundtrack and from the title to the score, you have the hillbilly thing screaming all over the place. Till today, it's impossible not to hear Raising Arizona without having that fast-paced upbeat banjo music and catchy yodel that makes you want to escape from whatever makes your routine. You got it, Raising Arizona is pure entertaining escapism, with a man and a woman giving their life a meaning the wrong way, before learning the lessons, the hard way.And what a lesson! the conclusion of the film is probably the most insightful and beautiful thing ever put in a film, transcending the limits of comedies to something that cuts straight to your heart. And by the way, I couldn't believe Roger Ebert's review, my only guess he didn't have enough perspective and he probably changed his mind after. But thanks to Ebert, I learned the definition of a good movie, from Howard Hawks' quote. It's made of three good scenes and no bad scenes. There are none in Raising Arizona and there are three mesmerizing sequences one of the most promising and funny introductions ever, then the market scene that reinvents the foot-chase forever, and made it deeply intertwined with hillbilly yodel like banjo music did for Bonnie and Clyde, and ten you have one of the most poignant and meaningful monologues ever.There are three great moments in Raising Arizona, in the beginning, the middle and the ending, and if only for these moments, with so many laughs in-between, Raising Arizona is one of the greatest comedies ever &#x85; or my IMDb user name isn't ElMaruecan82. "}{"Title":"Fantastic cartoon like comedy from Coen Bros.","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was the first Coen Brothers movie that I saw, and I saw it at a time when I was very young, it had just come out on video and I was born in 1975 so I must have been 12 or 13 years old, and I've always just loved it absolutely as a comedy. Over the years comparing it to other Coen Brothers films it's picked up depth and also a further examination of the film itself reveals a wealth of ideas and hidden comedy.Like most of the Coen Brothers movies, this one revolves around a crime/kidnapping gone wrong. The thing that makes Raising Arizona so different even from other Coen Bros. films is the warmth with which the central protagonists are depicted. When I first watched it, I don't even remember really questioning the logic behind the kidnapping itself. Everything just flows very naturally from the characters and the premise. All the performances are just great, you feel very absorbed in the movie, none of it is self-conscious. Nick Cage has never been funnier -- after he's done so many bad movies, I sometimes try to figure out why I liked him in the first place and I always come back to this movie. Holly Hunter was perfect also, I love how she becomes the chief instigator of the caper and the way she grits her teeth and intones like Clint Eastwood I want that baby. Give me that baby. Moments like this in the movie are just awesome, there's no doubt about it. What can you say about the supporting cast, it was all equally fitting. I love Trey Wilson, especially the line where he tells the cops about their raisoned etray. He seems goofy but there's a great moment of sincerity with his character towards the end, just as there is with John Goodman's seemingly irredeemable con.This is a very good looking movie that I thought was big budget when I saw it but which I now realize was pretty low or medium. The use of the steadicam or some similar device reminds me of their friend and mentor Sam Raimi's use of the same device in the Evil Dead movies, and it's very striking in some of the scenes for instance the zoom up the ladder to the shrieking countenance of the grieved mother of Nathan Arizona Junior. I love how the shot with Cage pulling the baby out from underneath its crib is mirrored exactly later on in the shot of the devil-biker pulling Cage out from underneath the car he's crawled into. In fact there's a lot of crawling in Coen Brothers movies in general, that's the strange kind of thing you notice when you watch them in close proximity to each other. True auteurs you have to admit whether you like them or not. Similar to but even moreso than Hudsucker Proxy and O Brother Where Art Thou?, parts of this feel like a Warner Brothers cartoon from the 40s come to life. "},{"Title":"More Than Meets the Eye","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is much more than an outrageous and unique comedy. One reason for its cult following has been consistently missed by the critics repeated viewings reveal surprising layers of meaning and an intricate web of symbolism.At the heart of this film is the timeless debate known as nature vs. nurture are we more a product of our genes, or of our environment? How much of an effect does our upbringing have on our likelihood to turn out as either a law-abiding member of society (a society which in this movie is of dubious merit, as represented by Hi's job and his unctuous boss) or as a criminal deviant from its norms?The symbolism in this film is rich and evocative--while always contributing to the comedy. Note how often the adult characters cry and carry on like infants. Note the way the escaped convicts are born into the outside world. Note the marriage of a convict and a police officer, and the difference in their families visible in the brief wedding shot. Note the juxtaposition of milk poured over cereal with the infant's feeding bottle, as Evelle observes, Ya don't breast feed him, he'll hate you for it later. That's why we wound up in prison. And note the frequent use of phrases such as that's natural, as opposed to you're not being true to your nature or mother didn't love me. As Hi observes, maybe it's my upbringing, maybe it's just that my genes got screwed up, I don't know.The quasi-biblical, poetical and aphorism-laden language the characters use in the-state-adjacent-to-Utah is both touching and funny. Every word of the film is a finely polished gem. Ed's little plan is the solution to all our problems, and the answer to all our prayers. Her infertile womb is a rocky place where my seed can find no purchase. And as Hi later writes in a touching letter to his dearest Edwina, I feel the thunder gathering even now...I cannot tarry...better I should go, send you money, and let you curse my name. On the other hand, the crotchety Arizona characters also have a remarkable literalness of expression. A packet of balloons does not blow up into funny shapes, not unless round is funny. And as the old codger in the bank robbery points out, If I freeze, I can't rightly drop, and if I drop, I'm gonna be in motion!Even the music in this film is perfectly executed, from the hilarious yodeling and whistling of the main theme to the way the chilling accompaniment of a nightmare is later revealed to be a haunting children's nursery song, and then mutates into an ethereal melody in the film's final scenes. The characters, despite their flaws, are all surprisingly sympathetic. And the film is tightly constructed, without a single unnecessary scene or moment. It ends with a bang, not a whimper, its final words resonating with significance and yet leaving one wanting more, like a swift exit after a great punch line.At the deepest core of this film lies a mystery wrapped in an enigma who is the once-orphaned motorcycle demon from hell, and what is his relation to Herbert I. McDonnough? The answer to this puzzle relates intimately to the nature vs. nurture theme. While I think I know the answer, I'll leave it for you to figure out, based on the clues (show the tattoo!) liberally scattered throughout the film. Okay then! "},{"Title":"Sheer comedic genius","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of my top-five favorite movies of all-time (which includes another Cohen Brothers film, 'O Brother, Where Art Thou'). It's overtly funny. It's subtly funny. It's funny from beginning to end. Sheer comedic genius. "},{"Title":"Quirky, delightfully eccentric comedy from the Coen brothers.","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Renowned for witty dialogue, quirky performances and bravura styles, the Coen brothers are among the most innovative filmmakers around. And `Raising Arizona' ranks as one of their best films to date. The plot is simple enough- a young couple steals baby when they can't have one of their own-- but it provides the chance for some hilarious situations. And while the running time is a narrow 94 minutes, plenty of laughs are to be had and the story develops quickly enough. `Raising Arizona' is the definitive cult classic. A mass following has compensated for little attention upon release.The script is as sharp and witty as one would hope for, and you can tell that a lot of work has gone into it- smart, witty and comprehensive. The verbal wit is top-notch, but some of the best gags come from the `Cannonball Run' style visual wit. The demonic `Angel of Death' who kills all little creatures in the most bizarre fashion is hilarious, as are the riotous kids who bring new meaning to `rebellious'. But the funniest scene is definitely the grocery store hold-up sequence that escalates into a slapstick chase.The performances are superbly comedic all round. Nicholas Cage and Holly Hunter flews their comic talents as the white trash protagonists. Even the costume designs (Cage's hair especially) are hilarious to look at. Meanwhile, Coen regular John Goodman is tremendously funny as is his equally dim-witted brother played by William Forsythe. Even the small parts that go to Sam McMurray and Frances McDormand among others are funnier than expected. One problem that can affect similar stories is that they can sometimes be a little thin. But `Raising Arizona' never wears out its welcome. It sticks to the set-up but brings in plenty of fresh sub-plots that brilliantly coincide with the main story. This is by far the best movie of 1987. While pictures like `The Last Emperor' and `Moonstruck' may have hogged the Oscars in an otherwise mediocre year, they didn't survive the test of time.If you haven't yet seen `Raising Arizona', you should check it out because you're in for a treat. It works on a small-scale, but brilliantly improvises. Memorable one-liners, excellent humour and impeccable timing make for a classic of less-than-epic proportions. My IMDb rating 7.9/10.  "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  a little too arty but worth seeing","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm an action film buff, and frankly I'm not into dramas. Why? Well, the slow melodramatic pace bores me. Also, I don't have the film school sophistication to enjoy the editing and makeup, for example, if the plot and characters are awful.But I've found the Coen brothers' work accessible, especially O Brother Where Art Thou. And Raising Arizona was a worthwhile comedy -- original and interesting. I couldn't identify with the protagonists, and there were some slightly surreal bits that dropped me out of the film, and this was definitely a comedy / drama. And I have not quite forgiven Holly Hunter for the horrid The Piano. But there was plenty of wacky and I laughed out loud several times. Who should see this film-- comedy lovers who think a bit of wacky will make up fora bit of drama.-- drama lovers. Don't expect a romance.-- Art film types who will get all the stuff I didn't getI'll give Raizing Arizona a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Turn To The Right!","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Comedy is such a fickle category to rate because there are so many different ways to get a laugh.  But of all the comedies I have seen, I have to rate this as the best one ever.  The reasons are many fold, but the key ones include a good, tight story line (for a comedy); the unusual camera angles that in themselves I found very funny; a one-of-a-kind soundtrack that sticks in your head; and some great one-liners that I burst out laughing over (such as the Grocer's Well, no.  Unless you think round is funny).As a rule, I hate absurdity in comedies.  And yet, I could not stop laughing over the absurd situations in this movie.  They were so well presented that it wasn't til after the movie had finished that I had realized how absurd they were.I especially enjoyed how the Coen brothers poked fun at America's love of the gun in the scenes following Hi's stop to pick up the Huggies.I definitely recommend this to anyone who has not seen it.  You are sure to not have seen anything like it and you are almost guaranteed to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I do not need to spend many words on Raising Arizona (RA)  classic, memorable, wonderful entertainment, and very, very funny.  Other Cohen brother movies have been darker, more intellectual, but RA is their most entertaining work.  Also the cinematography and styling of the movie, from the intro / outro - yodelling to the decoration of the Arizona quintuplets' bed room is absolutely wonderful.10 / 10 -- highly recommended. "},{"Title":"funniest movie ever","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Son, you got a panty on your head.Every time I see this movie, I laugh like I did the first time I saw it. As soon as you hear the theme yodel in the beginning, you can get the jist of the movie. I knew who Nicolas Cage and Holly Hunter were because of this movie.  My favorite part is the cop chase.I highly recommend this movie for anyone that loves to laugh.  "},{"Title":"Me And Ed We Can Be Good Too","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A great second effort from the now trendy Coen brothers.  Nic Cage and Holly Hunter make a great team as trailer park wannabe parents living the good life in Arizona.  Holly Hunter hasn't been in anything I've really liked since this to tell you the truth.The Coens add a nice mixture of screwball comedy, powerful visuals, great music by their usual composer, Carter Burwell, and a Mad Max type action villain.  Randall Tex Cobb is kickin' major axe throughout this oh so wacko flick.  See it, be it, live it, feel it, dream it.  You can dig that, can't ya? "},{"Title":"A very, very acquired taste.","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" With just their second film, the Coen brothers show that they are willing and capable of creating an entirely different film experience each and every time. After their stunning debut with the sharp, enticing crime thriller Blood Simple, what could be further from that than an oddball, idiosyncratic comedy about an ex-con and an ex-cop getting married and stealing a baby from a set of quintuplets because they can't have kids? Two of the most energetic and gratifying actors working today, Nicolas Cage and Holly Hunter, go head-on with their outrageous dialog and characters that are so broad and outlandish, it is impossible to not notice them. Both are good in their respective roles, especially Hunter, but some characters weigh down the story and take time away from those we really want to see. John Goodman and William Forsythe play a couple of inmates who know Cage and hope to rob a bank after escaping. There is also a seemingly frightening and terrifying man-hunter on a motorcycle that seems right out of Mad Max. It was these situations that puzzled me and left me wondering what they were doing in this story.I guess I didn't like the movie too much, but probably only for the script, which is in my opinion one of the weakest of the Coen's. The characters are so broad and outlandish that it takes away from the emotional value able to see in them so we are witnessing more behavior than character. I did laugh at certain sections, but there were several scenes that felt from another movie. I guess I can't be too upset seeing as how I have seen many other Coen brother films I love, but it came as a bit of a surprise to me that this disappointed me. Then again, the Coens have always been a very acquired taste. This one is very, very. "}{"Title":"Coens make another comedy gem","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Unable to conceive, police officer Ed McDunnough (Hunter) and her ex-con husband H.I (Cage) steal a baby from a wealthy businessman, only to encounter numerous problems.After the successful Blood Simple in 1984, The Coen brothers maintained their rise into the cinematic universe with this sharp and tactically astounding piece of film-making with a well scripted plot and some sharp direction to make a wonderful watch.Starting off with a surprising and diverse approach to the prison world, H.I is in and out of prison more than The Dude is out of the bowling alley. This quick succession of events is scripted by a swift Nicholas Cage accent in a funny manor, with the events falling in place against the on screen revelations of the constant robber. Soon H.I and the police officer hit it off and in virtually no time at all, we have the major plot device, the stealing of the baby. Mineralizing all the background and cutting straight to the point is one of the Coen's strong points. In Burn after Reading John Malkovich finds he is fired and creates his memoires before he loses them in the first half an hour. The legendary writers and directors certainly know how to pack the early punch and gain our interest.Perhaps this is one of the most fascinating openings, because of the absurdity of the concept of baby stealing. In no time at all we are right with the couple contemplating the decision to steal one of Arizona's babies in a bid to make their lives more fulfilled. Sat outside the house and H.I is soon climbing a ladder into the toddler's shared bedroom where the seven babies sit adorably silent. From the dream sequences in The Big Lebowski to the wood chipper sequence in Fargo, this has to be the brother's best executed moment. All the babies sit in perfect silence as Nic Cage comes to take one of them away. This whole scene is dark comic magic with a minimal problem soon ensuring chaos as the babies parade around whilst the central protagonist tries to redeem himself. The comedy on show here is wonderfully typical childish behaviour that is exactly what you want after the fast flowing montages. This settles the plot down with the gentle comedy and the wonderfully shot interplay with the kids. Of course in typical Coen fashion things are shaken up before the dust can settle and when at home the new family finds they have some visitors in the shape of H.I's old inmates, which adds an extra comedy gem as well as some dramatic sparks to proceedings.From here on in the good nature of doing the right thing for the baby is left out as the Coen's use that special sense of self-indulgence for their protagonists in a rightful bid to make the drama and comedy that little bit funnier.Raising Arizona has a few faults. Nic Cage's character is too sluggish on the uptake to find funny with the constant narration offbeat, and the bad biker is strange in context but regardless this 1987 release is sharp and funny, with that wonderful uniqueness only the brothers can pull off. "},{"Title":"A silly but fun film that is an accessible and enjoyable movie from the Coen brothers","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  H.I. McDunnough is a smalltime criminal who is never more than a few months from coming out of jail or a few months away from going back to jail. After each arrest though, he gets to meet the beautiful police officer Edwina and, after many meetings, Hi decides to go straight and get married to Ed. Immediately their love blossoms and they decide to share their love by having a kid. Sadly, Ed learns she is barren, sending them into a downward spiral of depression. Whenever they learn of a rich family having quintettes, they see their due and decide to take one of the babies for themselves. This is the first step onto the slippery slope for Hi, who quickly finds himself back in a life of crime, but this doesn't compare to the problems that could face him if the bounty hunter employed by the baby's real father should ever catch them up.Having watched a few recent Coen Brother films where they do seem to be very aware of what is commercially acceptable it is nice to come to a film that is good fun but also seems to be off the wall in the way that the Coens can easily be. The plot is silly but it works mainly because it has a great deal of raucous energy to it that just keeps so much unusual stuff coming that it is hard not to get drawn into it. It isn't hilariously funny and it won't have you roaring with laughter very often but it does have a strange sense of its own reality that is consistently amusing and surprising. It will not be to everyone's tastes but the collection of strange and exaggerated characters at least keep it interesting and amusing. The Coens touch on obvious scenes at times (the long scream, the cute baby shots etc) but generally the film is very clearly theirs, with plenty of their unique touches and humour.The cast also reveals it to be a Coen film and generally they all fit into this world pretty well, delivering performances that are exaggerated enough to be 'funny' silly and not 'stupid' silly. Cage is a likable loser, while Hunter plays it straight trashy but it is the exaggerated support characters that steal the show and keep it all moving. Goodman and Forsythe are good fun in simple roles but Wilson, McDormand, McMurray and the great Tex Cobb (as well as a few others) that all had me amused and interested.Overall this is not a perfect film and people coming looking for a straight comedy will likely not be won over by a film that relies more on exaggeration that actual jokes but it is still quite good fun. As a Coen brothers film it is pretty accessible &#150; mixing their humour with the other touches that make them them (although this is by no means one of their best films). Fun stuff if you are in the Coen brothers world but it is not a hilarious comedy &#150; more a quirky and silly one.  "},{"Title":"A freezing illusion of perfection","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This comedy is in the style of others by the Coens (The Big Lebowski and The Ladykillers in particular), only much faster, with one gag following another. It conveys a typical feeling of coldness, just as everything were built and invented with no real inspiration, by just sitting at a table and squeezing into the thing as many brilliant details as a barely 90 minutes long movie can bear. I don't deny that the result is pretty enjoyable, but all the stuff that you have to go through while a credible setting is built out of nothing in the first 30 minutes is as terrifying as Fargo was... you are not even able to smile at it, you are just horrified by this depiction of the squalor of life in deep America. After the first minutes you can relax and enjoy a slapstick comedy brilliantly developed and brought to its end. But I don't think this is intellectually superior to any other comedy just because it is by the Coens. I am not surprised at all by the fact that these guys became star-filmmakers in Europe because of much appreciation by the French, who are always appealed by extremely intellectual wit but are never bothered by emptiness of meaning. "},{"Title":"When comedy turns desperate","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  About a third of the way through this film it seems that the writers suddenly realised that they had created a story which would be difficult to sustain as comedy. After all, kidnapping a baby is hardly a laughing matter, although the execution of the crime was played with humour. But where to go once the baby is settled into its new `family'? Yes, there might have been a few laughs to be had with Hi struggling to come to terms with fatherhood, but beyond that?So enter, stage below, a couple of escaped convicts and the rabbit hunter from Hell, this latter character appearing to belong to some parallel dimension. And suddenly the sub-plots become the core of the story with all the characters becoming increasingly frenetic. So the humour, of a sort, is restored but at the expense of any belief in the storyline or the characters. The only characters who might have saved this were Dot and Glen, the friends from Hell with their malevolent brood of what just about passed as children, and Nathan Arizona himself who was probably the best of all. The latter's comment towards the end about paying the reward in unpainted furniture as an alternative to the promised cash was one of the truly comic moments in a film which became increasingly dependent on outrageous visual jokes such as the exit, stage top, of said rabbit hunter. Inventive and well photographed as it is, just because it's a Coen Brothers film does not automatically elevate it to a pedestal &#150; other than perhaps for knocking it down. "},{"Title":"The suniest and most uplifting comedy I've ever seen. ***1/2 out of ****","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"27 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  RAISING ARIZONA (1987) ***1/2Starring Nicholas Cage, Holly Hunter, John Goodman, William Forsythe, and Frances McDormand Director Joel Coen   Written by Ethan Coen &  Joel Coen    Rated PG-13 (for violence and language) By Blake French	Raising Arizona is one of the best, most sunny and uplifting comedies I have ever seen. It is inspirational and detailed, from start to finish. The movie is written and directed by the creators of Fargo, Ethan and Joel Coen, who not surprisingly have placed together a movie masterpiece featuring some really big laughs while still getting the powerful moral of the story across. 	The film stars Nicolas Cage as a criminal named H.I., who recently married a police officer named Ed (Holly Hunter), after meeting her in prison. The couple live in a lonely world with hope and dreams of having a kid, until they find out that Ed can't have babies--leaving them no chance at ever fulfilling their dreams of having a child of their own some day.	One afternoon, however, H.I. gets an idea he will kidnap one of the babies of the furniture salesman Nathan Arizona, whose wife just had quintuplets. After all, why would they miss just one child when he has that many?	H.I. does this successfully and discretely. He and Ed are as happy as can be. Until some guilt begins to strike him when a $25,000 reward is offered for whomever finds and brings back this child, named Nathan Arizona  who is named after his loving father. Soon, however, H.I.'s old jailhouse friends, Gale and Evelle, break out of prison and cause uproar for him. Then a helmet warring biker from hell shows up causing even more trouble. After that, there is an old neighbor enemy of his whom appears knowing his secret. Maybe the idea of raising Arizona wasn't such a good idea after all.	The screenplay features some of the funniest moments in film history. The scenes enjoy the insanity of becoming a live action cartoon and a series of melodramatic happenings. One sequence, in particular, when HI robs a convenient story for Huggie's dippers for Nathan Jr., the filmmakers take advantage of the comedic situations involved with the circumstances here. It includes slapstick humor mixed with high energy and risky stakes as Cage is chased by gun happy policemen, store clerks, one, two and then a dozen vicious dogs, his wife, and his morals in a exiting and hilarious adventure worth the watch all on its own. There are also several other funny moments in the movie.	The performances are also to die for. Nicolas Cage, known for a little heftier of roles, is full of shimmer here. Such a robust flavor explodes from his juicy character. Holly Hunter is also bursting with comic parody. Her character is perfectly portrayed with the right amount of hostility and human understanding. John Goodman and William Forsythe are hilarious as the two prison escapees. Their exaggerated characters fit the film's comic tone flawlessly. Frances McDormand, who was so good in the 1996 satire Fargo, here is a little underplayed. Yes, her performance fits her character's attitude and witty remarks, but in general, I think her role was too shallow considering  her ability. 	The ending of Raising Arizona consists of a daydream sequence from the mind of HI, a character so hopeless and free spirited the empathy felt for him matches any character in any chosen movie.  The dream features a vision that takes place in the future where everything turns out to be okay for him and Ed. While I will not spoil what material it contains, I will say that it closes the movie with a heartwarming conclusion and yet lets the mind wonder on. Raising Arizona, may only be a zany screwball comedy, but if you look deeper within its many laughs, you'll find something more. A message that will stick with you for some time after the movie is over never give up hope.  				Brought to you by 20th Century Fox.  "},{"Title":"Perhaps the funniest film ever made","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"44 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Coen Brothers are genius !! That's not an opinion, that's a fact. I can appreciate and respect all kind of different opinions on all sort of matters, but not on this one. If anyone says the Coen brothers are bad, overrated or not funny, they are just plain wrong. Raising Arizona is the funniest story I've ever seen. It can go over the top as much as it wants and still it doesn't become bad. That's a great achievement only the Coen Brothers can do. Jim Carrey can't do it and neither can Mike Myers. At the same time, this story is emotional and warming. How often do you see a combination like that. Joel and Ethan Coen often use the same actors and actresses. And they're right cause those who play in their films belong to Hollywoods very best. John Goodman, Holly Hunter...and in this film Nicolas Cage !! Nic plays one of his best roles so far. Perhaps even THE best. Holly Hunter is great as always and this role fits her perfectly. I believe it was also written especially for her. No need to say John Goodman and William Forsythe give away flawless performances as well. Try also to pay attention to the rather small part played by Frances McDormand. Raising Arizona is about a criminal falling in love with a police woman. They wanna celebrate their love with a baby but they are unable to have one themselves. Than the news breaks! A rich couple in the area received quintets. 5 healthy young babies. Hi and Ed (our couple) think it's unfair and they decide to steal one of them so they could raise their own little family. Now, the few lines I've wrote appear already in the intro of the movie. I can hear you think  with what else are the going to fill the movie. Well, go and see. If you haven't seen this film yet it's a real shame. It's a must see for everyone!!! Some scenes are so hilarious you'll have trouble breathing, I assure you. This film doesn't need stupid faces or teenager sex jokes to be funny. "},{"Title":"Step to the right and into the Future...","Date":"19 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Just a howl from start to finish! The exposition is marvelously evolved and the opening credits as grand as any narrative hook sent to arrest you and go gunning down the road. This is a beautiful and yet sensitive and sympathetic portrayal of Midwestern and Southern white folk also referred to as so-called 'white trash'. Carter Burwell really knows what he is doing with the music; a mixture of organ, banjo, whistling and yodeling; and the Coen brothers edit it all in to the brilliant chase sequences with verve and exhilaration until music and motion are almost a form of high poetry.The lines of dialogue are as good as anything Abbott and Costello could have devised and it's fun to watch Nicholas Cage race around as reformed ex con H.I. McDunnough to see who's on first. Holly Hunter as his twice decorated police officer wife is also wonderfully histrionic as Edwin 'Ed' McDunnough and Randall 'Tex' Cobb comes riding out the hell of one of H.I. McDunnough's nightmares as though sent on a mission from the Grim Reaper. John Goodman and William Forsythe as the Gale and Evelle Snoats brothers cheerfully demonstrate the bonds of friendship that can accrue between members of the penal institution. Trey Wilson has some of the best lines as the harried, upright television entrepreneur Nathan Arizona, and comes across at turns as savvy, righteously indignant, and even wise about the human condition in a homespun sort of way.Admittedly many of the characters are caricatures of real life people and look and act like refugees from a Robert Crumb comic strip, the far side of the moon exaggeration of so-called 'crackers' we would make jokes about after games of softball and drinking cool-aid. But it is fun to watch these denizens of the New South and New West cavort around in their own buffoonery and misdirection with those famous narrow-minded attitudes and folksy perspectives we have all come to know and love. I found it a welcome respite from all the charges about how black folks were compelled to be the clowns and buffoons and indulge in all manner of coonery for the entertainment of largely white audiences. I found these under-educated, none too bright citizens of the Coen Universe oddly charming in their furious attempts to entertain me for once.The most appealing part of the film for me comes at the end when H.I. McDunnough has a dream that takes him into the Future. I have read that one of the limitations of the criminal mind is its inability to properly forecast a positive Future. Here at the film's conclusion McDunnough seems to evolve psychologically to make this quantum leap into a new beginning. This is quite an endearing sequence and it is hard to fault a couple who wanted to create a family so bad they would break or bend any law known to man or beast to get it. After all, isn't that the American Way?Or was that last night's pickles and ice cream talking? "},{"Title":"You're Young And You Got Your Health, What Do You Want With A Job?","Date":"13 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadThe wackiest, most zany comedy whose humor often crosses into pure surreality, be warned, do not show this to no-nonsense fact based people. My uncle handed it me,Sport, that is the weirdest piece of crap I have ever seen. Yes, but it is funny, I never understand empiricists, did it make you laugh? That is the purpose of comedy, case closed. The thin plot follows a 'recidivist' criminal trying to make it in the outside world but tempted, always, by the sight of convenience stores on his way home. He makes a connection with a policewoman, played by Holly Hunter, who does excellent work here. They want to have a baby but the doctor tells them,That her womb was a rocky place where my seed could find no purchase. The doctor is laughing as he tells them this; this movie typifies what Schopenhauer meant by humor being predicated on situational incongruence. When you read my review, some of the words seem depressing or deathly serious, nothing in this movie is serious. The couple decide to abduct one of the Arizona babies, because with the five,They got more than they can handle there. Hi has second thoughts but Ed tells him,Don't you come back to this car without a baby. The babies are the property of the world's most annoying television furniture salesman, his dialog is worth owning the movie for, short, sharp and nasty. My motto is do it my way or watch your butt. The couple is soon being chased by a bounty hunter, Leonard Smalls, who carries his baby shoes about his neck and has a tattoo that says,Mama didn't love me. The movie is stolen by these two amiable convicts, a pair of brothers one fat and one short, who between them have maybe a combined IQ of 40. My header is spoken by one of them with total astonishment. Why on earth would anyone want a normal life? They soon find out about the giant reward for the kidnapped Arizona and you can imagine what happens next. This comedy has chase scenes in it that pursue, with the camera, for blocks; we go through aisles in stores, people's houses as they are sitting there eating looking up shocked, you have never seen a comedy like this one. The dialog is trenchant and hilarious. What until you meet Hi's boss you makes the mistake of suggesting wife swapping to Hi. I mean we are swingers, as in, to swing; I'm talking about wife swapping man. He regrets these words deeply. The Coens were just starting out here, they put far more attention into making this good all the way through, there really aren't dead spots like in their later films (Hudsucker Proxy, A Serious Man). The dialog is excellent from the very beginning until the ending. The movie laughs at itself constantly. Even the prison scenes are played for laughs,Hi, do you know what the word recidivism means? Hi replies,No sir, that's one bone-head name. There is a romance but it is such a small part of this movie. This is as close to a pure comedy as one can get. Filled with Coen quirky characters, with small roles, that stop the movie from getting slow like Burn After Reading. Hi's boss Glen is such a dork you will love to hate and his children are an efficient gang of mass destruction, see what happens to their house and car after these nightmares are unleashed inside their motor-home. There is an attempt to grow serious in the end with the fantasy fulfilled; I will not spoil it for you. My personal favorite, is how they mock Benjamin Spock, all through the movie. The idiot's book for baby care is constantly changing hands and is referred to as the instruction book. Goodman and Forsythe are so good as the convicts, spouting their anti-social criminal view of the world often. My header is the first of many treats. When Ed won't let Hi go out drinking with them, Goodman leans back in his chair,So many social engagements, so little time. As a reviewer, I cannot overemphasize that it is as wacky and an out of control movie that you will ever watch. It is hilarious but, concomitantly, it is not for everyone. Serious business people or disciplined thinkers tend to detest it, one of the next films after the classic Blood Simple, they were looking for an opposite to that dark Noir classic. When you compare to their later works, you can tell how hard they worked on the dialog and those unforgettable long distance foot chases with the camera behind Hi. A Good Movie. Q.E.D. "},{"Title":"Hmm","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This really is a strange and bizarre movie and I don't mean bizarre as in Eraserhead where it's very difficult to follow what is going on. You actually can follow the story fairly easily, it's just the character interactions and what they do just came off so strange. And sometimes even way over the top. Watching this movie was like watching a children's fairy-tale for adults. It's like the location in this movie is bizarre land with strange and quirky characters. Nicholas Cage was just right for this role as a likable incompetent ex-convict that falls in love with a female cop. But the female cop wants a baby, but she is infertile. So the couple decides to rob a baby from parents that have like 5 babies so they decide to steal one of them. After that just mayhem and weird interactions ensues. While Miller's Crossing (another Coen brothers's film) is a tightly written plot with snappy and sharp dialogue. This seems to be a film the Coen brothers just made to have fun with. Coen brothers often writes memorable and stand out characters and in this it's full of quirky ones. Not necessarily memorable but they are quite quirky and really has that indie vibe going for it. This is a cult film that will be a hit for some and others will just not like it. This is suppose to be a comedy and most of the jokes comes from the over outrageous visual humor and exaggerated expressions. I personally thought it was watchable, but will probably never watch it again. 6.3/10 "},{"Title":"Maybe it was Utah.","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The way that the characters in Raising Arizona talk reminds me of another Coens film, O Brother Where Art Thou. But I think the latter manages to restrict it sensibly to the right characters; two, in particular. They both had a natural knack for showmanship and first impressions - Ulysses McGill, the pompous, smooth talking leading man with the well slicked hair, and the bible salesman Big Dan, who showed a talent for the spoken word not alike his character here, the escaped prisoner at large. Raising Arizona, however, doesn't seem to have a limit to this sort of stilted, solemn dialogue as if they were narrating a history book. We are first introduced to HI via this voice-over, and it is immediately eye-catching as opposed to the events of the opening sequence; small crimes being committed, repeated arrests and getting closely acquainted with the local law enforcement. Petty red neck criminals aren't supposed to speak like this. Initially, this becomes an idiosyncrasy that the viewer can latch onto. The earnest, drawling, misunderstood, small-time crook that just wants to settle down and start a family. How heart-warming. And then, we slowly realise that everyone in this world speaks this way.The female officer and bride to be Ed, is bawling from the second encounter. The siren is almost as loud as her screams when she finds out she is barren. Later, as the loving parents glance over their stolen prize, they are so in love that they again cry out in joy. The pair of prison escapees, rising from the muddy ground like some sort of primordial rebirth, wittily remark that prison no longer had anything left to offer them. They play a big part in the comic absurdity of the presentation of the film, almost Looney Tunes style. Twice, they realise they have left the baby behind, and like some sort of frozen moment in time, they turn to each other and yell out a long-echoing yell. And then they bustle back in hurry, over the sound of Burwell's giddy, upbeat banjo and yodelling score. In another instance, HI uses a plank of wood to block a flying knife, and stares right at the close call, bewildered at his own cartoonish luck. And then as his trick with the grenade is revealed, there is another frozen moment as Smalls looks from the missing pin to HI, and then promptly explodes, much in the same manner as Wile E. Coyote might plummet after being momentarily suspended in mid-air over a cliff. This is all very funny, of course. Smalls is the sort of over the top villain in both his mannerism and costume that appears in a weekly cartoon; here is a man that picks up babies drive-by in the same manner that HI grabs at a package of Huggies nappies. The first appearance of the Arizonas has the camera pointing dead straight at the quiet couple lounging in their twin chairs like a pristine still-life caricature. Later, the discovery of the kidnapping has the camera speed across the barren plains and roads, over a car and fountain, up the ladder and right into the pit of Mrs Arizona's hysterical wailing mouth. It is reminiscent of Frances McDormand's own animated shrieks at meeting little Nathan Junior for the first time. The women of this film are in short, barely quieter than a shrill siren. The pressing issue is that this humour isn't misplaced, but rather ever present. Arizona Senior makes a plea to the public to find his lost son, and then slips in a little promotion for his furniture chain. HI pours his heart and troubles out to Glen, desperately searching for that solace in the middle-age rut, and instead receives a stammering suggestion of wife-sharing (albeit very funny). He is so aligned with a life of crime that any attempts of declaring to live a decent and normal life are met with glares from Ed, and when he announces himself a changed man, he simultaneously cocks a shotgun. Raising Arizona demands that none of these characters ever have a serious moment or be taken too seriously - even the young store clerk, with a brief appearance, brandishes his gun like some western outlaw - and so as HI and Ed return Nathan Junior to his rightful home, and HI has a long, dreamlike moment of retrospection, it doesn't really feel like a moment earned. "}{"Title":"A competent movie, but too sleazy and stylish for it's own good","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The second movie the Coen brothers has ever directed (and written). With that being said, they obviously have a gift for cinematic storytelling and out-of-the-blue characters. Which is sometimes what makes the movie (like Burn After Reading, one of my favourite of theirs).With Raising Arizona, I gotta say, I was disappointed. I had high expectations, obviously, and I was let down a little. I found the main characters a bit despicable and lacking any kind of logic motivations. It makes a entertaining movie with funny situations, but as far as the story goes, it's lacking. It kinda goes nowhere. Good performances and directing. The writing I wasn't a big fan of. Witty and clever dialogues, but from another time. The language and expressions sounded like a 50's TV series (I'm nit picking here). But overall I didn't hate myself watching this, but it was a bit too goofy for it's own good and lacked a higher purpose of existence. With that being said, it's fun to watch. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated Coen brothers comedy.","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" H.I. McDunnough (Nicolas Cage) a constantly charged felon, with his estranged wife, (Holly Hunter) kidnaps one of five babies owned by a rich family in an attempt to raise it after realizing they can't have their own. Their plans take a turn for the worse when the bumbing H.I. gets caught up in robberies, and his fellow felons from prison come to visit him, making for a road trip of chaos.Not as recognized as The Big Lebowski, Fargo, or Burn After Reading, but quite a funny and surprisingly effective film. Nicolas Cage is comedically at his absolute best in this, with Holly Hunter as a very supporting sidekick. John Goodman has a small role, but continues to charm us all. It's a film with dark themes, but an overall emotional and feel good spirit to it. Sometimes it goes a little overboard with the silliness and changes tone at times, but it never fails to entertain. It also provides what is probably the most overblown villain out there. A biker (Leonard Smalls) who enters dreams, brings back babies for money, and guns down rabbits for no reason. This guy makes for an insane climax, quite an interesting villain. Overall a fun film, and one of the Coen's funnier films, I think. "},{"Title":"A kooky Coen Classic","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Coen Brothers Raising Arizona demonstrates what giddy fun not only making movies, but also watching them can be. If I were them, I would have sat in on random screenings across the country just to hear people howl. Such is the level of high comedy on display, a delirious ode to the screwball yarn that plays like a loony toons episode made by the Marx Brothers. Cage plays lovable, hopelessly dimwitted petty thief H.I. McDunnough, who just can't seem to not get repeatedly caught for his increasingly harebrained and stupid escapades. In police processing he meets rigid officer Edwina (a spitfire Holly Hunter) and immediately falls in love. When they find out that Edwina can't have a baby, she is devastated in that adorably bleary eyed, belligerent way that only Hunter can impart. H.I. has another 'brilliant' idea kidnap one of the quintuplets of furniture tycoon Nathan Arizona (Trey Wilson, nailing both the preposterous and poignant notes and full well knowing the Coen's intention with the script. A great dude who passed way before his time). From there the film's fuse is lit, beckoning you to buckle up as it sails along at three hundred miles an hour on a surreal journey of pratfalls, chases, weirdos and wonderment. Edwina and H.I. cross paths with police, convicts on the run in the form of Gale (John Goodman in tip top, verbose form) and Evelle (William Forsythe) Snoats, and a monstrous motorbike riding bounty hunter (bear of a man Randall 'Tex' Cobb) summoned from hell to steal the baby back. The action scenes with him out on the highways are classic Coen gold, and as wonderfully outlandish as their work gets. There's an emotional thread running through the mayhem too, just enough to let us catch our breath between the symphonic ruckus of cacophony. Very unique in its constant will to be absurdly over the top but in a very precise, specific way, and never derailing completely. One of Cage's, and the Coen's best. "},{"Title":"An early Coen Brothers offering that trumpets more to come!","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It is truly amazing how few movies are made that exist as vehicles for just pure viewing pleasure (without shocking the senses), for one to get lost in the moment and forget the grim realities of existence! Raising Arizona is such a vehicle. Tour de force performances by the cast; Cage, Goodman, Hunter, Wilson (RIP), Forsythe, Randall Tex Cobb, the whole cast really, not a weak offering to be found. Clever, entertaining, funny, and if you separate your viewings by a few years it will fulfill your entertainment needs all over again. Screenplay was spot on and it was a pure joy to sit through. I saw the Coen Brothers first offering (Blood Simple) and although it showed promise (I would not recommend it) it was surpassed by leaps and bounds by 'Raising Arizona'. I thoroughly recommend this offering! "},{"Title":"Three Decades Too Late","Date":"7 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" For decades I have heard mixed reviews about this film. Friends and critics either thought it was hysterical, or it was stupid. I agree with both statements. This movie is hysterical because it is stupid, which is not an accident. Not all stupid movies are funny. The premise, the characters, and the dialogue are all purposely outrageous making this over-the-top melodrama a first rate comedy. Even though I watched it almost three decades too late, it was still one of the funniest comedies I have ever seen. It even solicited a few belly laughs. This has become one of my new go to movies when I need a good laugh to readjust my mood. "},{"Title":"not bad but not among Coen's best films","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Raising Arizona has funny moments and the quirky humor of Coen Brothers for most of the part . The Movie's Narration did not work that well for me to be honest , i thought movie was slow for its type and had a lot of not interesting or funny secondary characters and stories , i am talking about escaped cons and the Hell Rider . the details in the movie are very well made and it's back when Nicolas Cage was acting well so you enjoy performances in the movie but during the movie u get bored because the whole movie feels stretched and ending suddenly goes a little too serious than it should be in my opinion... stillDecent movie from Coen Brothers "},{"Title":"Okay, then.","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" After 'Blood simple.', the Coens took on the lighter side of (American) things, even if the elements of dreams and violence are still well-represented here.Another perfect casting job here, with a terrific leading duo, played by Nicolas Cage and Holly Hunter. The story may be pretty silly and over the top when you look at most of the details, but at the heart of it their is a sincere and endearing core of an unlikely couple trying to have a baby. Sometimes I wonder where they get their inspiration, but when I see Gale and Evelle emerging from the mud, I can't help but think of a Jewish influence the bumbling golem twins? And what are they trying to tell us when Leonard Smalls turns out to have the same Woody Woodpecker tattoo as H.I.?There are comedies, and there are comedies by the Coens. Mostly, I prefer the latter.A big 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Maybe it was Utah.","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Raising Arizona follows HI McDunnough (Nicolas Cage) and Ed McDunnough (Holly Hunter) a married couple of an ex-con and ex-cop who can't have or adopt a child. With little alternatives they decide to kidnap Nathan Arizona Jr. (TJ Kuhn) infant son of local furniture czar Nathan Arizona Sr. (Trey Wilson). But because kidnapping a baby of a local businessman is going to cause a stir HI and Ed get a whole lot more than they wish for. The Coen brothers are great with dark comedy and it really shows in this film. I can't really think of a whole lot of other movies that make kidnapping (let alone baby kidnapping) into a funny subject. With great characters all over the place saying funny lines who couldn't love this movie's humor. It seems very much like an episode of the Simpsons where all the action revolves around grown people doing stupid things. And that is where all the humor lies. I really can't recommend this film enough so I'll just end by saying go see it. "},{"Title":"The Coens Come Through Again","Date":"13 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first five minutes are as funny and economical as any on record. The main characters reveal themselves hilariously, while Nicholas Cage's voice-over regales as classic understatement. The dialogue remains offbeat and original, with only occasional lapses. Cage and Hunter often sound as if they've watched too much Oprah, rambling on about the family unit, or his description of her infertility as insides too barren for my seed to get a purchase. With this film the Coen Bros. prove they can do comedy as expertly as melodrama, as does Cage, whose mix-master hairdo and bewildered expression reflect the social rules he just can't seem to get right. Only businessman Nathan Arizona remains a sane sensible voice throughout, a departure for the usually anti-business world of film. Almost stealing the show is William Forsythe as Evelle the quarter-wit brother of half-wit John Goodman. His gap-toothed grin and eternal high spirits amidst a starkly blank expression remind me of a demented Cheshire cat. The movie as a whole amounts to a light-hearted jape at family obsessed America, where by Hunter's logic some peoples has too many kids while others ain't got enough, so it's okay to take from them that has too many. Sort of like socialist logic applied to child distribution. On a more ominous note is a Keystone Cops indictment of gun-toting America, where too many civilians and cops alike come armed and ready to shoot, except Cage who reveals a benign inner nature by refusing to load. Only the epilogue and Randy Cobb disappoint. Cobb certainly looks the part of cartoon evil, but can't project the menace to go with it. With these dim but lovable characters, it's obvious the Bros. were at sea in figuring out how to end. It's as though they're suddenly embarrassed with the liberties taken with the institution of family, so only a Norman Rockwell level of smarmy apology can compensate. Too bad, because the compensation is already there in the characters of H.I. and Ed (Cage & Hunter). Nonetheless, the movie remains fresh and rollicking, thrusting the Coens to the forefront of independent filmmakers, and presenting the audience with a good number of belly laughs along the way. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly Wacky!","Date":"23 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Raising Arizona is a completely bizarre movie or in more specific terms, your typical Coen brothers movie. I just fell in love with this oddball screwy comedy. It took some time to get used to, but this film offers razor-sharp dialogue. This is another example of how the Coen Brothers are good at everything. Not only can they direct, but they certainly know how to put together a screenplay. This film also has a wacky Nicolas Cage performance, an early performance that offers a shadow on what is to come.This early Coen Brothers film is a heist movie within the deserts of Arizona. This film is mainly about how an ex-cop and an ex-convict get married and they try to start a family. But when the McDunnoughs realize that the missus, Ed is infertile, they decide to kidnap a baby, one of the quintuplets of the local furniture man, Nathan Arizona. Once they kidnap the baby, their lives become a circus as people are hunting down the kidnapped baby.This is one of Nicolas Cage's earliest role as a leading man and it is the start of all his crazy, eccentric roles that he will possess in the future. But from his unkempt hair to his passion of robbing convenience stores, he delivers an excellent performance. Holly Hunter as Ed also does a great job even though she seems a bit strange. John Goodman is hilarious as Hi's convict friend, Gale.Overall, Raising Arizona is a very funny screwball comedy from a directing duo legend. The screenplay is utterly brilliant which produced some fantastic lines. It helps that the film has great actors relaying those lines to such perfection. The camera-work is unusual and strange, but that is meant in a positive way. There is many things going on in the film, so y'all better be up for the ride. A fantastic comedy that will keep you laughing. It's a strange film, but a funny one. I rate this film 9/10. "}{"Title":"A good movie in its own right, but also a working out of ideas that the Coens would continue to improve","Date":"10 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If the Coen brothers' first movie, Blood Simple, was the earliest example of their brand of nail-biting but thrillingly imaginative violence, Raising Arizona is the first full realization of their knack for wordplay. Several of their later works, notable Fargo, would blend the two components in more or less equal measure, but here the dialect and dialogue are front and center. The supporting character played by Frances McDormand uses an imperative tone, with eyebrows raised in pre-judgment, to ask new mother Holly Hunter about the baby's future matriculation You are going to send him to Arizona State. She is not an exaggeration; the question marks her as a type familiar to anyone raised near the clannish land-grant colleges of the south and southwest.Though this line is sufficiently believable, and though McDormand and Hunter prove their command of accents (not for the last time), there is of course a great deal of affectation in the way the Coens' characters speak. Yet it is not correct to say that the archaic poesy the Coens put in the mouths of countrified people is a pretension or a ridiculous jest. When Nicholas Cage's character substitutes slumber for sleep, ether for air, and twain for two, he is speaking in a way folk really spoke once upon a time. His letter to his wife reads almost like a letter home from a Civil War soldier. There is a great deal of ridiculousness in Raising Arizona, all of it intentional and some instances of it more successful than others, but the emotions of the characters and the language they use to express them are as heartfelt as they are playful.Some critics have accused the Coens of punching down with their humor, but in Raising Arizona all of the comedy is the kind that puts the audience on the side of the desperate and downtrodden. The hayseeds in the local grange easily out-argue a pair of robbers (who are themselves sympathetic enough, in their turn). The only really dislikable person in the film is a relatively well-off factory manager, and it is he, not the man who lives in a trailer park, who shows himself to be a racist and a degenerate.Coen brothers films are not known for social commentary, but Raising Arizona contains some light critique of society's treatment of individuals with convictions on their records. Nobody in the movie believes that prisons exist to rehabilitate people. A frequent offender opines in a marvelous opening monologue and montage that their purpose must be revenge. At the other end of the movie, the victim of the central crime bookends this idea by declining to press charges since there's no harm done.What doesn't work as well as the Coens' crackling script and characters are their action sequences. The editing is a little rough, which is understandable since much of the drama involves a live baby whom the director cannot actually put in harm's way. The introduction of a motorcycle-riding, grenade-tossing villain is funny at first, but when he starts talking (through a voice-stifling fake nose for some reason) he loses much of his appeal. Holly Hunter carries herself well as a twice-decorated police officer, a presentiment perhaps of Marge Gunderson in Fargo, but she is given too little to do in the final set piece.Raising Arizona is a very good movie in its own right, but in comparison to the Coens' later masterpieces it can also be viewed as a working out of principles and patterns that would take several more years to come to their fullest fruition. "},{"Title":"The first Coen screwball comedy","Date":"5 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Are you boys gonna chase down your leads or are you gonna sit drinkin' coffee in the one house in the state where I know my boy ain't at?Raising Arizona, the Coen brothers' sophomore film, is an eccentric screwball comedy that feels cartoonish at times but served as an exercise in form for their upcoming comedies. This perhaps is much lighter in tone and more humane, but some of their common trademarks can be found in this early film of theirs. I don't think it's as cynical as most of their other work, but it does have a similar quirky sense of humor that can be found in all their comedies. Besides being original, it also happens to be very entertaining introducing some wacky and memorable characters. If you are fan of the Coen's work you will see a lot of familiar faces (John Goodman and Frances McDermond in supporting roles), but it was the lead roles from Nicolas Cage and Holly Hunter that truly surprised me. They were great together playing this unconventional family that will be really hard to forget. Hi is one of Nicolas Cage's most memorable characters and his crazy hair was the highlight of his performance. As in most of their films, the stereotypes are captured really well and this time it was the Southwest's turn to play for laughs with their thick accents. The performances in this film were all highly exaggerated giving the film its cartoonish tone. Raising Arizona was a joyful experience despite the fact that I didn't find myself laughing too hard; it's a good film, but not as good as The Big Lebowski. Despite their familiar trademarks, the Coens show so much range in their films going from neo-noir to slapstick comedies. They are a force to reckon with. H.I. McDunnough (Nicolas Cage) meets his future wife, Ed (Holly Hunter), in the most uncommon of situations. She is a police officer in Arizona, and he is a criminal who keeps on getting caught for robbing convenience stores. Since he never carries a loaded weapon his stints in prison are short, but he manages to turn his life around once he falls for Ed. They enjoy their first years of marriage and are truly happy together, so much so that Ed convinces Hi to start a family because their blissfulness should be shared. The only problem is that they are unable to conceive a baby and due to Hi's criminal past they can't adopt either. The only solution is to kidnap one so they find their perfect victim one of the quintuplets of a furniture tycoon, Nathan Arizona (Trey Wilson). They don't think it's fair that the Arizona's got five children, so they convince themselves that they have more they can handle anyway. This event changes their lives forever as friends from Hi's past show up (John Goodman and William Forsythe), as well as his coworkers (Sam McMurray and Frances McDormand), and an evil apocalyptic bounty hunter (Randall Tex Cobb) who haunts his dreams. This baby has changed their lives forever.The wacky and over the top performances in this film worked really well thanks to some skillful writing from the Coens and some clever one liners. I already mentioned how good the lead performances were, but some of the supporting turns were also quite impressive, the standouts being Frances McDormand and Randall Tex Cobb. Cobb's character reminded me a lot of a cartoonish version of Javier Bardem's turn in No Country for Old Men. There are also some very funny scenes revolving around Trey Wilson and once again the Coens make the victim look really unsympathetic, allowing the audience to root for the wacky outlaws. It's a charming film with some great scenes, one involving a long crazy chase across an Arizona neighborhood. It is a very sharp and clever comedy that also happens to be very entertaining taking us through an adventure that only the Coens could come up with. "},{"Title":"Don't you come back here without a baby.","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was a mildly amusing second effort from the Coen Brothers, not as good for my money as Barton Fink, Fargo or The Big Lebowski, but I guess you have to start somewhere. The title itself is a bit curious, you really have to see the picture to understand it. I could explain it here but you'd forget all about it. The story winds up with somewhat of an anti-climactic ending because the principals, H.I. (Nicolas Cage) and Ed (Holly Hunter) simply return the baby they kidnapped from the Arizona Family. John Goodman and William Forsythe provide some understated humor as ex-con pals of H.I. who overstay their welcome; their jailbreak scene would have made more sense if Goodman wasn't shouting at the top of his lungs just outside the prison walls. Similarly, the drama surrounding baby Nathan's kidnapping would have been more profound if Nathan Arizona (Trey Wilson) knew which one of his sons was missing, and if Mrs. Arizona didn't wind up missing in action during the second half of the story. Tex Cobb provides some entertaining interludes as the lone biker of the Apocalypse, on the trail of the missing tyke and mindlessly blowing away anything in his path. Personally, I couldn't figure out how Harry, Barry, Larry, Garry and Nathan Jr. knew their place in the crib. "},{"Title":"A funny film that is also a good crime film","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rating-7/10Raising Arizona is a funny film written by a duo that make movies as if there priceless pieces of art, although maybe not there best Raisong Arizona still makes a good piece of film and a famous one of that as well. I personally found it good and in this review I shall tell you why I thought it was firmly good and the reasons also.The story is quirky and can be funny, not really the most funny thing ever but it can make you smile and laugh occasionally and with such a crazy story revolving around a crazy baby, it starts to be a good film. I felt the comedy does lack slightly in the sense of big chuckles but the film is more of a good crime movie too with well I won't ruin it but two incidents of crime which make the story thrilling as well as quite funny.Nicolas Cage in this is possibly his best acting role, a string of bad performances from the man seem to vanish in this where he actually seems to fit in with the crazy going's on and plot. I particularly enjoyed John Goodman who as Cage's best friend is humorous but kind of strangely not nice even if he speaks in his familiar voice of Goodman and seems near kind hearted. Cage really is the main show and for good reason with this strange and hard to understand role.The Coen brothers direct and write this and as I said before it is nowhere near some of there masterpieces but nonetheless is entertaining and proves to be a fun adventure in all truth. I love the soundtrack to this and the vast vast setting of the desert which serve the film with an even weirder premise with the couple living basically in the middle of nowhere, apart from occasionally coming across shops. It isn't that that funny and is why I put it here in the criticism paragraph because the movie I felt lacked the jokes it promised me and should have said it was slightly more serious as a film. Of course there are funny bits but another criticism is the acting which is good yes but some of the supporting are average but that is all really, the film Is hard for me to fully criticise but I don't think it is anywhere near being great.I think those who enjoy fast comedy and a sweet couple in the middle will enjoy this as it I believe it can be fully enjoyed and quite a bit. The story holds up and so I can't see why someone wouldn't enjoy it so see for yourself how you find it when you see it. Finally some will like the quirky parts I was talking about as it makes for an interesting plot and some kind of strange things happen to the main cast.Overall a 7/10 from me meaning it is firmly good, people will enjoy this much more I Guarantee but it all depends on that persons comedy preferences In truth. Go watch and see yet another Coen's production, don't expect as much of it as some of there other works but it can be very much appreciated and even a little skillful at times. "},{"Title":"# 95  A sort of hilarious, stoned Stephen King sandwich movie (cinematheque)","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" You got a gentle, not bright couple that steals a baby. It's a bit like Blaze. You also got two prisoners who succeed to break free. It's a bit like The Shawshank Redemption. Then, you have got a black evil man and it's a bit like the Pistolero (or, for Nicolas, a future ghost-rider). All this happens in Arizona, filled with rednecks and rural life that Stephen King depicts. Maybe the fundamental difference is that it isn't an horror movie but a wild hilarious one that finally sounds like a cartoon as things wildly degenerate!This was my 1st Cohen movie and i agree with my last boss, their comedies are really funny! I suppose it was one of their earliest movies (1986) and like Lynch, Burton, Spielberg, thus like masters, you can say that the talent is exploding on the screen since the beginning. They know how to tell a story (incredible introduction), they have an eye where to put their camera (there's a ton of original shots) and they have a nose to find great newcomers who knew Nicolas, Holly, John Goodman then? So you can pick this one if you want to have a lot of laughs and also if you want a good Holly's movies as well! "},{"Title":"The Anti-Blood Simple","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Coen brothers have made a name for themselves as a pair of brilliant masters of their craft. They build on a solid foundation aided by philosophy, literature and the Hollywood Golden age. Using a palpable mix of classicist storytelling, idiosyncratic characters and dark humor they have made an undeniable contribution to cinema that will never be washed away. So why am I not sold on the countless inta-classics that they churn out every few years?Don't get me wrong, I am a fan of The Big Lebowski (1998). Miller's Crossing (1990), Barton Fink (1991), True Grit (2010), Fargo (1996) and No Country for Old Men (2007) all have their moments and heck, I even like their lesser works Intolerable Cruelty (2003), The Hudsucker Proxy (1994) and The Ladykillers (2004). Still, as I have always said, to me for a film to rise above it needs to be an experience, not just a film. In that respect only two films have risen to that level, at least for me. The aforementioned Big Lebowski and Raising Arizona (1987).Joel and Ethan wanted to make a movie as far different from their first feature Blood Simple (1984) a neo-noir that won the Palm d'Or for the auteures celebres. So instead of something dark they made something light. Instead of slow it was quick and instead of starring Frances McDormand, it starred Nicolas freak-face Cage.If the term screwball comedy is applied to the work of Preston Sturges then I am at a loss as to what one would call Raising Arizona. The breakneck speed at which it throws things at you is mesmerizing. Yet the story is told with such a firm hand that watching the movie at times feels like being in the cab of a Nascar; claustrophobic yet invigorating.For the uninitiated the story takes place in and around Tempe Arizona. Ed (Holly Hunter) and H.I. McDonough (Nic Cage) are as unlikely a couple as you are likely to find. One is an ex-cop while the other is a repeat offender with the attitude of a high school drop out and vocabulary of a Sunday preacher. They get married and figure the next logical step is having a kid. But after they find out they can't conceive, they steal a quintuplet from a local millionaire in desperation. It all goes pretty haywire from there with car chases, prison breaks and one scary looking bounty hunter but the oddball characters stay true to their oddball selves from beginning to end.The Coens showed a visual aptitude in Blood Simple but here they unleash their talents with reckless abandon, throwing the audience face first into a rube-golberg they themselves designed. The centerpiece of their contraption is a ten minute chase through the houses, convenience stores and supermarkets of Tempe with multiple people in pursuit of H.I. holding a package of Pampers. There is another point where H.I. and Ed try to keep the kid out of the bounty hunter's hands in an epic showdown that is as tense as it is funny.Raising Arizona is certainly not just a movie, its an experience that registers on an emotional level. H.I. finds that he's out of his depth when it comes to becoming a parent and attempts to recede back to his former state of irresponsible ineptitude. Yet, as with all times of trial, it's impossible to revert, you must always move forward, no matter how painful. A lesson that in my mind, is ultimately more important than anything said by a toque wearing cop with a Minnesotan accent.http//theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Unique Coen Quirkiness","Date":"8 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" H.I. McDunnough (Nicolas Cage) is a non-violent repeat offender who keeps robbing convenience stores with an unloaded gun. He falls hard for Ed (Holly Hunter) the police officer who takes his mugshots. When he starts a life with Ed, he ends his criminal ways. Ed loves to have a child but finds that she's barren. They can't adopt because of his criminal past. The answer comes with news that unpainted cabinets magnet Nathan Arizona (Trey Wilson) gets blessed with quintuplets. They wouldn't miss one, would they? This is Coen brothers' unique cinematic vision. The music, the style are all Coen trademarks. The narration gives this its fanciful charm. It starts off with impressive robust humor. Cage is a likable charming petty criminal. He does his best puppy face. Hunter is amazing deadpanning her police persona. Then she changes gears completely as the manic mommy character. They are a funny couple. The story does get too crazy. At some point the manic energy overwhelms the movie. Maybe too much of a good thing isn't so great. "},{"Title":"A highly entertaining zany comedy","Date":"20 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Coen Brothers have made many great films and worked in many different genres. One of their most famous comedies is Raising Arizona, a fast paced, zany comedy that can only come from the minds of the Coens.H.I. Hi McDunnough (Nicolas Cage) is a career criminal who falls for policewoman Edwina Ed (Holly Hunter) and goes straight for her. After they get married they attempt to have a child, but when Ed finds out she is infertile and the pair unable to adopt the couple take the logically route of kidnapping a baby from a wealthy couple who have just had quintuplets. But their actions get complicated by two escaped convicted, a police investigation and a ruthless bounty hunter.Raising Arizona is a very funny comedy that zips along at a great pace. The Coens' fingerprints are all over this film, having a sharply written script and excellent direction throughout. The jokes are constant throughout the film, giving us a variety of style of humour, from great one-liners, character interactions and pure physical comedy. The Coens bring a lot of energy to the film as we get over the top set pieces like the robbery where Ed abandons Hi and the Coens being a brings a kinetic style with their camera movements and editing of set pieces. We get a great prologue at the beginning of the film as we find out about Hi and Ed's past and how they came to their solution with funny jokes on the way.As well as the direction, Raising Arizona is blessed with a top cast who give both comic and sincere performances. Cage and Hunter had great chemistry together, having excellent comic time and were committed to their roles. Cage worked well with his supporting cast as they assemble a top cast John Goodman being a particular highlight as one of the escaped prisoners.The Coens Brothers' direction is frantic through the film, using fast paced editing, hand-held cameras and tracking shots, amplifying the comedy, showing this maniac universe and gives Raising Arizona a distinctive visual style. The Coen's regular composer Carter Burwell also supplies a great score for the film, particular the use of a country/folk like guitar score which was a perfect fit for the film.Raising Arizona is a very entertaining, funny and heartfelt comedy that can stand along some of the best works the Coen Brothers have had to offer. It is a screwball comedy that can cater to many tests from intelligent jokes, observations and character interactions, to more over the top physical and visual comedy. "},{"Title":"My rating 7","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Honestly, I did not expect even the first Cohen brothers films to be really good. This one definitely is worth watching because the seriousness with which Cohen brothers make frivolous movies is best and this time.Busy throughout the film to make the foreground absurd or to the characters or to the situations in which they fall in, the two filmmakers get us into the world of attracting of opposites. Line from the movie, which can serve as an example here would be If a frog had wings, it would hardly hitting the legs into the body when jumping. In equally absurd way arises the love between a young policewoman and obsessive in robberies of shops criminal (collection of fools, as they point themselves).As she turns frigid, they decide to steal a child from a newly born five twins. And thus began the mess that does not stop until the end. The film is good for putting away bad mood and driving good one.http//vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest And Funniest Comedies Of All Time. An Excellent,Unforgettable Classic From The Coen Brothers.","Date":"24 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Raising Arizona is easily one of the funniest,greatest and most original Comedies of all time and a timeless film classic. Filled with great direction,an amazing cast,a wonderful screenplay,truly beautiful cinematography and an unforgettable score,Raising Arizona is The Coen Brothers at their best and greatest.Raising Arizona tells the story of H.I. McDunnough(Nicholas Cage),a criminal and repeat offender and police officer 'Ed' Edwina(Holly Hunter)who fall in love and after falling in love decide to get married and have kids. When H.I. and Ed can't conceive kids of their own,H.I and Ed kidnap a quintuplet,Nathan Arizona JR(T.J Kuhn JR) one of the children of local business man Nathan Arizona(Trey Wilson). When H.I and Ed take Nathan J.r and want to raise him as their own wild and hilarious things happen in their lives.Raising Arizona is one of the all-time great classic Comedies from The Coen Brothers that came after their amazing film debut Blood Simple. When filmmakers have a first film that is so acclaimed and well loved, most filmmakers have to do a second film that lives up to the quality of their first film and not only does Raising Arizona live up to Blood Simple but also gives viewers a brilliant and much brighter and lighter cinematic experience. One of the reasons Raising Arizona is excellent and truly hilarious is because The Coen Brothers have given us a flawless film that combines great laughs with style and substance where everything in the film is over the top and exaggerated to the point of going over the top beyond belief. The laughs and humor in the film are funny,ingenious and original with hilarious Slapstick Comedy,funny dialog and moments in the movie that have you laughing until your stomach hurts and will have tears running down your face. The laughs are so crazy and over the top you will you're watching a surreal live Action Cartoon. What is also great about the Humor in this film and other Coen Brother films is that the laughs are subtle and used in visuals and imagery that are not obvious the first time you watch RA but when you watch the film with multiple viewings you will notice or catch some of the visual jokes of the film. And speaking of of visuals RA is one of the most beautiful and visually stunning Comedies I have ever seen. Barry Sonnefield's photography is amazing and powerful with wide angle shots,close ups and shots of the sunlight,road and dusty world of Arizona. Sonnefield's photography gives the film a surreal and wild energy that you don't see in most comedies and that is one of the great things that sets RZ apart from other films of it's type because RA can not only have a wonderful style but can also have amazing substance. The screenplay by Joel and Ethan Coen is hilarious and well and one of the best screenplays in Comedy history with the Coens giving the main great dialog that is funny,memorable and stylized as well as greatly using narration for H.I. McDunnough and lines from the main characters that are quotable and will stay in your mind. The two main characters H.I. and Ed McDunnough while over the top and are cartoon characters who are funny but are given great depth and humanity and you feel like the two truly love and care for one another and even though H.I and Ed kidnapped a baby they don't do it for fame or money,they do it because they want to be parents and want to love a child and the kidnapping make the main characters more complex than they truly are and that is one of many things that is great about RA and the Coens. Although not an Action film RA has a couple of good Action and chase scenes that are thrilling and exciting. Especially the film's main chase scene which is one of the funniest,wildest,original and over the top chase scenes in film history and it is a classic chase that that you will never forget. The ending of the film is funny,beautiful and very optimistic and will make you wonder what will happen to H.I and ED. An great ending to a great film.The whole cast does great jobs in their roles. Nicholas Cage is excellent,funny and at his best as H.I McDunnough,with Cage bringing laughs and depth to the role. Holly Hunter is brilliant as 'Ed' Edwina McDunnough,with Hunter feisty and funny and having great chemistry with Cage. Trey Wilson is wonderful and fun as Nathan Arizona,a local business man. John Goodman and William Forsythe are great,funny and over the top as Gale and Evelle Snoats,escaped convicts who are H.I's friends. Sam McMurray and Francis McDormand are amazing and hilarious as husband and wife Glen and Dot,friends of H.I. and Ed. Randell 'Tex' Cobb is fantastic as Leonard Smalls,a man hunter who's a man of few words and is looking for Nathan JR.The direction by Joel and Ethan Coen is excellent,with The Coens always moving the camera,using wide angles,low angles,close-ups and giving the film a great visual style. Great direction by The Coens.The score by Carter Burwell is is amazing,funny,beautiful and very quirky and matches the tone of the film,with Burwell greatly mixing whistles,yodeling,organs and banjos. Wonderful score by Burwell.In final word,if you love The Coen Brothers,Comedies or films in general,I highly suggest you check out Raising Arizona,a truly hilarious,funny and unforgettable Comedy and film classic that you can watch again and again. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "}{"Title":"Coen noir II warthogs from hell","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I adore this one. I'll have you know it is my 'feelgood' movie, having seen it now a dozen times it never fails to lift my spirits. After some deliberation, I am finally putting it on my list of must see films. What the Coens have done here is a very delicate thing. The obvious first. What you see in the film is both 'real', a loving trailer trash couple cannot conceive a child, and sleepless bending of reality as the urge to steal one so they can finally have a 'full family unit' manifests around them in all sorts of crazy situations. The biker from Hell is the tip of the thread, first dreamed about and in a weird confluence of forces soon appears in reality as dreamed.From that point on, everything is askew while pointing to anxious dreaming. Prison pals from HI's criminal past show up in the middle of the night. The frantic hunt for Huggies, starting with another botched holdup. HI's boss as the dreary dead-end of family life. More obvious, the business with the hole in the ground.It isn't simply surreal, a term normally associated with vaguely weird stream-of-consciousness. It's film noir, the film is sandwiched after all between the much more openly noirish Blood Simple and Miller's Crossing. The Coens get noir, where the desire for life to be other/better than it is (not for sex or money as in noir, but blissful family life here personified in the baby) causes peculiar whims in perception, and those whims mysteriously manifest in the narrator's 'choosing' of the reality he remembers, collapsing in the process.Noir is magical, alluring to this day, because all those things are causally inextricable, desire from dream or memory from mysterious happenings in the story, which is why we often collapse the whole knotted mess to the workings of some celestial fate.There's all sorts of stuff woven on top. Reagan's morning in America as neurotic hyper-normalcy, the bum HI as the flipside of that, laid-back and tied to the American tradition of glorified frontiersmen and criminals, lampooned in the biker. 1980's suburbia as consumerist limbo. It's a helluva ride. Next to Blue Velvet and Society, the definitive 1980's film. It does all sort of collapse together by the end, which supports and enhances the idea of the random , whimsical arising of dreams. Big Lebowski starts here.Its charm? You can 'get' this without 'getting' it.The whole Huggies sequence is as profound to me as any cinematic dream. But it isn't like Tarkovksy who bypasses the mind by long mystifying sweeps, hitting deep in this way. It strikes an amazing balance between self-conscious intelligent conception and the bypass in spontaneous asides of fun and tremendous heart&#x97;HI and Ed (the lovely Holly Hunter) are one of the most loving couples in filmdom. Intelligence, fun and emotion, these three are inextricable. This being so, you can 'get' the film via any route.It ends with an Ozzie and Harriet movie dream of the perfect life. "},{"Title":"Raising Arizona'87","Date":"7 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Criminal Herbert I. Hi (Nicolas Cage) after his continued visits to a prison happens to marry Edwina Ed after his latest release from prison. Soon the couple discovers that Ed is not fit to be a mother and are unable to adopt a baby due to Ed's Criminal record. So they decide to kidnap one of the Quints of a local furniture magnate Nathan Arizona believing it to be Nathan Jr. Problems arouse as Hi is visited by his prison buddies and he thinks of returning to his notorious lifestyle along with his supervisor discovering that kid is not his after he made an unsuccessful wife swapping offer to him. Matters get worse as a bounty hunter named Leo Smalls gets in search of Nathan Jr. to sell him in the market and Hi's buddies taking undue advantage of junior's identity. Do watch this early Coen Bros. movie because of some great comic scenes especially the scene where Hi steals a pack of diapers and it is one of those movies that gives us the insight into the kind of characters the duo generates, dialogues they write and unconventional music score that became symbolic for their future movies.MY RATING 9/10 "},{"Title":"The Importance of Theme in Raising Arizona","Date":"6 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The film Raising Arizona begins with the unfortunate life of H.I. McDunnough (Nicholas Cage) and his journeys in and out of prison where he meets his future wife, Edwina Ed (Holly Hunter), a corrections officer. The two get married and discover that they cannot have children of their own, despite their beliefs that they are good people and would make great parents. Around that time, Nathan and Florence Arizona (Trey Wilson and Lynne Kitei) give birth to quintuplets, and discover that so many children are more than they can handle! The McDunnoughs, with their good intentions in hand, kidnap one of the quintuplets to raise as their own, believing that they are doing the Arizona's a favor. The primary theme of this film is the effects of karma, or the idea that what goes around comes around. This theme can be found throughout the film, as characters like Gale and Evelle Snoats (John Goodman and William Forsythe) fail in their attempt to rob a bank and eventually return to jail. The theme can also be found through the consequences that the McDunnoughs face as a result of the kidnapping, and the reactions of Nathan Arizona when he finally learns what has happened to his son. The primary tool used to explain the theme of the film is the voice-over. A voice-over can be used to fill in gaps and make a film cohesive, or to explain background or contextual information to the viewer (Boggs & Petrie, 2008). In Raising Arizona, the voice-over is used for both reasons, and gives thorough insights into the thoughts and motives of the characters. This tool is very effective in conveying the theme of the film in that sense. The acting throughout the film is also very effective in helping to convey the theme of the film. H.I. is a very innocent character, despite his many crimes, and the acting portrays this well. Ed is another naïve character, who does not fully understand the consequences of her actions. As both of these characters begin to realize the consequences of their actions, they begin to take responsibility for them and try to do what is best for everyone. In that sense, both actors help to contribute to the theme of the film by effectively displaying the emotions and motivations of their characters. The theme of this film is similar to the themes of many other films, like, for example, the film Elf, where the primary character, Buddy the Elf (Will Ferrell), acts on his good intentions, even when his actions may not be the right thing to do. For example, in one scene, Buddy gets in a fight with a store Santa (Artie Lange) because Buddy knows that the man is an imposter.The message of this film is very important to everyone, because good intentions are very important, but it is still important that one always tries to do what is right. Though they may have started off on the wrong path, Ed and H.I. finally make amends and do what is right for everyone involved in the situation.References Boggs, J. M. & Petrie, D. W. (2008). The art of watching films. (7th ed). New York McGraw- Hill. Coen, J. (Director). (1987). Raising Arizona (Motion picture). United States Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment. Favreau, J. (Director). (2003). Elf (Motion picture). United States New Line Home Entertainment. "},{"Title":"Raising Arizona Americana Essential","Date":"4 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Raising Arizona is a film that follows the story of an unconventional couple; convict Hi (Cage) and police officer Ed (Hunter), as they attempt to find harmony and happiness in their lives together. However, their greatest obstacle is Ed's sterility that slowly wears on their relationship and threatens their sanity until opportunity arises in the form of a wealthy local whose wife births more than she can handle. Accomplishing the abduction proves a bit difficult, but the rabid persistence of Ed drives their mission to success, and with the addition of this vital piece, it seems a true family is born. Unfortunately, prying and obnoxious colleagues, mischievous jailbirds/buddies, and a gritty detective with a Harley threaten their happiness, but also demonstrate how misguided and selfish their actions have been. Returning the baby to an appreciative and surprisingly sympathetic father, Hi reflects on the affection we have for children, even if they're not our own and is able to sleep peacefully with dreams for the future that he hopes holds a family of his very own. I generally appreciate the Coen Brother's films and what I appreciate most is their ability to hold interest of the audience through plot twists and strong characters; there's nothing extreme or very showy about their work and yet it stands out because there is only ever and illusion of normalcy and sanity in their characters or the plot, really the work is quite complex but we appreciate it more because they make no pretense. Raising Arizona continues this tradition and also has quite a flavor of Americana, enhanced greatly by the colorful characters. The humor was ludicrous most times, but it was balanced through the sensitive and reflective nature of the protagonist, whose broodings lend itself to the underlying sense of loneliness and hopelessness of the characters and the landscape and drive the rich plot forward. I feel that any criticism would simply be void for two reasons I believe that this film is very stylistic and I don't believe that they ventured out of this particular structure, any risk they took (including the dream sequences) had basis in reality and only served to give the film more poetic flavor, and secondly, I believe that the film was unique and heartfelt among it's genre, which at times is difficult to achieve in something externally so seemingly detached as comedy, and mainly, I think there was valid reasoning behind it's creation, which is my only objection with modern film. The cinematography of the film was very interesting and was able to keep the audience occupied by the sheer amount of stimulation the wild camera movements brought. I was able to appreciate the shaky camera work simply because I think it does justice to Hi's convict past as well as his current lifestyle, punctuated by his most daring criminal offense yet. This apparently dramatic and brutal world is something that few of us can sympathize with and I think the long takes through several different environments contributes to that foreign aspect of the film that quite frankly makes it hilarious. Motifs in the film include the joined hands of Hi and Ed, representing their bond and their support of each other, the fire that erupts from the detective, representing his nature, and the convenient store that represents Hi's temptation or the pull of his old life. The brothers use this as well as a few non-diegetic inserts (including baby toys) to bring a bit of understanding to the rapidly moving plot, but it is interesting to note that this veers a bit from the slapstick genre that is quite shallow and brings a poetic aspect to the film. In the abduction scene the use of high-angle and low-angle shots capture flawlessly both the perspective of Hi and of the babies and the power shift that takes place between them, succeeding in making Hi seem vulnerable among these small creatures. Also, throughout the entire film the use of the wide-angle lens is used, making people and surroundings seem distorted and often a bit out of proportion. The abduction scene demonstrates the use of this very well, especially when the babies are taking a very long time to reach the door and then the end of the hallway, giving Hi enough time to catch them before Mrs. Arizona discovers. This also contributes to the suspense of the scene, because everything seems to take longer to happen and Hi is running out of time to act. Off-screen action and voice is used quite a bit to stage a change in events in the plot and repetition of certain events forming a montage is comedic as well as clarity inducing. It really strikes both emotional stances quite well and makes for a heartfelt and poetic take on the slapstick comedy genre, aided by the strong narrative voice that guides us through a ridiculous and tragic journey of an unlikely couple trying to find the missing piece in their family. "},{"Title":"Artistically funny from beginning to end","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A story centered on a couple's desperate need to have a baby, is the basic theme that Raising Arizona employs. However there is nothing basic about the actions that occur in the whole 94 minutes of the entire film, it is both a fast paste and unpredictable story line that takes the audience on a baby kidnapping, bank robbery and Jail breakouts and yet funny at the same time.The couple, H.I. McDunnough (Nicolas Cage), and Edwina Ed (Holly Hunt) first meet in jail when McDunnough is arrested. Ed, a cop takes his mug shot and his fingerprints while asking her out, she takes up his offer. After a quick wedding the couple soon finds out that Ed is barren, adoption is also not an option due to McDunnough's criminal background. The couple's next decision, to kidnap one of five baby quintuplets from a rich, well known couple named Nathan and Lynne Arizona all goes wrong.The high energy storyline is matched by the fast, quick, and smart use of cinematography style, the subject views are shot from each character's viewpoint, even the baby's. The camera angles are both high and low, and there is a particular seen where McDunnough has been tied up to a chair by his friends from jail, Gale Snoats (John Goodman) and Evelle Snoats (William Forsythe), and is struggling to get free, he falls to the ground, the camera shooting also appears to fall with him. There is a lot of movement in almost every scene, yet the focus of each character is still sharp, and from time to time zooming in on the characters' facial expressions. The color pallet is vibrant and yet remains natural and realistic.Raising Arizona also employs voice-over narration by McDounnough (Nicolas Cage), which guides the audience through the complicated storyline, this type of sound effect is a wise choice because it compliments the film's quirky artistic vision from the Coen Brothers, which would have otherwise confused the audience, if there was no background information being set up by the narration. The choice of music is also interesting because it adds to the humor of the action in certain scenes, the explosions and gun shots are also exaggerated at times, almost mimicking cartoon like styles.Raising Arizona does not have the typical comedic theme, but the plot of the couple's desperate actions to have a baby is credible enough to make this a good film. Along the way I also learn that this is not the only theme in this film, but that it is also about friendship and love, which Ed and H.I. also realize when they find out that having each other is more important than having a kidnapped baby. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Awesome","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I HATE Nicholas Cage. I hate the man. I hate his acting. I hate that he plays the same neurotic caricature of a man in every film he's been in. But I love this movie.Quite simply put it's comedy gold. If anyone had told me the plot before I watched this movie I would have shunned it as being too low-brow for my tastes. But who would have thought a movie about incompetent rednecks kidnapping a baby could be so hilarious? Certainly not I.It was funny, unassuming, outrageous, and even moving. Any Big Lebowski fan can appreciate a movie like this. And anyone who is turned off by the plot or cast, please reconsider. You wouldn't want to miss this. "},{"Title":"Madcap baby kidnap saga","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Coen Brothers are two of the wildest and most innovative talents working in Hollywood. For nigh on thirty years, they've been making movies which refuse to follow convention, often confounding expectations and delivering huge dashes of crazy humour along the way. Quirky doesn't do their films justice as a description, but RAISING ARIZONA, their second film, is one of their quirkiest.Nicolas Cage stars as a small-time con with crazy hair and a penchant for failed convenience store robberies. He falls in love with cute cop Holly Hunter, and along the way the two decide to kidnap a baby belonging to a rich couple (the baby being the 'Arizona' of the title). From then on in, the film is largely a chase flick, with lots of weird characters coming out of the woodwork to pursue the bumbling twosome. Much of the humour comes from the slow southern dialogue of the participants and the outlandish situations in which they find themselves.John Goodman and William Forsythe make a good comic pairing as two convicts who seem even more accident-prone than Cage and Hunter. The larger-than-life Randall 'Tex' Cobb (UNCOMMON VALOR) plays a figure straight out of a fantasy flick &#x96; an apocalyptic angel of death haunting Cage's every step. My favourite scene is the chase, in which Cage finds himself pursued by cops, a large pack of dogs, you name it (if you thought HOT FUZZ was the first film to set OTT action in a mundane shopping scenario, think again). Add in some references to Sam Raimi and a lightning-fast pace and you have a film that can only be described as a wild ride! "},{"Title":"Just saw this movie. One word, awesome.","Date":"19 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Loved this movie. Loved the coen brothers but more specifically loved Nic Cage. Terrific acting, and a great unique story that was incredibly well told. Gotta hand it to the Coen brothers, their movies are always startlingly unique and distinct in the way that they deliver dialogue. Cold, dark, or just weird. Solid film, solid cast, and another nail in my coffin of the obsessed Nic Cage fan. It'll be his next film Trespass that does me in and makes me resort to stalking. Check out the trailer on youtube and join the converted http//bitly.com/qN22Cm. If you like what you see I strongly advise that you go check it out, I know I will. "},{"Title":"Very amusing early Coen movie.","Date":"20 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was only the second movie the Coen brothers directed together but it was already very obvious from very early on how incredibly great these two guys were, as directors and writers, of these sort of offbeat, screwball comedies, which is also the reason why always so many great actors have lined-up to appear in their movies, even when they weren't established names yet within the business. It also made me realize how consistent they have always remained in their style, with their writing and just overall approach of film-making. This movie is already over 20 years old by now but it still feels as if this could had easily been a movie that they Coen brothers just finished a couple of months ago.And as far as comedies go; This one is about as great and amusing as they can get. It's a real goofy comedy, that takes us back to the earlier days of cinema, when screwball comedies were incredibly popular. And this movie is really being a simplistic one and doesn't seem to worry one bit about ever getting too silly with its story or any of its characters.And yes, this movie is obviously a very silly one with both its story and characters and then especially its characters I would say. It's a quite adventurous movies, in which lots of crazy characters pop up as it progresses. The movie works out as such an amusing one thanks for large part to these very same characters and fine actors that are portraying them. It does make the movie feel a bit disjointed at times because so much is happening and so many different characters involved but yet as a whole it all still manages to work out more than great.Leave it up to the Coen brother to make these sort of backward but yet normal everyday characters as some extremely funny ones. It's not just the directing and acting that makes these characters work out but also truly its writing, which is simply sublime. Lots of the movie its comedy also often comes from its dialog, that will make you laugh guaranteed. But having said that, this movie would had still probably not worked out as well if it didn't had the Coen brothers distinctive, unique directing style and approach to it as well.I really loved some of the acting within this movie as well. I also love Holly Hunter in everything but who was also real great in this movie was big man John Goodman, who always seems to be at his best, from a comedy perspective, in a Coen brothers movie. The Coen brothers further more used many other actors, who would later become, or already were, regulars within their movies, such as most notably Frances McDormand, who at the time was also already married to Joel Coen.About as great and amusing as a comedy can ever get.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Funny comedy for the most part, loses it a bit near the end.","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was a funny film about a married couple who are incapable of having children. Adoption is out, thanks to the fact the man has been arrested numerous times for holding up places. So what is a couple desperate to have children to do? Well go out and kidnap a child of this wealthy family that has like a whole mess of babies. Of course, this is not going to go off without a hitch as a whole lot of problems start popping up including crazed bounty hunters, friends that drop by uninvited after they escape prison, and bizarre employers who want to wife swap. Nicolos Cage is good as is Holly Hunter and the humor is great up to a point. It kind of disappears though after the bounty hunter guy shows up at the end and at this point it got serious and there is virtually no humor left in the movie. Granted, this only encompasses maybe ten minutes of the movie, still it is a kind of weak ending considering all the funny things that were happening up to that point like the failed hold up of a convenience store and leaving a baby on the roof of a vehicle. Lots of strange stuff going on in this one too, overall though it was a funny comedy. "}{"Title":"Raising Arizona","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" One forgets that Nicolas Cage was once a man who, in exchange for payment, would invest himself in the conception and portrayal of film characters--an actor, if you will. The Coen Brothers recognized this side of Mr. Cage, and they put it to use in their goofy child rearing comedy Raising Arizona--but then they also captured equally compelling performances from a bunch of impossibly cute toddlers, so yeah. The film is never too invested in any sort of believable, immersive diegesis; from the moment Junior is delivered to the car, the absurdity of the premise is insurmountable. That's okay though, as in its best moments the film illustrates those absurdities of human behavior that babies invariably bring to the surface. All praise to the Coens for their invigorating tracking shots, irreverent angles, poetic writing and whatnot, but in my opinion, Raising Arizona's greatest strength is that it is funny-- quite funny, in fact. And it's a welcome reminder that funny films should be held to the same standards of filmmaking as their serious brethren. Comedies don't have to be lazy, and neither does Nicolas Cage. -TK 8/23/10 "},{"Title":"You HAVE To See This Movie!","Date":"20 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is without a doubt one of the finest comedies ever made. I know you probably think it looks weird, but believe me you will be pleasantly surprised.Raising Arizona centers around HI, a multiple felon, and Edwina Ed, a highly decorated cop, who met while she was taking pictures of felons in prison. When they find that they can't have a baby the natural way, they kidnap one of the nine kids of a famous furniture tycoon. HI and Ed must try and raise the baby while the cops are looking for the baby, two of HI's escaped felon friends move in, and a bounty hunter is hot on their trail.This movie has one of the funniest collections of characters I have ever seen. Every single character is well acted, interesting, and funny in their own way. Even Nicolas Cage, in his only exceptional performance, adds a lot to the movie.Much like other Coen comedies, Big Lebowski/O Brother, this also has a very interesting and complex plot. Many intertwining plot points as well as an amazingly thoughtful end for a comedy. Raising Arizona also has a lot of off-the-wall comedy which really appeals to me. The entire convenience story robbery/chase scene is comedy gold.So in summation, Rasising Arizona is one of the most underrated comedies of all time and is a must see for Coen fans or just fans of film. "},{"Title":"Praising Arizona","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A childless couple kidnaps one of the quintuplets from a furniture store owner and goes on the lam. After their audacious debut with Blood Simple, the Coen brothers turn to the type of black comedy that would define their careers. Cage and Hunter are perfect as the loving couple desperately wanting to become a threesome. Goodman and Forsythe are escaped convicts who, along with a mean bounty hunter, seek reward money for the baby's return. The plot is deliciously absurd and is chock full of funny lines, delivered for optimum comic effect. A highlight of the film is a hilarious chase scene through the suburbs involving vicious dogs and diaper shopping. "},{"Title":"If they showed this in theatres right now, it would get standing ovations","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Raising Arizona was released in 1987, and if they showed it in theatres today in 2009, it would still be well received if not even better than it was 12 years ago. I was probably too young to have seen this when it came out, but I think Raising Arizona highlighted the brilliance of the Coen brothers very early on. It is undeniable that the style and feel of the movie bears uncanny resemblance to No Country, or the other way around to be precise.It starts out a little slow, with a bunch of storytelling crammed in the 15-20 minutes or so to set the pace, but when Frances McDormand and Sam McMurray make their appearances they light up the movie, followed by fantastic performances by John Goodman and especially William Forsythe. I can imagine many producers and big name actors/actresses being reluctant to include him in their projects, because this man's screen presence is stunning and he can easily steal the scenes. I love how the Coens bring out the very best in their actors, particularly Frances McDormand, she's a regular face amongst their movies and has played in a variety of roles, performing each of them superbly and memorably. She has very limited screen time in Raising Arizona but she's fantastic and it's no wonder she was chosen again to play a much larger role in Fargo.If you haven't seen Raising Arizona yet, rent it immediately, it's fun for the whole family and the ending is very warm, very uplifting and perhaps even emotional. Big up to the Coens. "},{"Title":"Better Hurry It Up There Son, Looks Like I'm In Dutch With The Wife &#133;","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" H.I. and Ed are an ex-con and a policewoman in Arizona who fall in love and plan to have kids, until Ed finds out she's infertile. But when a local bigshot's wife gives birth to quintuplets, H.I. and Ed figure nobody will mind too much if they help themselves to one of the babies. However, all kinds of trouble are in store for this unusual family &#133;Raising Arizona is a wonderful film. It's just so much darned fun. As their careers have progressed, the Coen Brothers have become more successful and acclaimed but their films have lost a little bit of their pizazz, their joie de vivre. Check out this, their second movie, which is just a joy from start to finish; a smorgasbord of hilarious lines, funny off-the-wall performances, crazy antics, breathtaking film-making and sweet, good-natured sentimentality. The movie has several amazing sequences (the eleven minute montage opening, the dream of Lenny, H.I.'s goodbye note, the vision of the future), but the whole story blends into a beautiful little tale of comic folly, family values and redemptive love. Like all the best comedies, it makes you laugh, it makes you cry and it makes you feel good to be alive. Everyone is wonderful in it, Cage most of all, and the ensemble grab the screwball feel and make their performances big and broad in the best, funniest way. Both the dialogue and the accents are head-scratching gibberish - Well, which is it to be young feller ? You want ah should freeze, or get down on the ground ? Ah mean t'say, if'n ah freeze, ah can't rightly drop, and if'n ah drop, ah'm a-gonna be in motion &#133;  - but are never less than hilarious. There are too many good lines to count. It also packs in so much entertainment into ninety minutes; for example, it has a brilliant wedding scene which lasts exactly seven seconds and four shots - if only other movies could learn from the brevity of this example ! It also has one of the best chase sequences I've ever seen, a wild rampaging epic through a sleepy town which rushes along with dizzying speed. Kudos must go to the amazing cinematographer Barry Sonnenfeld and the completely insane score by Carter Burwell, which sounds like a bunch of drunk guys with banjos and colds jamming Beethoven's Ode To Joy in somebody's kitchen. The music alone is unmissable, one of the funniest, most inspired and original scores you'll ever hear. Shot all over rural Arizona, in great locations. Sadly, talented actor Wilson (Nathan Arizona), passed away a couple of years later. He was a fine character actor who made several good movies (F/X, Twins, Married To The Mob), and his touching, thoughtful farewell speech sums up the heart of this terrific comedy classic. If you only know the Coens from their award-winning dramas, don't miss this little diamond from their early days. "},{"Title":"Absolutely amazing 80s Coen classic.","Date":"8 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Raising Arizona' was the first Coen Brothers movie I ever saw, and I admit I left it a bit late before watching it, but I finally saw it as the classic it is now rightly regarded as. The quirkiness of the main characters like Hi and Ed, and the downright menace of 'Mad Max' style villain Leonard Smalls really appealed to me. Nicolas Cage, in a relatively early leading role, is excellent as the former criminal trying to go straight and a young Holly Hunter is equally on top form as the cop who wins his heart. Coen regular John Goodman also turns in a great performance as a bank robber who makes Cage's life difficult.One thing I like about the characters is that they are mostly portrayed in a sympathetic light, the exceptions being Glen, Dot, their kids and the aforementioned Mr. Smalls. I take it that the role of Smalls will be one Randall 'Tex' Cobb will always be remembered for. If this is so, then I am glad, because the Lone Biker of the Apocalypse as Hi labels him is one of the most iconic movie villains I've ever seen. The comedy and drama is handled equally well in this movie, with a lot of laughs coming regularly. And I really like how the ending is optimistic. All in all, 'Raising Arizona' is a great movie. If the film has any faults, it's that the characters of Glen, Dot and their kids are so reprehensible it's hard to believe. But I guess that was the point. Please watch this movie. You're in for a treat. "},{"Title":"Intelligent,Whimsical Comedy","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Firstly, I should make it clear that this review is 21 years after release. Consequently, it is possible to look at this in the context of a considerable body of work. Such a perspective serves this film well. The Coen brothers are good at narrative script,character and situation. All three are worked to the full here.Sometimes you question quite how clever the Coen's are, when you do, you realise the answer is very. What they do is put caricatures in absurd situations, then draw out everyday truth and humour from the story.The sets are frequently deliberately staged, the parents of a soon to be kidnapped child are sat on what appears to be a theatre stage, rather than a front room.The kidnappers trailer opens out into a vast condo set inside - and you don't care.The story itself is simple, a habitual convict marries a cop, she discovers she cannot conceive, so they kidnap one of a set of Quintuplets on the basis that the parents have more than they can handle.Some escaped cons who resolve that they have taken all that prison has to offer in turn kidnap the child for the reward money pursued by a Bounty hunter.Visually the film veers from the surreal, the Bounty hunter is straight out of Mad Max, to the engaging,when Nicholas Cage, playing the recidivist convict kidnaps one of the Quins from their cot.Intriguingly this later scene is shot with a light humorous touch, echoing Three Men and a Baby.The script resolutely refuses to follow any moral logic or sense of consequence, what it does instead is to relish and explore how the characters behave in bizarre, extraordinary situations.You either buy into it, or you don't. I did. "},{"Title":"The Coen's funniest film.","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Of course, there's a difference between their best and their funniest. Of the comedies they've made (The Big Lebowski, Burn After Reading, Intolerable Cruelty, The Ladykillers, even Fargo), Raising Arizona plays the most like a comedy. There's no genre switching here, this movie is a downright over the top comedy, and it's pretty funny. It has an original plot and over the top funny scenes, along with clever dialogue, and fits right in the middle in the Coen's list of movies. It's not a masterpiece, however the huge cult following would beg to differ I'm sure.H.I. McDunnough (Nicholas Cage) is constantly in and out of prison, always for robbing that same liquor store. He falls for the police photographer Ed(wina) (Holly Hunter) and when he gets out a third time, he proposes to her. The only thing needed to make their life complete is a kid, but Ed is unable to birth one, and the adoption agency won't give them one because of H.I.'s spotty past. They decide to steal one of the Arizona family's newly born quintuplets. Two of H.I.'s buddies from prison, Gale and Evelle (John Goodman and William Forsythe) break out and come to live with the new family. To go along with all of this, a crazy biker is looking for the baby.What a crazy movie this is! The acting is bad, but purposefully bad, so it's good in what it's going for. It's so over the top, it's hilarious! As usual with the Coen brothers, the cinematography and direction is top notch. This is a great looking comedy. The chase scene through a house and grocery store is superbly shot and laid out. It's probably the best, most manic chase scene I've ever seen.With the positive comes the negative. The goofiness of this movie can be very stupid. Normally it's funny, but at times it wears thin. Dot, played by Frances McDormand, was a little too much with her typical mother performance. Luckily, this didn't bring down the movie too much, if at all. Not until the end did I actually care for the characters, but by the end they were developed quite well. Characters being likable is a problem the Coens have had in the past, but they pulled through with this one.Overall, this is a silly comedy, but a funny one. It's cult following is well deserved, and it fits in nicely with the genius of the Coen's works.My rating *** out of ****. 90 mins. PG-13 for language, violence and some sexual humor. "},{"Title":"The Coen brothers so easily make strange comedy poignant","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think Raising Arizona is more a comedy in that you are in awe of the complete stupidity of every one of the Coen brothers' characters. There aren't that many jokes, it's just all sort of ridiculous. The Coen brothers first successful comedic film is pretty much a stranger version of their later comedies, taking a small time crook story and expanding it in terms of weird. Most criminals aren't smart or clever and the Coen brothers let you know that for sure.In the film, Nicholas Cage plays a repeat convict named H.I. McDunnough who convinces a cop named Ed (Holly Hunter) to marry him somehow. The couple then decides the American dream for them is having a baby, so their plan is to steal a quintuplet of a wealthy business owner. Though they are successful, it's not that simple, especially with a $25,000 reward for the baby.The Coen brothers create the dumbest criminals and most irresponsible human begins to grace to the silver screen (that are actually believable and not just dumb for laughs). We don't quite get to know any of the characters that much, we just know all of their motivations money or children. Cage, early in his career, shows success in a role that would seem out of character for him in this decade. John Goodman as H.I's escaped convict friend and Frances McDormand and Sam McMurray as family friends with crazy kids round out a pretty great cast.I can't really overstate the weirdness of this movie. There are some strange fight scenes, lots of unnecessary screaming, a guy riding a motorcycle with two shotguns on his back--there is a clear intention to be outside of normal here. Though as the Coen brothers later prove they're unbeatable at, it's not without some poignancy.Oddly enough, the way these characters come into conflict with ideas of the real world, like the reality of taking care of a child and its demands, is quite effective. The viewer is so wrapped up in the characters' blind motivations that those things that are obvious to people about responsibility in the real world sneak up to you in the film. There is also the whole crime doesn't pay mentality in terms of immediately satisfying your wants, but what makes Raising Arizona stand out for the Coen brothers is the sense of the American dream, even if it comes across as strange the whole film, it's definitely genuine. How the Coen brothers get you to see that amid absurdity is a secret they should tell no one, but it's incredible. "},{"Title":"Pure silliness - Coen brothers style!","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" After the controlled excellence of Blood Simple, Joel and Ethan Coen unleashed the wackiness of Raising Arizona, one of their more accessible films, so successful at the time of its original release that the brothers were actually offered Batman (!) as their next project (as we all know, they passed on it and along came Tim Burton). In retrospect, the offer doesn't sound so ridiculous Burton's take on the Dark Knight is as much a freak show as Raising Arizona, though it is more about the sombre mood than surreal humor, which is the Coens' most notable strength.The absolute lunacy in this film comes in the form of H.I. McDunnough (Nicolas Cage), a convict who is absolutely incapable of doing any good whatsoever, and his wife Edwina, nicknamed Ed (Holly Hunter), a prison worker who married him after his latest stay in jail. The couple's biggest wish is to have a baby, but as it turns out nature - and luck - isn't really on their side. At this point, options are quite limited, and after learning wealthy businessman Nathan Arizona (Trey Wilson) has recently had five babies, they think who cares if one of those kids disappears ? Apparently, a lot of people care, since H.I. and Ed have to deal with all kinds of insane individuals, from the Snoat brothers (John Goodman and William Forsythe) to a mysterious biker (Tex Cobb) who seems to have come straight out of Hell.Raising Arizona is, in many ways, a typical Coen brothers movie, relying not on easy or direct laughs, but more on the overall absurdity of the situation, paired with some healthy Reagan-bashing (H.I. starts insulting him in the opening monologue). That the satirical aspect isn't forced, but manages to flow naturally with the rest of the craziness, is one of the film's strongest aspects, next to the fantastic dialogue (Hurry up, I'm in a dutch with the wife!) and the inspired casting Hunter and Frances McDormand, working with Joel and Ethan for the second time, are already at ease in the twisted Coen universe, while Goodman and Forsythe add the right does of quirkiness. The most impressive performance comes from Cage still in his experimental phase (Wild at Heart was just around the corner), he is totally out of control in an edgy, brave effort whose wild energy is only a vague memory in his post-Oscar body of work. Cobb is good as well, but his character, who adds a more surreal touch to the movie's tone, doesn't seem quite at home here. The Coens have used the Hell motif in other pictures (Barton Fink first and foremost) to considerable effect, but in this case it looks more like an afterthought, albeit an entertaining one, rather than an organic part of the narrative.Despite its occasional flaws, Raising Arizona is in fact a perfect film for Coen novices, its accessibility and mainstream appeal (it's got Nic Cage in it) being potentially more seductive than the casual yet beautiful brutality of Fargo. "}{"Title":"Baby","Date":"8 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It seems that after a second view or more, the films of the Coen brothers change from just excellent to wonderful, perfect. I saw for the very first time Raising Arizona I think almost two years ago and I found it as a terrific comedy and I recommended it to some persons, one of them my cousin who also enjoyed it a lot. Now that I have seen it again I feel similar to when I saw Blood Simple for the second time almost one month ago, I mean I liked it much more than the first time I saw it!Raising Arizona has a simple premise, a very funny one a criminal (Nicolas Cage) fells in love with a policewoman (Holly Hunter) and after he is finally clean they get married. As a couple their dream is to have a baby but here a problem she is infertile and they can't adopt one due to the criminal past of H.I. McDunnough. Actually all this happens in the introduction and when the dream is broke, real problems can come. Here is when little Arizona appears and he will be the most important person for Hi and Ed. As, I suppose, you know little Arizona is one of the five babies of Nathan Arizona (Trey Wilson) and Florence Arizona (Lynne Dumin Kitei) so as Ed thinks that they have more of what they need, she wants one of the babies. Is a fun film but is also a wonderful love story, kind of even moving with many memorable characters and so many great lines. Little Arizona is definitely the most important character in the film and he changes everything for everybody. The crime against him is big but, in a terrific scene, Ed's love changes everything and ultimately Hi is a new person. This two really loves each other but circumstances and suddenly their love is questionable. Those circumstances include two memorable characters Gale (John Goodman) and Evelle (William Forsythe). They are part of Hi's past and both are natural born criminals sort of so at any little chance they will take advantage. The classic annoying friends are here with Glen (Sam McMurray) and Dot (Frances McDormand) and they are part of those circumstances too. But the truth about who is really little Arizona is known for this four characters and he will change everything. The criminals are now responsible criminals and they feel that little Arizona is their baby too, magnificent and pure fun. In our love story, both knew that they weren't in the right way and Leonard Smalls (Randall Tex Cobb) is a great thug character that keeps Hi in mind that he is in the wrong way and ultimately he is the evil with a motorcycle in the search of a baby lost. But a baby lost in the hands of a loving couple will end where he really belongs and will help to place them in the right way, to dream again&#133;maybe about Utah.About the -great- cast this is one of my favourites pictures with Nicolas Cage and maybe his best character of the 80's. Holly Hunter, in her first starring role, is simply terrific in a great character, of course moving at many scenes. Both are an odd and strong couple. Support cast is also great with John Goodman in his first Coen brothers' picture (terrific and very funny just like William Forsythe) and since then he has appeared in, exactly, four more Coen bros pictures. Oh and the great M. Emmet Walsh has a very little role here, after his brilliant performance in Blood Simple.Then Raising Arizona is up there, along with Lebowski and O Brother, as one of my personal favourite from the comedies of the Coens (haven't seen yet Hudsucker) so I give the highest recommendations about it. "},{"Title":"A Comedy Classic!!!!","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the first Coen outing I ever remember seeing ...This is a wonderful piece of off-the-wall comedy for virtually all tastes which strangely enough has very real family values shrouded in the most absurd situation. In a nutshell, it follows the attempt of a strangely matched couple, gloriously realized in Nicholas Cage and Holly Hunter, who because of her inability to conceive, decide to steal one of a set of quintuplets because they had more than they could handle. Both Cage and Hunter have gone on to become huge stars but it is wonderful to see them so long ago in such an affectionate comedy. Of course John Goodman gives a signature performance and since then I have made it a point to see all of the Coen Brothers productions and rarely have I been disappointed. Trey Wilson is just great as the father of the quintuplets and the dialog is superb. Frances McDormand is hilarious as a swinger and her husband is flawless as the typical redneck with a horrible sense of humor. This is truly a regional comedy and I have watched this with friends who were not from the South, finding myself having to explain just what they meant by a certain phrase at a certain time... The counseling session with the prisoners in the beginning is a stitch. Forget critics who referred to this as a flaky comedy. Makes you wonder just what standard they were working from. No matter. The most important thing is your reaction to it and what you tend to get out of it which, I strongly suspect, is the secret to the Coen Brothers' success. In any event, this is a worthy addition to any movie collection and you will enjoy this over and over and over again! "},{"Title":"Good not great and a movie ultimately held down by its most unique elements","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first saw this film, I only saw the end. I thought the film was pretty good but a rather minor work. I had figured I hadn't missed much. However, when I saw the film from start to finish, I realize the best of the bits were at the start. Unfortunately, the best bits at the part didn't change the whole film, leaving me with the same conclusion as I'd before, only maybe a little more demonstrated of the films strengths. Raising Arizona follows a couple of an ex-con and an ex-cop, who decide to steal a baby after finding out that they cannot conceive one of their own. They talk in a creatively awkward regional accent/manner, shared by pretty everyone in the film, and they rarely express emotion, using their face, shared by many people in the film. They develop moral justifications using wisdom consistent with their regionality, and they get into many types of troubles throughout the film, descending through all manners of the realistic and bizarre. These troubles are funny, and they are also in a way self-aware. The problem is that the whole film is perhaps a bit too self-aware. The manner by which the characters speak feels as if that's how every character speaks, and it starts to feel a bit through the film that the joke was overdone and more effort should have been made to differentiate the characters. On the same token, the way the film goes about is a bit too of for lack of better phrasing opposite of melodramatic, and by the 9th time, you've seen the female cop character staring blankly at the camera, you wonder if the whole bit was just way too stylized. The whole thing feels overly scripted for an indy-style comedy, and to boot, there's a mediocre climax and plot over and under emphasis. The thing is that the film works well enough in the spite of such things. The self-awareness is charming for what it is, and a lot of fun jokes, especially those of nice old men, are found. The lines are cute, and even if all many of the story aspects don't completely work, they still have enough worthy elements to justify their inclusion. The film is not a bad way to spend an afternoon at all, and it is certainly one you'll remember. After all, this is still a pretty unique way of doing a film through and through, and any unique success is likely to be remembered. It's the type of movie that is bound to have a cult following. It's also a type of film that could easily be commercially successful. It's a time of film that combines an offbeat sensibility with a very onbeat type of concept, and it is ultimately this that most defines the film in addition to perhaps serving its detriment at times. It's a good film, but its sensibilities and structure ultimately are what prevent it from reaching a level higher than good. "},{"Title":"The Coen's best movie, by far. . . . . .","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Can't add a lot to what others have already said about this movie. Absolutely one of the funniest movies out there! The casting of Cage and Hunter together turned out to be a masterpiece! The language that H.I. used throughout the movie is so much fun; nobody talks like that anymore, but wouldn't it be fun if they did? William Forsyth is great as the little brother, especially his line do these blow up into funny shapes at all? Of all the one-liners in the movie, my favorite has to be the pay clerk's line Government do take a bite, don't she?. If you've seen the movie you know what I mean; if you haven't, why are you still reading? Go out and buy it today. It's one you'll want to keep and watch at least two or three times a year! "},{"Title":"The best from the best","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Raising Arizona has the best opening montauge possibly in the history of cinema. I have seen this movie about forty times and each time it gets better. It's the story of a useless repeat offender serial convict named HI (played brilliantly by a 23 year old Nicholas Cage) who falls in love with a police officer he keeps running into at central booking. After his final stint in prison HI decides he wants to settle down so he proposes to Ed while she's taking his fingerprints. They move into a trailer, he gets a job and they try to start a family. Unfortunately Ed is unable to reproduce and because of HI's checkered past the two are unable to adopt. As their relationship begins to deteriorate, a famous Arizona couple gives birth to five children. Ed and HI get the idea to kidnap one since the parents obviously have more then they can handle and what ensues is pure comic genius plus a country version of Beethoven's ninth symphony and a supporting role from John Goodman. Okay then. What can I say, I love this movie for the simple fact that the trailer they live in has more firearms in it then a small country and Nicholas' Cage's southwestern accent is to die for. Anyway two thumbs up, see this film. "},{"Title":"Best Nicolas Cage movie ever !!!","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I know he won awards for his other roles in movies like Adaptation and Leaving Las Vegas,but to me,he is one of those actors that can never top his earlier works,much like Tom Hanks (i.e.bachelor party,Joe versus the volcano). He should play more white trash roles,he seems to do very well at it!!! My favorite scene is the fight scene in the house between John Goodman and Nicolas Cage. He should make a sequel to this. Nathan Jr. is grown up and running Painted Arizon because of his uncertain reason to cause trouble in college,he was kicked out of the university then H.I. tries to rob the store one night only to find out that they were a family once,although the script never actually says it,its just one of those unspoken lines. John Goodman and William Forsythe can make a return. "},{"Title":"Non-fans of 'Natural Born Killers' should perhaps steer clear but Raising Arizona is still worth a look.","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" With the Coen brothers becoming household names over the past few years, thanks to Oscar wins for 'Fargo' no doubt, I decided to hark back to where it pretty much all began for the directing duo and check out some of their (and Nicolas Cage's) early work and I'm glad that I did.What the film does is actually toy with you for pretty much the entire duration, forcing you to keep watching yet at the same time; daring you to look away. The fast edits and bizarre content both work together to create this tempting fixation we feel. This is highlighted through the brilliantly narrated and scripted introduction which is a very simple plot setup made artistic through humorous yet dark dialogue twinned with running gags. It's cute, empathetic and genuinely funny. The situation is got across and it's not until the voice-overs end and the music starts up until you realise the actual film hasn't started yet; that was merely the introduction to the situation. What this also does is asks us a very serious question early on that will affect the way in which we look at these characters 'Can we really root for child-snatchers?' That and the fact the accents are kind of annoying. When the film develops, you realise the comedy is very well space and doesn't make the mistake of force feeding us joke after joke in this desert dystopia the writers have created. Everything from the one-liners, the exchanges to the characters that break out of jail; all of it is well spaced and nicely timed within one another. Another thing is the multi-strand element the film uses just beyond half way which entwines each character's attempts to re-capture the baby. The events are, actually, rather fascinating as well as funny as fate intervenes in pretty hilarious ways just when all seems lost for certain people. The actual baby itself is an interesting use of a filmic 'Macguffin' and works well throughout. 'Where did it go?', 'How did it get there?' and 'What will happen now?' are questions that you will genuinely wonder, if you've put up with the odd way in which the film is put across up until this point.The film plays out like a bit of a dream sequence throughout which isn't necessarily a bad thing since dreams play an important part in the film (ie; the 'dream' to have a child in the first place and the 'nightmare' of realising what might happen if you're caught), just be weary of some un-formulaic editing and some thick accents that will stick with you well after the viewing. This is where I felt the similarities to 'Natural Born Killers' came in.Raising Arizona is worth a look, at least on the basis that it is where the now pretty popular Coens started off. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies of the past 30 years","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have seen this movie at least 20 times, and every time I watch, it is as though I am watching it for the first time. The comedy and the special humor that so perfectly is delivered by this movie is timeless. I recommend it to anyone who appreciates a good comedy.I read the few comments by those who said they hated this movie. All I can tell them is to see a psychologies for only then they can overcome their hostility toward the world. To say this movie was not funny, or was not good is to say you hate being by a beautiful beach under a 80 degree weather in Bora Bora! Raising Arizona is a definite must see. It is a classic by all standards. I wished they made movies like this more often. "},{"Title":"Hope To Say","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The biggest thing about Raising Arizona is that you don't see it coming. I remember when I watched it from the perspective of a young child, I couldn't believe how funny this movie about a bunch of hicksville eccentrics was.Now that I write films, the movie blows me away even more, because I'm a big fan of dialogue, and this film has the best. What other film, (including Coen Bros. films) has such rapid fire funny dialogue? The interaction between every character is outstanding. There are no wasted moments, no neutral comments. Everything that is said is used to further the story, or make you laugh your pants off.I'm a big fan of the Coen Brothers, and this is without a shadow of a doubt their best effort to date. The Big Lebowski's ending didn't satisfy me in the slightest, and Fargo's ending was also a bit lukewarm. But Raising Arizona delivers the goods in a way so few films can. "},{"Title":"A million laughs","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Just about every line in this movie is hilarious, original, quirky and quotable!!! I have seen the movie at least 40 times and every time I laugh out loud many times. The chase scene in the supermarket is very original, and the camera work from the point of view of the babies when H.I. is in the bedroom of the Arizona household deciding which critter to get is amazing. Cage and Hunter and every actor is perfect in the movie. One of the best lines is We released ourselves on our own recognizance when H.I. prison buddies break out of prison. When Edwina is driving back to pick up H.I. after he robs the convenience store, and she turns to Nathan Jr. and says Everything's changed!, this is another sweet line, and I say this often to my husband and kids, when they question something not going their way. Raising Arizona is a cult hit for good reason, it is the cutest, funniest, sweetest movie ever made! "}{"Title":"Listening to Arizona","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" After being wowed by Blood Simple, I thought this movie was a let down. When I first saw it, I couldn't understand how the Coen Brothers could stumble so quickly. The comedy in Blood Simple was absurdist, not cartoonish. Then along comes this extended, live action Chuck Jones cartoon, but without the verve.Last weekend, though, I had the chance to reconsider. Joel's hyperactive Steadicam hijinks really distract from Ethan's sly dialogue. OK, it may still be as silly as a Warner Bros. cartoon, but the biggest laughs often come from what people say, and when the say it.Try turning off the image and listening to this movie. It ain't Preston Sturges, but at least it knows what to aim for.Some of my favorites Hi, you get on up there and get us a toddler. You know them people got more than they can handle! Sometimes a man has to put career before family. You got any funny shaped balloons? Well, if you think round is funny.Sir, do you think your child's disappearance may be a UFO abduction? Son, don't print that idea, cause if my wife reads it in the paper she'll just give up all hope. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are so many memorable moments from this instant classic that I can not even begin to list them all. It is a very original film and really most comedies really do not compare to this movie in anyway. It is just a great movie.I agree with another reviewer who said to say the Coen brothers are overrated or bad is wrong and it truly is. I have never seen two guys makes so many instant classics that all work and all different and original ever. From Blood Simple to Fargo the Coen Brothers are geniuses in every way. They add the right amount of comedy, emotion and in cases suspense to keep you laughing and having a great time the whole movie. "},{"Title":"Coen Brothers classic.","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If there was one Coen Brothers movie that stands out in my movie-watching memory, it would have to be this one. It never occurred to me who these guys were, but after seeing Miller's Crossing and Fargo, I realized they're awesome.The coolest thing about this comedy is the domino effect that happens when Nicolas Cage and Holly Hunter kidnap a wealthy man's baby from his group of babies. Everyone wants the reward to get it back, and the consequences are just plain hysterical. How the couple met, when H.I. constantly gets arrested and 'Ed' is taking his mug-shot, is so damn funny.The acting is terrific, with roles that were tailor made for Cage and Hunter. Excellent supporting performances are from John Goodman, William Forsythe and even Randall Tex Cobb.I really can't say if this is vintage Coen brothers, because like I said, when I first saw it, it never mattered. But this is a great, surreal comedy. "},{"Title":"T I M I N G","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the best-paced films ever made. Relentlessly hilarious. I have to say more so the database will take my comments, but I just finished watching this and I am truly at a loss for words. This film did not let up. I wouldn't be surprised if the PAUSE function on my DVD player had been disabled. Anyway... the cast is excellent too. Goodman, Cage, Hunter, the late Trey Wilson (who was going to play the Albert Finney role in Miller's Crossing), the under-appreciated William Forsythe, and in a performance that should have merited some sort of award somewhere, former boxer Randall Tex Cobb. If you haven't seen this one yet, I envy you the initial joy you are going to feel.  "},{"Title":"Zany","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps the least restrained movie the Coen Brothers have ever made, this is brimming with OTT performances and memorable sequences such as John Goodman being born from the Earth, the two leads falling in love over a police camera, and of course the baby in the road. Best of all, and the moment that sticks this movie firmly in my heart, is the bit where Randall Tex Cobb, as the biker from Hell, blows up a rabbit. "},{"Title":"Classic of Comedy","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Roger Ebert once said that a great movie is like great music.  The more familar with it you become, the more you enjoy it.  This classic piece of comedy has as many memorable moments as the other greats Planes, Trains and Automobiles and National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation -- and they are truly better when watched again.The story telling and acting of Nicolas Cage is highly entertaining and perfectly in character.  John Goodman is also a tremdous talent on exhibt in this film.Consider yourself deprived of one the best comic epics if you haven't seen this one! "},{"Title":"Nicholas Cage's best movie and a great Coen brothers flick","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Raising Arizona is Nicholas Cage's high point. Forget everything that you've seen him in before or since. H.I. McDunnough is Cage's greatest achievement. Like all Coen brothers films, the off-beat characters are the story and the film's greatest strength. Cage, Holly Hunter, John Goodman, William Forsythe, or even Randall Tex Cobb. All do a fine job at making you feel at home in the Coen brothers world. Since each film of the brothers is set in a different locale, the dry and inhospitable desert of Arizona is brought into drab life by the Coens and their misfit characters. I love all the Coen brothers movies that I've seen so far with the exception of The Man Who Wasn't There. Their films are unorthodox works of art that need to be experienced with a open mind. You need to be open to a different movie experience to truly appreciate them. Bottom Line Like all Coen brothers works, a work of art. A truly great film that I just watch over and over and never get tired of.  "},{"Title":"then I guess I am telling you what you want to hear","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  H.I. Hi McDonnough (Nicholas Cage) is a philosophical but slightly dim career criminal who has been arrested so often that he gets to know Ed, short for Edwina (Holly Hunter), the officer who takes his mug shots. Hi takes a shine to Ed and promises to go straight if she marries him. She accepts, and they move to the Arizona desert, where Hi holds down a factory job and blissfully watches the sunsets with Ed.  Their serenity is shattered when the couple decides that they want a child and discover that, as Hi puts it, Ed's womb was a rocky place where my seed could find no purchase. (One of the film's many delights is Hi's unexpectedly flowery dime-novel narration.) Ed goes into a severe depression until she sees an item in the news. Nathan Arizona (Trey Wilson), owner of a chain of unpainted furniture stores, has become the father of quintuplets. He and his wife joke that they now have more children than they can handle.In what seems like a perfect helps you, helps me situation, Hi and Ed kidnap one of the Arizona infants, figuring that they'll have a baby and the Arizonas will have less of a burden. The Coens play the American Dream for farce, Hi (Nicolas Cage) and Edwina (Holly Hunter) attempt parenthood through kidnapping.  With nods to cartoon slapstick, The Road Warrior (1981), Doctor Strangelove (1964), and Sam Raimi's horror films, and a script that mixes southwestern slang and polished locutions, the Coens extract maximum wackiness from their sly send-up of familial urges.  From crude yet refined convicts Gale (John Goodman) and Evelle (William Forsythe) to blowhard father Nathan Arizona to swinging procreators Glen (Sam McMurray) and Dot (Frances McDormand), all the cartoony characters want to parent baby Arizona for all the wrong reasons.  Cinematographer Barry Sonnenfeld's sharp compositions, low camera, and manic shakycam shots showcase the Coens' energetic visual wit, particularly in a prolonged chase featuring dogs, cops, a panty-wearing Hi, a gun-toting convenience store clerk and a package of purloined Huggies.Complete with carefully modulated over-the-top performances from the entire cast, Raising Arizona confirmed the Coens' place among the most distinctive filmmakers to emerge from the 1980s independent cinema  "},{"Title":"True Comedy","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Raising Arizona is a king among the genre of comedy. I have been a big fan of the Coen Brothers ever since I first saw Fargo and this is by far the purest comedy they have made (made really for laughs but also made very smartly). Of the comedies that came out in the 1980's, this is one of the most original and stunning (much like Caddyshack and Back To The Future). If anyone watches it, they are in for a treat that they will remember for quite a while.Here are my reasons (spoilers) (1) Nicholas Cage plays the best character of his career as H.I. Hi McDonnough. He convincingly played a complex, difficult yet funny, resilient reformed armed robber involved in a kidnapping plot gone horribly awry. He easily had the best male role in the film. (2) Holly Hunter is just great as Ed, the hard as rock ex-cop who has been struck barren. She plays her character menacingly and lovingly and it was very believeable. She had the best female role in the film. (3) If there was ever a movie that takes a simple plot line (like the kidnapping of a child) throws into a blender with a few extra ingredients (like the actual reason for the kidnapping) and something comes out that this really good. The plot of the film is very original and something that was unseen in film before that. Quite a nice piece of writing I must say. (4) My favorite scene of the film involved the chase scene that lasted for ten-some minutes and it was all over a package of diapers. I was reminded of the fight scene from They Live. Besides that, it was probably the quirkiest and funniest chase ever caught on celluloid and it must have inspired many others like it. (5) One aspect of this film I really did like is that toddlers have the effect of making even the most hardened criminal go all mushy inside. That is a sign that someone out there believes that humanity capable of love even if it does bad things. Wishful thinking is sometimes a good thing. (6) A staple of most Coen films has been John Goodman and he does well here as Hi's buddy. As he screams, you wonder if he is either acting tough and acting as if he has constipation. (7) I love the cinematography in this movie. The multiple angles and multiple cameras that were used produce some very nice shots including both Hi and Ed running seperate directions from the car before it exploded. The Coens know how to use the camera. (8) The elaborate sets used in this movie help the set the scene for how weird it would become. The Arizona house was a colorful and wide-open space and it could suggest that this is foreshadowing since the movie was colorful and it was wide open as to where it would end up at. (9) I have never seen a movie with an eleven-minute introduction before. It was an awesome sequence and one of the best the sequences I have seen in a Coen film.  One of the funniest as well. (10) The denouement of Raising Arizona seemed well-suited to me. As I said earlier, wishful thinking is a good thing and there are people who are willing forgive out there if something is done against them.  Ten reasons give a score of ten.This is a very positive film with a very positive feeling. It has a lot of heart even though the initial setup was a kick in the stomach. The characters are treated with care and respect and I sympathized with them. This a true comedy and an inspiration to other quirky comedies out there now. Anyone and everyone should watch this movie and laugh and smile because it had that effect on me.  Here ends my rant! "},{"Title":"An original and energetic comedy from the creators of 'Fargo'","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nicolas Cage just can't seem to stop robbing grocery stores, and is caught and sent to jail many times. However, he falls in love with the prison photographer (Holly Hunter) and they eventually get married. However, they find out she can't be pregnant and since Cage has commited so many crimes they're turned down by every adoption agency. They end up planing a bit of a caper to get one of their own, and the result is a multitude of awkward situations involving funny characters. Co- starring is John Goodman as one of Cage's prison buddies, who adds some hilarious personality to the role. As the lead, Cage crafts himself well and portrays the character perfectly. Hunter does an excellent job as well, and should have been nominated for Best Actress. The script by the Coen brothers is witty and catches itself off guard, but unfortunately sometimes it just seems trying to hard for laughs and there are some really just plain stupid parts (the crazed Biker). Joel Coen's direction, is filled with a sort of refreshing and original energy as he masterfully blends together an abusrd story with a great cast. He has this sort of kinetic energy that slowly builds things up and doesn't let down. Raising Arizona is rather short and runs at around one and a half hours, but sometimes the pace gets too slow and feels longer. With the great cast, superb direction and excellent script, this film is a winner, and almost even surpasses 'Fargo'. 9.5/10 "}{"Title":"What more do you want?","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nicolas Cage being shot at for almost 10 solid minutes, crazy characters. John Goodman screaming for almost a minute.  Holly Hunter, who I personally love, is great along with everybody else.  See this one just for the sheer wackiness of the plot.   "},{"Title":"Coens' at their most charming","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Coen's second movie has an innocence that makes it endearing, especially to a non-Coen fan. (I am one, I'm just saying for those haters out there.) The language takes a joy in itself and is very Coen-esque, although overall I was left with the feeling more of Sam Raimi. Some camera moments are like Blood Simple, like when a dude on a motorcycle drives over a car (directly reminiscent of that camera rising above a body on the bar in Blood Simple) or those energetic, rapid steadicam shots that are lifted from Raimi.It's a charming, guilt-free comedy at no one's expense (unlike the mean-spiritedness and superior snobbery of films like Fargo, where Jonathan Rosenbaum dubbed Frances McDormand's character the Coens' pet hick). It's shameless slapstick.When Cage (the ex-con) and Hunter (the ex-cop) get hitched, they decide to snatch one of Nathan Arizona's little quintets; after all five is much too much for one family. The two get attached to little Nathan Jr., and Cage (his name is H.I., as in Hudsucker Industries) has these two buddies (John Goodman and a porky, hilarious William Forsythe), escaped convicts almost literally burped out of the ground, that have their eyes set on Nathan Jr. as well.Cage is wacky and offbeat, a young, virtually unknown at the time the film was made (probably still trying to shake off the nasal Gumbi accent from Peggy Sue Got Married). He's still got that renegade actor quality to him, that over-the-topness that's not quite honed enough, but it fits the material perfectly.The film is in the tradition of their goofball charmers like The Big Lebowski and O Brother, Where Art Thou? -- not as hilarious as the first, and not as episodically plotted (or clever) as the second.The pleasures here are in the innocent sight gags and dialogue -- Cage's grungy, just-about-mullet and mustache, Goodman's sideburns, Frances McDormand's quick appearance as a white trash wife to Cage's boss. Then there's this oil-covered, apocalyptic bounty hunter intent on collecting the reward for the stolen baby.By the time the movie's over (it's a quick 90 or so minutes), a baby's been stolen, some animals have been shot, a man's been attacked by dogs, some people have been shot at, and someone held a grenade too long -- and it's the Coens' most innocent movie to date. You could almost say it's tender and sweet.*** "},{"Title":"not my bag...","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  well, i just saw 'raising arizona' last night on video after putting it off for ten+ years. i admit, right off the bat, the i don't care for nicholas cage that much..if at all. the coen brothers seem to make quirky films that really just kind of sit there for me. the only movie of theirs i've really liked is ' the big lebowski.' anyway, getting back to the movie, it did nothing for me. its brand of humor i find to be strangely patronizing. as if the whole world is s***ty, and is populated by stupid and stupider people. of course, the really successful people in this movie are the coarsest, etc. this brand of slapstick just isn't for me. liked the biker of the apocalypse though. "},{"Title":"Splendid! Fabulous! Warming!","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I knew this was going to be a good movie within the first minute of the opening scene. It's the only comedy I've sat through in which I actually laughed out loud - a solid belt of laughter - within the first 30 seconds. Comedies don't normally do that to me. They normally wait a while. They build up to the big joke, and it's not always even that funny.Raising Arizona began on a good note for me. Towards the middle, I was beginning to think it would wind up in a less-happy way, and admittedly I felt a little disappointed. But the movie really is touching, and the ending is fabulous! It makes up for the doubts you'll have, if any.Nicholas Cage, who I'm not actually a great fan of, does a superb job - as does Holly Hunter. (She was also great in O' Brother Where Art Thou). I really think they played their parts well.I would definitely recommend this film to you. It has a little bit of a Married With Children sort of tone to it, but the jokes are intelligent and witty. It'll sometimes catch you off guard with a really funny scene and you'll really laugh out loud! I love movies like that!I like a comedy who doesn't feel it has to continually make you laugh, like Scary Movie does or American Pie. They're good those films, but it's almost like they can't pause to tell you a story. They have to try and force-feed you jokes all the time. And that's the difference between those types of comedies and this one. Raising Arizona tells you a story. And makes you laugh a whole lot along the way.Don't worry if when you're watching it you start to think it's going down a certain path, because it changes. And it ends up in a really good place...I really hope you like it! "},{"Title":"A very funny flick.","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very cool, funny movie. Nicholas Cage's wild hair dos are quite a trip in themselves. That baby, just sitting in his baby seat, so calm and collected while astride the center yellow line in the road ... too funny.John Goodman is excellent as well as the escaped convict that tries to help. I think. His ulterior motives may be overriding his sense of Humanity though.I thought this movie to be very funny the first time I saw it and now for the 4th or 5th time, still very, laugh out loud, funny. I would highly recommend this flick. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, worthy of multiple viewings!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hilarious, worthy of multiple viewings! Very Quirky, but loads of fun. Cage's expressions alone, get me laughing. He seems so lost & unable to control the madness around him.also great performances by Hunter, Goodman. "},{"Title":"Raising Arizona (1987) Directed by Joel Coen","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Alright, I'll admit THIS to all you anti-Raising Arizona people you have some pretty solid reasons to support your opposition against the film. You're right, it's not as good as Fargo or Miller's Crossing. And, yes, it's a little pointless. But if you didn't enjoy the movie at all, then you completely MISSED it's point. Because in the end, Raising Arizona is intended as nothing more than a guilty pleasure, a wonderful day-dream that you don't want to wake from (POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD which is actually part of the symbolism behind the ending, during which H.I. dreams of an epilogue). And if you're able to put up with some strikingly bizarre oddities, then the far-fetched premise of the movie will actually seem partially sensical, making it a bit easier to suspend all disbelief and just enjoy the ride. Because when it comes to unbelievable stories, they don't get much weirder than this H.I. (Nicolas Cage) and his wife Ed -- short for Edwina (Holly Hunter) -- are enjoying life as a married couple, until they make the shocking discovery that she's barren and they can't have the children they long for. So -- going with the flow of the moment and doing what they think is right -- they decide to kidnap one of the Arizona quintuplets to raise as their own (although they still can't agree on a name for it). Things get even MORE strange when a sadistic bounty hunter named Lenny Smalls enters the picture, aiming to find the baby and collect the reward it's parents have put up... or if that fails, sell it to the black market. Full of hysterical antics and classic lines (e.g. I'll be taking these Huggies and whatever cash ya got) the Coen Brothers have once again succeeded at delivering us an out-of-this-world observation on close-to-home issues. But it's not just the screenplay or the zaniness of Raising Arizona that makes it so enjoyable, it's every aspect of the picture the acting, the Carter Burwell soundtrack, and the up-roarious chase scenes. And if that isn't enough to convince you nay-sayers of the greatness of this film, then it might help to know that it was ranked by A.F.I. as the 31st funniest movie ever made. So if you haven't watched it yet because you've been turned off by all the negative reviews, or you HAVE seen but just didn't get it, give it a second chance you're bound to have a good time.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Crime Don't Pay!","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS       Meet H.I. McDonnough, petty crook who's always making his way in and out of prison by holding up convenience stores. He takes a shine to a police officer Edwina, Ed for short. After seeing her many times while being fingerprinted, H.I. finally get's up the courage to pop the question and they're soon married. They move into a mobile home in the desert of Tempe, Arizona. H.I. get's a job at a sheet metal factory and life is going just peachy. Ed wants to have a baby, but the doctors say she's barren. And because of H.I.'s history, they were denied adoption. Then, H.I. and Ed hear news of millionaire unpainted furniture dealer Nathan Arizona and his wife Florence have given birth to quintuplets! Well, Ed and H.I. were desparate for a child and the Arizonas had more than they could handle, right? So one night, they take a ladder over to the Arizona mansion. H.I. climbs into the house and peers into the crib to choose a quint Barry, Harry, Gerry, Larry or Nathan Jr. H.I. selects Nathan Jr. and he and Ed escape. Speaking of escape, two of H.I.'s prison buddies have dug their way out of their cells.       H.I. and Ed are overjoyed to finally be a family, but H.I. had a dream that night a big, mean, nasty, vicious, dastardly and not nice biker covered in ammo, guns and grenades was coming to town. It was only a dream, right? Wrong. A man, Leonard Smalls, fitting that same description rode into town just as soon as he heard about the kidnapping; H.I.'s supervisor, Glen, paid the McDonnoughs a visit with his wife Dot and their five children, who are monsters! Glen informs H.I. that he's a swinger and wants to do wife swapping. H.I. expresses his distaste by punching Glen, who runs--into a tree. H.I. was fired after that and what's more, H.I.'s prison buddies, Gale and Evelle, invite themselves to H.I.'s house. He, Ed and Nathan Jr. drive to town that night and stop at a convenience store to buy diapers. H.I. couldn't help but hold the place up and then the cops chase him all over the neighborhood. Upon returning home, Gale and Evelle inform H.I. of a big bank robbery they were planning. They convince H.I. to go with them, but then they learn their new baby was the kidnapped Nathan Arizona Jr., so they tie up H.I. and make off with the baby. H.I. and Ed chase them, closely followed by Smalls. Ed and H.I. get Nathan Jr. back, but are then left at the mercy of Smalls, who proved to be a mean fighter, but a quick thinking H.I. pulled a pin on one of Smalls' grenades and KABOOM! Leonard Smalls was now just a memory. Ed and H.I. decide to return Nathan Jr. to his parents and Nathan Sr. was so happy to get him back, he didn't press charges. H.I. and Ed had considered breaking up, but Nathan Sr. advised them to sleep on it--and they did. H.I. dreamed of Nathan Jr. growing up to be a champion football player.       A pretty entertaining movie. Funny too. Nicholas Cage was good, so was Holly Hunter, John Goodman, William Forsythe and Sam McMurray. Randall Tex Cobb is Smalls and Trey Wilson (who is sadly no longer with us) is Nathan Sr. So in conclusion, if you're in the mood for a good rural comedy, Raising Arizona is YOUR movie! It's got it all comedy, family, fighting, explosions, action, you'll love it!- "},{"Title":"delicious coen treat","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Entertaining.  I didn't even mind Nicolas Cage.  I also enjoyed thedog chasing sequence. Yes, this film also foreshadows THE BIG LEBOWSKI.    Now, give me some more coen delight and I'll give you a can ofbeans.     "},{"Title":"Incredibly funny and entertaining!!!","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This one makes my top 5 comedy films list of all times!I read some review where the guy said the cinematography was alright--whatever!The music, acting, script and everything else in this film is SUPERB!I am not a huge Nick Cage fan but he gets my vote for this film.I mean....the lines in this film! Son you got a panty on yer head and oh God I could go on and on.A 9.5 out of 10.I loved it! "}{"Title":"One of the funniest things I've seen on film","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you're looking for an offbeat comedy that has lots of great lines yet also has a heart, this is your movie.  This is the Cohen brothers in top comedic form, with lots of out there characters but ones you want to keep inviting back for more viewings.  Nick Cage and Holly Hunter are a perfect pairing in this early film in both their careers.  Tex Cobb is the ultimate outlaw/ bounty hunter.  And watch for Frances McDormand in a hilarious bit part.  Furthermore, you have to love lines like Oh H.I. you're young and you got your health, what do you want with a job? There are more laughs in the sequence before the opening titles than in many entire movies.  A crazy story, but somehow it ties up very nicely and gives a certain humanity to the main characters.  If you have ever liked a Cohen brothers movie, this one is a must-see! Rating 10/10  "},{"Title":"*** out of ****","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Funny comedy by the Coen brothers about a couple (Nicolas Cage and Holly Hunter), who kidnap a baby because they can't have one of their own captures the feel of a screwball comedy well.  It's flawed only in that it becomes a little bit too crazy and silly at times.  Great dialogue, if a little weird, with some hilarious moments.  Not as good as The Big Lebowski, but still a solid effort. "},{"Title":"TEX COBB!","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a great movie, awesome, funny, witty, clever, symbolic. Blah blah blah. But what most of these corn pone reviewers are missing is what exactly makes this movie not just good but super duper awesome hold you by the nose and kick you in the jimmies AWESOME!Randall Tex Cobb! The Lone Biker of the Apocalypse/Warthog From Hell/Leonard Smalls!Cobb is a comic genius who can steal a scene without even cracking a smile or telling a joke. His sheer menacing (campy) presence and the character he plays (one it seems he was born to play!) totally makes this movie worthy of awesomeness.BD  "},{"Title":"Top quality fare from always-reliable Coens...","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Of all the Coen Brothers' movies, Raising Arizona is perhaps the most straight; operating as a linear comedy with well-paced plotting and, interestingly for a Coen Bros. film, a good old fashioned chase scene.The humour is characteristically offbeat, but peppered with poignant, easily missed asides about love and death underscoring the dominant themes in this film birth and reconcilliation.The iconography is rampant, if you care to look for it, so I will not labour the issue. Just understand that this film is as richly layered as a Tom Stoppard play, like all the Coen films, and is rewarding each time you watch it.Cage and Hunter are wonderful, and Goodman is on top form (only bettered by his role as Walter in The Big Lebowski). The desert landscape (yes, a metaphor for Hunter's barren womb) is beautiful but horrifying at the same time. If you listen carefully to the script, you will never stop laughing. The writing is extremely tight and frequently very, very witty.A magnificent movie.  "},{"Title":"Review #10","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Weird, original, great, but only somewhat funny.This is one of those comedies that is really more than a comedy. The acting is perfect, the direction is great (loved the Evil Dead like moves). The script is of course also without flaw.The reason I cannot give it a 10 is because I just don't laugh at most of it. The occasional line from Nic Cage is funny and Goodman & Forsythe are extremely funny.But I just didn't laugh that much. I was entertained and interested, but it just didn't laugh. 8 out of 10 for me. "},{"Title":"Crazy crook robs baby in Coen brothers best!!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the Coen brothers best movie. It may not have the darkness of Fargo but there is a genuinely anarchic humour running through it. John Goodman and Nick Cage turn in two fabulous performances, and in the case of Cage probably his best. This is also a film that everybody can enjoy which I know is normally the kiss of death and usually gets applied to feel good movies, but Raising Arizona definitely aint one of those. "},{"Title":"Gets funnier every time I see it.","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You have to watch Raising Arizona at least twice to appreciate all of the intricacies associated with it. Everything from the dialect to the way characters are dressed is absolutely hilarious. This movie tops my comedy list of movies. "},{"Title":"Nick Cage and Holly Hunter are hilarious","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nicolas Cage plays H.I. McDunnough, a convenience store bandit who marries a female cop named Edwina(Hunter).  Both of them want to start a family and unfortunately find out that Edwina is unable to have babies.  McDunnough goes back to his criminal ways and kidnaps one of the quintuplets of a rich Arizona family in order to please his wife.  Gale and Evelle Snopes(John Goodman, William Forsythe), two friends of H.I.'s from prison escape and come to live with the three in their trailer.  This movie has some very funny parts from start to finish.  I laughed at mostly every line Holly Hunter said in the movie.  She was great and so were Cage, Goodman, and Forsythe.  RAISING ARIZONA is one of the most wacky comedies your ever going to see.  I'll have to check out some more movies by the Coen brothers.  3 out of 5 stars.    "},{"Title":"Nathan here needs some huggies; Ah'll be back directly..","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of my favourite comedies of all time, and also one of the Coen brothers' best.  Cage and Hunter are terrific, and the rest of the cast are just as good Goodman and Forsythe are hilarious as an inept pair of on-the-run bankrobbers-We're just about ready to begin the robbery proper!, ditto Sam MacMurray and Trey Wilson; there's also a funny cameo for Frances McDormand, and a scenery chewing role for Randall 'Tex' Cobb (my favourite is still the manner in which Cage's character dispatches Cobb's).. The humour is bizarre, the story over the top, and, accompanied by yet another crackin' music score from Mr Burwell, this all adds up to a great film, lots of fun.A sorely underrated comedic masterpiece.   "},{"Title":"Still the Coens' Best Work","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, there's Fargo.  There's The Big Lebowski, and even the similar Oh Brother Where Art Thou?  But I maintain that the Coen brothers' best work was in 1987 on Raising Arizona.  How many unforgettable lines can one movie have?  How many unforgettable scenes?Ok, the premise is a little tough to swallow.  An ex-con marries an ex-cop and the two conspire to kidnap a child on account of the wife being barren.  If you can see over that inconsistant logic, you'll find an extremely eloquent film about some real people who all have their own masks.  Roger Ebert criticized the film's dialogue for being too intelligent for a couple of Arizona hayseeds, but we all have met the smart loser in our day.  Hell, our nation's prisons are full of poet laureates.Why this film is perfect where Fargo, Lebowski, Oh Brother, Blood Simple, and pretty much all other Coen films are not, is essentially that the humor aids the humanity of the characters.  And it's nearly sacharrine, sentimental ending will show you that despite their challenging art-house facade, the Coen's have a heart of gold. "}{"Title":"Fantastic film","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a riot. The Coen brothers sure know how to make a good comedy and this movie the greatest foot chase scene of all time. This is one of those movies you can watch over and over again and it will still be funny. Then again this goes for alot of the Coen Brothers' flicks. "},{"Title":"The ultimate delirium fest!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" H.I Hi McDonnaugh (Cage) and wife (Hunter) meet at a police lineup, on different sides of the camera. It is love at first sight, yet the two cannot have children. Lucky then, local tycoon Arizona just had quintuplets, surely he can spare one to those less fortunate...If the excellent Miller's Corssing is the Coens' idea of a gangster film, you can imagine what their version of a family comedy caper would be. Chances that you'd imagine something like Raising Arizona are close to zero. There's a sweetness here mostly absent from the rest of their catalogue, and the inventive madness is cranked up to 11, though not in a way that will alienate the more mainstream viewer. The cast, predictably for a Coen gig, are excellent, and the main duo turn in career-best performances. If you are new to the Coen brothers, this is as good a point of entry as any, endowed as it is with a rigorously classical structure, ace comedy and memorable moments - The Lone Biker of the Apocalypse! - it will put an indelible smile on your face, one that will subside long after the credits have rolled. "},{"Title":"Cage the comedian","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know nothing about the Coen Bros. movies but this one seems to be a flawless comedy, due either to them or to Nick Cage, Holly Hunter etc, it is hard to say for sure.Now I know the subject matter might be objectionable to some.  As a result of a newborn baby being shown in the newspapers he gets stold by a police officer and her ex-con husband and then gets drug all over the southwest by escaped convicts and an insane biker from H E double L while they shoot at and steal from the nicest people.  But everything ends up ok.  The baby gets returned to his parents, the convicts break back into prison and the biker smudge gets wiped off the the street.  So don't judge these folks too hard lest you be judged yourself.I gave this flick three thumbs up...well I'm just the guy who can do that. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Comedies of The 80's","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is probaly the only black comedy i like with the exception of Cable Guy.Usually i don't understand black comedy but this has more.It has comedy,drama,action,Road Runner-style chases and an excellent performance by Nicholas Cage.Cage stars as H.I.McDunna,a year convict who decides to settle down and get married.He marries his mug-shot photographer Ed(played brilliantly by Holly Hunter).When the couple finds out they can't have kids they steal the baby of a famous unpainted furniture store tycoon with quints,Nathan Arizona(played by Trey Wilson).Along the way people interfer with their new found domestic bliss,including two of H.I.'s old bumbling cellmates Gale(John Goodman)and Eville(William Forsythe)and his annoying forman Glen(Sam McMurray),his wife Dot(Francis McDormand)and their bevy of kids.This movie should of been a bigger box-office hit than it was but video-rental audiences made it popular and constant airings on HBO.This film is funny and poignant at the same time.It's full of touching melodrama about domestic life and some hilarious factors.RandallTexCobb plays a biker after the quint Cage and Hunter stole,his performance is very funny.Ethan and Joel Coen has'nt come closed to anything since likeFargo,Barton Finkor evenThe Big Lebowski.This comedy will always be a favorite of mine.I give it a 10 of 10. "},{"Title":"The best!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is probably the funniest movie I've ever seen ... the Coen brothers are geniuses!Nic Cage is brilliant and Nathan Arizona steals every scene he's in. (the babies are real cute, too) "},{"Title":"Best of the Coen brothers movies.","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"     Nicholas Cage plays an ex-con whom after spending time in prison, finds love with an cop (Holly Hunter).  Once they start their life together, they decide to have a kid.  Then soon they find out they are unable to have children, so they do the next best thing and steal a quint from a rich businessman.  And the results have once hilarious incident after another!  H.I. (Nic's character) even tries to turn over a new leaf, but always succumbs into going back to his old ways!  I also liked H.I.'s crime partners, too!   Nicholas Cage is a very advanced actor of his time, and I have enjoyed every movie I have seen with him from Guarding Tess to Con Air.  Raising Arizona is a very funny movie that deserves to be seen.  In fact it's my favorite Coen Brother's movie.  I loved the scene where he Nicholas Cage steals diapers and goes on a huge chase with almost everyone chasing him and going into other people's houses!  LOL!  Even when I'm not watching Raising Arizona, I laugh at it just by thinking about it.  And Holly Hunter is fun, too!     If you're into screwball comedies like I am, then see Raising Arizona!  It's a very enjoyable comedy from the minds from the Coen Brothers.  Oh, and in case nobody knew, Nicholas Cage is best friends with Jim Carrey. I give Raising Arizona 4 stars!  It's that good, believe me! "},{"Title":"A comedy, from the creators of Blood Simple (1983)","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  God Bless the Coen Brothers, in a world populated by dumb action movies and crass teen films, you can always be sure they will deliver something completely different. For their follow-up to the dark noir of Blood Simple, they went the complete extreme, creating a wild, screwball comedy about love, redemption, deranged bikers and five little bundles of trouble (well one where the characters are concerned). This has to be one of the funniest film ever made, I first saw it two years ago, and I still find all of the jokes rewarding, there are so many great set pieces (the pack of dogs chasing HI is my personal favourite). The best thing about Raising Arizona is that all the roles in the film seam tailor made for the actors, from Cage as the bundling hold-up man, Hunter (in her best ever performance) as the loyal former cop Edwina, the late Trey Wilson as the overbearing tycoon Nathan Arizona... There's just too much to mention, so if you're a fan of the Coen's or any of the actors, or if you just like un-offensive wild cartoon like comedy you have to check this film out. In my opinion, the best comedy ever... "},{"Title":"Perhaps the funniest film ever made","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Raising Arizona may be the funniest film ever made!   From the off-beat way the Cage-Hunter couple meet, to the distressingly hilarious kidnapping scene, to the side-splitting chase scene repleat with dogs, cops, insane grocery clerks, and a package of Huggies.  It has its touching moments, such as HI composing his goodbye note, and the couple's return to the Arizona nursery.Menace and suspense is provided by Randall Cobb's biker/baby-dealer.  Icing the cake is John Goodman and William Forsythe as bumbling prison escapees and would-be bank robbers.  However, the serious and touching elements are proportioned throughout, just enough to give counterpoint to the almost constant humor that is present in the visuals and dialog alike.  And, believe it or not, the movie manages to remain intelligent and satirical; it can be enjoyed by all age groups.  This is a funny, funny picture, with great performances by all, especially Cage and Trey Wilson.  I'm shocked that this masterpiece is absent from IMDB's Top 50 Comedies!Two thumbs way, way up!!! "},{"Title":"the coens at their funniest","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I haven't seen this movie for a while but I loved it and I thought it was the most funniest movie that I have ever seen. All of the cast members in this film give excellent performances, especially by Holly Hunter. The Coen Brothers managed to make a feel-good movie after Blood Simple and they have succeeded in doing it. I LOVE THE COEN BROTHERS! I love them! I have seen all of their films and they are masterpieces. The funniest thing about the Coen Brothers is that they have a huge portal in their head and once you get inside of it, you can never get out and you see all these weird images in their head that they put in their movies like this one. Also, one of the great aspects of this film is the cinematography which was flat out great. This movie is the one for you. Recommended.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Three Day Period","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wednesday, April 12 H.I. and Ed drives to the Arizona Household and H.I. takes Nathan Arizona Junior. Gale and Evelle Snopes escapes from prison.Thursday, April 13 Glen (HI's boss) and his wife Dot go to H.I. and Ed's house or trailer and H.I. breaks Glen's nose. That night a hilarious chase occurs when H.I. robs the Quick Stop of it's cash and one bag of Huggies (this is my favorite part of the movie).Friday, April 14 H.I. gets fired and Gale and Evelle take Nathan Junior and rob the Bank of La Grange (H.I. and Ed later get Nathan Junior back). Leonard Smalls is after Nathan Junior and H.I. becomes a hero and protects Ed and Nathan Junior from Leonard. H.I. and Ed soon return Nathan Junior to his real parents Nathan Senior and Florence Arizona.My favorite quote in Raising Arizona is I'll be takin' these Huggies and ah whatever cash you got.I like this movie because it is a comedy and because it has a lot of action to it. "}{"Title":"One of my many favorites..(POSSIBLE SPOILERS)","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ah, the Coen Brothers.  I don't believe there's many a filmmaking tandem out there that elict such strong responses.  Either you love or you...well, no need to be vulgar.One of my favorite things with all Coen Brothers' films are their use of dialects, such as the machinist's(M. Emmet Walsh)Northeastern accent.  It doesn't quite fit and adds quite a bit of color to a character who only speaks for about 15 seconds.  I feel it adds an oddity to a film that is already quite nutty..and I love it!I avoided this film for years because Nicholas Cage was the lead actor, REALLY not being a fan of most of his other work.  However, he's probably one of the main reasons I love this film. He does in this film exactly the opposite of what I normally don't like about him  overacting. The sideburns almost give him a cool, Elvis-like vibe and yet he's a screw-up.  The dull, burnt out look on his face..classic.  I'd really like to see him do more comedy.I also must mention the many outstanding supporting roles.  As with most Coen Brothers films, some of the best lines belong to very minor characters.The old guy running the store and the two FBI agents come to mind.This is really a great comedy that comes highly recommended from this camp.Love the bathroom in the gas station, featured when the Snopes brothers escape from prison.  I'm assuming, of course, that the P.O.E. written on the bathroom walls is an homage to Stanley Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove.  "},{"Title":"Well, It aint Ozzie and Harriet.","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm afraid that if I say too much, I may spoil the film for someone who hasn't seen it.  So here's the short of it.  This film should probably be considered the absolute best work by everyone involved.  (Pre-Oscar)Nicolas Cage, Holly Hunter and Francis MacDormond give some of the best work of their carriers.  Nicolas Cage plays his most dynamic and round character to date. Holly Hunters delivery of a tough talking police woman and relentless would-be mother is so potent with articulation she could make Tommy Lee Jones trip over his words like Porky Pig.  The supporting cast of John Goodman, William Forsyte, and especially Trey Wilson are equally as good.  The Coen Brothers don't miss a beat with sharp and cleaver comedy balanced perfectly with a genuinely moving story. I'd love to say more, be it's a much more rewarding experience to see for one's self.    "},{"Title":"NOT UNLESS YOU THINK ROUND'S FUNNY","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is easily the best Coen Bros movie, and one of the finest movies ever made. Why Fargo is thought of more highly is beyond me.The movie is a roller coaster ride in the lives of a couple unable to conceive, because the wife's (Holly Hunter) womb is a stoney place where Nick Cage's seed can find no purchaseUnorthodox adoption is clearly the only option.I like to ensure that I watch this movie at least once a year. This is the reason movies are made. 10/10 (at least) "},{"Title":"A fabulous Nick Cage 80's flick","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this film the first time I saw it, and I always tell people that one cannot be a true Nick Cage fan until they've seen this movie.  Really though, even though Raising Arizona's one of his least well known works, Nick was masterful in this (as were John Goodman and everyone else, but he's my god).The script is fabulously wacky, with the classic dimwitted crooks and Nick as a sensitive but hard as nails hick.  The scene in which the two male crooks drive away from robbing the convenience store is laugh out loud funny, and the whole movie is a gem.  Though I must warn you- if you see this, don't expect to be able to discuss it with your friends, at least not if you're a teenager.  Kids these days just aren't so well versed in the classic crazy 80's flicks.You really must see this, and watch it with a bunch of silly friends.  It will keep you amused. "},{"Title":"on account of there's somethin' wrong wit' m' semen..","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I know Fargo reaped all of the awards, and Miller's Crossing garnered all the critical praise, but for my money this is the best Coen Brothers movie to date. A live action cartoon that moves at a million miles an hour. You need look no further than the great diaper chase scene underscored with elements of Beethoven's Ode To Joy ala banjo. Great cast. Nicholas Cage in his prime as the goofball H.I.  This is Randall Tex Cobb's greatest triumph.  "},{"Title":"Pure Bliss!","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"      This is one of my favorite movies by some of my favorite writers/Directors/Producers.  Top 10 in my list of all time.  I mean it has  Nicholas Cage, Holly Hunter, John Goodman, Frances McDormand and Sam McMurray.   Innovative camera work, check out the chase scene. A quirky and original story that Hollywood seems to lack 90% of the time. The trademark Coen bros stamp of loopiness and visual glory.  This movie is one of those that you have to go into it and not decide what you think its about.  Just go in and watch it.  Let the deeply written characters welcome you into their world. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Comedy","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remember when this came out there had never been anything like it.  There still is nothing like it.  Usually when something original comes around, several other filmmakers mimic it immediately.  But no one has been able to touch the Coen Brothers yet.  There sense of humor somehow combines cartoon violence (I think the Cage's tattoo is symbolic) and Laurel and Hardy, all the while remaining intelligent.  There's also some things about it that I find touching.  One thing a friend of mine pointed out to me  The Coens will carry a joke much longer than most writers, but the audience's interest is never lost.  The cinematography of Barry Sonnenfeld, who later proved to be a terrible director, is first rate.     "},{"Title":"Coen strikes again","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Joel Coen strikes again. After the great Blood Simple, one of my fav noir films, Raising Arizona is another good title. Still not as good as the pervious, but very original and entertaining. Nic Cage has a great role and of course handles it superbly. Still Coen exagerated with some scenes. And compared to his first, this is much funnier. Check out for the scene with the 2 crooks robbing the shop and then the bank. Really funny ). Vote 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"yet another Coen classic","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the first of three installments in filmaking greatness from the Coen brothers. Raising Arizona is an American comedy at its best, poking fun at the rednecks of Southwest US while being endearing to them at the same time. The cast of RA is simply perfect. I would have to say this is Nick Cage's best film, one of the best for Holly Hunter and John Goodman, across the board every actor gives a great performance. At first viewing, RA might come across as ridiculous tale of yokel rednecks in Arizona. But there is much more to this film than just comedy and, like in Fargo, there are many other themes more central to the main characters than the obvious plot-driven ones. Upon further viewing many treats come alive in the backround of shots. This is a rich film, and excells in every way. There are simply no other comedies like this one, comedic films that are also artisticly flawless are very hard to find. One of my 10 favorite films of all time, 9.7/10 "},{"Title":"My Family's Cult Classic!","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was just reviewing my postings in the IMDb reviews and noticed with horror that this movie wasn't among them.This IS my family's favorite movie... well maybe not my wife's. All 4 of my 20-30ish sons can recite the lines verbatim and we play it at least once every Christmas when we're all together... because it truly is a family-holiday film. The 2 other movies we play are ..Wonderful Life and Christmas Vacation. Does that give you a hint?I wont go into what others have already said here, other than to say that I wholly agree with the laudatory superlatives.The only puzzling thing to me are the few comments that disparage this classic Coen Bros effort.. Perhaps they are from Aliens among us tipping their hand. If you are human, you WILL appreciate this film.If you don't ...Oh, well. "}{"Title":"Its Real Good Movie","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Unlike other comedy's this films plot doesn't exist merely for the convenience of the jokes. The Coen Brothers do a great job of creating comical situations as part of a tightly woven plot.As the film begins a young Nicolas Cage explains the conflict. The story progresses through the introduction of unique characters and new conflicts. Cage's character, H.I. McDonnough, speaks with a poetic southern accent as Holly Hunter illuminates the screen. Every element of this film is significant to the story. The end is satisfying and appropriate.If you haven't seen this movie yet you should do so. Pay close attention to the little things. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly, one of the best art movies","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just to say that Raising Arizona is one of the best movies made in recent years.  I don't know that it's one of the best ever (who knows about that?), but it is remarkable in its addled way for being an unusually inspired and together film.  It probably wouldn't be as good without Holly Hunter, but what else would?  But even without her, it's a fine picture.  Like the best art, it got completed all the way thing without losing the thing it is. Everything works together.  A real pleasure. "},{"Title":"Almost a 10","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is so very close to perfect that I have to give it a 10!  Like all Coen movies, this is more than just a comedy.  Look beneath the surface, and you see a Drama, an Action movie, and a Documentary.  The writing is remarkable on so many levels, I am convinced that the Coens could write about anything.  Every actor is in a role that it seems he or she was born to play.  This is a fabulous dark comedy that everyone should see! "},{"Title":"A clever and wild comedy.","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"     I've seen some of the movies that the Coen brothers have made (Miller's Crossing, Fargo, The Big Lebowski).  Before I saw Raising Arizona, Miller's Crossing was my favorite movie that was done by the duo.   The film stars Nicholas Cage and Holly Hunter as H.I. (Cage), an ex-con and Ed (Hunter), a cop who takes the mug shots.  After H.I. gets out of prison for what he hopes is the last time and prosposes to Ed to marry him.  Once they married, the only problem that they have is Ed can't have children.  Their dilemma is quickly solved when the wife of a furniture owner who has the last name Arizona, has quints.  Ed gets H.I. to take one of the quints.   The second half of the film is even more entertaining than the first as Ed and H.I. must deal with Gale (John Goodman) and Evelle (William Forsythe), two of H.I.'s former prison buddies and Leonard Smalls (Randall Tex Cobb), a bounty hunter who goes by another name Warthog from h---.  There's one funny chase scene that goes from a store through a house and ends in a grocery store.   This movie is simply great, the performances by Cage and Hunter are almost perfect.  Carter Burwell's musical score is great and had me laughing my head off.  Barry Sonnefeld's camera work of the landscape is superb.  Raising Arizona is a clever and wild comedy.        "},{"Title":"clever gut-buster","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't compare this movie to anything else because it's in a class by itself.  This is the zaniest, weirdest, most creative and wonderfully funny flick ever made.  The sight gags are a blast.  You can never tell what's going to happen next.  Every character is unique, twisted, and real enough to tickle you on a lot of different levels.  As a Phoenix native, it even made me homesick.  If you like this but would like to see another comedy with a darker side, the Coen brothers' Miller's Crossing is almost as brilliant.  TEN!!! "},{"Title":"Great comedy, but not for everyone","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie. The longer it went, the more I laughed. Cage, Hunter & Goodman all do perfect jobs. Great camera work and a truly original film. But like many have said this is not for all taste. This is a fun movie. If you're watching this just because you liked Fargo that is not a good idea. This is not anything like Fargo except for some of the dry humor. Although this is not really a spoof, but it has that wacked out feel of a Mel Brooks or Airplane like movie. The direction is perfect, but it always is in a Coen brothers film. If you haven't seen this, and you like weird, dry humor, then go rent it and just sit back with a Mt.Dew and enjoy the ride. I give it a 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Comedic Masterpiece","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"   The Fargo team is at it again. Raising Arizona is a funny look at a impotent couple and their desperate attempts to have a baby. Nicolas Cage and Holly Hunter portray the couple. The Cage character is an ex-con and when they hear about Nathan Arizona's multiple babies, they decide to steal one for themselves. One of the funniest scenes is when Cage goes to steal diapers and is being chased by the police and a dog. John Goodman shows up as a convict. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Surrealscape Southwestern Comedy bought to you  by the Coen bros.","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The basic plotA con-man and a police-woman get married and then when they learn she's infertile, they kidnap  one of painted furniture monarch Nathan Arizonas Quintuplets and try to raise him well, but soon they're interfered by a biker with a superhuman sense of smell, two other prisoners, and a strange husband of a family with too many children.The praise Intensely funny ,it blows you up with its odd notions,always moving, dynamo photography, and the landscape  of convenience stores, trailer homes, deserts, baby rooms, and unpainted furniture stores.Nicholas Cage and Holly hunter are funny ,the former giving an understated performance and the latter giving an overstated performance. A lot of comedy, especially in the beginning, the convenience store chase, the time when guests are over, and the time when the two prisoners break out.There also is a lot of suspense and action at the end, and then they have a dramatic note for the climax. Bought to you by the Coen bros.The flaws Not for everybody.  "},{"Title":"Love.                   (SPOILER)","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The love that the characters have for each other is so overwhelming I'm getting all warm just thinking of it.  Never have I experienced more pure heartwarming compassion in a movie.  The love between HI and his wife (I do. You bet I do.), between him and Gale & Evelle (they're a swell bunch of guys), between Nathan Sr. and Mrs. Arizona (I do love her so.), and of course all the love for Nathan Jr.  By the end nobody wants the baby for anything else but love; the only ones with other motives are the biker and HI's boss, and we all know what happens to them (even the boss' tacky wife wants to cuddle Nathan).  Gale & Evelle start out taking little Nathan for nefarious reasons, but as soon as Nathan does a doodle, they adore him too, and find contentment returning to prison voluntarily...I have to stop - I'm misting up here...there's more, there's so much more...Everyone with capacity for genuine peace and love should embrace this wonderful film.  Thank you Joel & Ethan.  "},{"Title":"Unbelievably funny comedy!!!!","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nicholas Cage and Holly Hunter are perfect and outstandingly funny in this. I read that the role of Ed was speciffically written for Holly Hunter. Well Done.Nicholas Cage is a con man and Holly Hunter is a police officer. They meet, fall in love, and get married. They want to have a child but she's infertile. They try to adopt, but he's an ex-con. So they decide to steal one from a rich couple with five babies thinking they won't notice. Then the rich man hires an axe murderer to find the baby and bring it back to him.Hold on to your seats for those chasing seens!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Best movie ever!","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all time. Admittedly, people either love it or hate it (like no other movie I've seen). This typifies the sublime and genious humor of the Coens. This will always be the gold of their filmography, I.M.O. And the casting was PERFECT. Hunter and Cage worked perfectly. And I applaud Trey Wilsons performance, which I appreciate more each time I watch it. One of the things I like too is the unusual camera angles. Story, casting, filming techniques, even the bizarre soundtrack. I love it all. 1 of 100 movies deserve to be called art, this is one. "},{"Title":"Great little flick here by them Coens","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Coincidentally, I felt this piece highly qualified to generally be included in my opus of most humorous films of this past generation.Incidentally, I currently, in my present time, have a fellow film buff who lives in the small, idle city of Tujunga, California and agrees with my judgments and opinions of my desire to dissect this unique piece of art. Recommended and condemned to all. Enjoy and view over again. "},{"Title":"Funny, Funny, Funny - Holly is wonderful","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's worth the price to see Holly's wonderful performance as Ed. You've got to see her BAWL.  No crying here.  She opens her usual flat affect and lets go as if there were no tomorrow.  This movie is further proof of Holly Hunters incredible range and her status as the premier actor of her generation and surely one of the best in the history of film.this movie is not just HH... It is comedy of the absurd at it's highest level.  Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie. I caught it late at night on Danish television, and not having anything better to do, I sat through it. I was stunned. It was great fun, and some of the scenes were amazing.The characters are excellent, especially the two escaped convicts, the baby, who sits through it all with a cool face, Nicholas Cage, and off course Smalls as the strange Biker from hell.See this movie. You won't be disappointed.9/10  "},{"Title":"Loaded with great one liners!","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For a child of the eighties and early nineties, this is the ultimate harvesting ground for great one liners.  Nicolas Cage is brilliant as the aloof ex-convict, and Holly Hunter comes of great as the desperate mother who will do anything for a child.  Fantastic slapstick moments just round out a really witty flick. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In Raising Arizona, the Coen brothers' surrealistic filmmaking, the amazing acting talents of Nicholas Cage, Holly Hunter, John Goodman, and countless others, and some of the best lines in comedy history, combine to make an unforgettable film. I've probably watched it 15-20 times, and it's still not old, and I'm still finding little things I missed the previous times. This movie pulls off the incredibly difficult feat of treating the people it's making fun of with respect. It's not a mean movie. Yes we laugh at Hi and Ed, but it's because we like them, not because they're stooges.  "},{"Title":"Near-perfect manic surreal comedy","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"   This was the first film by the amazing Coen brothers I ever saw, and it was a truly stunning experience, opening my eyes to so much more than I had ever thought possible...The Coens set out to make a slapstick, everyone-run-around-screaming comedy with all the depth, multi-layering and intertwining of visual and verbal imagery one would expect from a five-hundred-page classic novel. This hilarious movie, packed with a constant stream of sight-gags, one-liners and zany bit-parts, could almost be set in a crazy parallel world where everyone looks at things (and talks about them) just a little bit differently. Every part is played with zest and brilliance by a superb group of actors; the whole look and feel of the film is slightly kooky, a little too bright to seem real - the visual flair and style that the Coens have become famed for is already stunning in this early effort. Nick Cage was born for this part (and maybe Wild at Heart), as were Holly Hunter and Tex Cobb, and John Goodman is on the road to brilliance that would lead on to his truly amazing performances in Barton Fink and The Big Lebowski. If this film doesn't have you rolling with laughter and warmed all through, then...well, I suppose you just like a different kind of film. "},{"Title":"Genius comedy","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Coen brothers have an amazing talent in capturing life among different classes and people. Whether it be bowling burnouts or midwestern simplefolk, the Coens have the best dialogue and comedy that film can offer. For any of those people  who found American Pie (and other movies like that) unbelievably stupid, check this film out, it is true comedy, because it was derived by actual intelligent and creative people. Raising Arizona has some of the best comedic sequences and the best characters that I may have ever come across. Amazing film, definite favourite (along with Big Lebowski, which is equally funny and original).  "},{"Title":"now-classic gem","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film has pretty much reached cult classic status for its outlandish shakycam cinematography (can you believe it's by Barry Sonnenfeld?) and witty dialogue. Certain scenes approach unforgettable. It's the film that made the Cohen Brothers, and inspired legions of imitators. Definitely a must-see. "},{"Title":"God Bless The Coen Brothers!","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Much as I love Fargo and The Big Lebowski, I would have to plump for Raising Arizona if asked to name my favourite Coen brothers' movie. The opening sequence leading up to the opening credits is as near perfect a bit of film-making as you will ever see - explaining the recent history of Hi (Nicolas Cage) and Ed (Holly Hunter) in a series of visually stunning scenes with the laconic, rolling narration of H.I. himself... then the film starts!Love-story, kidnapping, prison escape, car-chases, bank robbery, cute babies, gunfights, The Biker Of The Apocalypse - no-one but the Coen brothers would have even attempted to make a film like this. Holly Hunter is superb, and Nicolas Cage pitches his performance perfectly to undercut the mass over-acting going on around him and serve as the eye of the storm for the story. Beautifully shot - it must be seen in wide-screen to appreciate fully. God bless the Coen brothers! "}{"Title":"Comedy to the Nth Power","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is simply as good as comedy gets.  There are many other comedies (Tootsie, Young Frankenstien, Blazing Saddles, A Fish Called Wanda) that make me roll over like this one.  But not for the same reasons.This story is marvelously off-beat.  It has a tremendous cast.  The direction and cinematography are superb.  But what makes it rise so high is the sensational script.  The eloquent language arising from such sub-ordinary characters is inspired.I watch it again and again and again. "},{"Title":"a really bad film","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i saw this film a few days ago, and quite frankly i thought it was horrible. i loved fargo from the coen brothers, but this was just bad.  the humor wasn't funny, the plot was all out stupid (like anyone would actually steal a baby unless he/she was a deranged psychotic) and had a lot of holes in it. i don't understand why everyone liked it so much, because it was one of the worst movies i think i've ever seen.  after reading the reviews for this i found only one negative review, and that really surprised me, because i gave this movie a 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good Stuff.","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The only Coen films I have seen are this one, The Hudsucker Proxy, and Fargo.  Hudsucker and Fargo are on my favorite movies list, and Raising Arizona is pretty good too.  This is a very funny, kinda weird at parts, but pretty good movie.  Coen movies always have weird twists in the writing, and this one has a sadistic motorcycler from hell, whose introduction is very funny.  The first 11 minutes of the movie are hilarious too, the fast-paced narrated introduction.  There are so many funny parts in this, like everything that happens when HI's boss's family comes over to visit (kid writing on the wall, kid with the squirt gun, kid with jello)But whenever I think of Raising Arizona, the image that will always come to my mind is that of Nicolas Cage running down the road in the middle of the night, with a panty on his head and a package of Huggies diapers clutched under his right arm.  The whole 10-minute sequence when Cage steals the Huggies and is running all over the place is one of the most amazing things I have ever seen in film in my life.  And that silly banjo yodling music only makes it all the more odd and comical.  When I finished watching the movie, I watched this sequence 3 more times!!!So go rent it if you haven't already, it's worth seeing.  It is a really weird movie, at some parts you'll laugh out loud, and at others you'll say huh?  But all in all it's great.  Kudos! "},{"Title":"This is the best movie I have ever seen.","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Raising Arizona is about the struggle between free will and determinism.  The main character reconciles his own checkered past with a reality in which he realizes that he and has new wife, why, we can be good, too.  Irony runs rampant, the accents are very funny, and there is a good bit of political commentary as well (especially references to nuclear war).  It nods to Kubrick in several places, too.This is the best movie I have ever seen.  No other movie has touched me so deeply. "},{"Title":"Son, you got a panty on your head","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  That line pretty much sums up this entire movie, another surreal, and hilarious effort from the misfit Coen clan. It is also my all-time favorite comedy(or at least tied with A Fish Called Wanda). What stands out most from this classic are the amazing cinematography from future Men in Black director Barry Sonenfeld, and the outstanding cast. Everyone knows about Nicholas Cage, Holly Hunter and John Goodman. But don't forget Sam MacMurray's role as the biggest idiot in the world, and Trey Wilson as Nathan Arizona. And M. Emmet Walsh gives the most hilarious 5 second cameo ever(he's the 'walking down 9 mile' guy). Even funnier than the lines themselves is the dialect. You'll find yourself imitating them for days('Everything's chaaaaaaaanged', 'aaambiytion'). There's also the wild chase scene featuring dogs, women in curlers and a giant pack of diapers.  "},{"Title":"Funny on the outside, sad on the inside","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie all the way through for the first time and found it far more disturbing than allegedly more serious Coen films (like Miller's Crossing and Fargo) all of which I adore.Here, the Coens take such lovable comic characters (in some cases, mere caricatures) and give them totally believable, deep, strong, and admirable human desires.When the characters attempt to fulfill their desires (by breaking the law, and, more importantly by being selfish,) they're relentlessly punished by a grueling onslaught of physical and emotional violence.Now don't get me wrong.  There's nothing disturbing about the violence.  It's a very funny, Tom-and-Jerry style, cartoonish slapstick violence.  It's hilariously funny, and the highlight of a thoroughly stylish and inventive film.But the human reason for the violence, and the lovability of the characters, and their unfulfilled dreams, well, that's what disturbed me.  It was just so sad.But I always cry at the funny parts. "},{"Title":"Quintuplets, Convicts, and Tex Cobb","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What more could you ask for in a movie?  A strange and terribly funny movie, I believe this is the Coen Brothers most accessible film, and my second favorite only to Miller's Crossing.  I have noticed that Coen films in general are  love it or hate it affairs, but Arizona is the only Coen film my Coen-hating wife will watch.Raising Arizona contains numerous scenes of bizarre and outlandish humor, but never loses its affection and sympathy for the main characters, the inept H.I. (Nicolas Cage) and his suffering wife Ed (Holly Hunter). Unlike There's Something About Mary and other Farrelly-type comedy, Arizona manages to produce laugh-until-you-cry humor without resorting to being mean-spirited or blatantly cruel.John Goodman (a Coen regular) and William Forsythe are hilarious as bumbling bank robbers, and hapless ex-fighter Randall Tex Cobb, whose face still hasn't recovered from Larry Holmes' fists, is effective as a caricature of the cliche ruthless bounty hunter.  Also look for Frances Mrs. Coen McDormand in a small role (although much larger than the one she played in Miller's Crossing). "},{"Title":"Another Coen Masterpiece!","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Cage and Hunter are perfect as the tortured couple trying to have a child. The desperate measures they take to achieve that goal can only be put on screen by the Coen brothers.  The supporting cast really brings this picture together.  Great chemistry!  I have seen this film several times and still love it!  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Alternative parenting arrangement. Don't miss out like I almost did.","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I haven't laughed as hard at anything that I can recollect, as the scene where Nicolas Cage is being chased by cops with pantyhose on his head with dogs in tow and diapers in hand. Every single time it gets me. I laughed uncontrollably to the point where I was scaring my wife. Maybe it was the music for the scene that did it to me. Absolutely hilarious.Raising Arizona is a quirky, upbeat comedy crafted with great care by the Coen brothers. Some of the funniest scenes of any movie that I can think of come from this movie. I did not see it when it came out, and didn't even see it on video immediately when it did. I feel I missed out for quite a while. Perhaps without the success of Fargo and my fondness for The Hudsucker Proxy, I might've missed out altogether.Nicolas Cage is just incredibly funny as a convicted felon trying to walk the straight and narrow, as his loving wife, Holly Hunter, also putting forth a great performance, demands that he do. All the other cast members put forth a performance that any director would be privileged to receive.I've seen all of the Coen brothers films, and this one is definitely worth checking out if you're a fan or not. Watch this film until the title credits appear, and if you're not drawn in by then, you may never be, which would be a shame, because you'll miss out on a great film.  "},{"Title":"One to study","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you love film, spend some time getting to know this movie.There are few movies as finely crafted as Raising Arizona. The dialog, directing, music and cinematography are impeccable. And it is just plain hilarious!The pacing of this movie is particularly good. It would be easy for this movie to careen out of control, but Joel Coen's direction and Michael Miller's tight editing keep that from happening.Joel and Ethan's writing is always brilliant, but this movie may be their best so far, Fargo notwithstanding.There is an endearing sweetness to this film. We never feel like H.I. and Ed are truly evil (despite their actions), and even Gail and Evelle have their charming moments.  "}{"Title":"One of the best comedies...","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ah... how I wish Nicholas Cage would go back to making movies as good as this one instead of the junk he's been in lately.  Raising Arizona is one of my favorite movies at all time, and Cage's performance is pure genius in this one.  You've got to love John Goodman's performance as well.This movie is one of those rare gems which don't come along often but are worth watching over and over again. "},{"Title":"O.K. then.....","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  To put it simply Brilliant! This film combines great actors, hilarious dialogue, clever camera angles and tremendous pacing. This film has two of the best fight scenes I've ever seen and some of the most memorable lines ever uttered on film. If you have never seen it RENT IT! You will not regret it. The Coen brothers make films that keep you on your toes and make you pay attention. Actors who want to stretch themselves and play great roles (Holly Hunter, Nick Cage, John Goodman, Frances McDormand) gravitate to their films. "},{"Title":"A movie about fatherhood","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The subject of this movie is fatherhood and, more generically, about sons (boys) making the transition to men (fathers). As you watch, observe which of the male characters remain boys, which are fathers (in various manifestations kind, angry, terrifying, helpful, comic), and which make the transition. One clue there's a dream sequence in which only one word is spoken.  "},{"Title":"One of the great comedy classics","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie may be the funniest I've ever seen.  Nicholas Cage is absolutely perfect, and the entire cast really shines.  Raising Arizona is the Coen brothers' best film to date.  Sharp writing and appropriately bizarre camera work make this movie a must see for all but the most seriously humor-impaired. "},{"Title":"The only film where I like Nick Cage","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't really like Nick Cage in any movie except Raising Arizona (and perhaps Kiss Of Death).  Maybe it's just that his character is uninteresting to me, I don't know.  But that's not a problem with RA.  Cage plays a great character and plays him very well.  He's a regular joe everyman who only wants to raise a family though he's apparently willing to go any length to do that, along with his wife (played by an equally flawless Holly Hunter). It's a role that Cage plays with sensitivity and a sort of quirkiness.  I can't imagine any other actor playing this part.  But not only does this film have a great performance by Cage, it also boasts the arguably best film performance by John Goodman.  Just about everybody in this film has a certain charm, especially the cute little baby.  "},{"Title":"A fascinating, surreal kidnapping comedy","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Coen brothers have made some remarkable movies (don't miss Blood Simple), and this is my favorite of theirs. The story involves the theft of a quintuplet from a couple who obviously have so many babies that they'll never miss just one. It's a comedy. It's a fable. It's a bewilderment. Even the characters' speech patterns are unknown in the natural world. Maybe someday Cliff's Notes will publish an exegesis of Raising Arizona, and we'll come to a perfect understanding of the fine points of this film. (I understand the relationship between Hi and the biker, but Woody Woodpecker tattoos?) Until then, I'm just going to marvel and laugh.  "},{"Title":"beautifully scripted and wonderfully cast","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Joel and Ethan Coen have never sold us a dud. Quite the contrary in this beautifully dark comic fairytale. Stealing babies is a very delicate subject, but never once do the Coens tread carefully. And why should they with such a funny script and great comedy cast.The robbery and chase scene is marvellous slapstick, the likes of which we are never treated to any more. And the one liners are gems Are these balloons funny shapes? Not unless round's funny.The Coens have shown us that they are adept at different genres, but I always look forward to their next comedy.  "},{"Title":"Finely crafted on many levels.","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Seldom is such a throwaway movie, so silly a thing, as carefully crafted as this one.  (In fact, many major movies are not.)  The characters are defined as individuals by their speech patterns as much as by their actions. The juxtaposition of Biblical/Elizabethan, nineteenth-century formal, and-- well, hayseed-- language is exquisite.  The numerous recurring elements in the foreground and background dialogue, visuals, and action make the movie almost a fugue.  The camera tricks, while giving the movie a toyish demeanor, turn it into a good toy.Pauline Kael referred to the cornpone surrealism of the movie, and it seems to be one of the few she liked in her latter years at the New Yorker. In my experience, people either love the movie or hate it; I know nobody who has seen it who is ambivalent about it.  It demands either a silliness wish, an appreciation of subtle texture, or both. "},{"Title":"The best!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the best movie I've ever seen. You keep seeing new things in it each time you watch it. This is better than Fargo, Miller's crossing, Barton Fink, The Big Lebowsky, all the Coen's brother's movies, this is their best. The interplay of comedy, drama, romance(on a hick level mind you), and action give this picture everything. And with Oscar winners involved how can you have a better cast? This is my sentimental favorite for best movie of all time.  -gg "},{"Title":"you either love it or hate it","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a movie you either love or hate. Its cartoonish, off-beat humor will not appeal to those with a more conventional or subtle sense of humor. Like Airplane, its gags are slapstick and over-the-top, though not as obvious. But it's not a movie for dummies. Nicholas Cage shows that he can be a great comic actor, and despite what Roger Ebert says (he hated this movie), I adored the juxtaposition of his redneck accent with a vocabulary that sounds like a 19th century novel. The strange speech patterns are part of what makes this film so funny. The characterizations are over the top, but basically this is a live-action cartoon, not really a film about real people. The yodeling and banjo music fits right in--and of course, for those with a soft heart, the babies are adorable. I am not sure what the Biker from the Apocalypse was about, but it didn't seem important. My opinion is the Biker symbolized Cage's darker side, but I think the viewer can draw his/her own interpretations and the movie would still work. An unusual comedy from the inimitable Coen Brothers. Worth watching again--and again. I loved it! "}{"Title":"Possibly the funniest, off-color, creative movie you'll ever see!","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've seen Raising Arizona countless times, and I find something new and funny in it every time.  The Coen brothers manage to combine intelligent humor with complete absurdity and brutal straightforwardness.  I know that sounds incoherent, but the quote, anyone caught bi-pedal in under five wears his ass for a hat says it all.  When was the last time you saw a movie that could seamlessly manage to use the word bi-pedal in the same sentence as the phrase ass for a hat?  I don't know how to say this any plainer than SEE THIS MOVIE over and over!  I'm not some film-cult freak, I just appreciate GOOD comedy when I see it and this is definitely among the best! "},{"Title":"When you remove the goofy exterior, Raising Arizona is a really poetic movie.","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Raising Arizona has got to be one of the all time best movie Nicolas Cage has ever made.  At first watching, the movie seems to be just another goofy slapstick comedy, but on second glance, you can see the sheer poeticness of it. In this all-star cast of misfits, it is easy to overlook the dialog of the film. Well, what do you expect from characters that in a way seem a little bit on the uneducated side?  But just listen to what they say.  Although it is a good movie on the exterior, to fully appreciate it, you have to look beyond into the interior. "},{"Title":"The best Coen brothers film.","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Raising Arizona is an adrenaline fuelled, cartoon style piece of insanity. I love the way it bridges the gap between dreams and reality, the way it endorses family values via kidnap, and the running gags are superb, or my name ain't Nathan Arizona. Typical of its brilliance is the fifteen minute long opening sequence which sets up all the characters and tells a part of the story some film makers might have spent an hour on. Okay then? "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is classic Coen.  The script is great, the comedy is just right, the direction is faultless and the performance for Nic Cage is possibly a career best. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Raising Arizona is one of the funniest movies ever!  It is side splitting. I thought John Goodman and William Forsythe as Gale and Evelle were hilarious. It features one of the funniest chase scenes in the history of cinema.  Joel and Ethan sure can write. "},{"Title":"Nic Cage's best","Date":"12 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an extremely interesting movie starring Nicolas Cage and Holly  Hunter.  About a convenient store robber called H.I. McDonnough, played by  Cage.  Who repeatedly gets set to jail and falls in love with one of the  guards.   After he gets out of jail he married her and try to start a  family.  But she is barren and can't have a child and with his checkered  past they can't adopt.  They read about a family who had quintuplets so  they decide to steal one.  This is probably the second best movie done by  the Coen brothers, right behind Fargo. "},{"Title":"A comedy for the easily humored!","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Raising Arizona is a not-so-funny comedy surrounding the marriage and infertility of ex-cop, Ed McDonnough (Holly Hunter) and her ex-con husband, H.I. (Nicolas Cage). When the couple is told by her doctor that they would not be able to conceive a child of their own, Ed is devastated. While watching television one evening, the couple sees that Nathan Arizona (Trey Wilson), a rich, furniture store owner and his wife were now the proud parents of quintuplets. Ed concocts a plan to borrow one of their babies because she believes they have their hands full with 5 babies. This in turn sets off a crazy string of events which leave the couple in a fight for their borrowed child, their freedom and their love for one another.The theme of Raising Arizona is a character's struggle within themselves to soothe the constant wants in life that are not necessarily needed. Throughout the movie, Ed just wants to be happy. Before marrying H.I., she just wanted to meet the right man and get married. During one scene when Ed is booking H.I. into one of his many jail stints, she is sobbing because her then fiancé' had broken up with her. This was the first time that Ed realized that she had feelings for H.I., when he showed compassion for her and told her that her fiancé' had to be stupid to leave her. Soon after, Ed and H.I. were married and she immediately wanted to start having babies. This proved to be impossible for them and her desperate want to be a mother caused her to grow depressed, lose interest in everything - including cleaning her house and she lost her job. H.I. just seems to be along for the crazy ride. The wild story line and almost unfathomable shenanigans in this movie are somewhat similar to the 1990 Dennis Dugan movie, Problem Child, starring John Ritter. In both movies, there are couples who desperately want to have a child and when they are both given what they want it proves to be much more than they can handle. Both movies are filled with conflict and chaos right up to the very end.The motifs and camera angles brought out the theme of this movie and made it more exciting to watch. Throughout the movie the viewer is constantly reminded that Ed wants a baby and after Baby Arizona is borrowed, the camera is fixated on how Ed and H.I. plan to keep him and keep their secret. The camera techniques were great in this movie. There were several parallel cuts that took the viewer back and forth between two different locations as the suspense was rising. In one particular scene, Ed, H.I. and Baby Jr. are driving home from spending a day with friends and they pull into a store to pick up some diapers. H.I. is tempted to resort to his old ways and ends up robbing the store. Ed sees him through the window and immediately becomes angry and drives away, leaving him to fend for himself. What H.I. doesn't anticipate though, is the store clerk is ready for him. After pushing an emergency button to alert the authorities, the clerk pulls out a rifle and starts shooting at H.I. Just as he is running away the cops pull up and start a wild chase. The cameras cut back and forth between H.I. running through streets, yards and houses, the cops chasing him and Ed, who had a change of heart about leaving him and decides to go back and try to help save him from the police. All of the chaos and goofy humor combined with a crazy plot take the viewer right back to the theme of the movie, choose your wants lightly because they just might turn out to be your want nots. "},{"Title":"Slightly disappointing","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Due to mild sickness I was forced to stay at home for a couple of days and in this time I managed to see four Coen Bros' films (Blood Simple, Raising Arizona, Barton Fink, Miller's Crossing) and I find Raising Arizona the least enjoyable of all of them, or maybe even the least enjoyable film of the Coens in general. I must admit that at least partially because I never enjoyed films with an infant as one of the central characters. Well, that is a matter of personal taste and it absolutely doesn't have to make a film bad.The role of Nathan Jr. could be in this film, being Coen Bros' production, easily substituted with any other valuable object (say, with a suitcase full of cash as in No Country for Old Men) and that would not really affect (predictably unpredictable) plot in any way. Nicholas Cage is suitable for the role of HI, also Holly Hunter fits very nicely in the Ed's character and the side role casting can't be really criticized as well. One simple problem of this film is that is not funny for a comedy, not dramatic for a drama, not adventurous for an adventure and not mysterious for a mystery. And as a cocktail of all of them it doesn't really reach later films by Coen Bros. It is not strange that they have decided to improve the impression 20 years later with No Country for Old Men (similar plot, some similar characters, incredibly better result). And what the hell was that screaming of John Goodman and William Forsythe in the car good for?! "},{"Title":"Had the potential to become a legendary film!","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Coen Brothers are unbelievably talented people. They have made films, that some filmmakers can only imagine to make. 'Raising Arizona' is amongst their good efforts, but for me, this flick got wasted after a point.An idea as interesting as 'Raising Arizona', is hard to find or even think about. An ex-con and An ex-cop kidnapping a child, and then running away with it, catches you instantly. The film begins brilliantly, and remains rock-steady to a point. The flaws and the spoilers come along, in it's sub-plot. The John Goodman-William Forsythe track is strictly average, and their portions are prolonged a bit more than it should have.Coen Brothers have delivered once again, no doubt. However, the film isn't as convincing as their idea was. My summary correctly states my opinion, this film Had the potential to become a legendary film! But due to some loose-ends, it's unable to meet it's unprecedented expectations! Performance-Wise Holly Hunter is fantastic, as always. Nic Cage is spunky. John Goodman and William Forsythe scream their lungs out! Frances McDormand is brilliant in a brief cameo, while Trey Wilson is just about okay.On the whole, I expected it to be more zany and interesting, and it didn't deliver the amount of laughs I expected from it. Nonetheless, a good film! "},{"Title":"Looney Tunes","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" After sending up the film noir tradition in their eye-opening debut feature 'Blood Simple', the Coen brothers returned with more of their patented, stylish mayhem, this time in the form of an unsophisticated, broad-as-a-barn-door comedy modeled after classic Warner Brothers cartoons. Following what must be the longest pre-title prologue in history (almost a separate film by itself), the film begins properly with the kidnapping of baby Nathan Arizona, Jr. by a good-natured petty criminal (Nicholas Cage, by no coincidence sporting a Road Runner tattoo on his arm) and his ex-cop wife Holly Hunter (courted during his frequent trips to the penitentiary). There's nothing approaching a genuine joke in the entire film; for laughs the Coens rely instead on their hyperactive camera and the dizzy exaggerated formality of their dialogue. Visually the film is frenetic, unreal, and infused with the sort of cartoon logic allowing babies to be tossed unharmed from the roofs of speeding cars. For most audiences the results will either be totally hilarious or utterly baffling (and possibly both), although a second viewing is recommended to fully appreciate the whip-crack pacing and overdrawn eccentricities of each character. "}{"Title":"A glossy almost black very comedy...breathless and proud of it","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Raising Arizona (1987)After Blood Simple, which set high standards for these sassy new post-modern film makers (the Coen Bros.), Raising Arizona had a lot of people paying attention. And it disappointed no one with a sense of humor. It takes off fast (the first section before the credits is the best part of the movie, for better and for worse), and it never lets up its sense of ludicrous satire and plain old in your face fun.What else is there in a good, inventive comedy? It's maybe not everyone's taste, but the jokes are funny. The expressions (Nicolas Cage especially, but Holly Hunter, too) are amazingly sharp and comic without being simply silly, though silly they are, too. The plot, for what it is, has shafts of fairy tale to it, but Grimm Bros. style, for sure, macabre and touching on life and death matters. There is even a surreal, symbolic evil figure on a smoking bike, which first seems to be invisible to the characters, but then is a foe representing a tangible conscience plaguing the leads (including the leading victim, Mr. Arizona).Throw in the fact that the baby (and babies) are super cute, and that John Goodman and his sidekick escapee are really just cuddly dads at heart, and that Frances McDormand (future Joel Coen wife) has a short, splashy role that prefigures Sandra Bullock's full fledged Southern terror (from The Blind Side) and you have one messed up, cooked up, throttled up, majorly edited-up Harley ride of a movie. Not bad. "},{"Title":"Cutting their teeth","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Coen brothers were obviously cutting their teeth on Raising Arizona, just a few years before their halcyon days would begin (Miller's Crossing and Fargo). This clever, original idea made for a manic story which was a little hit and miss. Some material was very funny, while some does not work.Nicholas Cage and Holly Hunter worked well together, and John Goodman had fun in support, as did Frances McDormand and a cast of great cameos including William Forsythe and John Goodman. This flick showed much of the promise the brothers Coen would later deliver.Friday, April 2, 1999 - Video "},{"Title":"The Coen Brothers' Amusement Center !","Date":"1 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Great characters. Great performance. Great direction. But not great script ! Some of this script's points were weak. For example; this mad max's biker.. how come that he felt afraid of the police to run away from them like the way he did in the rich man's office? Or how this rich man himself forgave the 2 leads this easy at last? And how oh how a character like H.I. (played by Nicolas Cage) writes a letter as sweet and literate as the one he wrote to his wife at night ? And where did this very letter go in the first place ? So how he was speaking to himself in so refined style, in the end, saying things like the way I flee from reality ??!! I didn't buy that the 2 fugitives return to the jail by their free well like that either ?? And the whole sequence of the biker getting exploded looked fabricated and insert so the movie can sound enough Hollywood!On the other hand, I didn't think that I may find a Nicolas Cage's early movie where he acts as beautiful as this. (Holy Hunter) was having this magical sparkle, blessing us with so cute presence and acting. The comedy was so right at places; like the long hilarious sequence of stealing the diapers; which reminded me of the highest silent comedies, being the best of this movie's time. After 20 years; still the west is an important place for The Coen brothers, still the unsuccessful criminal is an interesting character for them, and still their special taste of melancholia is present (the killer of everything young, losing the babies in accidents,..) yet more existent and without any diluents. It's the (Coen)'s own world, and at its most saccharine moments this time (there is no satirical message). Generally, I think that the Coens had to make this kind of light movies every now and then like (The Hudsucker Proxy, O Brother Where Art Thou?, Intolerable Cruelty) to earn some audience, some money, more technicality and most of all the majors' confidence so they can make their very own, real whacky, pieces like (Fargo, The Man who Wasn't There, No Country for Old Men..). It's a comedy to laugh. Maybe it says something about being satisfied with whatever God preordain. With a message about being optimistic as well; to turn our incapacity into hopeful dreams (something I bet the 2 brothers were insisting on assuring it for themselves at the moment, as enthusiastic newcomer movie makers). And although it gives great feeling while it's on, but just those previous points weaken it in the final analysis. Fun to experience anyhow. "},{"Title":"it was alright in my opinion","Date":"30 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had heard a lot of good things about this film before I put it on. I was a little disappointed. The story line was completely unbelievable, which was fine, as I feel that the filmmakers knew this while making it. My problem was it wasn't funny enough for this genre of film. Don't get me wrong, I did laugh at some parts, it's just that most of the time I was thinking, this is stupid. Nicolas Cage and Holly Hunter play an outlandish couple of a repeated felon and a police officer, who decide to steal a baby as Holly Hunter's character Ed is deemed infertile. This then leads to a whole giant fiasco as everyone seems to be after this baby, and H.I (Cage) and Ed just want to start a family. The performances I'd say were pretty good. There were a lot of characters in this film and I felt they all did a great job. I didn't really see the point of the bounty hunter. I felt Randall Cobb did a great job in his character, but I really didn't understand what the Coen brother's motivation for him was. I guess the point they were trying to make, if they were trying to make a point, was that family life isn't all it's cracked up to be. What's important is that you love your family. Overall I thought it was an entertaining movie. Definitely not a favorite of mine, but I certainly wouldn't call it a bad movie. Worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Absolute Classic","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wow this film just gets better with age. This is a classic movie which proves that script and character will always give you more than any amount of dollars thrown at a movie. This is classic Coen brothers' territory here. Great characters populating a simple yet effective story with a script to die for. The simple premise of the story is the couple of perennial petty criminal HI and police officer Ed who can not have a child so decide to steal one of the children of the wife of a local successful business man who has just had quintuplets. But that is only half the story we get introduced a multitude of magnificent quirky supporting chahrcters along the way who each bring something special to the movie including an early supporting role from the always superb Francis McDormand.) For me this along with 'Wild at Heart' is Nicolas Cage's two finest performances. He brings great aloofness and swagger to the character of HI (another great Coen brother's character name) and the Coens reciprocate Cage's performance by letting the camera love him. Cage is supported greatly by Holly Hunter with other great performances such as another Coen brother's favourite John Goodman. The film is superbly on what was clearly a small budget but that probably only enhances the overall quality of the move and if anything has aided the ageing process. This is a must for movie fans and a must own for Coen brothers fans "},{"Title":"Well... it sure ain't Ozzie and Harriet.","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I wasn't sure whether I was watching a baby movie or a heist movie. Whenever you watch a movie by the Coen brothers one thing is sure; you never know what will come next.This film with Nickolas Cage (The Weather Man, Lord of War) and Holly Hunter (Thirteen, The Piano) was a laugh-a-minute riot of fun and excitement.With colorful characters like John Goodman, who played a character reminiscent of his role in O Brother, Where Art Thou?, and William Forsythe (The Devil's Rejects), and Frances McDormand (Laurel Canyon, Fargo), who had a too small role, the film was funny from start to finish.Ant Coen brothers film is worth watching for pure fun, but when you put a cute baby in it, it just soars. "},{"Title":"An Outrageously Whacky and Delightful Quintessential From The Coen Brothers","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" After the Coen's triumphant debut Blood Simple, the Coens returned to pursue their career as two of American cinema's finest talents. Raising Arizona is one of the many films which established the Coen's universal talent, proving that their debut was not a fluke, but a film which marked the career of two of independent cinema's geniuses. I cannot begin to stress just how good Raising Arizona really is.In tradition of the absurdity a Coen Brother film follows, Raising Arizona depicts turbulent chaos through quirky humour. Raising Arizona follows the adventure of a simple-minded, kind-hearted couple who are failing to have a baby due to their problematic circumstances. H.I. (played by Nicolas Cage) is an escaped convict, but he feels to have learnt the error of his ways while jumping in and out of prison for his harmless, yet failed hold-ups. He meets Edwina (Holly Hunter), a neurotic and somewhat overwhelming police-officer, who marries H.I. after he is released from prison. On finding that Edwina is infertile the couple op in for adoption, sadly adoption also fails due to H.I.'s prison record. So, the desperate pair resolve the matter by kidnapping one of a furniture tycoon's quintuplets. Havoc ensues.Yes, Raising Arizona is loud, eccentric, sensational and overwhelming, but it all helps to make it such a remarkably entertaining film. It is rare that a film is able to balance such a variation in contrast around practically every element. The pure joy which can be gained when viewing this often turbulent, yet charming ride helps to personify cinematic enjoyment. Propelled by its fast-paced, character-driven script Raising Arizona does not stop for breathing space. Basically, The Coens set themselves a narrative target and they then let the film run on this invincible fuel of technical prowess. The free-spirited imagination and wit makes Raising Arizona an unforgettable experience.The technical side of Raising Arizona is just as strong as its narrative. For example, the quick-fire, clean-cut, smooth editing gives the film a vibrant edge of insane comedy. The nifty set-pieces are highly creative too, designed with an expert knowledge of a comedic environment. I am a huge fan of slapstick comedy, which successfully blends tones of surrealism.For an actor who is usually horribly wooden, Nicolas Cage gives -what I consider- his superlative performance. He shows understanding of the script, creating a character that is blissfully unaware of his surroundings, while still being emotionally complex. In fact, I would go so far as to say that Nicholas Cage brings an outstanding level of panache to his performance. Plus, there is a wildly lavish amount of chemistry between both Cage and Hunter.Raising Arizona is an innocent film from The Coen Brothers, which remains something that almost anyone is bound to fall in love with. I cannot begin stress as to how much I recommend you watch Raising Arizona, no doubt you will be thoroughly entertained. "},{"Title":"This movie is hilarious, baby!","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I love movies like this because they are one of a kind. This one was so hilarious that I was rolling on the floor. It's about Hi who meets Edwina while she is taking his mug shot. After more crimes and more rolls of film, they fall in love and decide to have a baby but that doesn't plan out as well as they would like until they hear about Nathan Arizona and his store of furniture.The part I loved the most was when the guy pops out of mud and screams and screams then he pulls the other guy up by his leg. Later on those two open a bag and think that they are lucky but only end up blue. The old guy counting and the cell mate who talks about eating are also my two favorite parts. I hurt my lungs laughing so hard. "},{"Title":"Stranger than friction...","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of my favorite comedic Nick Cage movies. The oddity and dry-air was enough to make this Arizona -made classic really enjoyable. The couple, good and bad, there is madness on their horizon. Holly Hunter is so lovable as a 'hick' in heat. Her wife to Nicholas's Hi is splendid and undoubtedly one of her most underrated yet to me memorable roles. This was fast and focused, on quite a few hilarious players who make this 'Raising' what it should be. I guess I am not a ' traditional ' Cage fan that's why I love the different roles that he has had, not all, but some. John Goodman and William Forsythe are a super-idiotic team with too much criminal ambition. They were a solid piece of this movies foundation. They, the somewhat happy couple want a baby and yet they are surrounded by fools, who have criminal intentions, even friends aren't friends, exactly. The ghost rider adds a spooky element to the tale of barren existence. I also liked the king of naked furniture and his sort of 'Bullyish' attitude loud and proud is he. Cage is so discombobulated in this (i.e.) his hair and clothing and demeanor that you can't help but feel sorry for him and his peace officer spouse. All in case, this comedy runs fast and the cantor is faster, but totally enjoyable. If you missed this one in the theater, catch it and if you saw it long ago, see it again. (****) 10/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie could be considered probably the Coen brothers' first real commercial success,and while it didn't break any box office records in first run during the late spring of 1987,it did leave quite a mark on the film landscape.Recidivist con H.I.HiMcDonough(Nicolas Cage,narrating and wonderful here,both thoughtfully wise and sad,yet hopeful) finally gets a break(and something to motivate him from going back in the pen)when he finds love through the hopeful brown eyes and spunky attitude of state trooper Edwina(Holly Hunter,heretofore unknown,scrappy and lovable),to whom he marries and plans a family. As the cruel hand of whatever(fate,luck,God,etc.) has for the oddly matched yet truly compatible couple,she cannot have children,and given his status as an ex-con,their chances at legitimate adoption are almost nil. Desperate times create desperate measures,and the McDonoughs find themselves stooping to a new lowbaby-napping. And the people they've targeted are none other than Nathan and Florence Arizona,only the most respected furniture sellers in the whole state. Naturally,when they discover that one of their septuplets has been kidnapped,they take action.John Goodman,Frances McDormand,William Forsythe,Sam McMurray and RandallTexCobb all add to the oddity as friends,family and bounty hunter(try to guess which ones play which!),and the movie,which can neither be considered a clear comedy or a true action caper,is something of a hybrid. And what a memorable one at that! Director Joel Coen,with writing help from brother Ethan,make a quotable flick. I don't think I'm making an overstatement when I say that if you are a fan of the Coen bros. and/or are a connoisseur of odd movies or off-beat comedy,this film is a MUST own. Even if not those things,a cineaste might appreciate getting to view this one many,many times. "}{"Title":"Off the wall comedy","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Along with Barton Fink and O Brother this has to be my favourite Coen Brother's film. I may be in the minority but I did not enjoy The Big Lebowski (I think Jeff Bridges is probably the most reliable of actors - I would watch him in a soap commercial and find him value for money), Fargo or The Man Who Wasn't There. Nicolas Cage and Holly Hunter have seldom been better and the chemistry between them is pure gold. This is a real laugh out loud comedy with some set pieces that deliver with repeated viewings. I have seen this film five or six times, and as someone who rarely watches a film more than once or twice, I can't praise this film more highly. I haven't seen it for a few years otherwise I would have written a more insightful review. I don't love every Coen Bros film but this one made me want to see every film they have made since at the cinema rather than wait for the DVD. "},{"Title":"what's you favorite line in the movie...?","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Gale Snokes...Damnit H.I., the sun don't rise and set on the corner grocery. the little subtle hints that the Coen bros. put in there are awesome...like the KOEN on the mike of the news anchor interviewing Nathan Sr. The old black inmate that HI is incarcerated with... We ate sand... You ate SAND? this is one of those rare movies that NEVER gets old... Enjoy. My best scene is when Glen comes back to the trailer to tell HI that he's fired...I'll pitch my voice, wherever i PLEASE And Smalls saying A cop couldn't find his but is he had bell on it. And Evelle during the bank heist Not even our codes names..? Awesome. What is your favorite line or scene from this movie? There won't be another movie like this one, ever... "},{"Title":"A feature-length cartoon - and therein lie its few flaws","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Now, cartoons are usually great. Extending a cartoon into a full-length movie, though, might not be such a good idea. I am not, in any way, saying this isn't a high quality film, but the performances here are very exaggerated and over-the-top, and that might annoy people. Some of the humour, too, just doesn't work (for me), which is a strange situation for a Coen film. The screaming in particular can get a bit numbing. Cartoons are the best when they're some six, seven, eight minutes long - you know, the good old Looney Toons length.But, this is a fine film.Raising Arizona is a Coen film, which is a sort of guarantee of a splendid look. The colours are bright and clear, as is expected from this kind of cartoon. Sonnenfeld excels with his camera-work once again and provides humour, too, with his restlessness (in a good way, naturally).The movements, actions and appearances of the characters are also very cartoon-like, and many fast-paced sequences such as the Huggies chase not only look great but are also hysterical. The music contributes to setting a very bizarre mood for the film - a mood some may not enjoy. Again something is left to the viewer's interpretation - the mythical Tex Cobb character - but the film shouldn't be taken too seriously. If you do, your experience may become unbearable.Again, it being a Coen film, you have to see it more than once to notice and appreciate all the little details and subtleties.The dialogue, obviously, the brothers' weakest as it may actually be, is sheer hilarity. While it is no match to that of Miller's Crossing or The Big Lebowski, the high quality is present - almost omnipresent, dare I utilise such a fancy word.This is my least favourite pre-Cruelty Coen, but that means nothing, really, considering their vastly excellent oeuvre. Raising Arizona is a terrific film. "},{"Title":"Raising Arizona","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Raising Arizona came before Fargo and The Big Lebowski and is still my favorite of all the Coen Brothers films. It moves at lightning speed and has no fat at all. Just looking at Nicholas Cage with his squinty eyes and mussed hair makes me giggle! It has the best lines of many movies. We're using code names, I think I got the best one, Okay then, They had more than they could handle, and more. I love the way the characters speak kind of flowery and are still easily understandable. I think that's one of the Coen Brother's trademarks(see George Clooney's character in O' Brother). I think it was the first time I saw Holly Hunter in a film. All the actors did fantastic jobs. John Goodman went on to be in several more Coen Brothers films. This is one of my all-time favorite films. If you like quirky, see it. "},{"Title":"Inescapably brilliant; 10 out of 10","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This masterpiece of a film, derived from the deranged psyches of writers/directors, Ethan and Joel Coen, is of the finest quality, labeled among other such peculiar cult classics and dark satirical comedies. The affection and the affinity I share with the characters and actors from this movie, such as Nicolas Cage, Holly Hunter, John Goodman, and Frances McDormand, will forever remain uncompromised within my immediate being and my sub-conscious. This is inexorably based on my unique upbringing which, according to a genetic predisposition, has influenced the unrelenting sound bytes made between my mother and father (Son you got a panty on your head.; Okay then.) I established a natural rapport with H.I., Ed, Dot, and the rest of the cast and crew at an early age, and because of this movie, I have cherished their successes and have applauded their performances in nearly every motion picture of their making, and accordingly, have also followed EVERY work produced, directed, or written by the Coen Brothers, because of their inimitable talent and aptitude for imaginative writing. A definitively sublime work of art. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"What to Say?","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure what to say about this film.  The directors are great and I love their work.  I think this film was pretty funny and had some okay acting.  I gave it a high ranking due to the plot being a new twist and the fact that it was done very well.  The real problem I had was the overacting of trailor trash.  These people were just plain dumb.  I did like the chase scene though.  Check this film out if you get a chance.  It was worth the watch. "},{"Title":"coens own","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Coen brothers make some very good films, Raising Arizona is one of the best of the bunch. Nick Cage, Holly Hunter are excellent as the childless couple, but I loved John Goodman as the escaped convict. Raising Arizona has been out quite a while if you haven't seen it yet you need to right away. "},{"Title":"Esterhazy Haydn","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clearly this is less well crafted than the Coen brothers' later work (and by later work I mean the amazing string of films that started with their very next, Miller's Crossing) &#133; but does that mean it's not as good?You bet it does. This is the cinematic equivalent of Haydn's first Esterhazy symphonies. Those works are fresh, their quirkiness is charming, you're a mug if you don't like them, but they lack the polish of the later symphonies Haydn wrote for Paris and London &#150; and this seemingly inessential ingredient, polish, turns out to be the difference between a pleasant trifle and a masterpiece.The analogy with Haydn runs deeper than this. Like an early Esterhazy symphony, Raising Arizona is all moment-to-moment brilliance, with little effect overall. The film has plenty of amusing one-liners, situations, sight gags, even (although these are more rare) whole episodes. These are enough in the sense that they're enough to make a good film, but later Coen works have so much more. When John Turturro's character in O Brother, Where Art Thou? (mild spoiler ahead) reveals to the audience that he was just a week away from having completed his sentence before he escaped, this is not just funny in itself; it makes the whole preceding narrative funny in retrospect. There's nothing like this in Raising Arizona. But there ARE moments like it in Haydn's Paris and London symphonies.The more obvious point of comparison with O Brother is the intrusion of folkloric fantasy into a twentieth-century tall tale; there, it's integrated; here, it's not. When the Devil appears in the later film, he belongs; when the Apocalyptic Biker appears here, he does not. (This is besides the fact that he's not nearly as impressive a figure as he ought to be. There's something dead about his scenes, and he seems to mumble his lines.) In Raising Arizona the Coens shatter the coherence of their film in order to startle us. In their later films they startle us just as much, but they do so coherently. Not only is Raising Arizona as much inferior to Barton Fink or O Brother, Where Art Thou? as Haydn's first dozen symphonies are to his last dozen; it's inferior for much the same reasons.I like the early Haydn symphonies, too, but I realise that they grew into better and more fully realised versions of themselves. So it is with the Coens. "},{"Title":"The perfect role for Nicolas Cage","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nicolas Cage always looks like a dumb hillbilly, whether or not it's appropriate for his character. In this case it's appropriate. At the very least, it's a funny movie worth seeing. Raising Arizona is a quirky, offbeat movie that is still unique after 15 years. "},{"Title":"Amazing Coens","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The most amazing movie they've made. Unique. Indescribable. What you don't find in this movie isn't worth finding. Goodman and Forsythe - what an entrance! This was written for Holly? I believe it. They've never been better - never. All their other stuff is midland to excellent, but nothing comes close to Raising A. Oh - don't forget to always use CODE NAMES. "}{"Title":"The Coen Brothers were just as good in 1987 as they are today","Date":"28 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Back in 1987, the Coen Brothers weren't as well-known as they are today. Back then, they only had made the 1984's 'Blood Simple.', an extremely low-budget, but promising film, that showed all the talent they had. 'Raising Arizona' is only their second movie, and in my opinion, just as good as their movies today. This movie was also low-budget, but it did well in the box-office and putted they on the Hollywood spotlight. When 'Raising Arizona' starts, even if you don't know what is it about, you realize in the same minute it's a Coen Brothers' film. All the elements of their movies are here - extremely eccentric characters, very smart dialogs and an absurd story, with lots of absurd situations. The movie begins with H.I (Nicolas Cage) narrating how he, an ex-con, met his wife, Ed, an ex-cop. This sequence takes about 10 minutes of smart and funny images, and then the titles are shown. After this, they try to get pregnant, to only find out that Ed can't have babies, so they both try to steal a baby from a couple that had five of them. I though, by watching the movie, that I knew where this was going to, but believe me, I didn't. Ethan and Joel Coen write an unpredictable and crazy script, with even more better characters appearing on screen.When 'Raising Arizona' came out, its two leads, Nicolas Cage and Holly Hunter weren't famous at all, he had only been in his uncle's (Francis Ford Coppola) pictures, and she did inexpressive films. So this movie helped them to turn into stars, and it also shows their excellent comic vein. The supporting cast has names like John Goodman and Frances McDormand, two actors that would become regulars on the Coen Brothers' films, both doing a nice job. William Forsythe is also brilliant, so is Randall 'Tex' Cobb, in one of the most funny character I've ever seen in a Coen Brothers' movie.Joel Coen does an excellent job directing this picture. The already- funny situations become even more funny with his brilliant direction. The scene where H.I. tries to steal a diaper is simply one of the most funny and well-directed sequences I've seen in a long time. The Coen Brothers are also famous for their work of editing, and it isn't different in this one.Overral, this is a extremely funny and absurd movie. It showed the Coen Brothers, Nicolas Cage and Holly Hunter to the world. Of course this isn't better then the Coen's masterpieces ('Fargo', 'The Big Lebowski' and 'No Country for Old Men'), but it's an excellent picture that has everything that a Coen Brothers' fan need - smart dialogs, eccentric characters and absurd situations. A must-see for any comedy fan.9/10 "},{"Title":"Makes you respect the Southwest.","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" OK. So we know that the Coen brothers are the masters of the weird (think Barton Fink, The Hudsucker Proxy, Fargo, The Big Lebowski, O Brother, Where Art Thou?). Well, if you want to know just how whacked-out they can get, look no further than Raising Arizona. This movie also shows Nicolas Cage's comic abilities (he should have stuck to comedy and avoided action). He plays ex-con Herbert H.I. McDunnough, married to his former jailer Edwina (Holly Hunter). When they discover that she can't have children, he comes up with the craziest plan kidnap the son of a furniture salesman who has five babies.So they do this, and...well, I'm not sure how much I can tell you without giving away all the really funny parts. But I will say that you're sure to love this movie. It may even make you want to take a trip to the Southwestern US just to see if you can experience all this. Also starring Trey Wilson, John Goodman, William Forsythe, Frances McDormand, and Randall Tex Cobb. "},{"Title":"Rasing Arizona","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie has a great story and is a very funny movie. The story tells of a police woman and a convenience store robber who get married, but when they want to have children, they find out they cannot because there is something wrong with the woman's eggs. So they decide to steal one of the local quintuplets that has just been born to the owner of a furniture store owner. This is a delightful movie for anyone who likes good comedies about people who get into wacky schemes. Pros- acting, actors, story, very funny, interestingCons- The star of the movie Nicholas Cage talks and acts like he is really stupid, but when he narrates the story he talks like he has gotten a PhD from Harvard. "},{"Title":"Not Coen and Coen's best","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Frankly this was a disappointment to me. I'm not sure if I know the difference between funny and stupid, and so I guess the best thing I can say is comedy, even more than beauty, is in the eye and the ear of the beholder.I thought John Goodman was the funniest person on the screen in this one. He has a quality in his acting that could turn comedy to drama or horror in a fraction of a second. He did that a couple of times in this film, and of course with TV's Roseanne it was a weekly chore. ('JJ'-Just Joking.) I wouldn't be surprised to see him cast as some kind of really mean heavy one of these days. He could do it.Holly Hunter proves here and elsewhere that she is more than just a pretty face. Her almost painfully true to life portrayal of a nice but not overly bright cop was perfect. Normally almost too cute for words, she was here almost plain. I think she was working on her career for the second half of her life. (She was twenty-nine when this film was made.) She knows that there is nothing deader in Hollywood than a 'cute' actress past her thirtieth birthday. (Meg Ryan is the case that tests the rule.)I am not a Nicolas Cage fan, regrettably since I've seen him in four or five movies. I thought he gave the best performance in Mike Figgis's Leaving Las Vegas (1995), but without the gorgeous Elisabeth Shue, I would never have watched that good but rather depressing flick. I thought he was tolerable in Honeymoon in Vegas (1992), but I didn't think much of the film. In David Lynch's Wild at Heart (1990) he certainly gave a creditable performance, and maybe even a very good one; and the movie wasn't bad, but I just thought that he and Lynch pandered too obviously to their young, outsider audience. None of this is anything against Cage; it's just that the character he usually depicts, a sweet, dumbed-down/but lovable outsider, just doesn't appeal to me. (Of course Cage himself is anything but dumb.) It's obvious that the movie-going public likes him a lot, and I imagine that women find him sexy, cute and just the kind of non-threatening guy they'd like to snuggle up to. Still Cage is worth keeping an eye on. I think with the right material, he may one day give a performance worthy of a great actor. One thing I can tell you for sure, if you like Nicolas Cage, you'll like this movie because his presence and style dominate throughout. As far as the direction and script goes, this was not in the same league as either Blood Simple (1984) or the widely acclaimed Fargo (1996), two previous and of course very different offerings from the talented brothers, Joel and Ethan Coen. One last word be careful who you see this with. The little boy babies, especially the one (or two?) playing Nathan, Jr. are just adorable. Your girl friend/wife will just go gaga, and you may hear the Power Station song playing in the background with the lyric, 'She wants to multiple/Are you going to do it?...'(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Delightfully Funny!","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw Raising Arizona when it was first released in 1987 and it still remains one of my favorite comedies of all time. If you haven't seen it yet, you get a chance to see Nicolas Cage in one of his earlier roles prior to developing his great acting skills which is clearly evident in his more recent performances. Cage and a great supporting cast including Holly Hunter and John Goodman stumble through this flick in a seemingly never ending chain of comedic events. Just when you think you've caught your breath from the sidesplitting laughter you get bombarded again. I strongly recommend viewing this classic comedy. You won't be disappointed. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"A Coen movie I do not like...","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ... nearly as much as I like the other Coen movies I've seen (I have not yet seen Barton Fink and The Hudsucker Proxy). Raising Arizona tries way too hard to be funny, sometimes in a Benny-Hill-kind of way, e.g. with Cage running around, dogs chasing him. I don't get it. Still, the movie's got a few genuinely humorous moments.Considering the fact that almost all comments for this one are positive, I checked Raising Arizona's average rating of 7.6 against the ratings for other Coen movies. I was somewhat relieved to find that this movie has the lowest (average) rating of the Coen movies I've seen up to now.A 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Attempted road-runner like comedy falls flat...","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" 1st watched 11/21/2008 - (Dir-Joel Coen) Attempted road-runner like comedy falls flat of impressing me as it's plodding pace bored me. Despite my expectations before watching this early Coen brothers film, I was somewhat disappointed with this screwball comedy with strange characters. Nicolas Cage has done this kind of non-acting before in other movies and Holly Hunter isn't a whole lot better. The movie is basically about a couple that wants a child, can't have one and decides to steal one of the quintuplets of a local rich family, obviously because they cant handle five. The antics that revolve around this act with other strange characters like a over-the-top motorcycle bounty hunter and prison mates also get in the act of trying to get the child and the reward money. All in all, the ridiculousness doesn't necessarily make for a very funny movie and I'm sure there have been better movies carrying basically this same premise. "},{"Title":"overrated","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"17 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really don't understand the appeal of this film. I truly like many of the Coen brothers films (Barton Fink, Fargo), but It just seems like everyone in the film is trying way to hard to be funny. I especially loathe the characters that are brothers (John Goodman) who escape from prison and the pointless subplot of the deranged hell's angel. Maybe It's just me. A lot of people I know say this is the funniest film they have EVER seen. I wanted to like it but with every character in the film screaming out lines with effected voices made me want to just shut it off. I will say that the technical work, like in most of their films is fantastic but this one just does not work for me. "},{"Title":"Raising Arizona Devoid of Humour","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"19 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the run up to the release of the eagerly anticipated True Grit, I thought it time to catch up with those Coen Brothers films I had yet to see. Made in their formative years, Raising Arizona is the second Coen film, following up the largely decent Blood Simple.In and out of prison for armed robbery a number of times over a period of some years, repeat offender Hi McDunnough begins to gradually fall for police photographer Ed. After Hi vows to reform, they marry and decide to have children. Upon discovering the infertility of Ed, they opt to steal one of five babies born to local furniture salesman Nathan Arizona.Any film which numbers Nicolas Cage among its cast is a big risk for me. The man is one of those actors whose presence almost always signifies a terrible film to come. The combination of this bearing the Coen stamp and being the first Cage film I'd seen since Adaptation&#x97;in which he is, dare I say it, bearable&#x97;assuaged my fears and allowed me to sit back with hope intact. The film's opening is rapid in pace, though not too much of a fault it's a little distracting, and feels a tad rushed, but it's no serious problem. The humour&#x97;for this is a comedy, in case you're unaware&#x97;starts relatively strong, an extended scene in which Hi attempts to control the quintuplets whilst choosing which to steal particularly humorous. Had the credits rolled immediately thereafter, I would've been happy. But they don't, alas. What follows is just over an hour of completely misguided humour, bare caricatures, and that most hated of comedy clichés the parody of deep-South life. To call it an uncomfortable viewing experience would be an understatement, my eyes trained on the DVD player time elapsed display as my fingers drummed on the chair, waiting for it all to end. Other than in the first half hour, I genuinely don't think as much as a brief chuckle escaped my mouth. The characters are irritating, underdeveloped, uninteresting, and uninvolving (the bounty hunter biker caused me no end of sighs and wails of despair). I now remember, if you'll permit me something of a tangential thought, that I did in fact laugh twice once each for Frances McDormand and John Goodman, both of whom are amongst the painfully few good things the film has to offer. Though that said, the scene wherein Goodman emerges from mud vexed me with its silly shouting. As if I wasn't disappointed and disgusted enough with the film as a whole, to return to things, the ending is utterly revolting garbage which attempts, in a most upsetting way, to sanitise what has gone before with paint-by-numbers sentiment. Simply infuriating.Raising Arizona, you may have noticed, was not quite for me. Almost entirely devoid of humour, characters, or any shred of likability, it is a welcome edition to the Nic Cage canon. I think it possible that I'd have hated this less were it not a Coen Brothers film&#x97;not, that is to say, that I'm the kind of person who decided that the brothers were the saviours of American cinema after seeing No Country for Old Men&#x97;simply that all I'd seen by them prior to this had been at least quite quite good. In summary, do try to avoid this. "},{"Title":"Son you got a panty on your head","Date":"8 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Raising Arizona is a comedy about Herbert 'H.I.' McDunnough, played by Nicholas Cage. H.I. has a troubled past, but is ready to put all that behind him and start a family with his love, Edwina or Ed played by Holly Hunter. H.I. and Ed met in jail where Ed would take H.I.'s booking photos each time he was arrested. They fall in love and decide to build a life and start a family. When H.I. and Ed discover they can't have children of their own, they set out to relieve a wealthy family of one of their quintuplets. Settling in with their newly kidnapped son, matter turn from bad to worse when H.I.'s old jail buddies show up looking for a place to stay. When a hefty reward is offered for the return of the kidnapped child, H.I.'s jailhouse friends Gale, played by John Goodman, and Evelle, played by William Forsythe, decide to cash in. Add in an evil, biker bounty hunter looking for some extra cash and you've got a hit comedy.This movie is all about perseverance. H.I. never gives up. He wants to make everyone in his life happy, and in the end tries to do the right thing. Even though he has had many a run in with the law, you can empathize with this character. Nicholas Cage does a great job creating a somewhat pathetic but likable criminal. The voice-overs, narrated by Nicholas Cage, and the dream sequences, add quirkiness to the film. The musical score adds to the hilarity with whistling and yes even some yodeling. The zany characters, and hilarious stories, and quotable lines (e.g. I'll be taking these Huggies and whatever cash ya got), make this film a must see. If you enjoy this film, I would recommend another film directed by the Coen brothers, The Big Lebowski starring John Goodman. This film is another hilarious Coen brother's comedy about kidnapping and hilarity. Overall, I definitely recommend this film. The never give up attitude of the main characters and all the comical scenes make it worth your while. "}{"Title":"Great script and some great performances...","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I do like the films of the Coen brothers, in particular their earlier works. This is one I have seen a couple of times before but this is the first time I've reviewed it. What we have is a brilliantly scripted piece with some great performances and a pretty crazy plot to boot! More of my thoughts later, here's a brief summary first (summary haters please mind the baby while I write the next paragraph).NOTE Although every effort is made to give as little away as possible in my summaries, sometimes a little extra may slip out. If you feel you may read something here that may spoil your future enjoyment of the film then PLEASE DO NOT read the following paragraph. (I don't know&#x85; one person whinges and you've got to put disclaimers all over the place!!) H.I. McDunnough is a repeat offender; he robs convenience stores. He is often at the police station where he meets and falls in love with Edwina ('Ed' for short), a cop. They get married and live happily for a while&#x85; that is until they decide to start a family. You see, Ed discovers she can't have babies and this dashes the hopes of the young couple. And then they hear of the 'Arizona Qunits'; five babies born to Nathan and Florence Arizona. Thinking they've probably got more than enough to deal with, H.I. and Ed decide to steal one for themselves&#x85; and this is where it all begins. Now, in the interests of not giving too much away, and because I got whinged at (you know who you are) I'm not going to say any more here&#x85; although I would like to.First of all, a truly excellent script, the Coens were really on form when they wrote this one. There is some tremendous dialogue, although the pacing does go a little awry in places. I think it's one of the best performances I've seen from both Nicolas Cage as H.I. McDunnough and Holly Hunter as Edwina 'Ed' McDunnough. Also worthy of note are; Trey Wilson as Nathan Arizona, John Goodman as Gale Snoats, William Forsythe as Evelle Snoats, Sam McMurray as Glen and Frances McDormand as Dot.The opening of this film is one of the best I've seen, beautifully paced, funny and it sets up the characters and the situation perfectly. Of course, this momentum cannot be maintained throughout and, although efforts are made to raise it, it never quite reaches the same heights. The characters are all fully formed and excellently portrayed, which seems to be a rare thing these days, particularly in comedy films. So, over all, a great script with some brilliant dialogue and excellent performances but the pacing is a little uneven&#x85; still very much recommended.My score 8.3/10 "},{"Title":"A childhood favorite.","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is, as far as I'm concerned, The Coen brothers best film by far. The film makes you enjoy every minute so it's easy to forget the seriousness of the base story. You will laugh so hard at parts that it will make you cry.While I'm not a fan of Nicholas Cage, I thought this was a perfect vehicle for him. Holly Hunter is always excellent. Their attention to detail in crafting their characters was on point and thorough.There is one scene in the film that stands out. The diaper/quicky mart robbing scene is very well shot and hysterical. That scene alone is worth watching.I would suggest this film to anyone. They don;t make em like this anymore. I wish Nick cage would bring back HI. "},{"Title":"A mostly effective Coen film","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Raising Arizona is a mostly effective Coen Bros. film. It has some very funny skits but you can tell that this is the Coens' most cartoonish film. Like always, it has their usual trademark of humor but the humor is also different from the humor found in more serious, and perhaps more mature, films like Fargo and A Serious Man. The humor here all consists of over- the-top wacky oddball situations and for the most part they work, including the best scene in the film which happens around the middle when Nicolas Cage decides to rob a store for some diapers. I also have to take note that I think the 2nd half becomes a little messy and uneven, but all is well because the ending is actually probably the most heart-warming ending I have seen in a Coen film. Overall, still pretty good flick, but it is no Fargo or A Serious Man for sure, or even a No Country For Old Men. Here, the Coens are still playing with film. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie of All Time","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This has been my favorite movie for years. I am particularly fond of the fact that I know many of the locations where filming took place. For example, the grocery store scene was at Earl's supermarket, at Hayden Road and Indian School (it has since changed to a Basha's). The hayseed bank was actually the steak house at Riata Pass, an area that has since been overrun with new housing developments.The filming is excellent, with very interesting camera angles (e.g. the bouncing baby view). The plot is engaging, and the characters are hilarious. I especially love the use of the phrase well, OK then. Not really an Arizona phase, but it gives a good provincial feel (maybe they were after the term OK, well, which IS actually used some).In the end this is a story which has surprising parallels to No Country for Old Men--local hick gets into illegal mischief, pursued by villain of virtually mythical proportions, full of local color for the area (Arizona for RA, West Texas for NCfOM). Unfortunately, in NCfOM, the ending is not so uplifting.And hence lies the contrast of Raising Arizona to most (or at least many) Coen Brothers films it has a genuinely happy ending (except for the ASU part ; )).Well, OK Then! "},{"Title":"Offbeat Dark Comedy Full of Surprises","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Coen Brothers were doing their 3rd film here. Not only does the script crackle but Nicholas Cage & Holly Hunter excel in their main roles as the ex-con married to an ex-cop who want kids but can't have their own. Enter the television news who tells there two about the Arizona family who just had 5 children. So they go to steal one.They manage to take Nathan Arizona Jr without any trouble, at least until they get home. Then two of his ex-con friends including one played by John Goodman, come to visit after busting out of prison. Between them & a crazy biker looking for the kidnapped baby, all their good intentions to raise the baby become impossible. Hiliariously impossible to say the least.There is a lot of crazy action & very good acting from the entire cast, plus a solid script that makes this one worth viewing. "},{"Title":"Early Coen brothers effort has plenty of laughs.","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" You never really know what to expect from Joel and Ethan Coen the first time you sit down to watch one of their films. Long before their masterpieces of Fargo and No Country for Old Men, these two already knew how to baffle an audience. For laughs just read Roger Ebert's clueless review. He had no idea what he was watching or how to review it. If he saw it for the first time today he'd no doubt award it at least 3 1/2 of 4 stars. But since they only had Blood Simple under their belts at this point, Ebert obviously didn't feel obligated to give Raising Arizona anything more than a quick dismissal. I must admit I was originally baffled by these characters too, but the film had such energy, funny physical comedy, and incredible camera work that I was compelled to see it as many times as it took to appreciate it.The plot centers around Nicolas Cage and Holly Hunter who are newlyweds unable to conceive children. Hunter was a policewoman who got to know Cage over the many times he was arrested for robbing convenience stores. It was her job to take the mugshot photos of incoming crooks and the two took a serious liking to one another over the years. And his criminal record puts adoption out of the question. Though Cage figures their respective records should simply cancel each other out. Anyway, the couple resorts to kidnapping one of five babies born to a furniture magnate and his wife after she took several fertility treatments. Complicating things are two of Cage's old prison buddies who break out of jail and attempt to kidnap the little tyke for themselves. And there is a true oddity of a character in the form of a sadistic biker/bounty hunter also looking for the child. Ex-boxer Randall Tex Cobb plays him and he is almost a precursor to the Anton Chigurh character of No Country. Only he's a lot uglier and dirtier.The film doesn't last long and is mostly and assortment of chase scenes and slapstick that generally find their mark. There is about a five minute chase scene at the center of the film that will have you howling right along with the yodeler on the soundtrack. The actors are given some truly odd characters to play, but they generally do a good job with them. Frances McDormand may have been too over-the-top however. Her role is brief however. Cage is allowed to do what he does best in many scenes.... wig out! In a script which calls for a lot of yelling, he yells perhaps the loudest. The late Trey Wilson, who plays the furniture giant, pretty much steals all of his scenes. Certainly his lines are funniest. If you haven't seen this one for a while, you may want to see it again. Still a very funny picture. 8 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the Coen's version of the family unit.","Date":"10 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If I'm as bad as you, what good are we? What good are we to each other? You and me's just a fool's paradise. I do enjoy it when the Coens get quirky. Raising Arizona isn't quite the homespun quirkiness of Fargo (which I loved), the paranoia-fueled quirkiness of Burn After Reading (which I loved), the southern-fried quirkiness of 'O Brother Where Art Thou, or the combination of bowling and WTF-level awesomeness and quirkiness that was The Big Lebowski. But, it has more than enough of it's own unique brand of quirkiness to spare, and it's a pretty funny movie as a result.I'll admit that I'm not much of a Nick Cage fan, but in movies like this and Kick-Ass where he gets to be over-the-top and zany, I think it works. He and Holly Hunter are the stars of the movie, and there desire to have a child and their (mis)adventures when they get one, kept me interested the entire time. And they're balanced quite well by the supporting roles of John Goodman, Sam McMurray, Trey Wilson, and William Forsythe. Raising Arizona is unique in a way that Coen fans have come to expect, and while I don't put it the top of their work, I find it difficult to believe that many Coen fans will be disappointed by it. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Movie from Coen Brothers","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the best filmmakers of this generation, this early movie of Coen brothers is tremendously entertaining although not in the league of their better movies that include Fargo, Lebowski or No Country For Old Men. Also even with the over the top premise, some scenes of the movie was plain silly. Top notch performances from everyone including a young Holly Hunter and an even younger Nicholas Cage - one of the few movies he hasn't phoned in the Nic Cage performance. Despite being the movie that it is, the Coens do end the movie on the poignant note. A great watch for a weekend afternoon. "},{"Title":"Son, you've got panty on your head!","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's like opening day at a miniature golf course. &#x96; Pauline Kael (on Raising Arizona)The Coen's walk a tightrope between tragedy and comedy, between noir and screwball comedy. This is understandable the chaotic nature of screwball meshes perfectly with the indeterministic nature of noir (noir is screwball without the comedy). The difficulty is in maintaining a balance. Drift a little too much to one side and comedy wins, giving rise to infantile jokes, and the glib, mean-spirited tone of screwball. Drift too far to the other side, however, and you get stuff like No Country For Old Men and Burn After Reading, in which we wallow in a cartoonish vision of noir, nihilism reduced to an aesthetic choice.Like the Coen's best flicks, Raising Arizona lies somewhere in the middle. It's a wacky comic-book, but you feel for these cartoonish characters and their somewhat tragic tale.Most of the Coen Brothers' films utilise reoccurring visual motifs (the hats in Miller's Crossing, the tunnels in A Serious Man, the hoops in Hudsucker Proxy, the saucers in The Man Who Wasn't There etc). As Raising tells the story of a zany couple who kidnap a baby because they are not able to conceive children of their own, the chief motifs here are a more generalised swathe of birth imagery. Characters are given birth by puddles of mud, holes in the ground, are reborn from under objects and our entire cast of heroes is portrayed as being ridiculously childish. Even the film's villain, a mythical biker seemingly torn from the book of Revelations (or a Mad Max movie!), comes across as a big baby, the words my mama didn't love me tattooed to his flesh.This biker's name, Leonard Smalls, is itself based on the character Lenny Smalls from John Steinbeck Of Mice and Men, a retarded but powerful man-child who couldn't get close to things or people lest he destroy them with his big, dumb, baby grip. Unable to love or be loved, the film's apocalyptic biker - borne of atomic mushroom clouds and forever covered in smouldering, nuclear ash - is thus a vengeful version of Steinbeck's Mr Smalls, forever attempting to get back at, not just his parents, but all parents. The film's title, Raising Arizona, thus has a double meaning raising a baby called Arizona and razing Arizona, the wacky cast's sunbaked, south-western state blown to hell.Coupled to this vengeful man-child's parenticidal quest is the quest of Raising Arizona's hero, a dopey small-time criminal played by Nicholas Cage. Cage's mission is to be reformed, to end his criminal ways and to become a responsible father. In other words, he wants to grow up and stop being a child. The problem is, his wife can't conceive and so the only way he can grow up and become a father is to kidnap a kid.And that's the absurd Catch-22 of the film. To stop being a child, Nick Cage has to kidnap a child, and kidnapping a child merely proves that he's still a silly man-child. Only the Coens could cook something like this up.Like No Country For Old Men, Raising Arizona ends with the recollection of a dream. Prior to this, our hero battles Lenny Smalls in an epic duel. Cage wins, but by then it's too late. Smalls, a precursor to No Country's Anton Chigurh, is the spirit of chaos embodied and conspiring against poor Nick Cage. Cage has no child, is unable to stop being a baby, precisely because of Small's existence, in much the same way the omnipresent UFOs of The Man Who Wasn't There embody noir fate.The film is heavily indebted to Preston Sturges, early screwballs and the 1938 comedy Bringing Up Baby, but stylistically it branches off into wholly new territory. The Coens serve up a kind of pop art version of the Arizona desert, in which everything has an artificial look and fluorescent lighting makes the world look like a 24 hour convenience story. Elsewhere the film's soundtrack is funny (yodelling and folk music), its characters are all live-action cartoons (modelled on the buffoonery of Warner animations and stuff like Woody Wood Pecker) and the Coens' dialogue is wonderfully eccentric (Sometimes I get them menstrual cramps real hard, Edwina's insides were a rocky place where my seed could find no purchase, Mighty fine cereal flakes, Mrs. McDonough), though some passages do get tedious with their unnecessarily decorative speechifying.More than Hitchcock, the Coens storyboard every inch of their films, lending Raising Arizona a look which resembles comic book panels, every shot locked into place, every image calculated and pre-planned. This gives the film a vivid style, every sequence storyboarded for maximum effect. Cinematographer Barry Sonnenfeld also makes excellent use of extreme high and low camera angles, wide angle lenses and gorgeous night time photography and/or locations. The film's compositions zap the eyeballs, and its camera work - gliding, always graceful - induces a certain aesthetic head-rush.Mostly, though, the film exudes that mixture of charm and pathos that made The Big Lebowski so endearing. Raising Arizona may be a 95 minute Road Runner cartoon which mocks redneck culture (trailers, lawn chairs, accents, shot guns etc), but there's still something very sweet and likable about its characters. The irony is, it's the refusal of troublesome actors like Nick Cage, Steve Buscemi and Jeff Bridges to be cartoons which imbue the best Coen flicks with their warmth. These actors seem to occasionally, or inadvertently, rise above the Coen universe, disobeying the wills of their directorial noir Gods.8.9/10 - Worth multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"The hellish labyrinth of deprivation","Date":"27 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Young people cannot resist. they have to get married, then they have to have babies, then they have to have all that comes along with these enslaving devices called children. The Coen brothers are of course inventing a situation that is so complex that building a frame house on Mars would look easier. The man has been in and out of prison so often that he hardly knows what non-criminal living is. He has fallen in love with the cop that has been taking his police pictures every single time. But let's be more bleak (I would like to say more bleaker à la Michael Jackson) than that. She is sterile. And a dumb furniture dealer named Arizona has quintuplets exactly at the same time. So the man will steal one of the five babies, since the Arizonas are over-provided and he is under-provided, in fact deprived. Add to that a married couple whose husband is sterile and who have adopted five kids. they propose a swap for fun and love. No way. Bang Bang. Add to that the arrival of two apes who have just escaped from the prison by digging a hole and who come to their ex-inmate-friend to survive for a while away from the cops. And then the drama is total. The kidnapped child is kidnapped by the two prison escapees when they are told to beat it, and then by the motor-cycled bounty hunter who is running after the reward for the kidnapped baby when he gets on their back, and then back by the initial kidnappers, and then finally, what can they do with that child? A little bit of suspense for your own sake. Only the Coen brothers can invent such a bleak and sickening story. It is not hilarious, except if you like sick and sickening humor, but it is somewhere deep about the incapability of society to really provide everyone with a fair chance to do something worth living, and first of all a vision of life that could be better than the hell of an unavoidable purgatory from which there is no exit, escape or way out, a purgatory in which you are forever pampered with infantile childish punishing nappies in the shape of diapers.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "}{"Title":"It's more of a piece of entertainment, than a piece of challenging fiction","Date":"22 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Having seen a few Coens films and thoroughly enjoying them (Fargo, Big Lebowski, Blood Simple), I excused Nicolas Cage's usual reputation for bad acting and began watching this film with mixed expectations.So after watching it, I actually thought it was okay, but not great. With hindsight, I think this movie is better appreciated as an 80's movie in that the humour is mostly visual and the moral of the story is spelt out for the viewer, however sentimental and (I'll admit) heartwarming it is.It has the usual Coen trademarks (twisting plots, poetic characters etc) but the techniques appear rather forced in this film, which is a shame. The 'Coen touch' isn't executed as nicely as it is in other films they've worked on.Trying to pinpoint where exactly this film falls short of greatness, I personally believe it comes down to Randall Cobb's character (which I think is needless and only inserted for poetic reasons). The whole cast do their acting job superbly, even Nicolas Cage, who actually provides one of the best performances in the film, to my surprise.The film succeeds at making me care for the characters of Ed and Hi and Nathan Jr, so I guess that's great but the film doesn't make for a brilliant watch, sadly. Watch it once or twice maybe, but no more. It could have been a great film I think if only some parts of the story had been omitted or extended. So if you're not one for nitpicking (which I horribly tend to be) then this film should provide a good night in or two. "},{"Title":"Probably the funniest film The Coen Brothers ever made","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" While I wouldn't say this is my all-time favorite film from The Coen Brothers, its probably the funniest one they ever made. I appreciate the more subtle humor in The Big Lebowski, but when it comes to consistent belly laughs, Raising Arizona may be your best bet. Its insane from beginning to end and much like a live action cartoon. It is, for the most part, devoid of the dark borderline surrealism that pervades the Coens' other films. This is an insane slapstick comedy, plain and simple. When it comes to this kind of humor, its one of the best out there and runs rings over anything Jim Carrey has ever been in. The film is also probably the most accessible and downright likable from the film-making geniuses.The performances all around work very well. Nicholas Cage is an actor who hasn't been interesting in years (outside of Adaptation, hes been going downhill ever since the fantastic Leaving Las Vegas in 1995), but in his prime he was one of the more interesting mainstream actors. He balanced the popcorn fodder with more interesting indie roles. His portrayal of H.I. proves he can be a fine comedic actor when given the opportunity. Holly Hunter is also very good, creating an equally loony yet sympathetic character. The supporting cast is full of entertaining characters. The films of the Coen Brothers contain the most bizarre faces outside of a Fellini film. As usual, the screenplay is great, full of witty lines that simply get funnier and funnier with each viewing. The direction keeps everything moving at a lightning fast pace. Raising Arizona is one of the funniest films ever made. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Not the Coens' Best, But Still Worth a Watching","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Coen Brothers have a long and distinguished career of making quirky, off-center films with fun characters and some sort of meaning-of-life background. This earlier film of theirs really kicks off what was to be an eventful 1990s for the Brothers Coen.A career criminal and his ex-cop wife kidnap a baby fro ma rich man, not for ransom... but to raise it as their own. The plot thickens when two old prison buddies of the main character break out and need somewhere to stay.What I really enjoyed was the variety of Raimi shots, especially the really long zoom-in one. One of the Coens (I forget which) was involved in Evil Dead, so the Coen-Raimi connection runs deep. (Future films, like Hudsucker Proxy, have the collaborating.... and cross-references happen on occasion, even in this film where Crime Wave is referenced. The grocery store scene even had some similar aspects that Intruder had.) Nicolas Cage is the star of this film (along with the lesser-known Holly Hunter and John Goodman). Cage is like Elvis. Some like the thin Elvis, some like the fat Elvis. There is a younger and an older Cage. This one is the younger (seen also in Trapped in Paradise). While I enjoyed his performance in this movie, he seemed to still be a weak and uncomfortable actor. I prefer the older Cage (Adapatation, Lord of War, Weather Man).But by far the greatest character in this film was the biker of the apocalypse. At first only a brief dream, his role becomes bigger and bigger as the film goes on until he becomes more central to the plot. I don't know how to describe him other than to say he is literally Hell on Wheels and a force to be reckoned with.The down side? Besides being a less tight Coen Brothers film, and a weak Nicolas Cage, the only thing I can really say against this movie is something about the painted backgrounds. I found the scenery to be really fake. But, heck, maybe that was on purpose.Watch The Big Lebowski, Hudsucker Proxy and Fargo first... but then come back for this Coen classic. "},{"Title":"A funny early flick from Coens, good but not as great as their others","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" An offbeat screwball comedy from the coen brothers is decent, but not near great. I enjoyed this film a bit however it was a bit unoriginal and annoying at times. The direction was great, keeping the sometimes lame story interesting although some of the scenes were a bit too over-the-top and slapstick. The screenplay is responsible for that i guess, i liked this screenplay it was funny at most times, however don't think it was as polished as other hilarious works such as Barton Fink and Big Lebowski. The acting was good, Nicolas Cage gave the best performance, i liked him a lot in this, one of his best performances i think, liked him more here than adaptation and a lot of his new stuff (although he is off and on and at times brilliant even in recent films). Holly Hunter was also great, i liked her character her a lot, she performed it a lot. Trey Wilson, John Goodman, William Forsythe and Frances McDormand were all great in supporting roles, although i had some problems with this film, and it was a bit too bizarre and boring for a comedy for me at times, the acting was great, direction was good, so all in all a fairly enjoyable flick, good early work from the coens. 8/10 #231 on my all time favorite film list "},{"Title":"Raising Arizona","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Some people just don't get it--blue collar characters with Ivvy-league vocabularies, what's so funny about that? Well, it IS funny and that's only part of the reason why this film is a classic. Where do I start? Each time I watch this film (100 times and counting) I come away with something new to watch for the next time. Each scene and every remark has meaning--I know you're partial to convenience stores, but damn it HI, the sun don't rise and set on the corner grocery! Just one example--words to live by. Well done, Coen Brothers. Your best work ever.cp "},{"Title":"The best Coen brothers movie!","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have seen every Coen brothers movie except for The Man Who Wasn't There and Intolerable Cruelty, and for me Raising Arizona is their best film to date. It is one of those few films you find that seems perfectly balanced. Just the right amount of comedy, just the right amount of seriousness, just the right amount of introspection. No dead spots. It is suitable for any viewing audience, unlike Fargo, which was a bit too cruel in its humor (the kidnapped wife running blindly into things was NOT funny), or The Ladykillers, which was a great film that unfortunately had a steady stream of foul language coming from one of the characters, which really felt out of place and distracted from the rest of the movie. I put Raising Arizona along side movies like RoboCop, Aliens, The Untouchables, High Noon, Dr. Strangelove, and Se7en. Pretty much perfect. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Offbeat Comedy","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is probably the Coen brothers' most funny film, next to The Big Lebowski. Nicolas Cage and Holly Hunter play an unlikely couple (an ex-convict and a cop) who are unable to have children of their own or even adopt one due to Cage's criminal record. When they find out that a big-wig department store owner and his wife just gave birth to a set of quintuplets, they figure that if they steal one of them the man and his wife won't care. What follows is a wonderfully offbeat story sprinkled with hilarious dry humor and bits of slapstick comedy. This is a movie that will leave you thinking and laughing about it long after its over. Nicolas Cage has never been more hilarious in a movie. A must see. 8.4/10. "},{"Title":"Failing Illinois","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Before I started to take the Coen brothers seriously with Fargo and The Big Lebowski, I had the misfortune of having this as my introduction to their work.  It's a sophomoric comic book one step ahead of Spaceballs in parody, but lacking in everything else.  Why did Cage reuse his southern accent in Con Air?  Is he trying to be diverse or just show off?The Coen brothers aren't audio filmmakers.  Having gone through all their work I can say that compared to James Cameron they aren't in touch with the ear.  Whereas Cameron is a technical director always trying to show off his toys (whether on-screen or behind-the-scenes) to the audience, the Coens rely on the script.  Believe me, they've done better than this...The world of film is so radical compared to any other medium created that not even cyberspace can threaten it.  Detail must persist because when it doesn't the few creative threads in the world are stretched to the limit.  While the work load is certainly greater, the potential is thousands of times greater than stage or literature.That said, I am starting my personal escape from the escapism of mainstream film and deepening the trek into foreign, experimental, and aged-prototype genres.  I hope to find there what is missing in Raising Arizona...coherence.  The Coens have done better, except for Intolerable Cruelty which was just that, intolerable.  (50%) "},{"Title":"Vintage Coen Brothers","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  RAISING ARIZONA (1987) ***1/2 Nicolas Cage, Holly Hunter, Trey Wilson, John Goodman, William Forsythe, Frances McDormand, Sam McMurray, Randall `Tex' Cobb, M. Emmett Walsh.  If `Blood Simple' put the filmmaking siblings Joel & Ethan Coen on the map then this film set them for stardom real-life action cartoon comedy (with the soul of a Capra/Sturges beating deep below the surface) about inept career criminal HI McDonough (love that name) played to the comic hilt by Cage (who to me eerily channels Berkely Breathed's comic strip 'toon Bill The Cat - AACCKK!)  and his police officer wife Hunter (feisty and smartly played) who discover they cannot conceive of their own and decide half-heartedly to kidnap one infant  of  a qunituplet fathered by an unpainted furniture empresario (Wilson).  Hysterically funny and wildly all over the place thanks to the crackerjack team of the Coen brothers and journeyman cinematographer (and soon to be filmmaker of merit) Barry Sonnenfeld's out-of-control camera maneuvering.  Cobb's Warthog From Hell biker avenger is the stuff of cartoon nightmares and his final assault on the poor Cage is priceless.  Equally memorable are Hi's jailmate siblings Goodman and Forsythe (both of prodigious pompadours and pork chop sideburns) who make a side-splitting prison escape in a rain-drenched dank mess of mud and Iron John iron-lunged animal behavior never before captured on film. -- Phew!- "},{"Title":"Over-rated","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although I like Nicolas Cage, Holly Hunter, and John Goodman; this movie was not a favorite of mine. It must have been the story because they are all excellent actors.  There was something weak about the plot.  I cannot quite pin it down.  I sat through it hoping it would improve and it did not. It was more ridiculous than funny.  I did not find myself laughing much at all. The ending was the best part of the entire film.  I would not recommend this movie to anyone nor would I watch it again. "}{"Title":"One of the greatest films about the American Dream, ever.","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the Coens' best film and this is Cage's best work. This allegory articulates the still prevalent class struggles in American life. The rich always seem to have everything in excess (including children). The poor and working class are perpetually barren. This movie challenges its audience to consider what options exist, if any, for the lower class to fulfill their American Dreams... and is it possible for them to do it legally? "},{"Title":"My second favorite Coen movie.","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Next to The Big Lebowski, this is my favorite movie the Coen Brothers ever did.  Every time I see it, I laugh like it's my first viewing and Nicholas Cage is PERFECT as H.I. Hi McDonnaugh.  Any movie that has a chase scene centered around a bundle of diapers deserves a place in my top ten list.  That scene is priceless.  Also, I loved the yodeling and the banjo picking.   "},{"Title":"Huggies, cons, gunplay, kids, salesmen, and jerks","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Way, way out comedy featuring some of the zaniest characters I've ever seen. The two brothers who kept leaving the baby on top of the car were a scream. Cage and Hunter were hilarious as the totally stupid couple who just had to have a baby. Non stop laughs in this madcap adventure. "},{"Title":"A Great Comedy Or My Name Is Not Arizona","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Man, Raising Arizona is a hilarious thrill-ride of a movie about an ex-cop (Holly Hunter) and an ex-convict (Nicolas Cage) who get married and decide that they want children.  However, Hunter cannot bear children so they decide to kidnap one of the Arizona (the name of a prominent family within the state of the same name) quintuplets.  What follows is a chaotic film that could only be created by the Coen Brothers.  A great comedy from all angles.  4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Pretty chaotic, but impressive overall","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an original, funny, and unique movie from the Coen brothers, the best filmmaking brothers in the business. It starts off fast and moves like a bullet, but sometimes the over-the-top slapstick can get in the way of this otherwise entertaining film. There is some excellent cinematography, which makes it look like a Kubrick movie. It is a bit overrated however, and the Coen's could have done a lot better. 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"A comedy with a sad feeling","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A good movie that creates a beautiful and sweet atmosphere. Although you can't identify with the main characters they are adorable and with good motives. Some comic scenes are hilarious but this movie is not a comedy as at least I define the genre. Not a masterpiece but Nick Cage and Holly Hunter do their best (and the scenario helps) to touch your heart. "},{"Title":"Raising Arizona","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the Coen's best made films. Perfect cinematography and editing make this story of a young couple who kidnaps a baby because they are unable to have one of their own a sure fire winner. Cage is especially appealing.  "},{"Title":"Cartoony mayhem in a vacuum...frenetically mind-numbing","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Failed modern screwball comedy from filmmakers Joel and Ethan Coen involves trailer-trash couple in Arizona who kidnap a baby boy from another couple with infant quintuplets (to keep this dubious comic premise palatable, the Coens are quick to ensure that every character is an oaf--outrageous, selfish and stupid--and usually with an eccentric, violent bend). Leads Nicolas Cage and Holly Hunter are both very attuned to the Coens' broad sense of humor, but only the bit players (an elderly cashier, a bank patron) come up with anything surprising. On the odd occasion when Hunter's ex-cop suddenly develops maternal instincts or (God help us) a conscience, the movie comes to a dead halt. It also stands curiously still in any two-person scene involving a great deal of dialogue. Cinematographer Barry Sonnenfeld works creative-overtime like a man possessed, spiking individual scenes with his energy, but Joel and Ethan's screenplay is exceedingly thin--it's like hanging classic oil paintings in a rec room. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Lovely Deep South crime caper","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Raising Arizona, the Coens' offbeat southern set crime odyssey is an entertaining and funny ride, which sees wannabe parents (Nicholas Cage and Holly Hunter) go to extraordinary lengths to get themselves their own little bundle of joy. Those lengths are extraordinary indeed, as, after hearing that she is unable to have children, the couple go into Bonnie and Clyde mode, which results in Cage stealing the baby of a rich entrepreneur. The film delights in being over the top and silly all the way through. However, the film still takes on it's own reality, thanks to the Coen brothers. The brothers have a knack for creating worlds in their films that are somewhat unlike the real world; they do it in all of their films, but I think that this one is arguably the best of them in that respect. It's offbeat tone does make it extremely funny, and at times the films reaches levels of hilarity - but it's not laugh out loud funny, it's the sort of humour that comes together because of the entire thing, a running joke, if you will.Cage dons a Deep South accent for his role here, and is actually quite good at it. He is very believable in his role as a small time crook, and his haplessness is, at times, very funny. Holly Hunter stars opposite Cage as the policewoman whom he marries. Holly Hunter is good here in her role, but that's all. The more charismatic Cage outshines her, but she still does her job adequately. The rest of the film is adequately populated by a decent support cast that includes John Goodman, William Forsythe and a small role for Frances McDormand, who would of course go on to excel in the Coens' best film; Fargo. However, despite a good cast and a nice atmosphere; Raising Arizona is just missing something that hinders it from being the ultimate in silly crime films. What it's missing is the heart; there's nothing much for us to connect to these characters with, and also the film is a little too linear. In Fargo, there were many things going on, whereas here there's only really the central premise and a little side story involving two of Cage's friends escaping from prison. Still, this is a cut above the majority of small time crook films, and the Coens' names on the credits should be enough to entice any fan of cinema to see it.  "},{"Title":"Offbeat in every way","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While by no means a classic, this film is still a lot of fun in a WEIRD sort of way.  It is quirky in the extreme, but unfortunately,  I feel that it falls short of what it could have been.  Nevertheless, the movie has several moments of inspired lunacy, a terrific opening, and a reasonably good pace that make it all a worthwhile experience. "}{"Title":"The Gravy Train has left Cebu.","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It is hard to say that this film is disappointing. In reality, I never had any expectations for this film to be great. Sometimes, films can surprise you with no expectations. But this movie failed to really get off the ground.John Goodman, the only other recognizable face in this film besides Cage, is there with his bud. When they get whift of the kidnapped baby's true identity, they steal the baby instead of collecting on the reward. Nobody had any real logic in this film. And what is worse, the film was just generally unfunny.The baby bit, with everybody stealing him, was funny the first time. But it wasn't the next four or five times. Old bits. The robbery was also kind of funny. But even then, it could not make up for the fact the rest of the movie was sub-par. Overall, not too awful. But then again, being sub-par isn't all too thrilling either. C- "},{"Title":"An odd couple start a family via kidnapping.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nicolas Cage is an inept criminal that is arrested for a botched robbery. He falls in love with a cute police photographer (Holly Hunter)and the two yearn to start a family immediately after getting hitched. Adoption seems out of the question, so why not kidnap a baby from a wealthy family that recently welcomed quints into the world. Things get real dicey when an axe-swinging biker brute is hired to find the scoundrels that stole the baby.The style and wit of Ethan and Joel Coen are beyond compare in the field of directing and writing comedy. Innovative camera work by Barry Sonnenfeld combined with laugh your butt off situations makes this movie a hoot to watch. Hilarious to the max.Also notable performances by John Goodman, William Forsythe and Frances McDormand. This comedy just does not get old. A laugh riot. "},{"Title":"Dumb and Completely Over-the-top","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"17 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Cage is 100% miscast as Southwestern Hick.  Goodman is even worse as his loser friend in this obvious and stupid spoof.  The Coen brothers get more kudos than any director/producers I know for perpetuating dumb stereotypes and absurd plots with obnoxious scores, all in the name of independent art.  These films are independent, because any real studio would be ashamed to make such trash.  This film defines the word, mind-numbing.  "},{"Title":"Early Coen comedy","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Roger Ebert recently called the Coen Brothers an American institution. Their latest film, No Country for Old Men is out in cinemas now and is widely expected to win a handful of Oscars in March amidst a hail of critical praise. I tend to agree with the view of critics about their high standing in American cinematic history, especially during the otherwise largely barren 80's. Their films can be divided into two categories crime and comedy.Their earlier crime films, movies like Blood Simple and Miller's Crossing and more recently Fargo are hailed as classics and justifiably so. Blood Simple and Miller's Crossing may have aged with time, but they are still very stylish and intelligent films and will, I believe, stand the test of time like the B&W classics of film noir.Their comedies however, have been a hit and miss affair. They haven't received the critical acclaim of their crime movies even when they were among the very best of the genre such as the brilliant The Big Lebowski. Where you can see a strong noir influence in their crime movies, the comedies are heavily influenced by Preston Sturges whose Sullivan's Travels inspired the title of O Brother Where Art Thou! I didn't much like O Brother or the recent The Ladykillers. The primary problem was with the script and the heavy duty homages to Ealing and Sturges.Of their comedies, Raising Arizona is probably the best after Lebowski. It does not take itself seriously and can get surreal at times but combines reasonable characterizations with a zany plot and good writing to entertain. Nic Cage gives a good early performance, before he went the way of the blockbuster, as an incompetent thief who falls in love with Holly Hunter's police officer. They decide to kidnap a child when they can't have one of their own. The child is one of several (5 or 6) born to a millionaire businessman. The Coen's milk the setup for all its worth in both the kidnapping attempt and the aftermath when assorted criminal elements try to take the child from them. A good humored and good natured film, this is decent viewing for fans of the Coen's. Others not accustomed to their style and work may find it a bit dated. "},{"Title":"Raising Arizona","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think it was in Film Studies I heard about this film, considered by many a classic, my classmate was basing their auteur presentation on the work of filmmaking brothers Ethan and Joel Coen (Fargo, O Brother, Where Art Thou?, No Country for Old Men), so I was most interested. Basically (Herbert) H.I. 'Hi' McDunnough (Nicolas Cage) is the loser constantly in and out of jail for robbery, and he is always booked by female police officer Edwina 'Ed' (The Piano's Holly Hunter), and in the short time they spend together he flirts. When he is released for what he says will be the last time, he finds Ed and proposes marriage, which she accepts, and after the wedding they start a new life together in the Arizona desert in a trailer home. They are however very upset when it turns out that Ed cannot conceive, and with Hi's criminal record they are not allowed to adopt a baby, but then they see furniture store magnate Nathan Arizona (Trey Wilson) on TV. He has been blessed with five babies, i.e. quintuplets, and he jokingly says that they are more than they can handle, so the couple plan to take one of the babies to raise it for their own. After letting all the babies out of the crib, Hi has an amusing series of crawling and catching to do, but he does eventually take one of the babies, supposedly Nathan Jr. Meanwhile, Hi's prison chums the Snoats brothers, Gale (John Goodman) and Evelle (William Forsythe) have tunnelled their way out to escape, and they find Hi hoping to stay and hide out, Ed isn't happy but agrees as they are his friends. Nathan of course wants his baby son back, he is offering a $25,000 reward to whoever finds him, he gets a visit from the fearful dark biker Leonard Smalls (Randall 'Tex' Cobb) demanding double, and when he refuses he plans to take the baby and sell it off. Hi ends up getting fired from his not great job drilling holes into sheets of metal when he punches his supervisor Glen (Sam McMurray) in the face, after he suggested his wife Dot (Fargo's Frances McDormand) and Ed should wife-swap. That same night Hi goes out late night to get some nappies for the baby, but he reverts to his old ways making his shopping trip a robbery, with an unloaded gun, and he and Ed end up being chased by the police. Next morning, Gale and Evelle have found out the real identity of the baby, and they decide to take it for the reward money, stopping for a bank robbery on the way, and Hi and Ed go after them. When the Snoats end up accidentally leaving the baby behind, the scary biker picks him up, and there is a showdown between him and a badly beaten Hi, but he is blown up by one of his own grenades. In the end, Hi and Ed return the baby to the crib and his father, Nathan says he won't do anything, and Hi has a realistic dream of possible future events, with the Snoats going back to prison, Nathan Jr. growing up, and them getting their own family. Also starring T.J. Kuhn as Nathan Arizona Jr., Lynne Dumin Kitei as Florence Arizona and Wild Wild West's M. Emmet Walsh as Machine Shop Ear-Bender. Cage and Hunter together and in their separate moments are really good, their over-the-top performances actually work, Goodman and Forsythe are really funny as the Laurel and Hardy style cons, and Cobb makes a hilariously scary motorbike riding villain, shooting and blowing up animals. I agree with the critics that this is like a real life Tex Avery cartoon, seven years before the wizardry of Jim Carrey's The Mask, the slapstick and dialogue jokes work well, and there is also some great camera-work similar to that of The Evil Dead, a likable comedy. Nicolas Cage was number 33 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars the film was number 44 on Film 4's 50 Films You Must See Before You Die, and it was number 31 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs. Very good! "},{"Title":"a wacky farce that still has me grinning today.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Though I thought the Coen brothers (producer and co-writer Ethan and director and co-writer Joel) deserve a lot of credit here for this film, I also would like to point out Barry Sonnenfeld, who did some exceptional camera-work here, that (like there best film Blood Simple) actually provided some comedy in scenes (shows how Sonnenfeld became a famed comedy director). The plot is a good one, in which Nic Cage and Hoolly Hunter (both in one of they're best performances) play a con-man and police photographer who get married and want to have kids, but when she can't, they decide to steal a famous one. Pretty funny set-up, with some cool action provided along the way. What helps make it work almost 20 years later are the actors, and the strange set-pieces. John Goodman makes a good supporting actor here, along with his partner in crime. But the best- and the actor I keep forgetting his name of now- plays the biker in the most grimy, uncouth way that is a howler. It threatens to run off the hinges, like other Coen brothers movies, but it stays on pretty much till the end. Where else will you get a hire-wire chase involving a bag of diapers, and an ending that almost pulls everything to be, well, sweet? "},{"Title":"It's just not very funny","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Although many people consider Raising Arizona to be one of the funniest films of all time I find it an extremely overrated motion picture. The Coen Brothers are certainly unique filmmakers and as a duo they are one of my favorites - but the problem is that sometimes they try to be so bizarre and over-the-top that their story suffers. Fargo was really the perfect balance of dark humor and exaggeration - it is their most mainstream film and definitely the one with the most restrained humor. The Big Lebowski is really over-the-top but it's hilarious from start to finish.Raising Arizona, like O Brother Where Art Thou?, suffers from a pretty weak script and wandering direction. It starts as a straightforward (albeit strange) comedy, turns into drama, and ends as a wacky over-the-top action film. It's all done tongue-in-cheek but a lot of the humor just isn't very funny at all. The Biker from Hell being a good example of something that is pretty clever (sort of poking fun at the stereotypical villains) but it's just so bizarre it's not even funny! The movie is fairly realistic in the beginning but by the ending it's like watching some really bad cartoon with human actors - people are literally flying into the air for goodness sake! The movie is very amusing at first but once it starts trying to focus more on its plot it suffers a lot. First of all the humor basically becomes childish and/or nonexistent - Cage abducting the child is just not very funny and it goes on far too long. After that there are really only a handful of good jokes and even then they're nothing compared to The Big Lebowski. Also the chemistry isn't very good. Holly Hunter's character is totally unlikeable and thin (as in given no proper introduction). She isn't developed well at all, she seems like a masochistic b**ch rather than someone we like to root for. Cage is really good in his role and that's a shame because the idea of him being married to her really becomes grating. The Coens really misfired with her character.Many subplots and characters that are introduced are unnecessary and/or frustrating...loads of potential with John Goodman's character but it's all pretty much wasted in a barrage of stupid ideas.Overall I would have preferred a movie exclusively about the Cage character and his misadventures - once the film settles down into its plot and focuses more on Hunt and the rest of the cast it loses a lot of steam and potential....I can't really understand why so many people like this film. Sometimes I dislike a film and can at least see why others might think it's great - but with Raising Arizona I really do feel it's a major misfire from the Coens and their later projects - Fargo, Miller's Crossing, Big Lebowski, Barton Fink - are a whole lot better. "},{"Title":"Pre-Viewing Checklist","Date":"5 August 2012","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A quick checklist for anyone considering this movie1. Coenheads - if you are one, proceed to checkout 2. Hollow humorist - if you like to be force fed your humor, you're in luck. 3. Bicoastalism - plenty of middle/Southern/Western stereotypes here 4. Amateur Auteurs - Watch this film so you can earn your I'm-more- sophisticated-than-you pin.All others should bypass this cinematic desert.It has been said that much art is devised to impress other artists. I think that attitude is central to Coeney Island, and this film certainly falls into the category euphemistically called quirky. Products such as this can't be blamed for aiming squarely at their intended audience. If you like this kind of pseudo-intellectual fare, bully for you. There are plenty of vendors for this kind of ware.All others who will try to find anything substantial will be sorely disappointed. You won't experience wildness, depth, sentiment, wonder, fury, intrigue, edginess, insight, lasciviousness, or even a good joke. In fact, what's really missing is honesty.You will be served up mounds of pretense and self-important contrivance, infused with long-expired sophomorism, and powdered with clip art humanism.Package above with ,uh, quirky dialogue (hard to assign that term since the characters don't express anything to each other or the audience) and you have all the haughty form-over-substance. cookie-cutter originality that the anesthetized soul craves.It was finely-crafted bubble-wrap, I admit that. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing , something for teenagers ,...maybe  .","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Remembering how good I thought FARGO was but not having seen any other Coen bros. film I read the comments and the rating for RAISING ARIZONA here when you listed the 10 films.I was very disappointed in this movie was mildly entertaining , but barely ..two louts screaming as loudly , did not strike me as funny , not funny ...Makes me wonder about what people thought was even good , not to mention great about this bomb.Makes me hesitate to see the other Coen movies,.. Might see Big Labowski and Brother where art thou.But of course not every one likes the same movies but often when one reads many good things about a movie one hopes the movie will please you also.This one did not . "},{"Title":"What are you people thinking?","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Have any of you who voted on this film actually seen it? Don't get me wrong, I love Nicolas Cage but this has got to be his worst performance ever. The fact that this film ranks higher than classics like The Sound of Music is appalling to me. Come on people. Let's think before we vote "}{"Title":"The Funniest Work of The Coen Brothers","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This just gets funnier everytime I see it.  Next to Miller's Crossingand Fargo, this is the best movie of the Coen Brothers.  To be specific,the funniest element was everything about John Goodman.  The funniestscene with him was when they left Junior (the baby) in the middle of theroad.  It was so irresponsible, it was great.  This film also includesHolly Hunter's best performance I've ever seen, great music, and greatquotes like I need a baby, Hi!  They got more than they can handle.. See this movie the second you see it at the video "},{"Title":"Empty, unfunny and unimpressive Coen Brothers outing.","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't know the Coens could make a bad movie till i saw this. I could appreciate what they were going for, but i think the screenplay was just not up to scratch. There's no narrative drive - no reason for us to watch till the end. The premise was not good enough, and they filmed each scene for way too long. A quicker pace might have helped, but it wouldn't have made it a funnier movie.I just couldn't believe what a simple level this movie operates on - there's nothing more complex in it than an impotent couple stealing a baby off a couple with plenty of babies and trying to juggle having a baby with the criminal tendencies of Nick Cage.Just generally unimpressive. Barry Sonnenfeld's whooshing steadicam shots along the ground are very nice, but the scenes they are in play out like jokes told to a silent, staring audience, totally flat.For classy Coen, O Brother Where Art Thou, for hilarious perfect Coen see Big Lebowski, for the most fun see Hudsucker Proxy. "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A comedy about a young couple kidnapping a child sound like a good plot for a comedy. What turned out was no story only mayhem, disaster, and a big pile of poor taste. If that is what turns you on you may enjoy this film. Otherwise skip this one. "},{"Title":"Drivel","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Quite simply, the worst film I've ever seen - and I've seen a few howlers too. Typical of the Coen brothers' output - how overrated are they? One main constituent missing from their films - NOT FUNNY! I've seen them quoted as quirky/intelligent - NOT. This is Aaron Spelling territory (he of the TV howler Fantasy Island). "}]