[{"Title":"Joe Dante Classic","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"32 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This 1987 film is a wonderful combination of sci-fi, comedy, romance and thriller elements. It is briskly paced despite being almost two hours in length, and features superb performances from the leads; Dennis Quaid is excellent as usual, as is Meg Ryan in her best role. Yet the plaudits must go to Martin Short in a truly great performance he has never matched. He just needs the right role. The supporting cast are great as well; the delightful villainy of Vernon Wells who is unrecognisable as usual! Also Robert Picardo camping it up superbly as The Cowboy, one of his most memorable creations, plus the great pairing of Fiona Lewis and Kevin McCarthy, who memorably says to his dog before feeding it 'Never beg, never beg!' The cinematography and special effects/makeup are all great as well, and Jerry Goldsmith's score is brilliant, perfectly complementing the tone of the film, alternately exciting/sprightly/romantic. Joe Dante binds it all together with magnificent verve, plus Dick Miller makes his trademark appearance! A great, timeless classic. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Simply very good entertainment.","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie offers perfect entertainment.The main characters and the performances by the actors are very good and comical. The movie is filled with some crazy 'not-so-everyday' characters and the villains are deliciously stereotyped and highly entertaining and there are some simply hilarious moments throughout the movie.The movie can be described as an adventure science-fiction comedy. Surely the movie will not be remembered as one of the best of all time but I will always remember this movie as a very entertaining one and of which I have some very fond childhood memories.The nice 'unknown' musical score by Jerry Goldsmith is very good, I actually watched this movie in honor of his death the day he had died, on 21 July 2004.As long as you don't expect a masterpiece and merely want to be entertained, this movie is perfectly recommendable. Also very watchable for the entire family.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A very funny and exciting adventure!","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What a funny thrill ride this movie is!  A man (Dennis Quaid) volunteers to be shrunk down to the size of a cell and injected into a rabbit. But terrorists are after this scientific breakthrough and by various hijinks he winds up being injected into the butt of a nervous grocery clerk, played by Martin Short.  And that's just the beginning.Innerspace shows Dennis Quaid at his most winning, and Short at his funniest.  And of course, there's a very young Meg Ryan as their love interest.  The jokes resonate with both kids and adults, and unlike most action-adventure films, the plot here is never short of ideas.  And the effects are pretty neat too as we see Quaid's character wander within the human body, we feel as much amazement and wonder as he does.  LOTS of movies attempt to put you in outer space and worlds far away, but I can't think of one that has made the creative attempt of exploring our inner space.I first saw Innerspace when I was 11.  I didn't know who any of the lead actors were.  I'd never seen Saturday Night Live.  And I thought it was a great movie.  Twelve years and hundreds of movies later, I still think it's wonderful. "},{"Title":"Silly, But Not A Kids' Film","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is an updated Fantastic Voyage and interestingly done, I thought. Joe Dante directed a number of fun movies to watch.It's not the innocent Steven Spielberg E.T.-like movie I expected because of the language and several sex jokes. In other words, this is not a kids' movie.Dennis Quaid stars and plays his usual cocky self. (He's mellowed in recent years.) Meg Ryan is her usual cute-but-of-little-substance self and Martin Short is just plain funny - the best guy in the movie.The film offers a good combination of humor and science-fiction suspense. It's a fun movie I would rate higher if it weren't so silly in spots. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Voyage Too","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" INNERSPACE (1987) *** Dennis Quaid, Martin Short, Meg Ryan, Kevin McCarthy. Fast-paced and frenzily funny action/comedy/sci-fi film with Quaid as a washed up military pilot who volunteers to be miniaturized in a scientific experiment a la Fantastic Voyage inside a bunny but is mistakenly injected into hyper hypochondriacal Short (in arguably his finest comic role) who provides the physical comedy with Ryan as Quaid's long-suffering journalist girlfriend.  Nice performances and some truly eye-popping Oscar-winning visuals.  Directed by Joe Dante  "},{"Title":"Funny Sci/Fi Adventure","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Tuck Pendleton (Dennis Quaid) is a hotshot Navy pilot on an unusual and top secret mission; he is to be shrunk down and injected into the body of a rabbit, but when things go wrong he ends up inside Jack Putter (Martin Short) instead. Jack must now work with Tuck in order to stay alive; and it's a great ride.All the cast are good in this film, but Martin Short is brilliant; it's wall to wall action, adventure and laughs, and with a little romance thrown in, it's a winner. The special effects are outstanding for the time and Joe Dante's direction is excellent.Innerspace is fun for the whole family 7/10 "},{"Title":"a nice little comedy","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Why INNERSPACE was not the hit it should have been will remain a mystery for years to come. And old concept (FANTASTIC VOYAGE) is given an update with spectacular (for the time, but still good) special effects and an excellent cast. Martin Short is a real delight as a neurotic supermarket clerk who at first thinks he's possessed, only to discover that the only thing in his body is a miniaturized Navy test pilot, Dennis Quaid, who was accidently injected into him instead of a lab rabbit. Meg Ryan is cute as ever, and Robert Picardo co-stars in one of his best roles, The Cowboy. The late screenwriter Jeffrey Boam keeps the story simple but allows for some good suspense and laughs, and director Joe Dante keeps the pacing just right. The battle between Quaid and an enemy inside Short's stomach is the highlight of the film. I remember how much I wanted to be Quaid's Tuck Pendleton (and have his little pod) when I first saw the movie. The ending seems obvious for a sequel, but due to the film's surprising box office failure, it was not to be. Still, this is a really fun movie for the whole family, and I hope a Special Edition DVD is not far away. "},{"Title":"A good way to get on someone's nerves--literally!","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this movie today, and I must say, it was rather interesting.  The scenery looked like something out of a Walt Disney World attraction, and the special effects were good, making this a very fascinating movie.Innerspace is about a pilot, Tuck (Dennis Quaid) who is accidentally injected in grocery store assistant manager Jack (Martin Short) when the needle was originally intended for a rabbit.  Jack had only 1 day to get Tuck out before his air supply ran out, making for an interesting plot.Martin Short was hysterical in this strange comedy that kind of looks like All of Me.  He physically thrashes around, and the comedy suits him perfectly.  Dennis Quaid is good in the role of Tuck, who is arrogant, and begins to appreciate things after this little incident.Of course, no movie would be complete without key scenes that add to the movie.  And of course, no movie review would be complete without mention of these favorite scenes.  The scene where Tuck and Jack get drunk off of Southern Comfort together was a riot, because I was wondering how much JAck actually drank.  I like how he hiccupped and stumbled around, while Tuck asked, Jack, are you drunk?  My other favorite scene was when Jack first hears voices and yells IM POSSESSED!  The fact that the first scene that introduces him in the doctor's office sets the stage, so we know he's a hypocondriac.This movie was very funny and very cute at the end (won't give it away).  Although it plays like a Disney attraction,it probably would be cool.  I highly recommend this movie to Martin Short, Dennis Quaid, or Meg Ryan fans.  Watch out for the vaccinations, and definitely don't ignore that little voice inside you, it could be a space pod.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Don't shrink this movie's prominence.","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Joe Dante may be the zaniest director out there, along with Tim Burton. Matinee is my favorite of his movies, but Innerspace is certainly also up there. For the for couple of minutes, I couldn't figure out what was going on, but suddenly, the plot became clear. Lt. Tuck Pendleton (Dennis Quaid) is shrunk down to the size of a dust speck to be injected into an animal - a la Fantastic Voyage. But then, a terrorist group seizes the lab and one of the scientists carries the hypodermic out. With his last bit of strength, he injects Tuck into local dweeb Jack Putter (Martin Short) - without informing Jack of this. From there, some very embarrassing predicaments arise for the two men, not the least of which is how to explain the situation to explain to Tuck's hubby Lydia Maxwell (Meg Ryan).Throughout, Innerspace has Dante's quirky mark all over it. Dante of course gives a role to Dick Miller in this case, Miller plays a cab driver. Dante regulars Kevin McCarthy and Robert Picardo also star, the former as villain Victor Scrimshaw, the latter as Scrimshaw's associate Cowboy. With some crazy lines, this movie is pure fun for everyone. "},{"Title":"One of Joe Dante's best.","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When Joe Dante wanted to do a remake of Fantastic Voyage, I liked the way he decided to make his version into a comedy. I was surprised to discover that this film wasn't too successful, because I believe Innerspace is good solid entertainment, albeit daft.The story begins when Lt Tuck Pendleton (Dennis Quaid), an excellent pilot but an irresponsible hard drinker volunteers for a highly unusual experiment. He will be placed inside a submersible pod, and with the use of two microchips, be miniaturised and injected into a laboratory rabbit (called Bugs, what is it about Joe Dante and Looney Tunes characters anyway?).But just after Tuck has been shrunk, a group of Silicon Valley industrial spies break into the lab, and steal one of the microchips necessary to reverse the miniaturisation process. In desperation, one of the scientists (Ozzie) runs with the syringe Tuck is in, and injects him into the body of Jack Putter (Martin Short).Jack is a stressed out hypochondriac who is terrified of life, and learning that a shrunken human being is inside his body doesn't make him any less neurotic. With Tuck and Jack now having to depend on each other for survival, they team up with Tuck's ex girlfriend Lydia Maxwell (Meg Ryan) to recover the stolen chip before Tuck's air supply runs out.I must confess to being a sucker for these loser comes out on top stories, and this film is no exception. Jack is a man who has nothing going for him in life, but with Tuck urging him on, Jack manages to find inner confidence he never knew he had and takes control of his life.Both Tuck and Jack's characters go through changes in this film. Seeing the world through Jack's eyes, Tuck begins to reflect upon the mistakes he has made in his life. His irresponsible behaviour and heavy drinking was responsible for Lydia breaking up with him, and he wouldn't be in the situation he's in now if he hadn't recklessly gone through with this hare brained experiment.Dennis Quaid makes a likable character as Tuck, because although he is a wise guy, his pep talks to Jack are quite inspiring and how you can learn to take control of your own destiny.Martin Short is also a likable hero as Jack, although he does have a tendency to go over the top. Although he is supposed to be neurotic, his antics can grate on you a little on occasion. Some of his antics can be funny too, such as the crazy dance he does in Tuck's apartment, and yelling I'm possessed when he first hears Tuck's voice inside his head.The different scrapes they get into are quite exciting, such as Jack's hanging on for dear life at the back of a refrigerated truck (although it is a little overlong). Tuck's battle with one of the spies inside Jack's body is very well done, and the method of killing him is quite innovative too.One of the funniest scenes is when Tuck alters Jack's face to look like The Cowboy (Robert Picardo), someone who has come to buy the microchip off Scrimshaw (Kevin McCarthy), the man responsible for stealing the chip in the first place. The special FX for these scenes are pretty amazing, and the look on everyone's faces during these transformations are priceless.The FX used for inside Jack's body are incredible, and are totally realistic. One of the best scenes is when Tuck is nearly pulled into Jack's heart, and is very nail biting. Another good scene is when Tuck ends up in Lydia's body through a kiss with Jack, and sees his unborn child in her womb. That is a very awe inspiring scene, and is worthy of the same fascination that made Fantastic Voyage great.I believe this is a criminally underrated film. Admittedly, its a hard film to swallow, with things like altering Jack's face to look like someone else. How exactly could you do that? But this is a Joe Dante film, so you have to suspend disbelief a little. Meg Ryan isn't given enough to do, and its a pity her character couldn't have been given enough development.There are also a lot of things happening in this film, and not everything is tied up like it should have been. The way Innerspace ends, there could have been a sequel, but so far it hasn't been followed up. With Dennis Quaid's and Meg Ryan's divorce that doesn't seem very likely now.Still, Quaid has got a brilliant rapport with Short, and some (if not all) of the important matters are resolved. Its an entertaining film, and you find yourself being pulled along for the ride whether you like it or not. After Gremlins, Innerspace is my favourite Joe Dante film. "}{"Title":"An Adventure of Incredible Proportions","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Innerspace ''is a science fiction movie from the 80's, full of comedy and full of stars, like Dennis Quaid, Meg Ryan (this one very young and very thin in her 20's), Martin Short, and Kevin McCarthy. I personally find this movie adorable, since the scenes showing Tuck Pendleton inside of the human body, amazes me until today, seeing all those organs, embryo and even the cells in the veins.I am not surprised to see that this movie is produced by Steven Spielberg, since the guy has a natural talent to make most of the movies a great success, with incredible stories.The plot Pilot Lt. Tuck Pendleton is a member of a top-secret miniaturization experiment, that sadly goes wrong when a rival team of scientists, try to stole their plans and ideas to make miniaturization a success for them. Instead of being inside of a rabbit, Tuck ends in the body of Jack Putter, a hypochondriac who thinks that now is listening to strange voices inside his head. When Jack discovers about Tuck, an awesome adventure begins, with Jack, Tuck and even Tuck's girlfriend, trying to help Tuck to be back in his natural size. "},{"Title":"Mission Infeasible.","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Concept has plenty of potential. Cocky young Navy lieutenant Dennis Quaid is to be miniaturized in a kind of innerspace pod and injected into a laboratory rabbit named Bug where, in visual and audio contact with the lab personnel in Silicon Valley, he will explore the leporine internal milieu.The two tiny computer chips that make miniaturization and later restoration possible are extremely valuable, so bad guys stage a raid on the lab. The hypodermic syringe with the miniature pod is rushed out of the lab and injected by accident into the Assistant Manager of a local Safeway, Martin Short, who is a hypochondriac and a coward. The bad guys quickly identify Short and are in pursuit of him and the puzzled Quaid.Quaid is right for the part, and so is Martin Short whose features are goofy but not unpleasant. Quaid establishes contact with the terrified short and together they sweep up Quaid's girl friend, Meg Ryan, into the chase, which constitutes the entirety of the plot. Boy, she's cute. Two of Short's colleagues from SCTV show up -- Joe Flaherty and Andrea Martin. The bad guy is Kevin McCarthy, star of the science-fiction classic Invasion of the Body Snatchers, and a bit part in a men's room is given to Kenneth Toby, the Air Force Captain from The Thing From Another World. Alas, the movie, having established the tenets of the comic adventure, runs out of steam almost at once and becomes a frenzied succession of shouts, gun shots, car chases, delirious antics, and ridiculous fights. At least it can be said that it spare us much sentiment. I only winced once, when Quaid accidentally is transferred to the inside of his girl friend and discovers she's pregnant, and there is romantic music as Quaid's eyes light up and he mutters to himself, I'm a Dad, and the viewer pendiculates.There are some fine comedies that came out around the same time -- The Witches of Eastwick, The Freshman, Analyze This -- but this doesn't belong in the same category. This one substitutes speed for wit. All the attention seems to have been lavished on special effects and action, while the dialog and any humor associated with character has been ignored.The kids might enjoy it more than the adults. "},{"Title":"Criminally under-rated 80's flick.  Deserves to be held in the same esteem as Back to the Future and the like.","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"     Can anybody tell me why almost everybody loves Back to the Future yet nobody ever deigns to mention this little beauty in the same breath?  It more than deserves it.   Quaid is excellent as the cocky yet likeable Tuck Pendleton.  Here is a character who has personality to spare and a nice line in putdowns.  You get the sense that he gets as exasperated with Jack as we the audience do.  Quaid can really deliver when given the right material, something that Hollywood provides all too scarcely.  (POSSIBLE SPOILERS HEREON)   Short overacts but is still pretty funny, and anyway, I suppose exaggeration is forgivable given that he's playing a neurotic.  Ryan is cute but in all honesty is not given that much to work with.  It's credit to her talent that she manages to stand out at all.  Mr Igo is a cool villain, but one of many elements in the plot that aren't exploited to their full potential.  The film is so bursting with invention that often things are touched upon and then dropped before they've really been explored.  This all goes to show, however, that the film doesn't stand still for a minute, which can only be a good thing, especially when you have Quaid firing off the wisecracks.   It's fair to say that amidst all the general good fun the special effects aren't always something you notice, but they are superb, especially for '87.  Never once do they undermine the story.  It really is Quaid's film though, personal favourite lines including Dip, Dip, Dip all you like.  Nothin's gonna fit ya and You better, you two-faced sonofab**ch  An absolute blast from start to finish; this really is unfairly overlooked as being 'just another remake of 'Fantastic Voyage', when in reality it compares well with acknowledged classics of the comedy adventure genre such as Back to the Future.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Innerspace is an entertaining sci-fi comedy with good performances from Martin Short, Dennis Quaid and Meg Ryan. Also, the special effects are great. That is, if you think about the fact that the film was made in 1987. Naturally, the effects would be much better if the film was made today.There are also many laugh-out-loud scenes in the film, but as all comedies Innerspace goes on for too long and in the end I just wanted the film to be over. Overall though, it's an entertaining movie that would have benefited from being about 15 minutes shorter than it is. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Energetic, imaginative fantasy/comedy","Date":"4 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was a fun movie, kept a good balance between sci-fi, action, fantasy and comedy. It had a lot of imagination. It was a little more lightweight than most of the movies I like, I could tell that's the way they wanted it in a scene where the bad guys take over a lab by spraying the doctors with tranquilizer gas instead of shooting them. That may be the reason it didn't do good at the box office, it was PG around the time the PG-13 rating was becoming more lucrative. The only thing I didn't like was the scientists being shrunk at the end, it seemed a little silly. The ending kind of leaves you hanging, the producers were probably hoping the film would do well enough for a sequel. Overall, not great but good if you're looking for interesting 80's film artifacts. "},{"Title":"Still One of the Most Entertaining Movie Today","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'd almost forgot I had this movie. I've watched it maybe 30 times or more. I still love every second of this movie. It's one of those Spielberg movies that you can't get out of your head. It just won't leave. This particular movie was hard to find, but I prevailed. The intense acting of Dennis Quaid, and Martin Short says it all. They keep you going with each quirk of energy they generate. Very well done movie. Some movies, you just go to sleep, but not this one. I guard my DVD like a hawk. I will treasure this movie just like I do my Back To The Future Trilogy collection. The same as, Batteries Not Included, Inner Space is a Jewel of a movie that will never fizzle out with time. Time is on it's side. Meg Ryan just put the icing on the cake. Beauty, poise and great acting on her part. Meg put the right twist on the movie to give a tender, affectionate side. All the cast did a bang up job. "},{"Title":"Overlong & Too Silly.","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Science Fiction comedy from director Joe Dante about an experimental craft accidentally injected into grocery clerk Martin Short, and the various government factions that desperately try to recover it, while the pilot(played by Dennis Quaid) tries to contact Short, and convince him that he isn't just hearing voices. Meg Ryan plays the girlfriend, who tries to help them both.Some good model F/X and a fine cast cannot save this silly and contrived film that goes on far too long; being clearly inspired by Fantastic Voyage, film has a great deal of action and imagination, but doesn't know when to quit. "},{"Title":"Spielberg's amazing effects made it Amazing!","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was released in 1987... As a true testament to Spielberg and the great actors, this movie has aged very little. If it weren't for the very young Meg Ryan, Dennis Quaid, Martin Short and Robert Picardo, you could say that this movie is a fairly recent release. In this regards, it is a typical 80's movie. You have the fallen hero (Dennis Quaid), his estranged love (Meg Ryan), and the fool that saves them both (Martin Short). There is also the usual dash of bad 80's clothing and techno rhythms. However, Innerspace is not really a typical 80's movie. Much of the plot is taken from the sci-fi classic, The Fantastic Voyage. However, Innerspace takes the idea from that movie to a whole new level. Not only that, but Innerspace is an action-comedy, with a little bit a romance tied it. Spielberg also did a great job making it timeless. The special effects are still good today and also remarkable.My Ratings 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Excellent rowdy sci fi with wicked special effects","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Joe Dante's InnerSpace is pure gold for sci fi geeks and adventure lovers everywhere, a breezy, clever little flick with shades of everything from The Incredible Shrinking Man to Buck Rogers. It won an Oscar for visual effects, and when you see them (I picked up the Blu Ray, he'll of a good buy) you'll know why. It concerns hotshot pilot Tuck Pendleton (Dennis Quaid) a brash dude who is taking part in a miniaturization experiment conducted in secret. When criminals bent on stealing the technology interrupt the process midway, the head doctor panics and flees, injecting now microscopic Tuck and his craft into the first person he stumbles, twitchy hypochondriac Jack (a manic, slightly irritating Martin Short). Tuck is forced to assist Jack and reign him in long enough to avoid the bad guys, find his sexy ex girlfriend Lydia (Meg Ryan, who met Quaid on this set and later married him). All the while he's stuck in Jack's body in minute form, dodging blood cells, stomach acid and more in some truly magnificent special effects. The baddies are very comical, yet mean just enough business to do their job of being threatening, played by Kevin McCarthy, Robert Picardo (okay, he's purely comical, with no hint of threat), Fiona Lewis and a terrific Vernon Wells as a terminator inspired spook. Quaid's trademark sense of fun and winning charm go hand in hand with the breezy yet high concept tone, for a movie that's pure Dante, pure inspiration and pure fun. "},{"Title":"What's not to like?","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The idea for InnerSpace is a novel one for a movie, and I can't shake the feeling that this is the kind of movie that could only have been pulled off in the '80s. Can you imagine how bland a remake today would be? Anyhoo, the whole package is a good bit of fun. It's stuffed with both plot and memorable characters (the gunhand robot guy, the cowboy, the charming Meg Ryan, and Martin Short, who shoulders the story's wacky physical comedy like a pro). This is a movie that you just sort of get lost in, and really feels like a big Hollywood riff on Disney rides.7/10 "}{"Title":"Martin Short wacky good but movie a little uneven","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Tuck Pendleton (Dennis Quaid) is a cocky military pilot bitter at being past over. His reporter girlfriend Lydia Maxwell (Meg Ryan) can't take it anymore and moves out. Tuck is crazy enough to take part in a miniaturization experiment. The process works but the lab is attacked. Lab worker Ozzie manages to take the syringe containing Tuck and inject it into hypochondriac Jack Putter (Martin Short) before Ozzie is killed by a henchman. Tuck connects to Jack but Jack thinks he's going crazy. Then the bad guys track down Jack. When they get back to the lab, they find out that the other computer chip needed to re-enlarge Tuck has been stolen. They set off to steal back the chip with Lydia's help.It's a wacky sci-fi comedy. Martin Short is doing his body bending best. He has a few good funny moments. Some of it is trying too hard to be wacky. It's strange that this is a high intensity thriller at one moment and a silly camp B-movie the next. Dennis Quaid is disadvantaged by being stuck by himself for most of the movie. There are good moments but it's a little uneven. "},{"Title":"Fairly good","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Entertaining enough. A miniaturization program puts a grocery clerk in to the espionage game. He gets injected by a scientist running from the bad guys with a miniaturized ship containing a very iffy pilot. The pilot is a drunk and lives off of past glories. The enemy is coming after the body/ship to get the technology. There is a lot of humor in this show which is to be expected from the cast. Turning a milk toast type into a much more forceful person as the film goes on. They good guys get the reversal chip as the movie starts to come to an end and the ship is sneezed out just in time for it too be enlarged back to normal. The end of the film has the two lovers getting married and Marin Short spurning the now interested clerk from his old store and chasing after the newlyweds to prevent any mishaps on the honeymoon. "},{"Title":"If you can tolerate Dennis Quaid's faults you will enjoy this one","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Joe Dante reworks Fantastic Voyage into a buddy comedy for Dennis Quaid and Martin Short. Quaid plays a cocky fighter pilot who is chosen to take part in an experiment where he will have to test a miniaturized craft. While inside the machine Quaid is shrunk down to microscopic size. But some bad guys try to hijack the experiment and Quaid winds up injected into the body of a hypochondriac grocery store clerk played by Martin Short. From there, hijinks ensue.Quaid is annoying, as he almost always was and is. His Joker smile and constant mugging grates on the nerves in the early scenes. He's better when things settle down some. Martin Short is the best part of the cast. Very funny and likable. Always love seeing a pretty young Meg Ryan. Although it reminds me of what she's done to herself since, which is tragic. Kind of the same feeling I get when watching young Melanie Griffith. This is a fun movie. Joe Dante gets to play with special effects and comedy, which is right in his wheelhouse. It's not as interesting or innovative as Fantastic Voyage but it's a very enjoyable movie in its own right. "},{"Title":"Heavily underrated movie","Date":"19 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Innerspace... What could be said without leaving anything out, spoilers I mean..?I first saw this movie as a kid. Bad mistake, those scenes when Jack is transformed into The Cowboy really scared me. Me and my older brother would still joke and make fun of it, slowing down the phase on the VHS and laugh at the still images of what actually was a mask and not a real face. But it was still scary, haha. Anyhow, by todays standards the story is perhaps the most B-rated crap ever. But so what, it worked then and if you like the movie it works now too. At least for you. The effects of Innerspace are just awesome. From the labs, Jacks innards the equipments, the pod and all its gadgets and the enemy space-looking suit with scary-looking crocodile pincers. The pilot of the suit is also pretty spooky to look at. Won't say a single word through the whole movie, wears black shades and has a bionic hand which can be replaced with a hand which has a finger pointing out, acting as a freaking gun! The movie is rated as comedy among other genres. Back then I couldn't understand the funny parts of the movie. I thought it was exciting, scary and thrilling. Take that scene when Jack gets panicked, increasing his heart rate so much his heart almost devour Tuck and his pod. I chewed on my nails for sure! The casting crew is great. Martin Short, who is a comedian otherwise suits the nerdy store clerk perfectly, Dennis Quaid is the awesome pilot Tuck of the good team and Meg Ryan as Lydia, a beautiful but cocky girlfriend of Tuck and also a writer for a magazine. There's so much to say but I want YOU to see it for yourself. "},{"Title":"Solid 80s entertainment","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Innerspace is a fast-paced 80s action-comedy directed by Joe Dante and produced by Steven Spielberg.Dennis Quaid plays cocky fighter pilot Lt. Tuck Pendleton, scheduled to take part in a bizarre secret experiment, where his shuttle is to be shrunk into a few millimeters in size, and injected into the bloodstream of a rabbit. However, chaos follows and he finds himself accidentally injected into a human store clerk, who ends up being chased by the bad guys. The plot feels original though the movie contains lots of clichés and pretty much follows the usual genre rules.A barely credible sequence of events follow when Pendleton manages to hook up with the store clerk's eyes and ears, and a lot of the comedy is based on the interplay between these two characters. This includes Pendleton's on/off relationship with journalist Lydia Maxwell, played by Meg Ryan in an early role.Stupid as the premise may be, it offers a fresh perspective and some entertaining comedy, so if you're looking for 90 minutes of light-hearted 80s fun this movie is worth taking a look at. "},{"Title":"Great Fun!  Silver Streak Meets Fantastic Voyage","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Directed by Joe Dante (Gremlins). All the stars are so young, they look like they are still in high school. A great cast Dennis Quaid, Martin Short, Meg Ryan. Also Henry Gibson and Orson Bean. Robert Picardo plays The Cowboy, an Israeli fence for stolen technology. He is known for his off-beat roles. (The funny bug-alien in Explorers and The Doctor hologram in Star Trek.) Tuck Pendleton (a former astronaut with a real drinking problem) gets accidentally injected into Jack Potter (a supermarket ass't manager). What follows involves a miniaturization experiment gone awry, with a submarine similar to Fantastic Voyage. The interior shots inside Jack's body by ILM won an Academy Award for special effects. Comedy, murder, and mayhem, like Silver Streak. Manic street chases in San Francisco like What's Up Doc. Gadgetry like a James Bond film. (Except this villain has a white dog, not a white cat.) A sexy mad-scientist named Miss Canker. Of course, it all turns out alright in the end. Tuck is rescued in time before he runs out of oxygen,is un-miniaturized, and he marries his sweetheart, (Meg Ryan).A clever script full of plot twists that keeps you guessing throughout, if you haven't seen it before. Like a good Saturday afternoon action movie, not to be taken too seriously and a lot of fun. PG Mild violence and mild swearing. (Not for very young children.) "},{"Title":"Nice Ride","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" THE RIGHT STUFF stud Dennis Quaid plays another cocky test pilot &#x96; this time he's transformed into a cell-sized explorer placed inside the body of Martin Short in this modernized FANTASTIC VOYAGE directed by Joe Dante, whose prior edgy thrillers like PIRANHA and THE HOWLING are only reminiscent in the lethal assassins that really mean business.Quaid was supposed to go inside a test rabbit but the experiment leader is hunted and killed, and after desperately injecting everyman Short, the chase is on. Meg Ryan is Quaid's journalist girlfriend aiding Short in the old school runaround action that, after characters are introduced (and others are shrunken to dwarfs), gets way too complicated for its own good.There are relatively few scenes inside the human body. Most of the film has Short providing physical comedy as Quaid roves around within. Although they hardly share screen together, both have great chemistry. And while Dante stock actors Robert Picardo and Kevin McCarthy are nice to have on board, there are too many cooks and the running time drags on thirty minutes too long.Yet Joe seems at home with the science aspect &#x96; especially the ten-minute setup to the initial human shrinking, which looks real and makes everything else seem legit.For More Reviews www.cultfilmfreaks.com "},{"Title":"Still an impressive feat of special effects 25 years later.","Date":"31 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From Executive Producer Steven Spielberg and director Joe Dante of Gremlins fame, Innerspace remains an entertaining, though a little bit overlong, sci-fi comedy.Lt. Tuck Pendleton (Dennis Quaid), fresh off a quarrel with his girlfriend Lydia (Meg Ryan), agrees to be the guinea pig in an experiment where he will be placed inside a ship, shrunk down to nothing and injected into a rabbit for research. However, a rival gang of scientists led by Dr. Victor Scrimshaw (Kevin McCarthy) and Dr. Margaret Canker (Fiona Lewis) want to steal Tuck for themselves. One scientist is able to escape with the syringe containing Tuck. When he is close to being caught, he injects Tuck into Jack Putter (Martin Short), a neurotic, unhappy grocery store employee.Putter is able to hear Tuck and together, they work towards getting Tuck back to his normal self and foiling Dr. Scrimshaw and his lackeys. Tuck also tries to help repair Putter's mental state, instilling some confidence from the inside.The star of the film are the tremendous Oscar-winning Special Effects, which pack a punch even today. My favorite is how Tuck changes Putter's face so he resembles The Cowboy (Robert Picardo), an ally of Scrimshaw's. It's very funny to watch.The acting is also excellent. Quaid shows the charisma and cockiness that made him a box-office star from 1987-1994 and while he plays an irresponsible lout, you can't help but like him. Future wife Ryan sparkles with her bright and cherry screen presence and Short, the gifted physical comedian, offers surprising chemistry with both actors. A great supporting cast and lots of cameos abound as well.25 years later, the film is still an impressive piece of work. Certainly worth a viewing today. "},{"Title":"inner space","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" great movie love Dennis Quaid movies i own a few also i love martin short in Capitan Ron and other movie i saw him in also was Anthony Edward coach tom cruse and other actor over the year because of his involvement in the revenge of the nerd movie and i only don't no if tom cruse Dennis Quaid would be coached to do a movie to gather like the remaking of top gun and adding Megan fox to the bill-it and the other stand in and actors if tony Scott and other made a villain top gun involving Russia or japan or Cuba or Australia with all the show and TV that has come to Canada and the state from those country but if only the perfect script could be made with a budget and the red tap and department usually called upon to produce a movie also inner space was a great movie for that Ara with the current copy right law in-place and safety for the actor and crew's filming the movie at the directer admin department. also i still think tom and a great number of actor have issue with acting in movies but they have accept those values from day one and there agents and all support personnel off set and on set respect that because of all the changes and in Powell river change is good. "},{"Title":"A great piece of family entertainment","Date":"10 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of those quintessential family movies of the 1980s, INNERSPACE turns out not to have dated a bit since it was first release. The story, which is heavily indebted to the '60s movie FANTASTIC VOYAGE, sees Dennis Quaid shrunk down to miniature size and injected into the body of super-nerd Martin Short. What follows plays out as a live action cartoon, which is no surprise with Joe Dante at the helm. Dante is one of those directors who doesn't know how to make an unappealing movie, and Innerspace is one of his most entertaining efforts.I've never been a huge fan of Dennis Quaid, and his performance here is hardly endearing he plays a rude, arrogant, loud-mouthed drunk for much of the film, and casting Meg Ryan as his insipid girlfriend isn't much help either. Still, I do like Martin Short, and his turn here is rather endearing and genuinely funny, especially when infused with the clumsy slapstick style of humour. Dante has a great eye for a supporting cast, fleshing out roles for the likes of old-timer Kevin McCarthy (a ball as the bad guy), Vernon Wells as the hit-man, Fiona Lewis, Robert Picardo as an unlikely cowboy and, of course, Dick Miller.The script is light and airy and never lets itself get bogged down in science. The journeys inside the body are excellent and have all the imagination of an outer space classic. Finally, we get Rob Bottin contributing some literally jaw-dropping FX work, which rounds out the package nicely. The 1980s may well have been the decade that taste forgot, but they sure knew how to make a fun movie back then. "}{"Title":"Part action, part comedy and science fiction too.","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie has a lot of elements to it and it strangely worked for me. I do not think it was a super success at the box office, but for me the movie was a very funny film. I do feel this one is more of a comedy than action or science fiction as Martin Short steals the show as the guy who ends up getting Dennis Quaid's character shot into his buttocks. The story, a group of scientist have invented a shrinking ray and they have used it to shrink Quaid's character and a ship to super small size. They aim to inject the ship and Quaid into a bunny, but some sort of attack occurs and he ends up injected into Short's character instead. So the rest of the film is the group that attacked the scientist coming after Short while Quaid tries to figure out a way to get big again. There are some interesting scenes of the insides of Short, though one has to wonder why they would have a device to attach to the inner ear of the bunny as I do not think you can talk to a bunny. The eye part though makes sense though. Another thing that makes little sense is the dude with the hand attachments, seems like a character that should be in a James Bond movie or something. I know there was a character exactly like that in a movie that was sort of a Get Smart movie called The Nude Bomb or something to that extent. This film though for the most part worked, especially when it was being a comedy. "},{"Title":"Slick, Funny, Enjoyable Miniaturisation Comedy Thriller But Could Have Been Better","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Lieutenant Tuck Pendleton has signed up for a dangerous mission, a bold miniaturisation experiment. But when the lab is attacked and he is accidentally injected into Jack Putter, a hypochondriac supermarket clerk, he and Jack need to team up fast to recover a vital silicon chip needed to restore him to normal size.Innerspace is a brilliant but flawed film, which has a terrible first two scenes, but then almost instantly picks up into a great loopy sci-fi comedy thriller. Its problem is its script, which has some great central ideas (miniaturisation, espionage) but lumbers them with a boring love story involving that old Lois Lane heroine standby, the plucky reporter. The result is that the two male leads have to try and balance the more insane moments with conventional angst, while McCarthy (as a mad industrialist), Lewis (as a mad scientist), Picardo (as a mad smuggler) and Wells (as a mad killer) all have a whale of a time with a total comic-book approach. I suspect Chip Proser's original screenplay was much more of the latter, but the studio railed the filmmakers back into making a more mainstream film. If so that's a shame, but it's still a great movie, a terrific revision of Fantastic Voyage with excellent visual effects by Dennis Muren and Rob Bottin, as Tuck floats through Jack's bloodstream, clamps onto his optic nerve and fights a pitched battle in his stomach. It also features great sets by James Spencer, terrific costumes by Rosanna Norton (the first shot of McCarthy in his perfect white suit looking over the Golden Gate is sensational), cool stunts and great turns by all of Dante's regular bit players. Also, for bizarre casting, how about this; the key role of Ozzie the good-guy scientist is played by Dante's usual cameraman, John Hora (who didn't shoot this film), and very good he is too. Produced by Steven Spielberg's Amblin' company, this is a thoroughly entertaining and very enjoyable gas of a movie which pretty much keeps you smiling throughout. Dante loves his crazy antics and directs with great aplomb, especially during the numerous chases and nervous confrontation scenes. I just get the feeling that he was a little constricted here, and could maybe have turned in an even crazier and better film. "},{"Title":"Classic entertainment!","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you were to consider the best movies with the most preposterous, outlandish premises, Innerspace would have to take the cake. The idea is so ridiculous and bizarre that it's amazing it ever got made in the first place, let alone that it was so good! Martin Short inhabits the role of the perfectly named Jack Putter, a bumbling supermarket clerk with some major personal issues. He's awkward and nervous, like real life Woody Allen, and he's been suffering from a recurring daytime nightmare where a scary old woman berates him for ringing up her groceries wrong and then pulls a gun on him. Dennis Quaid is Tuck Pendleton, a cocky pilot/scientist who is preparing for a miniaturization project where he will be shrunk to the size of a grain of sand and injected into a rabbit. Things get complicated when a group of terrorists break into the lab and try to steal the materials needed for the procedure, but they only get their hands on what is needed to restore Tuck to normal size. One scientist barely escapes with Tuck and the little submarine inside a syringe and ultimately he has to either surrender it to the bad guy chasing him (a stoic gentleman played by Vernon Wells, who you might remember as the main bad guy in Command) or inject it into the first subject he can get his hands on. Unluckily for hypochondriac Jack Putter, that happens to be him.Innerspace is a major milestone in my childhood, it's one of a handful of movies that I would watch over and over when I was a kid, along with other 80s classics like Commando, Weird Science, Sword in the Stone and Back to the Future. It's a rare example of all of the different parts of a movie working perfectly together, creating a wonderful bit of entertainment that is Great For The Whole Family. It's impossible not to love it when neurotic Jack Putter begins to be affected by Tuck swimming around his bloodstream, latching scary looking communication devices onto the back of his eyeball and the hooking up to his auditory nerves and literally becoming a voice inside his head. Brilliant! Meg Ryan gives a perfect performance as Tuck's girlfriend/ex-girlfriend, and their relationship might be the most uniquely presented romance ever filmed. Classic! This is a definitely cinematic treasure, it's probably not going to be remembered as one of the best romantic comedies ever, but it is certainly among the most loved. "},{"Title":"Entertaining matinée fantasy","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Incredible Journey meets The Fugitive. The concept is that simple and once it gets started there's endless opportunity for the frenetic slaptchick (sic) of Martin Short to entertain all by itself. Dennis Quaid is sure support though in a classic solid American everyman role (I'll say it once again - Jimmy Stewart comparisons are not inappropriate) and Meg Ryan is as keen as you'd expect from a good comic actress 18 months away from When Harry Met Sally superstardom.It's a actually a straightforward matinée thriller with an unremarkable soundtrack and a drinking sequence that's probably composed in direct homage to E.T.. Director Joe Dante keeps it tripping along though, giving Short just enough film to make himself a star for a while. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Dennis Quaid Goes on a Fantastic Voyage","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" An enjoyable enough sci-fi comedy in which Dennis Quaid plays a scientist who's miniaturized and launched into the body of Martin Short. Think of it as a goofy, screwball version of Fantastic Voyage.In comedy style, it's actually somewhat reminiscent of the Steve Martin/Lily Tomlin vehicle All of Me, in that Quaid is able to influence Short's physical movements. As you can imagine, this results in all manner of physical comedy antics, but if you're going to go that route, you could do worse than placing the proceedings in the hands of Martin Short, a gifted physical actor.The special effects were quite nifty for the time, and won the film an Oscar.Grade B "},{"Title":"Creative and inventive little sci-fi comedy.","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My Take Hilarious oddity piece with imaginative special effects and an appealing cast. What a weird way to make a movie! And yet, what a fun and enjoyable film it is. INNERSPACE is a highly enjoyable little film, with some fine nifty special effects and some hilarious performances by Dennis Quaid, Meg Ryan and Martin Short. Not to mention Joe Dante's wacky inventiveness in his direction makes INNERSPACE is fun film for a very fun-loving audience.Quaid plays Tuck Pendelton, a party animal of a scientist who volunteers to be shrunk to microscopic size and injected to the insides of a lab test rabbit. Things get awry when a rival company wrecks havoc in the lab, and one of his colleagues is forced to inject him to hypochondriac Jack Putter (Short) instead. While trying to find his way out of Putter's body, Tuck changes Jack's life, as he becomes his conscience. On their trail is Victor Eugene Scrimshaw (Kevin McCarthy) and his group who wants this little science project for themselves. Then on is a combination of various chases, wackiness and secret services.The movie takes the plot of an old B-movie, and brings it back to life, turning it to a fun and highly-spirited sci-fi comedy. It's like Richard Fleischer's classic THE FANTASTIC VOYAGE, but it has its own unique ideas and storyline to set its differences. Dante keeps all in fast pace, and doesn't keep us waiting for something to happen. The characters played by the leads are appealing and the script is filled with genuine laughs, with Short given the most. INNERSPACE is enjoyable entertainment, not to be taken seriously.Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Lively comedy/fantasy loads of fun","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you enjoy suspending disbelief and you appreciated Gremlins, then this new offering form executive producer Steven Spielberg and director Joe Dante is guaranteed to keep you thoroughly entertained for over two hours (though you won't believe you've been sitting down that long). This extremely lively comedy concerns the misadventures of inept supermarket assistant manager Jack Putter (Martin Short), who is accidentally injected with a microscopic pod which contains a crack pilot who was supposed to be exploring a rabbit. So while Jack is beside himself with fears of demonic possession (he's hearing the voice of pilot Tuck Pendleton - Dennis Quaid), he is being pursued by government agencies and ruthless criminals. It all might sound rather fantastic, and it is, in the best possible way! Comic genius Martin Short really makes this movie his own with some outrageous antics (not unlike Jerry Lewis) that carry scene after scene, hilariously. Second billing really should go to Kevin McCarthy (though his is a small role) for his eccentric portrayal of Scrimshaw, the megalomaniac criminal who is 'just in it for the money'. Also great is Wendy Schaal, a checkout chick who is a little unsure about whether she should be dating the erratic Jack. Dennis Quaid makes a rugged, handsome hero while his real life wife Meg Ryan is a pretty heroine, in one of her better roles. Other strong support comes from Fiona Lewis and Henry Gibson.Director Dante and screenwriters Chip Proser and Jeffrey Boam (Proser wrote the original story) have a ball with the wild premise (based loosely on Fantastic Voyage - 1966) and milk the comedy aspect dry, whilst the Academy Award winning visual effects team recreate the inside of the human body spectacularly, and Jerry Goldsmith provides a very effective and at times rousing score.Innerspace is one of those movies that's loads of fun no matter how many times you see it! Several scenes are still riotously funny even for the fifth time. If only for Martin Short's manic performance and the brilliant special f/x, this picture is a must.NB What looked like an opening for a definite sequel never did eventuate, or at least no yet!Saturday, July 15, 1995 - Video "},{"Title":"Undemanding, fun and enjoyable family action comedy","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Lt Tuck Pendleton is a washed up Air Force pilot who is enlisted onto a secret programme to trial miniaturisation on a small craft to be injected into a rabbit. Just after the process though, thieves break into the lab and Tuck finds himself in a syringe with the doctor fleeing the lab. The doctor does not get far before he is killed and in desperation injects the syringe into the hapless supermarket clerk Jack Putter. With less than 24 hours of oxygen, Tuck is forced to work with his unwilling and weedy host to recover the technology stolen from the lab that is necessary to remove and enlarge him before he dies.As others have pointed out this concept is very much a matter of Fantastic Voyage II in the subject matter. It is not to be taken seriously or thought about too much (the factual goofs listed on IMDb are perhaps a sign that some viewers haven't got this) but it does deliver a fun family blockbuster than mixes imaginative sci-fi with a funny and exciting story to good effect. It isn't rocket science though and many viewers may find the content to be lacking. They are correct in some ways of course but there is enough here to compensate for it. Dante makes a difference by injecting his sense of fun into the material and making it silly but fun. He also delivers plenty of good set pieces that cross between comedy and action well.The effects are good and haven't dated that much even if they don't stand up to modern CGI. The cast help matters by managing to go along with the material and get it. Short is great value (not often I think that) and does the comedy thing well for a family audience. Quaid is cool and has good presence despite being technically away from the action for the majority of the running time. The pair have a good chemistry despite not sharing the screen. Ryan is a bit goofy but does the job while support is enjoyable from McCarthy, Lewis, Picardo and Wells.Overall then a silly family film but an enjoyable one. The story is pretty funny and pretty exciting and the director and cast work well to keep it all working in the spirit of the whole. Undemanding and fun summer movie. "},{"Title":"Innerspace","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is obviously the film where cartoon Futurama got the inspiration to create an episode about going into the human body. Basically Lt. Tuck Pendleton (Dennis Quaid) is the man with a huge mission to take part in the scientific experiment of miniaturisation, but the bad news is that some bad guys catch up with the man with Tuck in the syringe, and this guy injects Jack Putter (Martin Short) instead of the intended dog. Now with the help of Tuck's miniaturised ship, he has communicate with Jack to both find the bad guys, and get him back to normal size before his air supply runs out. From the director of Gremlins and Small Soldiers, this is quite an interesting blend of biological science fiction with comedy. Also starring Meg Ryan as Lydia Maxwell, Kevin McCarthy as Victor Eugene Scrimshaw and Fiona Lewis as Dr. Margaret Canker. It won the Oscar for Best Visual Effects. Good! "},{"Title":"A Thrilling Action-Comedy of Tiny Proportions!","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Caveat I have always hated Martin Short. I find him annoying, semi-retarded, and blame him for the Phoebe-Cates-career-killing Drop Dead Fred, even if he was not even in that film. However, Short was quite amusing in this one.Innerspace has Dennis Quaid shrunk down to be injected into a rabbit. Whoops! He's stolen by the villain from UHF and injected into Martin Short instead, who then must save Quaid with the help of Quaid's girlfriend, the pseudo-lesbian Meg Ryan.Short's quirkiness worked for this film. I mean, goodness, he has a little man inside of him. And he works well with director Joe Dante, a Steven Spielberg protégé influenced by Bugs Bunny... his comedy is best reflected in Gremlins and Gremlins 2. How he got to be a master of horror is beyond me (though one would assume from The Howling).The shots inside the body were interesting (like the Body Wars ride at Disney World), and Quaid was a great pilot for the adventure. I could have used less Meg Ryan, who seemed to be very unnecessary to the plot and her allegiance was unclear.So um, yeah... it was a fun romp... watch it. "}{"Title":"Fascinating, Funny, and Fantastic!!!","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A Navy pilot, Tuck Pendelton, (Dennis Quaid) has been chosen for a secret experiment to operate a pod-like craft that is miniturized smaller than a grain of salt to be injected into a laboratory rabbit. However, the experiment goes haywire, and a bad batch of dudes want to take over the Miniturization all together. After stealing a microchip that is required for the process, one of the scientists injects the pod into the hypochondriac Safeway employee, Jack Putter. (Martin Short)Unfortunately, the one chip they've taken is useless without the other, which is inside the pod--which is inside Jack Putter!Now Pendelton, his beautiful ex-girlfriend, Lydia, (Meg Ryan) and Putter, have to work together to get the other chip back, and re-enlarge the pod before Tuck runs out of oxygen.This is one of my absolute favorite movies!I love all of the comedy that fits perfectly with the plot, the stunning special effects of all the close-up views of the human body, and romantic twists that suits the movie as well.I highly recommend this film for science-fiction, comedy, action, and romance movie fans....So this movie will most likely suit anyone!If you haven't seen this, it's a MUST to rent or buy. Very exciting, delighting, and fun!You wont regret watching it! )     "},{"Title":"He's a man lost inside a strangers body.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the fims that you can watch over and over again. The basic outline of this film is that a bunch of scientists have decided to try a new type of science, miniturization and to get the plot it all goes horrificaly wrong. Tuck Pendleton (Dennis Quaid) is the man who has been miniturized and he seems to be heading for the insides of a rabbit but somehow ends up inside Jack Putter (Martin Short). This movie has other funny moments with co-star people such as Henry Gibson as Mr Wormwood, Wendy Schaal as Wendy and Robert Picardo as the cowboy, also firm favourite co-stars of 'The Burbs'. All in all this film is great and with alot of different characters with thier own funny sides and sad sides (like the film) I have really enjoyed watching it!! "},{"Title":"I'M POSSESSED!!!.","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Another film which I never grow tired of, no matter how often I see it. The effects we see for the inside of Martin Short's body are excellent and the comedy aspects of the film are great as well.  Dennis Quaid doesn't really get to do much as he's stuck in the miniature pod, but he grabs a few great one-liners.  Kevin McCarthy and Fiona Lewis are both excellent bad guys and they both give us great laughes when they are shrunk to half their normal size.  There's also an excellent performance from MAD MAX 2's Vernon Wells (one of my favourite movie villains, he was great in COMMANDO too.) as Mr. Igoe, the silent, one-armed man.  He's the kind of bad guy who doesn't need to talk to let you know what he's about to do.  If you haven't seen this film yet, then watch it the next chance you get.  In my opinion this film is Joe Dante's finest hour. "},{"Title":"A classic Sci-Fi adventure.","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The premise is ingenious a man injected into the body of another man. Brilliant!The movie itself is crammed with wonderful twists and special effects. *Sigh* They just don't make them like this anymore. Great plot, great characters and a neat ending.I've seen this movie when it was quite young and I've just seen it again. It's still great! If you didn't see it yet, you really should!  "},{"Title":"What was that?","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One thing I can say about Innerspace, IT'S DEFINATELY ORIGINAL. I figure it was a great idea on paper, but once it was made, in my opinion it came out a bit cheesy.  It just seems to try to hard to balance it's action and comedy parts, and comes out neither funny or exhilarating.  Though I gave it a 5 for the effort, and also the great effects. Kudos to the actors too for great performances. "},{"Title":"My god, somebody help me; I'M POSSESSED! )","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of the best movies I've seen in a good while. Dennis Quaid and Martin Short work well together, and I'd like to see more movies like this. I wish I knew the name of the song played while Putter and The Cowboy were in that club, the Inferno. ) "},{"Title":"It's worth watching!!!!","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"     This movie is the empitomy of Steven Spielberg's best comedies.  Martin Short plays this hidiously neurotic store clerk who's a bit paranoid and sort of a loser.  And he gets injected with Dennis Quaid's character who gets shrunk into a syringe for a lab expirement on a rabbit.  Also some evil scientists are after the lab's shrinking device so they could use it for their own purposes.   This flick has very amusing humor, and it's probably the only one of Spielberg's movies I've ever liked besides Shindler's List.  The funniest parts in the movie were when Jack Putter (Martin Short) posed as the Cowboy and his face kept distorting.  Also, other funny parts were when the evil scientists got shrunken into munchkins!    I also liked the chemistry between Lydia (Meg Ryan) and Ted (Dennis Quaid) when they got back together, and it was obvious that Jack Putter had a crush on her, himself.  The funniest and best part was when Ted was up against the bad guy who was shrunk and injected into Jack and got digested!  And along came one of the funniest quote in the movie, IMHO, You just digested the bad guy!  I laughed myself sick!   So, if you're bored or just plain in a mood for a good laugh, rent this movie or watch it when it's on network television!  Oh, yeah, it's that funny!  ) "},{"Title":"Funny and interesting","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I saw this movie for the first time I wasn't Meg Ryan's fan yet. I think I watched it in one of this saturday morning tv session, I really liked, specially the cast. This wonderful girl, who I became fan later is really funny and totally different of the kind of characters she would became specialist later. Dennis Quaid is great, he is a very talented actor, but working with the woman he was going to marry is incomparable, there is a great chemistry between them. But the star of the movie is Martin Short, who is hilarious as the schizophrenic Jack. It's certainly the funniest science fiction movie ever made.  "},{"Title":"Great adventure","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was one the first movies i watched and I loved it then and I love it 10 years later. Innerspace is another of those movies of the eighties that was charming and lovable to watch, they don`t make this great movies today.The movie is an adventure comedy starring Martin Short who gives the performance of a lifetime, he`s great and enjoyable to watch. Dennis Quaid and a young beautiful and charming Meg Ryan stars as well. When i first saw the movie i fell in love with Meg, she was great.The movie has a very good and entertaining story and you can`t stop watching and enjoying the dialogue and great performances. Director Joe Dante deliver a great show for both youngster and adults.  "},{"Title":"JACK PUTTER TO THE RESCUE!!!","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of my all time favourite films.  I still kick myself for not going to see it in theatre. (Kicks self) Ow... I did it again.  Anyway, Inner Space tells the story of Jack Putter  (Martin Short), a hypochondriac human door-mat of a supermarket clerk and Tuck Pendelton (Dennis Quaid) a brash, ass kicking, drunk of an air force piolet.  Tuck volunteers to have himself shrunk to tiny size in a Fantastic Voyage-esque experiment, by which he and his tiny sub will be injected into a rabbit.  Instead a group of corporate criminals attempt to steel Tuck to obtain the secret to miniaturization technology so they can sell it to foreign powers.  One of the scientists who works on the project manages to escape with the micro sized tuck and ends up injecting him into Martin Short.  When Tuck discovers he's inside a neurotic grocery clerk instead of a rabbit he attempts to communicate with his host.  Thinking his nuts, or demon possessed Short freaks out as only he can.  Soon Jack comes to realize that he really does have a tiny man inside him.  With the internal coaching of Lt Pendelton and the help of Tuck's girl friend (Played by Quaid's real life wife Meg Ryan) Jack Putter must overcome both the corporate crooks and his own fears.  Unlike so many films Innerspace has no aspects that seem unnecessary, or grow tiresome.  The film is peppered with great characters like the Cow Boy, a foreign weapons dealer that acts like character from a bad western and Mr. Iago a silent, James Bond-esque assign with a series of deadly tools in place of his hand.  The Romantic Subplot between Meg and Dennis is also nice.  Another big draw is the rock'n sound track.  The film uses various songs by the late great Sam Cook.  The capper being the ultra danceable theme Twist'n The Night Away.  What makes the film really great is the story of Jack putter being able to over come his status as a nobody and be transformed into a hero, it's really quite touching especially for anyone who considers himself the underdog, (IE Just about every body).  This makes Innerspace the second greatest film about a supermarket clerk rising to greatness.  The film ends with Meg and Dennis getting hitched with Short as their best man.  Following this Short quits his job at the grocery store an drives off into the sunset to yet another adventure to the rock'n beat of Twist'n the Night Away as sung by rod Stewart.  YEAH!!!   And now I present my brand new movie rating system. Each category is rated out of 10.Cool Lines 7   Story 9 Hero/Heros 7 Villain/Villains 7  Rockingness 10 Begging Scene 6 Ending Scene 10Moral/Morals Believe in yourself and you can save the day, especially if you have a tiny military piolet inside you who can stimulate your adrenal levels, giving you super strength and constantly tell you that you're an ass kicking machine .   "}{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this ages ago, having recently watched on video. Normally I find comedies not worth watching twice, but Innerspace still made me laugh - even after all this time!!Martin Short's character Jack Putter was great. He was a wimpy nerd, perfect to be injected in the butt by the doc carrying Dennis Quaid. I liked the part where his face was changed to the Cowboy's and back again. Very funny!!Meg Ryan was a bit of a pain-in-the-butt (no pun intended), tho I think she should've married Jack, he was the cuter one!!! Dennis Quaid was great in this movie also, even confined to a teeny tiny pod floating around in Martins insides.The inside-the-body SFX were cool. The scenes where Dennis had to escape the heart, plus the parts where he gets to see thru Martin's eyes etc really made good effects. It makes you wonder how you'd feel if that happened to you, Martin's reactions are priceless!!!The bad guys provided plenty of comic relief, I like Cowboy's sleez and the big thug who fainted every time he saw something 'horrible'.  The scene where Martin's hanging off the back of the truck was rather cool.I recommend this flick to anyone who likes sci fi, comedy, romance, action, adventure! Because this movie has the lot!!I give this flick 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I never laughed so hard in my life!!!","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The best part about the movie was when Jack Putter was changing his facial features to become the cowboy and when he changed back!!  That was hilarious!!  I thought I was going to die I laughed so hard my sides hurt!! This was an excellent comedy, and Meg Ryan was great in the film also.  "},{"Title":"Dante's Love of Fantastic Voyage Shines Through","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Innerspace is basically one long homage to Fantastic Voyage, but with Dante's typical weird comedy attached for good measure.  All of Dante's favorite actors (William Schallert, Kevin McCarthy, Robert Picardo, Dick Miller) are along for the ride, but standouts are Quaid and Short.  Meg Ryan in the Lois Lane role is less impressive.  Overall, Innerspace is probably the wierdest buddy movie of all time. "},{"Title":"Uneven comedy/science fiction story...","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 1st watched 5/16/2011 -- 4 out of 10(Dir-Joe Dante) Uneven comedy/science fiction story about a wayward pilot, played by Dennis Quaid, who takes on a job of piloting a vehicle that is experimentally miniaturized for the purpose of being injected into living things with the idea of learning things from the inside-out, I guess. This miniaturization device is highly sought after by other evil forces and during an attempt at stealing the device, Quaid's character is injected into a troubled man, played by Martin Short. There are definitely some funny bits involved with the Quaid's character trying to communicate with his new host and Martin Short is perfect for the style of humor that they deploy in this scenario. At this point in the movie, I felt promise for it, but about halfway through the plot becomes rather convoluted after some other characters are introduced that are trying to gain access to this sought-after device. One character named Cowboy is not funny at all, and his influence on the movie literally tears it apart to the point where the viewer stops caring and the movie becomes a typical chase-scene filled mess. The initial humor, which should have been built upon, is totally flushed out of the movie and it never returns from this point. What could have been a funny movie because of the talent of the actors instead becomes a pretty un-necessary waste of about 1 hour and a half. So, watch the first half hour then turn it off because the rest if not worth your time. "},{"Title":"Excellent comedy, great performances","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is one of the all time classic comedy films that just are not being created anymore. I was born when this film came out and i first watched it when i was 5 since then i have seen it every so weeks and it never gets boring. The cast itself is truly amazing, but the best actor in the film Martin Short is the best character and makes the film funny especially the scene when he is in tucks apartment and he is dancing truly priceless. I do not see why people criticize the special effects, at that period of time in 87' these effects displayed in the body scenes would have been the most advanced in any film of that time. In my opinion when people say there should have been a sequel why?? there is no need this film should stand out as a true classic.check it out if u haven't already 7/10  "},{"Title":"Creativity Can Make Up for So Many Shortcomings.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dennis Quaid is about to be part of an elaborate experiment he is going to be miniaturized and injected, with a hypodermic needle, into the body of a rabbit. However, terrorists led by Kevin McCarthy, cause Quaid to be injected into hypochondriac Martin Short instead after a wild chase. The bad guys now target Short as they want Quaid and they want to sell the micro-chip which causes this to happen to dangerous world threats. Meg Ryan is along for the ride as a journalist with romantic ties to Quaid. A really creative film where some of the villains are named The Cowboy (Robert Picardo) and Mr. Iago (Vernon Wells). Who would have ever thought of Martin Short as an action hero? 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"a less than fantastic voyage","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What one critic st the time called the summer's best summer movie is, sadly, exactly that a contrived and familiar cross section of up-to-the-minute trends, with a shelf life just long enough to last beyond the initial video rentals in six months time. Under the direction of Joe Dante (one of the brighter stars in the Steven Spielberg galaxy) it exhibits quite a bit of slapstick flair, while wasting most of its comic potential on frantic over-plotting and miles of distracting hardware.The idea is almost clever during a top-secret miniaturization experiment cocky test pilot Dennis Quaid is accidentally injected with his self-contained capsule into the bloodstream of meek, nervous supermarket clerk Martin Short (never mind how or why). But the tone is often uncertain (is Martin Short's howl of pain when he feels tiny grappling hooks on the back of his eyeball supposed to be funny?) and the extraneous plot details &#x96; spies, car chases, a cybernetic villain, a beautiful girlfriend (naturally a reporter) &#x96; haven't changed much since the last action/comedy hit. The end result is mindless, unmemorable fun for undemanding viewers who don't expect anything more. "},{"Title":"Great sci-fi comedy","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The great thing about Joe Dante in the 1980s  was his knack for instilling humor into the  sci-fi genre. Innerspace is probably one  of the greats in that category, mixing in  some great special effects (for its time)  and some hillarious performances by Martin  Short and Dennis Quaid. But what I  especially enjoyed was the concept, turning  a film that could have been serious and  urgent into a film that was both funloving and  interesting to watch. Sure, the whole idea is  bupkiss and it was an homage to Fantastic  Voyage, but the twist Dante put on it certainly  makes it worth watching over and over. "},{"Title":"Garry Hixon on this version of Innerspace","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the worst movie I've ever seen since the six star wars films. The version Garry Hixon has on You Tube which is 30 minutes long, is much much better. Comparison? The problem is its not even close. They think there selling Innerspace at video number one or 2, think again, people are fickle, insult or betray them once, and they feel betrayed. I have spent 49 years in California as a complete nobody, and have been with Warner Bros. for only seven months. Yes its better to be a ward of the state. Warner Bros. has a horrible and huge job with this kid and so far so good. People either don't care or don't notice, that people have many other videos in there files. Martin Short, Dennis Quaid, and Meg Ryan are very good in both versions, i believe Meg did live in Cayucas for a short while. I don't know Amblin or Spielberg, or Kathleen Kennedy, or Kent Beyda, but id love to meet them. Thank you. "},{"Title":"A tramp and a loser","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A blonde bimbo leaves the guy she loves but who is slightly too wild for her taste. She goes through other guys but she keeps seeing her ex in them. First a stereotypical nerd, then a stereotypical macho... and then she decides the guy from the beginning was the right one after all. During the process he himself learns a valuable lesson on dependability. Hardly a premise for a sci-fi about exploring human body in a manned capsule shrunk to the size of a bacteria, isn't it? Of course it is. The premise is a screwball comedy and a very good at that. I just felt the need to toy around with symbolics I chose to pick up and attract the reader to my review. But who knows what the writer had in mind while piecing the puzzle that is the script for Innerspace.This is something of a remake of Fantastic Voyage where the idea of traveling through human body was first explored but treated respectfully and with sense of awe. The new version is far superior, not only because special effects are immensely better but because of the right approach. Special effects will only take film as far as marveling at the sights of human insides can last. And it doesn't last long. For instance, who would watch in awe a kidney or a colon (and its contents)? Doctors yes, average viewer no. You can't awe at it but you can certainly laugh. Add the ludicrous idea of shrinking a human to fit inside another human (quite unscientific when you consider physics alone, not to mention chemistry) and the only solution is - a screwball comedy with as many metaphorical jokes it can possibly muster out of the fantastic situation. Similar concept is seen six years later in Groundhog Day where a character is put in another fantastic situation and all the good jokes stem from that.In this context a story of a bimbo fits quite nicely, although her ex that she sees in other guys is literally inside other guys. Explicitness is avoided, this is a family flick, she doesn't really sleep with those guys, rather chases the truth through a series of perilous events, but there you have it. A great metaphor of true love. Another story could be a story of a man who gets rejected by a girl he adores. His ego is shrunk (and indeed his body) and he assumes identities of stereotypical people hoping she would like him better that way. Not being his real self leaves him without air to breathe. Just seconds before he dies his former personality reasserts itself. He is himself again and, after he simply apologizes for being an arse, the lady takes him back. A great metaphor about the need to just be yourself. Of course there's a take on industrialism and corruption of big corporations, a hint at espionage and governmental control of an individual, but I find this little romantic variations much more interesting. They may not be true or even there in the script but I did keep your attention till the end of this article. "}{"Title":"Dennis Quaid's Best Movie","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of the funniest movies Martin Short has made. This story is comic brilliance with priceless scenes between Short, Picardo and McCarthy. Loved McCarthy's scenes! I felt I owed people for complaining about Dennis moping around in recent pictures. This is why I say that. Of all Dennis' pictures, this is his best. This is the Quaid I like to see! No one can outdo that crazy smile when it's out there -- as it was with The Right Stuff and Great Balls of Fire.The special effects are good, too, and necessary but the bungled super-spy industrial espionage and McCarthy's dog-bonded Goldfinger caricature really make this picture the Fantastic Voyage hoot that it was! "},{"Title":"Play with it pal, don't talk to it.","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A cocky, jerky, hyper-active/rambunctious test pilot (Quaid) who never outgrew his high school jock phase is miniaturized with the intention of being injected inside a rabbit, but when things go awry due to terrorist interference, he gets injected inside a man instead, specifically a hapless grocery store clerk (Short). With the bad guys hot on their trail and time running out before the pilot suffocates, the clerk must gain the trust and help of the pilot's unhappy girlfriend (Ryan, Quaid's real life ex-wife now). Naturally, over the course of their adventure the male bonding scenario results in the clerk getting in touch with his inner Rambo while the pilot learns that there's more to being a real man than just being overly aggressive and fearless.Silly and absurd it may be, but still an engaging sci-fi comedy adventure. Well performed by the affable Short, the dependable Quaid and Meg Ryan at her cutest. The film's biggest flaw primarily is that it shows Dennis Quaid naked, and no one needs to see Dennis Quaid naked. "},{"Title":"Wonderful fun!","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Occasionally, a movie comes along that is a delight from the beginning to end. Innerspace had all of the elements perfect, from writing to acting.Martin Short is absolutely hysterical. This was the perfect vehicle for his physical nature. I never laughed at him in other films as much as I did here.As I recall this movie in my home town, it did not spend that much time in the theater. I never saw it until it was released on video. It apparently did not gross that much money, and that is a mystery to me. It remains one of my all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've heard some people to call 80s 'The Golden Era' and now after I saw this again after so many years I realized why. One of the greatest Sci-Fi movies were produced during this 'era' and even if you see them now again they will still keep you excited. I haven't seen this one long time ago (more than 10 years). I still remember how much amazed I was when I first saw it. I saw it so many times after that and I was enjoying it each time while I was watching it. You can see the movies like this one these days. There weren't technologies which they could use to create such effects. That's why they (the effects) were just a part from the story and they weren't as many as they're in todays movies. The movies were so good because they were done with a real imagination.Now the story some how stays like a background for the effects. They're doing movies which are rather like 3D PC games. They aren't interesting stories and they aren't cool characters. Effects only. "},{"Title":"An overlooked Gem.","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this when it first came out and it had everything going for it. Action, Comedy, a neat Sci-Fi premise,a great script and cast but it did horrible at the Box Office. Other than marketing, I have no idea why this never found it's audience and its a shame because it would have been nice to see a sequel that it was set up for at the end. It's kinda sad now that Dennis Quaid and Meg Ryan have broken up because their paring made it all the more special. If you haven't seen this one, check it out.Why is this not on DVD?????? "},{"Title":"A very funny movie !!","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A man is shrunk inside another man's body and the man inside the body has to get out.Clever,hilarious mix of humor,science fiction works.Martin Short and Cowboy are just hilarious.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Funny early in the movie, then slopes downward in hilarity factor","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't know; maybe I'm just not into Joe Dante's style(I didn't care too much for Small Soldiers and Gremlins 2 either), but I just didn't like this movie very much. In the beginning, I couldn't get into the movie at all; it seemed like we were supposed to care about this drunken lazy jerk who treats everyone else like garbage, and accept him as some sort of hero; I just didn't buy that. I hated Dennis Quaid's character from the very beginning, honestly. Then we were introduced to Martin Short's character, who was mildly redeeming in terms of quality, and I more or less got into his character. I can't say I really payed very much attention to the film, it really didn't grab my attention. The only thing I really liked was Martin Short's character, and the only really funny bit was about 45 minutes or so into the movie, when Martin first discovers what's happened with Dennis. That was a couple of scenes I did enjoy, but after that it stopped being funny. Save for the scene in the bathroom of the restaurant/cafe a little further into the film, I didn't laugh at all. The inside-body camera shots were disgusting at times, and seemed to be there mainly for that purpose(I mean, honestly, Dante could have done that some other way), but maybe that's just me. Most of the characters weren't likable, and far too many of them I flat-out hated, including two of the good guys(Quaid and Ryan). The humor was lame, apart from the examples I mentioned earlier, and just fails to inspire any laughter at all. The film just didn't really have anything going for it, apart from the humor, and there's way too little of that in the film. The special effects were very well-done, though, for such an old movie, and the acting was also quite good. All in all, decent enough, just too little good humor and too much forced humor. I recommend this only to fans of Joe Dante's other work. Surely they'll enjoy it(not to say that no one else will, but they'll enjoy it more than most others, I think). 6/10 "},{"Title":"Short Gets Shafted","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Joe Dante can't get a rhythm going in his slapstick revisiting of `Fantastic Voyage' because the script by Chip Proser and Jeffrey Boam is talky from the onset. Ostensibly a showcase for the gifted physical comedian Martin Short, Proser and Boam seem to want to segregate Short's antics to certain sections to allow them to concentrate on exposition (which itself is quite uninteresting) and hence Short's excesses come in fits and starts. They're good while they last (his elastic facial expressions are priceless) but they're over too quickly. He's aided by Dennis Quaid as a washed-up Navy lieutenant who is miniaturized in an experiment but accidentally ends up in Short's body. The possibilities are inviting and usually up Dante's alley but the script doesn't want to take advantage of them (Short and Quaid can converse but a funnier concept--Quaid having the ability to manipulate Short a la Steve Martin by Lily Tomlin in `All Of Me'--never seems to occur to the writers) and instead we're forced to focus on the dull, blurry visuals that have none of the wit and inventiveness of the film that inspired it. With Meg Ryan (lackluster as usual), and, as the bad guys, Kevin McCarthy and Fiona Lewis, both of whom have very little talent for the kind of hamming that is usually one of the primary pleasures of a Joe Dante picture. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the reviews here suggest","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Spielberg didn't direct this, but it has his fingerprints all over it. The king of schmaltz can't resist dumbing it all down and hamming it all up until he's sure all the kiddies will demand mum and dad take them to see it.It didn't work this time; it bombed at the box office, and deservedly so. Trying to make a Sci-Fi and a comedy rolled into one just doesn't work. It didn't work here.I feel a bit sorry for Dennis Quaid, I usually like his films, but nobody involved with this stinker had much choice, especially Dennis.It didn't even work as fluffy, mindless entertainment, as some Spielberg films do, I just can't ignore the bad science and the misplaced humour.I gave it a 3, simply because I managed to sit right through to the end. "},{"Title":"Laughing my head off!!!!!!!!!","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Holy crap, this is the funniest movie ever made, and my number #3 favorite movie of all time (second to The Fellowship of the Ring and the Two Towers, of course). What a heck of a cast! Martin Short, Dennis Quaid, and Meg Ryan are some of my favorite actors/actresses. How can you watch Martin Short get drunk in Tuck's office and not laugh?! Twistin the Night Away! BABEEEE! I am gonna buy the freakin thing someday, but nobody sells it! It must be one of those hard-to-find classics. Anyone who watches Innerspace and doesn't laugh, they don't know what humor is. Ya'll. "}{"Title":"Wonderful... excellent","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Kind of love sci-fi movie, this one is a must see for all ages. Lots of creative thinking that make this movie a wonderful experience for both adult and children.The story is great and the effects are excellent too. Too bad is that the inner part of the movie is not shown. The story should shown more on the body itself and not just a common red blood cells. Maybe the script/screen writer can expand it further by showing the audience how brain look like inside the head and human lung, heart, liver etc then it even worth too seen this movie as part of human entertainment.thumb up. "},{"Title":"Innerspace","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Fun science fiction-comedy with Short having the best screen time, but it's the Oscar winning special/visual effects that steals the show.  "},{"Title":"Amazingly good dodgy 80's dance music!!!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Oh my god, the 80's Dance music is REALLY bad! Please don't watch this film for your own good!!! Meg Ryan is very fit, but this is the only advantage this apawling movie has to offer. There is no way Dennis Quaid make up for the lack of descent actors, the others are like puppets. "}]