[{"Title":"Great Sequel","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This non-related sequel is so sweet-natured, so tame and family orientated that to assume otherwise is completely ludicrous. There is nothing in this movie that could possibly rate it above a PG, max. I wouldn't even have reservations letting younger children watch House 2. A new house has a 20-something yuppie called Jesse (Arye Gross) move in with his girlfriend Kate (Lar Park-Lincoln). His friend Charlie (Jonathan Stark), a music agent, arrives with his new diva discovery Jana (Amy Yasbeck) to help him thru the unfamiliar first few days. The house is where Jesse's parents were killed when he was just a baby and it full of many curiosities.Crafted in a bizarre Gothic-Aztec style the house itself is a marvellous set and the many rooms and passages are as mysterious to us as they are to Jesse. Sitting on one of his many mantelpieces is a crystal skull that fascinates him for some reason. He even misses his housewarming party while studying the skull's history. His studies lead him to dig up the grave of his great, great grandfather, or Gramps (Royal Dano), where he discovers the old coot isn't dead just in limbo. The person who possesses the skull is granted eternal youth but it also warps the space-time continuum within the House.Gramps comes home with Jesse, is more enthralled by Kleenex boxes and TV than the mysteries around him and ducks for cover whenever someone from another time comes to steal the skull. Just like the first movie different rooms lead into different time zones. Jesse and Charlie have many hilarious adventures battling caveman, dinosaurs, Aztecs an evil cowboy called Slim. The one that killed Jesse's parents and betrayed Gramps over a century ago.House 2 has so much careless abandon and zany plot twists that it is totally impossible not to love this movie. The huge success of the first movie meant that this one was put into production literally and hour later and Ethan Wiley was given the budget and green light to do whatever he wanted. How often does happen today? Usually it would make for a bad movie considering this was the first movie Wiley directed. But it makes for an unusually cute and light-hearted supernatural romp.One of the weaker aspects of this sequel is that it has more SFX and animation by Phil Tippet's stop-motion workshop and less by Dreamquest. The matte paintings are gorgeous but the dated dinosaurs look hokey in a few shots. If you can just squint during these moments you won't notice.Bill Maher from TV's Politically Incorrect even manages to show up as a music producer who is interested in Yasbeck and mighty suspicious of Jesse's antics. John Ratzenberger (this makes both movies star one of the Cheers barflies) appears as a repairman/adventurer who assists Jesse and Charlie battle some Aztecs. Look out for Kane Hodder (Jason) in an ape costume. Jesse adopts a fluffy, little baby pterodactyl and a strange creature called a Caterpuppy, a cross between...well you know. You need an open mind and a suspension of disbelief to swallow the outrageous goings on in this movie.The commentary is better than the one on the first movie. Ethan Wiley and Cunningham get on well and have no quibbles pointing out how crazy the film is. They discuss the budget, tell tales of the late Royal Dano and explain how many of the effects were pulled off within the constraints of the budget. One of the most interesting things they mention is that even tho the movie was stuck in between The Color Purple and Beverly Hills Cop II the kids still preferred House 2 as their fave movie of the summer. But because the movie didn't have it's own opening weekend, unlike the original, it wasn't as successful. Didn't stop 2 more sequels being made. A theatrical trailer is also included.Much like the first film the picture has been brilliantly transferred onto DVD. The 1.851 anamorphic picture looks super with very few glitches. Colors are rendered with pleasant accuracy and you wouldn't believe the low-budget origins when judging this picture. There is some grain during darker scenes but other than this the movie is looking great.The Mono soundtrack is not terribly engaging and most of the film's sound is centre-channel biased. But there's no hiss or pop to worry about. It may be Mono but it's clean and fresh sounding to me.  "},{"Title":"Fun and underrated sequel!!!!!!","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although a lot of people said this was a bad movie, I liked it. It had great special effects and good acting. This was not as good as the first HOUSE movie, but I still liked it. It was funny (but maybe a bit silly.) and entertaining. I recommend this movie. Not as good as the first, but still fun, with great effects and humor. Not bad, and pretty cool. "},{"Title":"Fun, campy 1980s horror/comedy/western.","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is a fun, under-watched gem from the 80s. Fans of the first House have a lot to enjoy here. Certainly one of the only horror/comedy/westerns I can think of, but it works well in this picture. Don't expect Citizen Kane, but if you're looking for an enjoyable little flick, you won't be disappointed.Interestingly, this film follows in the footsteps of the original House by casting a member of Cheers in a small role. In House, it's George Wendt, and in this film we get an amusing, if brief, appearance by John Ratzenberger. Jonathan Stark puts in an amusing performance as the Jim Carrey-esquire buddy, and Bill Maher shows up as well. "},{"Title":"Looks like you've got some kind of alternate universe in there or something.","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" House II The Second Story (no pun intended, I'm sure) is a great example of lighthearted horror. I've loved this movie since I was a kid. I applaud Ethan Wiley, who also wrote the original, for making a sequel that is good enough to carry on the House name. A lot of people are blown away by the fact that this movie has nothing to do with Roger Cobb or his house. But what they were trying to do with this series was to inspire an anthology of haunted house movies, and not staying with the same house. Although having nothing to do with the original, House II still manages to continue its inventive legacy. For example, look at the scene where the cupboard pops open to reveal an ironing board. That's a conventional horror scare tactic and yet, it's not a cat that popped out. It's more creative than most genre pictures. Another tradition they seemed to maintain was having a Cheers cast member in the film. This time it's John Ratzenberger. Did you ever think you'd see Cliff Clavin fighting amazon warriors? House II is a very funny film too. There's more comedy in this one, but it's not over the top.The cast helps to make the comedy work. Royal Dano gives a great performance as the kindhearted Gramps. He plays the funny parts just right, and has those sad eyes in other scenes that make you feel sorry for his character. The comical tag team of the heroes, Arye Gross (Soul Man) and Jonathon Stark (Fright Night) works well. But what in the hell is Bill Maher doing in this movie? And why wasn't he killed? The best lines of dialogue are between Jonathon Stark and Bill MaherMaher Who's your friend, Bozo the Clown?Stark No, Bozo the Death Machine.And I can't forget to mention Harry Manfredini's score. It holds the movie together no matter what scenario you've just been thrown into. House II deserves more respect than it gets because it's a good horror/comedy (which is rare)...and your kids can enjoy it too.Note for genre buffs Kane Hodder was the stunt coordinator for House II and did a cameo as the gorilla guy. Dwier Brown, who plays Clarence, appeared in the first House as the Lieutenant in the Vietnam scenes. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good for a Sequel!","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Another house, another set of house-guests. Although the first few scenes make you wonder if the movie was worth seeing, you're soon captivated by this movie. House II continues the comedic tradition set forth in the first House. Arye Gross is as excellent as ever as Jesse, the new owner of the house, and Jonathan Stark, best known for his voice abilities in animated shows, is without equal in his role as Jesse's quirky and weird friend Charlie.This movie will take you from the Wild West to the ancient Aztecs to the Crustaceous Period to the present time (October 30, 1986 in the movie). Charlie and Jesse get involved in one absolutely hilarious adventure after another. Like House I, this movie is horror with a comedy bent, and doesn't have the nudity, language, or extreme violence that categorized most horrors of the eighties. It's good, clean fun. Sure, there's a few long-dead guests, but they're basically harmless. Add to the thrill some humorous, and well-done, special effects, and some interesting new pets, and you've got a winner!If you enjoy House II, it would be worth your while to check out The Never-Ending Story -- they work on a similar bent of fantasy and comedic special effects to catch your interest. Some viewers may also enjoy movies like The Adventures of Pecos Bill. and more die-hard horror fans might also like Tales From the Crypt Presents Demon Knight  "},{"Title":"Don't take this one seriously or you'll never get out alive...","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  * MINOR SPOILERS FOLLOW *Others have panned this one as forced and stupid. I could not disagree more! I absolutely loathed the original 'House' movie, and found the second one to be a wonderful mix of Quality Silly and pretty decent storytelling.Heck... Where else are you going to come across an electrician who keeps a sword in his tool kit, and is a cross-dimensional adventurer at heart, or someone wrestling with a baby pteranodon -- or 'pterodactyl' if you prefer -- for a crystal skull?Sure, the film has its weak points. The ending could have been expanded on, perhaps even re-done, and I'll never stop wanting better FX. 'House II,' though, makes for a good watch, and I don't give a flying banana what the other 'critics' say about it. "},{"Title":"Not very good a drop from the original, but it's still fun and watchable.","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1987's House II The Second Story really isn't that good of a horror film really more of a screwball spoof comedy that's cheap made and it doesn't follow the originals plot and the storyline is much different with unheard of actors at the time. You have a story that revolves around a murder that took place in a house 25 years ago, then it picks up to the present day with Jesse(Arye Gross) all grown up so he returns to his house where his parents were murdered too. Soon after moving in the old mansion style home with his close friend party animal and craved sex guy Charlie(Jonathan Stark) they discover the history and treasures of the house, and that Jesse's grandfather was an old west legend with a storied past. Yet that past comes back to haunt them after grandpa returns to life as an old friend he had a falling out with returns to settle the score old western gunfire style! Really the movie is campy and has a lot of funny parts not a lot of fright, and many of the stars were not well known. Yet some memorable cameos include now political spin talker Bill Maher as a record promoter, and Playboy POTM miss June 1985 the sexy Spanish and Cajun beauty Devin Devasquez she has a small part. Really nothing great but always watchable especially late at night for some entertainment fun. "},{"Title":"Creative story, good acting = Well worth watching!!","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you liked Army of Darkness... you will want to see this movie!This movie is a comedy, horror, fantasy type similar to Army of Darkness. House 2 however, has nothing to do with the original release of House. It is a stand alone movie. Good acting and a creative story line make this well worth  watching!  "},{"Title":"This movie is worth watching for the caterpuppy alone...","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love this movie because it just keeps getting goofier and goofier and throws all sorts of disparate elements into the mix. You have the the great old mansion, you have the nutty friend, you have the obligatory 1980's party segment but you also have alternative universes, pterodactyls, feuding Wild West zombified cowboys and one of the cutest creations in filmdom the caterpuppy!! Arye Gross is right for the lead and has great comic timing,Jonathan Stark is very funny as Gross' wacky party buddy and Royal Dano takes the prize as Gross' zombified great-great grandfather who had discovered a crystal skull that  creates all the ensuing havoc!There are also two great supporting roles for  John Ratzenburger(from Cheer's) as an electrician/adventurer and Politically Incorrect's Bill Maher as a smarmy record exec. Watch out for some imaginative special effects that bring to mind the work of Ray Harryhausen (like the skeletal horse ridden by Royal Dano's nemesis) and the super cute caterpuppy! If every scene doesn't work it hardly matters as it is always an enjoyable and wild ride. Watch this for a dose of imaginative fun.  "},{"Title":"Not just a new house with new owners, but a different kind of movie","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sequels so often repeat a lot of the previous film and lack in imagination. Most are just made to milk more money out of the title and today not much has changed. However, sometimes they can be a real surprise and take things in cool and unexpected directions. The first 'House' was a success financially and with audiences, not so much with critics, and so naturally a sequel would be made. But instead of bringing back the same characters and putting them in a different house, the makers of II sort of took the same route as 'Halloween III Season of the Witch' did and introduced new people in a new situation. The result is not as good as the first, but a good little movie in it's own right.Pros Good work by the cast, obviously having a ball. Another solid score by Manfredini, different yet with a similar flavor to the first. Really cool and unique house, inside and out. Fantastic make-up and special effects. Some really fun set pieces. The humor is sillier this time, but much of it works. Fast paced from beginning to end. Like the original this one is full of creative vitality.Cons Not much in the way of plot. If you expect to be scared you'll be let down. Pretty dated. Some of the humor is just too silly and falls flat.Final thoughts The makers of this film were really smart to not repeat themselves. Of course, some will likely be disappointed that this is less a Horror/Comedy and more a Comedy/Fantasy/Adventure movie. However, if you can get past that then you may enjoy this second chapter in the 'House' legacy. There is surely no lack of fun or surprises in the film's 85 minutes.My rating 3.5/5 "}{"Title":"Not as good but just as entertaining as the original!","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Unrelated sequel to the 1986 hit, has a young man moving into a big house left to him in his parents will (This is never good news in these type of films)! along with his best friend CHARLIE, JESSIE attempts to find out more about his parents & an ancient SKULL that can grant eternal life, but at the same time, curse anyone who has it. It lies buried with his great, great, grandfather somewhere in a cemetery, when the guys try to take it, they resurrect the fun loving grandfather who soon moves into the basement. Within time, all the bad guys come after the skull, including a huge Cave Man, Aztec Warriors, & the corpse of the Grandfather's evil gunslinging partner called SLIM RAZOR, whom attempts to kill them all for the skull & who was also responsible for killing Jessie's parents. Despite the fact that this unrelated sequel is more like a comedy adventure, with the odd touches of horror here & there, this sequel does not miss by much, with likable characters (With the exception of Jessie's snobbish girlfriend) Good special effects, including a puppy that's also part caterpillar etc. & a few suspenseful scenes. Follwed by another unrelated, but this time, straight horror film entitled, THE HORROR SHOW (Called HOUSE 3 in some parts) ***1/2 (stars) "},{"Title":"House II - The Second Story is a great sequel!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time.Spoiler WarningSequels sometimes doesn`t match their prequels but this one sure does.Of course it really doesn`t follow the first one but that doesn`t matter to ME.The beginning is so creepy when first see Tex. Jesse jr. moves in his deceased parents` house and his friend stays with him.They see in a old book that there is an old aztec crystal skull in his Grandfather`s grave in the cemetary near by.They go and dig it up and we find out he isn`t dead yet.He says to them they can call him Gramps.He moves in the house and puts the skull on top of the fire place.Gramps warns Jesse and and his friend that they must protect it from the forces of evil.They get to know each other become and family and Gramps tells that he fought Tex long ago and that he has been in the before.Through out the film we see acient aztec warriors,dinosaurs,the old west and among other time periods. Its really a good movie.Its one of MY favorites.This has 2 more sequels and a prequel but the first two is MY favorite ones.If you like a movie about haunted houses that have lot of time travelling then is for you!  "},{"Title":"Good, Underrated 80's Horror Comedy!","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arye Gross, Jonathan Stark, Royal Dano, Lar Park-Lincoln, Amy Yasbeck, Bill Maher and John Ratzenberger star in this 1987 horror comedy. This chapter focuses on 25-year old guy, Jesse McLaughlin (Gross) who inherits his ancestors home. Soon, Jesse learns about his great-great grandfather, Jesse aka Gramps (Dano) who was a cowboy in the old west and possessed an ancient crystal skull. Stark (Fright Night) plays Jesse's goofy pal, Charlie who helps him dig up Gramps to see if the skull is with him. Jesse and Charlie get a surprise when Gramps is basically a 170 year-old zombie brought back to life by the skull and take him home with them. He reveals about his days as a gunslinger, the powers of the skull and the house's mysterious secrets. Jesse and Charlie also meet Gramps' old partner turned enemy, Slim, now an evil zombie trying get his hands on the skull. Park-Lincoln (Friday the 13th VII) plays Jesse's girlfriend, Kate, Yasbeck (Problem Child) plays Charlie's girlfriend, Jana, Maher plays Kate's boss, John who is a record producer and Ratzenberger (Cheers) plays electrician, Bill. I've always enjoyed this film and like the first, it has bizarre, creepy and campy moments plus a bit of dramatic ones as well. The cast, make-up effects and Harry Manfredini's score are great. I recommend this good, underrated 80's flick. "},{"Title":"Classic gem!","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was always a fan of the first House movie and recently found out about the sequel's existence. I checked it out and within the first 10 minutes I knew I was in for a hell of a ride. This movie is so crazy and unpredictable. I found myself loving the characters and laughing at small little things here and there. Those are the kind of movies I like. When you can find little hidden lines and actions that make you laugh. I think the movie is done really well. At first I thought it was going to be a B Grade mess, but much like the first film they did a great job with the puppets, make up, and stop-motion scenes. There's just an added charm that comes with special effects that don't use computers. In fact, if there's one thing this movie has an abundance of it's charm. The actors looked like they were having fun and were perfect for their roles. This definitely barely qualifies as a horror movie. It's more like a comedy or family flick. Or a comedic Indiana Jones in a haunted mansion setting. I would watch this with my little cousins who are around 7 years old, but I think anyone can enjoy this film. I'm 29 and I loved it lol. Definitely worth the watch! "},{"Title":"Great Movie for Everyone!","Date":"24 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a great movie I watched as a kid. My husband and I found it on Netflix recently and sat down and watched it with the family. My eight year old loves it! I rank it up there with something like The Monster Squad. Some edgy subjects for kids but a really cool movie nonetheless. I can't believe this movie has a 0% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. It's a classic! I sit and watch it as an adult, and OK, it's very cheesed and there are several plot holes, but it's still a really good concept. My husband even jokes about using it for a D&D campaign. The first house still has it's merits and I haven't seen any other sequels, but I like them both as sequels and on their own. "},{"Title":"I Drank With a Zombie","Date":"24 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Fun but dumb, House II The Second Story is an altogether different tale than that of the original House, starring William Katt. In the second installment, a yuppie couple (Arye Gross and Lar Park Lincoln) inherit a mansion, only to discover an alternate universe inside. Hijinks ensue when the lucky owner reunites with his undead great-great-grandfather and, along with his goofy buddy, battles baby pterodactyls, angry outlaws and Bill Maher.Although a character in Scream 2 cites the film as a superior sequel, House II does little to one-up its predecessor. Taking on a much lighter tone and with little to no violence, this sequel is more like a campy spoof of the first film, which in and of itself was a silly affair. No worries, though, as once you know what to expect, you can have a good time with the film. The performances across the board are light-hearted and fun, with plenty of lovable goofballs to go around (a sequel concerning these characters would be a good time). The score by Harry Manfredini is most memorable, as you'll be humming the film's main theme not long after the credits have rolled.Writer/director Ethan Wiley may not have created much of a horror film, but his blend of the supernatural and absurd with a hint of Western makes for a winning recipe that just can't be matched. Those expecting bloodshed and jump-scares will be left in the cold, but perhaps with a few drinks in hand and with the right expectations, you'll find House II The Second Story a film deserving of the title cult classic. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised.","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For a movie that has almost no names attached, this is surprisingly good. The actors are well cast, their characters are charming, and the jokes are well paced. It takes itself just seriously enough that you don't feel insulted by the storytelling. You can't have the wrong expectations. I think if you've seen the first and are expecting something similar you will be disappointed. I do however think this is a very well put together film. The pacing is solid, the comedy is more well done than a lot of big budget comedy from around the same time, and there are some well done quirky moments that really elevate the experience.The main area that it falls down is the lack of depth. There is maybe one moment that really touches something real, but it's brief. The rest is straight adventure. But it's well done. Given the choice between seeing this again or re-watching the new Indie movie about crystal skulls, I'd choose this since it's at least as entertaining but doesn't let you down like Indie did.The last criticism is perhaps the most damning. This is not a must see movie. If you live your entire life without seeing it, you'll be fine. I don't really even recommend it. But if you do watch it, I recommend you enjoy it for what it is and don't lament that it isn't better. I would recommend it for kids 9-12. It's perfect for that age. Kind of scary, plenty of snicker and giggle moments. Plenty of cute. Plenty of weird. There may be some language but it's situation appropriate and pretty tame. No nudity, a little cleavage, nothing you won't see on a visit to the mall. "},{"Title":"Good Parts + Random Junk = Mediocrity","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The enjoyable parts prevent this from being a truly bad film, but only just. The original House probably never made anyone's list of top horror movies, but it's entertaining in its own, modest way. I can't say the same for House II. Nor can I honestly say it's a sequel. It doesn't feature any of the characters from the original. It's also a completely different house. The house in House was built on a weak spot between our world and the world of the dead, while the house in House II was built at the crossroads of time and space. This is, I believe, an important distinction. There doesn't seem to be any reason for calling this House II, except to justify the clever subtitle.But that's not the only problem. The filmmakers clearly didn't know what kind of film they wanted to make, and the result is a jumbled mess. It starts off promising, and is shaping up to be a good haunted-house horror film when it suddenly and inexplicably becomes a fantasy-adventure comedy, during which time the ghost that the movie once seemed to be centered around is never seen and hardly mentioned. Then, after the viewer has adjusted to the new premise, the ghost comes back, and none of the threads brought up during the middle part are properly resolved. It's all pushed aside for a dramatic dénouement, followed by a final scene that raises further questions rather than answering any of the many existing ones.I should also add that this movie contains several insults to the viewer's intelligence, which I wouldn't excuse even if it were an out-and-out comedy. In one scene, our hero falls hundreds of feet, but falls into a portal that lets him out right above the floor in his own house. The problem is that his momentum shouldn't change, so he should still be dead. In another scene, a zombie is strangled until he loses consciousness. Just think about that one for a moment.So why did I give this an average review? Because there are good points. It's original, for starters. It may be hugely disjointed with little internal logic, but at least it isn't just retreading old clichés. It features characters who you care about, because they're fairly believable and interesting. It boasts special effects that are well above par for 1987, and some visually intriguing scenes and designs. The humor, as misplaced as it may be at times, is often quite funny. And, above all, there is John Ratzenberger as Bill Towner, electrician and adventurer. The part with him is just great, not just because of his performance, but the way his character is written, and the sequence's juxtaposition of the banal and the otherworldly. Sadly, he's only in that one scene. If the movie had begun and ended with him, it could have been an '80s fantasy comedy classic (but still wouldn't really be a sequel to House). Actually, there are at least three different movies in here, all of which could have been good if they hadn't been thrown together to form a single, unfocused movie.House II isn't a winner, nor is it a complete waste of time. Watch it if the things I've described have piqued your curiosity, but don't expect it to be too entertaining overall. "},{"Title":"A House for the Kids","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Jesse and his girlfriend move into an old mansion that his parent died in 25 years ago. He starts to learn about his past through old books in the basement and learns of his great grandfather who was an adventure and found a crystal skull. Jesse decides that he is going to find the crystal skull with the help of his friend Charles, but he soon finds more than he bargained for.House was a quirky horror comedy in the vain of Evil Dead, House 2 drops all the horror and bumps up the comedy and becomes more of a goofy kids movie in the vain of The Goonies. The monsters in this one are for the most part non-threatening cute puppets and such and the comedy is mostly bizarre (why does Charles have an uzi?, Why is the electrician an adventurer?) Nothing really makes sense, but the random nature makes it funny.This film is also more of an adventure film in which the house opens up portals into other time periods which gives the film an overall episodic feel and keeps things a bit fresh and interesting.The acting isn't very good, but in a film like this it doesn't need to be. The special effects are fairly good and I loved the cute monster puppets and stop motion effects.House 2 is a stupid movie, I can't see fans of the first movie liking the second one to well. It has almost nothing in common with the first one, there are no returning characters and even the house is different. But I still kind of liked it, maybe even better than the first. This one is more for kids than adults, but if you like bizarre random humor, you might get a kick out of this.** out of **** "},{"Title":"An amusing movie with a twist","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is not as bad as most think it is .Still a fun movie although 16 yrs old ,it has some funny moments and is mild enough for kids.I thought it better than House and is played strictly for laughs Poss spoilers. I enjoyed seeing this movie back in 1987 while living in San Diego. I too thought it a sequel to House but it turned out to be its own story totally unrelated to the original House movie. Most people like I did thought it might be a horror/gore thing but it was rated pg so i kinda knew it wasnt going to be. The premise was creepy enough with them digging up the great-great grandfather and having him come alive and grab Jesse by the throat as if to kill him. After Charlie tries to save him , they both get thrown in the grave and the zombie is revealed to be Jesse's great-great grandfather Gramps.There the movie takes a completely different direction and alot of people in the audience got up and left ,apparently disappointed at this twist.I admit I was too but I stayed and watched and it turned out to be quite funny with Charlie trying to teach gramps to drive ,party and some of the lines by Gramps were hilarious. I liked Arye Gross as Jessie and Jonathan Stark as Charlie and esp Royal Dano as Gramps(he is a total hoot and his eyes are so sad) but what I couldnt stand was that jerk Bill Maher as a feminine stuck up twit record producer, who to me is an ass in real life too,Amy Yasbeck as a total flake playing Charlie's gal and Lar Park Lincoln as Jesse's girlfriend,she was a whining bitch ,I would have dumped all 3 of them in the trash bin. John Ratzenberger of Cheers fame also plays an electrician/adventurer who just happens to discover an aztec temple in the wall(some other dimension)-his part was typical shtick Cliff Clavin and it was funny. They must like Cheers in these movies as another Cheers Alumni(George Wendt was in the original house).The movie basically centers around an ancient crystal skull that grants everlasting life to whoever possesses it . Jesse's great-great grandfather needs it to restore himself to normal again. Hijinks ensue with Jesse and his friend Charlie trying to keep evil creatures from taking the skull.Amusing scenes at a Halloween party ,in the prehistoric past ,in an aztec temple and with a pterodactyl baby bird add to the fun. The climax has Gramps old enemy from the past(Slim) return to life. Seems they were partners 100 or so yrs ago in the Old West and had a falling out,so now Slim wants the skull for himself and also wants to kill everyone else.  Now Jesse must rescue his friends,get the skull back from Slim and save Gramps life(for without the skull he will die for good). The end is good with a spooky chase and gunfight between Slim and Jesse. Sadly Jesse cannot save Gramps who was shot by Slim and dies.Evidently there was a limit to the skulls power and Gramps realizes that hed done all he could do in this world and it was time to move on to the next life. His scene with Jesse was very sad as they both said they loved each other and how neat it was for Gramps to meet his great-great grandson.His eyes are so sad when he dies. Slim gets his just rewards in the end too, blasted in the head by Jesse and also by the local sheriff who has come to investigate a disturbance. The house catches fire and Jesse and the others escape through a door to the past. He buries Gramps and sets the skull on the grave marker somewhere in the desert and rides off with his friends to a new life in the past. This to me left the door open for a possible sequel with Jesse and his friends maybe trying to get back to the future and maybe running into Gramps in the past and a whole new adventure but it never happened and on a sad note ,Royal Dano(Gramps) passed away. I give it 7 out of 10. See you at the movies "}{"Title":"A waste of 88 minutes","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As hard as it is to troll through all the years of terrible films I've seen, I do not think it is unreasonable to say that House II is the single worst movie i have ever seen. It was worse than the first one even.The film starts semi promisingly with a couple moving into a massive mansion, which looks like a castle. In the middle of the night Jess can't sleep, so he gets up and wanders around. After hearing a sound, he explores, and the dud jump scene ruins any hope of some good horror. From this point onwards the film becomes awash in the sort of feeble storyline and bad acting that leaves the audience screaming in frustration. The plot flies follows no apparent path, and the action leaps from pre-historic settings, to Aztecs, back to reality, to the wild west so quickly that one wonders how the film received funding at all.The reason I did not give this film 1 out of 10 is because it did have some moments of comedy, both physically and verbally. Unfortunately there is absolutely no horror, and what little comedy there is quickly falls flat. This film is a waste of both the $1.50 per month rental fee and the 88 minutes spent watching. "},{"Title":"House II The Second Story","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Like the first film this remains inside the haunted house theme with two young males battling all manner of ghouls and monsters but heads down the horror comedy route.If you think along the lines of 'Army of Darkness' then you get an idea what I mean. The only difference here is its not an adult horror comedy but much lighter. But contrary to what you might think this film is actually better than the first in my opinion.The old mansion appears to be an ancient Mayan temple with gateways to other dimensions that is somehow protected or kept in line by a crystal skull. Said skull is supposedly buried with one of the boys great great grandfather sooooo off they go to dig him up. Long story short Gramps the zombie befriends them and helps them defend the skull from the forces of evil, oh and they gotta save the girlfriend who gets kidnapped of course.It all sounds like a kids cartoon but trust me its really quite good fun. The boys end up going into some prehistoric world with dinosaurs to get the skull after its pinched, they battle Mayan tribesmen, save a Mayan Princess, adopt a baby pterodactyl and a weird caterpillar dog thing plus there's the evil cowboy zombie gunslinger also after the skull.It all sounds surreal but like other 80's fluff it looks great with some nice hokey effects that make you smile. There is also some pretty good makeup and prosthetics again with Gramps the zombie and Slim Razor the zombie plus some great kooky sets that look like something out of the 'Addams Family' TV show. I also really liked the cast in this too. Johnathan Stark is great as the lippy wise ass best friend of Arye Gross. Both guys really click together and make a formidable 80's duo just like Makepeace and Rusler in 'Vamp'. Stark actually reminds me of an early Jim Carrey with his haircut and looks, Arye is a regular face for this era as was Bill Maher. Kudos to John Ratzenberger who has easily one of the best parts I've seen for some time, he is the Electrician and Adventurer, always ready to battle alternate dimensions at the drop of a hat. I loved the way he Coolly remarks that he deals with this kind of stuff all the time and always ready with his sword (kept hidden in his toolbox).Yep its utterly off the wall but its a great light-hearted horror comedy with some really good Indy type adventure with monsters and zombies...albeit in a very cheesy tacky way.7/10 "},{"Title":"Fun and entertaining","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a light-hearted film. Don't expect a traditional horror film. This is more of a fantasy comedy with some horror imagery. With a description like that, you should not approach this film too seriously. Do not try to make sense of the plot, just enjoy the ride. It is rarely scary, occasionally sweet, often hilarious and constantly amusing. Fans of the original shouldn't expect the same experience as this is not as brilliant as the first. It cuts back significantly on the horror, both in atmosphere and imagery. There are only one or two scenes that could be thought of as horror scenes. However, if you liked the practical special effects and the over the top sense of humor of the first, you will still find something to enjoy in this film as well. "},{"Title":"a weird comedy, not a horror","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw the first film in the series some time ago and being a bit of a completist, I was curious to see the other instalments. While the previous film was rather spooky, this one was actually a comedy. A weird one, if you want, but a comedy. There are more funny than scary characters and some of them are quite annoying. What bothered me the most were many sub-plots there remained unexplained. Who took that baby at the beginning of the film? And why? Where did Kate, Jana, John and Rochelle disappear? And why? Who was that magical electrician and where did he come from? And many many more questions.What I liked were the animatronics. They were cool looking, even though they did not make much sense. Especially that worm-dog-puppy. But it was cute.I understand there is a somewhat of a cult following to this film, but honestly, I have no idea why. It was OK at best, but if you like the combination of comedy and horror (or are a die-hard fan of the 80s), give this film a try. "},{"Title":"Very Cheesy But Fun 1980s Horror-Fantasy Story","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The new owner (Arye Gross) of a sinister house gets involved with reanimated corpses and demons searching for an ancient Aztec skull with magic powers.This film is like a Friday the13th reunion, with Lar Park Lincoln, Kane Hodder, and Sean Cunningham. Add John Ratzenberger to the mix and you have a great cast.Some have said this film is boring, but I disagree. If anything, it could be accused of being silly or just too much nonsense. But, for whatever reason, this is largely what I like about the film... I would say I generally like this film better than the first, though it makes far less sense.This film is followed by a part three (sort of) and a part four that actually picks up where the first left off... such a bizarre franchise. "},{"Title":"New house and occupants, same everything else.","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Jesse inherits from his late parents a large old mansion, which hides many secrets. He moves in with his girlfriend, and not too long his buddy Charlie and his girlfriend arrives. Looking into all of the possessions and documents in the house, he discovers that his outlaw great-great grandpa had discovered an ancient Aztec crystal skull that granted eternal life to its holder. So, he and Charlie dig up grandpa's grave to get the skull, to only find out he's still alive. So begins all the weird doorways that open into other worlds in the house, where the occupants of these dimensions want to get their hands on the skull, which rests on a mantle above the fireplace. Jesse and Charlie find themselves battling prehistoric animals, cavemen, Aztecs and Gramps' devious outlaw partner from getting the magical skull.So much promise, but they had to go and blow it&#133; well kinda. The bad reputation is very baffling, because while I didn't find it to be particularly good, it's still passes the time. This cheap, junky sequel is just as nonsensical, quirky and ultra-surreal, but in the end it becomes nothing more than a senseless, light-headed and unrelated follow up that only wants to slap you silly. I enjoyed the equally bizarre, imaginative and gleeful low-budget House. There's something novel behind the premise of the modest first film, even though at times in was an unsteady blend of humour and thrills. On the other hand, this one was even more muddled, fragmented, heavy-handed and generic, which only annoyed. Due to the fact that most of the main characters didn't have any sense of charm, except for a amusingly impassive cameo role from John Cheers Ratzenberger (yep, that's one connection the two House films would share, as George Wendt appeared in the first) and Royal Dano really glows as Gramps. I didn't find it terribly funny, especially since it's going for something even goofier and maniac in tone, with a cartoon-like kiddie approach than trying to creep you out. Time breezes by quickly enough, but the rushed and eccentric plot doesn't really cook up a lot from it stemming ideas to wet my appetite. There's a labyrinthine of opportunities to rally many interesting dimensions lurking within the rooms of this grand-looking house of shadowy intrigue, but it never truly hits off and eventually fumbles what it ends up with. The foundation of the house doesn't dominate here, like the first. Writer Ethan Wiley (who also wrote the story for House) dons the director's chair too. Screwball antics, separate sub-plots and cheesy SFX designs fill his spotty and loose execution. The latter really takes over the show, but they were far from convincing. However the rotting make-up (crafted by Chris Walas) for the zombie grandpa Gramps, his old-partner Slim and his impressive looking horse stood up remarkably well with their distinctness. The serviceable, robust music score playfully labours along. Arye Gross slums it and Jonathan Stark was really annoying, but the adorable Lar Park-Lincoln was downright grating. Making fun appearances are Bill Mahar and Kane Hodder.Passable, no-brain and kooky fantasy schlock that looks decent enough and in the end comes off being watchable. "},{"Title":"Scary fun for the whole family","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first House was a scary classic, but the second house is a monsterpiece of comedy and frights. I owned the comic book mini-series that came out when House II came out and after reading it I couldn't wait to see the movie. The genius of the effects and the characters were great. It did get a tad annoying at times when the Bill Maher's Player character stole his wife or girlfriend, whatever she was. That was annoying. But that was minor compared to the whole movie. Great performances throughout the whole movie including the late great character actor Royal Dano known from such great movies as KILLER KLOWNS FROM OUTER SPACE and SPACED INVADERS. He's great as Gramps. Basically the movie is a buried treasure. However, if you aren't a fan of horror or the first movie, then I wouldn't take odds of you liking anything in the series. 9 STARS. "},{"Title":"The house films are comparable to the Evil Dead films","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The house films are comparable to the Evil Dead films in that they're just meant to be enjoyed for what they are black/comedy. Horror films with a cheeky sense of humor!The kind of films that have you jumping out of your skin one minute then shaking your head at the bad punchline the next! House -2 was more light on the frights and fantasy-full than the first. I enjoyed the old timer/cowboy(corpse) Gramps and the cute little worm-like dog! As far as the skull... I liked the crystal skull it added a bit of Indiana Jones to movie just in case it wasn't full of enough fantasy and fright for you! Just a fun 'Gasp'n Gags' no-brainer movie! "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie got my son through a lot of tough times (he was only 4 at the time). He LOVED it! And for that, I have to give it an 8. If you like somewhat scary movies, but don't like to be scared witless, then you'll love this movie. If you'd prefer to be scared out of your wits or if you have no imagination or plan to compare this movie with the standards of horror today, then spare yourself the frustration.The acting is a bit second rate and the scariness of it might seem a bit cheesy but back when it came out, I remember jumping a few times. Overall, I think this movie is worth the watch. Besides, it's kind of fun to see the actors when they were younger and see how they've grown. "},{"Title":"This is one crazy film...","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First of all I'd like to say that when I watched this movie for the first time I was about 7 years old and it was kinda weird to me then. Now, when i watched it a couple of months ago i could understand the movie much better and i gotta say that i really like it... I think if you wanna watch a scary movie then this is surely the wrong one, cause it's more a funny movie, but that makes it not worse...the main characters are brilliant and the story is good as well. I think if you like the 80s you're gonna like this movie. It's a movie to chill and relax so if you haven't seen it yet, call some buddies , buy some chips & beer and enjoy the film! "}{"Title":"Bill Towner","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can't believe I just read the 4 pages of comments for this film and not one person mentioned the name Bill Towner. The character John Ratzenberger plays. He saves this movie. I remember watching the first half of the film and saying to a friend that HOUSE 1 was better. Then I got hit by a scud missle of cinematic heaven when Bill Towner rang the doorbell. There is more to this character than many of us know. Bill is a man of many trades and works for Bureau 13. If you will do some research you will understand what I mean. I swear when I say that I actually got 1000 business cards that say BIll TOWNER,ELECTRICIAN & ADVENTURER, and my phone number on it. Two light bulbs in the top corners and everything. I just discovered House 2 about 6 months ago and weeks later I had this done. ALso I noticed that no one called the cute little green thing it's proper species name. A Dogipillar. OWN THIS FILM. WATCH THE BILL TOWNER SCENE OVER AND OVER AND LEARN. "},{"Title":"Well that was silly","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For a movie so random and incoherent as this one it is suprisingly entertaining. This is pathetic compared to the original though but Ethan Wiley does deserve merit for his writing/directing efforts on the basis that this is a New World quickie. "},{"Title":"Not bad for a comedy/fantasy movie!","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First of all this is not a horror movie(only the beginning)it's a regular comedy movie, you can see it without  feeling sleepy. Otherwise it's not a must-see movie. I was expecting a horror movie with jokes pranks like the first one so when i saw it i fell very disappointed. Now I'm getting used to the idea this is not a horror movie!!!! See it at your own risk if you are a horror fan!!!!! "},{"Title":"Nice","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was sure to find the usual negative for the classic'80s horror film. This site is safe meet in negative judgment on a horror film. All horror movies suck, we do not save one, is crazy. Detestate prom night, Creepshow, society exception etc. The film is very nice. A good comedy horror 80 years, beautiful women, good special effects for the time, we are just irony and the classic'80s horror film. This film in Italy was also known as the home of Helen. A good film for the period. Go now to see the crimes of black cat and I am sure that meet a new negative judgment. Next time when dell'iscrizio remember that horror films on the site are all rejected. "},{"Title":"Fun sequel","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" House II The Second Story is a pretty good sequel to the horror comedy House, Ethan Wiley who wrote the screenplay for House writes and directs House II. The film takes place in another haunted house with a new group of people, the owner Jesse's parents was murdered by a mysterious man that wanted the Aztec Crystal Skull now 25 years later and he buys his old family's with his girlfriend who's in the music business, soon his friend Charile and his girlfriend arrives with a demo tape so that Jesse's girlfriend will get them into the business. Jesse checks through his family photos and sees one of Gramps holding the Crystal Skull with another man in the distance who happened to help him get it, Jesse and Charile decide to go dig up his Grandad's grave and get the Crystal Skull but they find that he's still alive because of the skull, they hide him in the basement and place the skull on the alter by the fireplace. Gramps tells them that they need to protect the Crystal Skull since the people from the dimensions will be after it, during the Halloween party a Caveman comes and steals the skull then Jesse and Charile need to get it.They find that the room the Caveman went in is no longer an ordinary room but a huge prehistoric jungle, they go in there and soon find the skull but get attacked by the Caveman until a huge creature shows up and eats him, they get the skull but a prehistoric bird takes it and puts in the nest. Jesse climbs up to get it up one of the birds children has got it in it's mouth so has he tries to get it out he falls down the tree and lands in the basement again. They also find a little animal that's half dog and halt caterpillar, they soon put the Crystal Skull on the alter again but it gets stolen by a group of Aztec's, the next day the electrician arrives and after breaking open the wall he discovers the Aztec's temple and tells Jesse and Charile, they all go inside and see the Skull and a virgin about to be sacrificed so after sword fighting with them they get the Crystal Skull and save the Virgin. Bill the electrician gives them his card and goes the card says that he's an electrician and adventurer, (It explains why he has a sword) they decide to have dinner and suddenly Gramps old partner shows up and shoots Gramps. Charile goes after him while Jesse takes Gramps upstairs, he gives Jesse his gun and he goes after him. Jesse goes into the Wild west dimension and finds Charile and the Virgin tied up then he takes on Gramps old partner.Jesse enters leaves the dimension and soon the police arrive outside of the house while he is still fighting him, Jesse soon defeats him and meets up with Gramps, he tells him that he is proud to have met Jesse and then dies. The police shoot at Gramps old partner who is shooting at them, the house slowly catches on fire so Jesse has no choice but to enter the portal to another dimension. So in the wild west dimension Jesse buries Gramps and places the Crystal Skull on top then rides off with Charile, the Virgin, the Caterpuppy and the little Preistoric bird.House II The Second Story may not be really scary but it is humorous and very good. Check it out. 10/10 "},{"Title":"More Fantasy than Horror","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Originally believing House 2 The Second Story to be along the lines of the rest of the House franchise, what I thought was a horror franchise, my main reason for watching it was because one of my favourite actresses, the glamorous Lar Park-Lincoln was starring in it. How wrong I was. Park-Lincoln does not star in the film, she merely features, and in a variety of fabulous eighties outfits I must add.House 2 The Second Story revolves around the bizarre adventures that Jesse (Arye Gross) and his friends have in a strange house when he inherits it following the deaths of his birth parents some years ago. The adventures are all out-of-this-world and and an unusual array of creatures feature. Lar Park-Lincoln plays Jesse's girlfriend, the sultry Kate, and as usual Lar gives a great performance (with what little she has to do) before she is written out along with Amy Yasbeck, who plays Jana, the girlfriend of Charlie (Jonathan Stark), Jesse's bumbling friend. The late Royal Dano plays Jesse's long-dead great-grandfather, and John Ratzenberger gives a terrific, albeit brief, performance as Bill the electrician.Even though House 2 is rather campy, plodding and certainly not a horror, it is watchable, if not for Park-Lincoln's brief appearance, or the decent acting of Arye Gross, then for the great puppetry and special effects, which were actually quite good for the late 1980's. And, hey, we all live a bit of Fantasy don't we? "},{"Title":"80s Cheesfest","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" House II The Second Story is a pure cheese film.**SPOILERS**Years after his parents are brutally murdered, Jesse McLaughlin, (Arye Gross) and his wife Kate, (Lar Park-Lincoln) decide to move into the house. When their daughter Jana, (Amy Yasbeck) and her manager Charlie, (Jonathan Stark) arrive to help, they reveal a mystery about one of Jesse's relatives. While trying to search, they dig up the corpse of Gramps, (Royal Dano) who informs them of his treasured past and agrees to help them solve the mystery. During a Halloween party, part of the clues were stolen, and Jesse and Charlie search the house for the missing treasure. There are several different obstacles to overcome as they get closer and closer to the truth.The Good News As far as cheesy 80s horror flicks go, this is one of them. There is so much cheese in here that it can fill several cheese factories and still have some left over. It drips off the screen with a lot of ease, including all of the standard hallmarks of cheese corny acting and dialog, scenes that have no sense being there, cheesy jumps, effects and atmosphere are all elements in here that feature some of the cheese. The way the film plays out is also prevalent of the cheese style. The sequence involving the dinosaurs emerging from the second story room is the best one to exemplify this, as that whole explanation should be easy to see why. That alone should tell you what it's going to be about, as it's a haunted house story to begin with. The final half of the film is a great example, as it's the best part, but yet is as much an adventure story as horror film in that there are so much arbitrary shots and themes that make it a lot of fun to watch. Pure cheese at it's finest.The Bad News Since this was such a cheesy film, everyone and then it became very hard to believe what was going no. It was nice to view, and made the film a lot more fun to watch, it ultimately made it pretty hard to swallow. The suspension of disbelief required to accept this story is quite large, and the cheese factor is the main cause. Even though they were nice character development scenes, the scenes of Gramps partying where a pain to watch. They weren't really all that funny or creative, as they were the kind of gags that come to be expected from films with that kind of plot device. We've seen it all before in similar types movies, and it doesn't offer anything new. There really was no use allowing him to become marveled at the wonders of technology, which we knew would happen but are so clichéd that it's hard to take them seriously.The Final Verdict These are the hardest kinds of films to review, the ones that exist only as pure cheese and nothing else. It's an either or situation either you live for those kinds of films or not, and there isn't much to really persuade you to watch this kind of film in here. If you like them, take the time and give it a shot; otherwise, it may be a wasted amount of time.Rated PG-13 Violence, some Language and giving alcohol to animals "},{"Title":"Superior sequel to the almost worthless original","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   When I first saw HOUSE and then heard it had a sequel, I got scared since part 1 was sooooo boring and unscary(Good acting, and effects though.), but again I was wrong.!!!SOME SPOILERS!!! This time a guy moves into an old mansion that's been in his family for generations. Him and a friend dig up the body of his Great Great Grandfather and discover that the house is a mystical temple where anything is possible. Let's see we have zombie cowboys, Aztec cults, prehistoric creatures, and a crystal skull that the main charecters are trying to protect through the whole movie. Good story, effects, and o.k. acting. ***1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Fun sequel, ignore the crabby reviews","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *spoilers*I don't understand why horror fans continue to give House II such a bad rap. Yes, it has nothing to do with the storyline of the original, but I think it would be hard to make a sequel to such a self-contained movie. With that in mind, the filmmakers were wise to take on an entirely new storyline with a fresh batch of characters and odd creatures. If you're willing to accept it as a stand-alone film, then it's certainly worth renting at least once. The film is just as amusing and entertaining as the Steve Miner original, and does not deserve all the negative comments given to it over the years (remember the scathing reference in Scream 2?). Like its predecessor, it's not really a straight horror movie, but more of a comic fantasy, as the hero deals with a crystal skull, Aztecs, a baby pterodactyl, and dead gunslingers. It's slick and fast-paced, with no pretensions as to its real nature; just a goofy campfest.The strongest aspect of the film is a genuinely touching performance from the late Royal Dano, as the protagonist's resurrected ancestor. When we first see him, it appears as if he is going to be the villain of the film, but it turns out that he is just a harmless undead guy. The character generates sympathy as he realizes that his youth is long gone, never to return despite his most fervent wishes. This is a deliberate reversal of the traditional use of the undead as a destructive force in movies; this time we actually see one on the good side. The most amusing bit of casting is a pre-Politically Incorrect Bill Maher as a sardonic record exec; I was sure surprised to see him listed in the opening credits. Also of note is Plan 9 From Outer Space's Gregory Walcott in a small role as the sheriff towards the end.Note that this is a PG-13 film, as opposed to the original's very mild R-rating. Unlike most eighties horror, House II actually has a happy ending, as the hero rides off into the sunset with his woman and friends. It's good, clean, silly fun. It may not be the most coherent, logical film in the world--indeed, it's all over the place and threatens to become a bit too much--but it's more entertaining than the reviews would have you expect. The special effects are decent for its time and budget. I wish I had seen this movie when I was ten; I'm sure I would have really enjoyed it.**1/2 (out of ****)Released by New World Pictures "},{"Title":"House of fun -)","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I think this one of the not too many funny horror movies from the 80's.As a horror 'die' hard in the 80's I've seen a lot of crappy horror movies, a lot of good, scary movies but just a few horror movies with such a comedic background in th story.It is still great to look at the movie now, more than 20 years later. Although the scary effects of the 80's are less than today.The most fun is the old grandpa who seems to find all kind of ways to get into crazy situations all the time.And the crystal skull is great! I've tried to get one of those after I saw the movie the first time. And finally after 12 years found one that was payable for me ) "}{"Title":"Great Sequel","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First Off, For people Who Say this Film as Nothing to do With the Original...That is wy the Call i The Second Story!! Second as in Different or as in Next. I Think this Film is Not Horror or Comedy as Most people Say, But more Like Fantasy. I say Fantasy because There are (And This Could Spoil Parts of the Film) Scenes where they Travel back to the Prehistoric ages, Parts where a Group of Head Hunters Capture the Sacred Scull (Which the Entire Film Revolves Around), and, Of Course, an Unforgettable Ending, Where most of the Horror Comes From. Would I Recommend House II The Second Story to Someone? Most Certainly. It's Great fun for the Whole Family (and Unlike the First One, very little Violence) Grade A.  "},{"Title":"House of Misbegotten Boredom","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This House tale has nothing to do with the first House of a couple of years earlier and doesn't really qualify as a sequel even as it tries to capture some of that same wry humor, but it doesn't stand well on its own, being mostly non-sensical. Plot has to do with another house, this one with Aztec-influenced architecture, also with other-dimensional passages now and then. Some ghost or demon has been after a special skull for unknown reasons, killing the main character's parents 25 years earlier. The main character (Gross) goes after the jewel-covered skull by digging up an ancestor's grave and ends up resurrecting his great great grandpa (Dano) as a 100+ year old zombie. The pic then dwells on this old dude in unfunny scenes, but Gross and his buddy (Stark) also show why they never had great careers in the movies. The cast is uniformly lame throughout. It also all seems to be an excuse to have a few scenes in a prehistoric jungle, with brief dinosaur FX. Bill Maher shows up in a small role; he made his mark later in his Politically Incorrect & HBO shows. Oddly enough, the main connection to the previous film is that another actor from the Cheers TV show plays a part (Ratzenberger here; Wendt in the first one). The old guy's nemesis finally shows up near the end, still after that skull. It's all poorly paced and exceedingly dull, failing at the humor and just plain stupid - unless you're 6 or 7 years old, maybe. "},{"Title":"I love campy movies but this a bit too Campy for me","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Why is this rated 15? , He Should have been a PG! as this as got to be the babies horror movie I ever sat thought, it was Absolutely ridiculous.The whole movie felt like watching Kids TV show like Sesame Street, the next time I baby siting i will show my nephew (Who is 8), I got him into Chucky When he was 5. He love watching Seed of Chucky!, I am sure that even he won't find this movie funny or scary at all! I just found the whole movie very childish and Creatures in this movie, what the hell, Well that dog was kinda of Cute lol.The acting was well very cheesy in this movie, it fitted in really well rest of really too cheesy movie.I didn't not find this movie funny at all and it was not scary at all and it was not even rude, there were no swear words in this movie 3 out of 10, Really Silly "},{"Title":"A Lot of Imagination but Little Else","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" House II The Second Story (1987) ** (out of 4) Twenty-five years after his parents were murdered, Jesse (Arye Gross) moves back into the very house and learns about the mysterious skull after digging up his great, great grandfather (Royal Dano) who just happens to knew the gunfighter from his previous life. HOUSE II THE SECOND STORY isn't nearly as good as the first film in the series but there's no question that you've at least got to give the screenwriter, director and producers credit for at least going all out in regards to the imagination in the film. Again, there's some pretty wild things going on here from zombies to dinosaurs to a jungle in one of the rooms. All of this keeps the viewer guessing at what's going to happen next because the film is simply all over the place. The problem is that none of it is all that interesting and there's a lack of energy that really runs throughout the film. Another problem is that the director simply didn't make any of the comedic moments funny. There's no question that the film has a sense of humor in its scenes and you pretty much have to when you consider how over-the-top the story is. The problem is that the scenes aren't funny and this just makes the entire thing feel flat. Gross wasn't all that energetic either and I found him to be a bit too bland for the lead. Bill Maher has a supporting part and his brand of comedy is on full display as his comic timing is one of the best things about the film. Horror fans will enjoy seeing a brief bit of Lar Park Lincoln and we have Gregory Walcott of PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE fame in a bit part. Henry Manfredini, best remembered for his Friday THE 13TH score, also worked on the music here and sure enough, he ripped off several cues of his own score to that classic 1980 film (which is something he often did). "},{"Title":"It has it's floors (flaws/floors... geddit?), but it's still quite fun.","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" House II The Second Story has got to be one of the most random films I've seen, veering wildly from haunted house film to zombies to buddy flick to alternate dimension/time-travel tale to jungle adventure to western, with plenty of other goofy stuff sprinkled liberally throughout. Unsurprisingly, this scatter-shot approach rarely makes sense and can serve to irritate, but at the same time, it is this very eclecticism that keeps one glued to the screen; any film that features an electrician/adventurer (played by Cheers' regular John Ratzenberger), a drunken jerk who just happens to keep an Uzi in the trunk of his car, and a meal scene where the diners include a 170 year old man, a prehistoric bird, a dogerpillar (like a caterpillar, but with a dog's face), and a beautiful Aztec sacrificial virgin really has got to be seen to be believed!Also serving to make this film an enjoyably daft treat, particularly if you're fan of old-school fantasy/horror fans, are the various make-up and pre-CGI special effects prosthetics, animatronics, and stop-motion techniques are utilised to bring a collection of supernatural creatures to life, and there are a few pretty cool matte painting shots used to help create convincing other-dimensional worlds. If the zany nature of the plot annoys you, just lap up the inventive visuals; after all, how often do you get to see a zombie gunslinger riding a skeletal horse?5.5 out of 10, rounded up to 6 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"good sequel","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  good sequel can not match the original but it is still a entertaining sequel although it gets a bit silly a times it is dopey fun royal dano is great  and it is just fun to watch well worth seeing *** out of 5 "},{"Title":"LIGHTEN UP, FOLKS!!!","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  HOUSE (1) was not really a horror film--it was more a comedy/horror/fantasy. So the HOUSE 2 sequel goes down the comedy path more than horror.  Take it for what it is.  (For comparison, consider HALLOWEEN 3 SEASON OF THE WITCH, another non-sequel, which is still very engrossing and fun in its own right.) "},{"Title":"Horrible.","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of the worst movies ever made. The first House was great. one of the first comedy/horror films. You really have an adventure inside of that House, which was a normal two story house. This house thought is gigantic, and full of portals to other worlds. The two heroes are very weak. The plot is lame and boring. There is a zombie cowboy who is supposed to be funny, and he's horrible. He's watching TV in one scene, and sees Ronald Reagan (at that time the President) in an old film, and starts going on and on about how Reagan is a sissy. This is a guy who just entered the eighties after being somewhat dead since the 1800s and he has a liberal left wing bent. Or... maybe it was the writer of the film displaying his political agenda on his sleeve, as happens so much, and always against the right. It's how things are, and people like myself have to take it, take it, and take it some more. This film is horrible. Really bad. There is no plot, bad acting. It looks like it was made straight to video. "},{"Title":"Give it a chance","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ya know, nobody will ever see this comment so it doesn't really matter what I say. Anyway, I was four years old when House II The Second Story came out. My parents, for some reason unknown still, rented it. Since viewing it initially, I've never forgotten it and have always loved it. Maybe it's just because it holds that true sentimental value for me. Yeah I know what you might be thinking. I'm a puss. But think back to that one movie you saw with your parents or friends when you were just a little kid. It forever stays with you, even if the movie was a piece of crap. So please don't badmouth this movie. In all honesty, I watched it again really wasted and it wasn't half bad. So I suggest just giving it a chance and go along with it, suspend your disbelief and enjoy a funny horror movie. Thank you. "},{"Title":"House II The Second Story","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Charlie, there's a jungle in there. This has garnered a cult following over the years but back around 2005 I tried to get through it and it was not an easy task. I decided to give it another chance. Some of the jokes did give me a few giggles, but House II The Second Story just doesn't win me over as others. It is a nostalgia trip for some fans, I believe, remembering with fondness scenes like when our heroes lose a crystal skull with jewel eyes to a baby pterodactyl, or having to deal with doors that lead to alternate times/universes, having to overcome an undead gunslinger looking for said skull (which grants eternal life), and other characters who escape into the house to nap the skull for their own specific purposes (one mute Neanderthal who looks like a steroid freak, grabs the skull, taking it back to his prehistoric time which has creatures that look a bit off-the-wall such as a green worm dog or the aforementioned baby dino-bird who flies its way into the house, complicating matters for our heroes). Arye Gross is the lead and he has one of those recognizable faces you have seen on shows like Law & Order and CSI, while his hard-partying buddy Charlie is played by Jonathan Stark (known to many as Chris Sarandon's casket guard in Fright Night), and the two of them give all they can (the cast as a whole is game, working their asses off to make the material as humorous as possible) to this movie. Ethan Wiley had to have been grateful that despite the movie's many failings, his cast pressed hard to make this entertaining. The film's heart and soul is Royal Dano. Dano, as the zombie great grandfather of Gross' Jessie, who had a falling out with an ex partner over the skull (responsible for killing Jessie's parents twenty-five years ago when he was a baby), returning from the grave trying to protect it, has a good-old-koot likability that is infectious and lovable. You can't help but embrace Dano the moment his undead carcass comes back to life, popping out his casket ready to have a grand old time. Lots of familiar faces show up in small parts such as Bill Mahr as a wiseass big-shot record producer, Lar Park Lincoln (as the telekinetic adversary of Jason Voorhies in Friday the 13th VII) as Jessie's girlfriend (who Mahr eyes, using sneaky tactics to win her from Jessie), Amy Yasbeck (Problem Child; the widow of the late, great John Ritter) as Charlie's wannabe singer/star (and girlfriend), and John Ratzenberger (Cheers) as a sword-wielding electrician (!) who finds a dimensional door by making an accidental hole in the wall. The film has this aiming to please energy about it, with kitchen sink approach that throws a little bit of everything at the viewer, so I could see why many find it enjoyable. I don't think it's very good, if I'm honest, and there were times I just rolled my eyes, but this viewing experience was better than the painful previous sit-down. Best suited, I think, for late night viewing with a beer/drink, popcorn, and time to kill. Doesn't hold a patch on the first film, but does have a unique looking house (it is designed in an Aztec style, clearly the influence shows; it is as appropriately over-the-top as the film's content and approach). "}{"Title":"awful","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have no idea why this movie has a higher rating then House 3 (a.k.a The Horror Show) which is actually quite good.  .House 2 is on the other hand is quite possibly one on the worst horror sequels you will ever see, if you don't believe me then try watching it..1/5IMO the original House and House 3 are the only good movies in the entire series. "},{"Title":"Condemn this house!","Date":"11 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wow! This film was so incredibly awful, my two children are still mad at me for showing it. My wife was the smart one; she left after ten minutes to read a book. It's stunning how anyone could give this piece of cinematic basura a respectable review. I do a weekly film program at my library and showed the original House (one of my favorites!) and people loved it. I'll never understand why filmmakers try to make sequels convoluted and over-the-top. The first House had the right mixture of horror and comedy. William Katt was perfect in his role and Richard Moll a great villain. The 'Gramps' character was just plain stupid and the two main actors were Wonderbread bland. No one saw this disaster coming? In a nutshell bad story + bad acting = bad movie! "},{"Title":"maybe, just maybe a toddler would be frightened","Date":"16 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I didn't like the original House but naturally I had to see the franchise but what a mistake this was. Thousands and thousands of flicks I have seen since the end of the seventies all horror and sci-fi but this here is just one utterly boring flick that I even used the fast forward button, a thing I normally never do. House was one for teenagers but this here is for toddlers. Ethan Wiley, also involved in House (screenplay) did wrote and directed this dull flick. The directing was okay and so many genre actors were involved coming from Fright Night ((1985) Jonathan Stark), to Lar Park-Lincoln (Friday the 13th part VII (1988)) to Royal Dano (Something Wicked This Way Comes (1983)) but I just can't understand that they agreed to this childish flick. The creatures or animals looked really stupid and I didn't like them, for a horror. And the use of blue key (skeleton horse) and stop/motion (dinosaurs) really was outdated for 1987. The best part is only the last 15 minutes, at that part are a few nice effects. But overall it's just a family film in the tradition of Harry and the Hendersons (1987). Gore 0/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 2/5 Story 1/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Ding, dong, you're dead... from clichés and stupid jokes","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You haven't yet watched the first House? Then forget about this crap and get yourself the first episode!So for those, who watched the first part, let's say, this is a different (extremely lousy) approach to the same thing. Ethan Wiley, the one who wrote the script for the first movie, attempts to create the same mix of comedy and cheap rubber horror. As a result, we receive- clichés, clichés, clichés. They are hiding everywhere, even in small details. And you'd never shake off the feeling, that you've already seen all of this.- undeveloped stories. They are created in the beginning (like in those American sitcoms) and then left to die in oblivion.- absence of horror. If you are in a really good mood, you can have a laugh or two, but this would never scare you.- Hill-Billy ending.The movie is about... something. People are moving into a house, then their friends moving into a house and then we add a cowboy, stone-age creatures, Halloween party, dumb guys, a superhero and receive House The Second Story.That's it. If you want to waste your time, then go for it, and don't forget to take an extra movie, as an emergency. "},{"Title":"What the bloody hell happened here then?!","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Unlike the excellent 'House' this sequel doesn't rely on horror or even good comedy, it relies on adventure! Yes this House is like Indiana Jones meets Edd The Duck meets some time travel movie or something like that. It's an adventure comedy with very brief and slight instances of mild horror. This is more like a family movie. The zombie cowboy was the only thing scary in this one. It is entertaining but i wanted to watch a horror movie, not a 2nd rate Indiana Jones rip-off! You can so tell that the story writer is different in this one. It's all about this guy called Jesse and his mates who inherit a house which is more like a time machine than haunted. There's this crystal skull that supposedly gives immortal life to the one who possesses it or something and zombies and dinosaurs and cavemen are after it. Totally bloody stupid if you ask me. Jesse's great great grandfather also adds stupidity to this as a nice senile old zombie. Awww bless.It does have its moments but not many. The first 'House' had horror and laughs but this one didn't. Started off well though. If you want a fun family action adventure with time travel and stuff then House 2 is for you. Oh yeah, see if you can spot Kane Hodder's little part in this in the days before he became Jason. 5/10 "},{"Title":"overblown","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ethan Wiley, the script writer of both House 1 and 2, almost had something good going. He took the same basic plot of House and added strange, supposedly humorous things. The result is an annoyingly odd movie where events simply take place. Not only do these events not make sense, but they are not fun like the first movie. The cast is interesting, as it usually is with this type of movie. Johnathon Stark is a little amusing, Arye Gross(The Experts, Minority Report) is no cowboy, and Royal Dano(Killer Klowns From Outer Space, The Outlaw Josey Wales, The Trouble with Harry) adds nostalgia. Amy Yasbeck(Casey from Wings), Bill Maher(loud mouth), and John Ratzenberger(Cheers with George Wendt) all play forgetable roles in this mostly forgetable sequel. I had to laugh when this movie got name checked in Scream 2. "},{"Title":"What the?","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As odd and outlandish as House was, it is unbelievable that a sequel would be even more so. I was not crazy about the first film of the series, but it had that special something that made it an interesting experience. House II The Second Story does not have that special something. This film is supposedly a sequel, but in name only. It has absolutely nothing to do with the original for all intensive purposes. A young man (Arye Gross) inherits an old mansion and quickly he gets involved with reincarnated corpses and demons that are trying to obtain an ancient Aztec skull. Oh did I mention that the reincarnations are all from the Old West? House II The Second Story is one of the worst productions I have ever encountered. It has no redeeming value and the plot has more holes than a piece of Swiss cheese. It appears that every idea that came up in pre-production was used in one way or another here. A thoroughly difficult film to get through. An extremely difficult film to critique since there is no coherent thought within the production. A really rotten goose egg. Turkey (0 stars out of 5).  "},{"Title":"Hey its Cliff Claven!!!","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yes the first House had Norm, this one Cliff.  All in all not to bad of a movie, but just not as good as the first one.  This one is actually more of a comedy, and has very little horror in it at all.  This one has these two friends digging up a corpse to get a crystal skull...the corpse though, an old relative of one of the guys, is still alive and kicking.  They take him and the skull back to their house and all heck breaks loose as the skull somehow opens portals to different times.  The actors do rather well, but be warned...Bill Maher is in this one.  I can't stand him myself, and I know a lot of people who feel that way, so if you can't stand him I can say he isn't in this one too much.  This one flows by pretty quick and it is best not to take it to seriously. "},{"Title":"what was the purpose of this movie?!","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If it tried to be a horror movie, well it failed miserably! If it tried to be a horror / comedy like Evil Dead 2 it didnt' work!I can't believe how bad this movie is. It even used themes from Friday the 13th part VI! Don't watch this unless you are a fan of the House movies. "},{"Title":"Boring, Nonsequel Sequel","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First of all  this movie shouldn't be a sequel to the first House. Just like some of the Amityville movies and Halloween III.  Secondly, this movie is very boring.  The acting is horrible and silly.  The comedy isn't even funny. Even Cliff Clavin from Cheers couldn't save this movie. The character of Charlie is annoying. And Jesse/Grams, the 170 year old great-great grandfather is an even bigger hillbilly than Uncle Jesse from Dukes of Hazzard.  It was interesting to see some appearences from Kane Hodder, and a very young (and scary looking) Amy Yasbeck.  Bill Maher, playing a sleazy (i don't think he's really acting)record label manager, is very annoying. This movie is very choppy and makes no sense. Some scenes look like a bad 60s sci-fi flick. The backstory is totally ridiculous, even for a horror movie. It gets progressively stupider and stupider. Recommended for series completists like myself, otherwise stay away from it. Rating 3 of 10. "}{"Title":"this was one of the stupidest movies ever made","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this movie was going to be better or at least the same as House. I was totally wrong. Why was this movie entitled House 2 the second story?! It has nothing to do  with the Katt house. It is about a old witch that wants a scull that will give him eternal life.The witch guy is still after the scull and gramps would like the scull too.It wasn't even funny! I hated this movie so much! "},{"Title":"House II The Second Story","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, if nobody gave a crap about the first story...wouldn't it register to someone (Hopefully?) that making a second story would be...I don't know...asinine?   "},{"Title":"For a sequel it is average.","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I didn't like the first House, it was not bad made or not interesting or anything like that. It was just that it was too boring for me, it had a too slow pace.The second film in this entry is about a guy who moves into a house to find that his old grandpa from the west is still kicking around. The old grandpas silver skull is stolen from beings from different times as the house is a portal in time.When I saw it as a young kid I liked this movie and wanted to see it again and years later I did finding that is wasn't the same movie I liked. Now it felt boring and I just think that they could have made something more out of this. "},{"Title":"Bad critic for the movie","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie proves that sequels suck! House 1 was a very good movie, but House 2 has a totally different story, different actors, well the two movies have nothing in common except the name and that they are in a house (which isn´t the same...). Think of a 170-year old cowboy who gets drunk and drives a Alfa-Romeo and you get the point... It is fairly good as a comedy, but not as a horror movie... "},{"Title":"Just pathetic...","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After reading a review on this film and seeing it for only £2, I thought How could I go wrong???I was (unfortunatly) mistaken....Didn't anybody else (apart from myself) think this film was just PATHETIC ?? How any body can call this a horror, comedy or fantasy is beyond me. The ONLY excuse this film has is that it was low budget and was made in 1987.The are SO many 'goofs' in this film you wonder how they didn't notice them.Personal opinion.......AVOID AT ALL COST !! "},{"Title":"I prefer the original, a very different sequel that didn't do much for me...","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" House II The Second Story starts with with a scene where two people are shot dead by a mysterious figure in a large house just after they hand their young baby over to someone or other, I don't really know who or care to be honest. An on screen caption now informs us that it's '25 Years Later'. Jesse (Arye Gross) & his girlfriend Kate (Lar Park-Lincoln) move in, the two people shot & killed earlier in the film just happen to be Jesse's parents. Precisely why Jesse has decided to move in now is unclear to me, I mean wouldn't the house have changed hands or had new owners in the space of 25 years?, but once again I'm really not bothered in the slightest bit so just accept it. Jesse's friend Charlie (Jonathan Stark) & his girlfriend Jana (Amy Yasbeck) also move in as well. While doing some research Jesse discovers that his great great Grandfather was a notorious outlaw in the wild west famous for stealing a crystal skull. Jesse, by some stupid reasoning, thinks that the valuable crystal skull maybe buried with his great great Grandfather's corpse & together with Charlie decides to dig him up. As luck would have it the crystal skull was indeed buried with Jesse's great great Grandfather & even luckier that no one else had thought to look for it there... However it seems that the crystal skull has magical powers & Jesse's great great Grandfather, who thankfully for my typing finger likes to know as just Gramps (Royal Dano), is alive. Jesse & Charlie take Gramps back to the house & Gramps tells them the story of the magical crystal skull, unfortunately it's very boring & uninteresting so I won't bother retelling it here. All you need to know in a nutshell is that the crystal skull has magical powers & the house was built as a temple to it & various people & creatures throughout time & space want it including Gramps old partner in crime Slim (Dean Cleverdon). Jesse & Charlie feel they must protect the skull from all these evil people & things, the end. Wrtten & directed by Ethan Wiley I didn't think that much of House II The Second Story at all. The script is a bit of a mess as it tries, unsuccessfully in my opinion, to cross various genres like western, horror, comedy, fantasy & adventure with unsatisfactory results on all fronts. The characters are silly as are the monsters & situations the film creates, I mean what's that electrician guy Bill (John Ratzenbereger) all about? I thought he was one of the most stupid characters I've come across in a film for some time. It moves along at a fair pace but I wasn't really that interested in anything or anyone. The two main leads seem to be having a contest over who can come across the most annoying & it's a pretty tough call at the end of the day as they both obviously put a lot of effort into winning. There's no blood or gore & the only horror element is the rotten zombie Slim who looks quite good but isn't in the film that much, I also liked Slim's zombie horse as well. Talking of Slim's zombie horse the special effects on it are poor, as are most of the special effects in House II The Second Story in fact, although as I've already said the zombie Slim looked good. On a technical level House II The Second story is fine, editing, photography, music & overall production values are adequate. The acting isn't so fine, those two male leads are just so annoying to watch it's untrue & they are definitely not funny in any way shape or form. Generally speaking House II The Second Story was a bit of a waste of time as far as I'm concerned but it moves along nicely, it tries to be a little bit different & provided me with at least some entertainment, it was just a shame that the film ended up all rather pedestrian, tame & somewhat dull. Not really my cup of tea at all, I think I'll stick with the original House (1986) rather than opt for a move... "},{"Title":"Not Good","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  House 2 is not at all a sequel to the first one. Different story,different house, different actors. And this one is not as good as the first house. House 1 tried mixing humor with horror. This movie is just plain humor which is not even funny for most part  and not least bit a horror movie. The whole plot and movie is goofy and rolls non stop action. If you loved wackiness of the movie Big Trouble in Little China then you may want to check this out. Otherwise one of the worst movies I ever saw. "},{"Title":"Low-rent sequel to a low-rent movie.","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This pseudo-sequel to House has no relation whatsoever to it, but the two films do share some common qualities they are both low-rent, the jungle scenes here are as totally unconvincing as the Vietnam flashbacks there, and the comic moments work much better than the supposed horror ones. "},{"Title":"Mindless, uninvolving, amateur garbage.","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I like horror movies. I've seen a lot of them in my time, and House II has to be one of the worst attempts at the genre I have  ever seen. The first film was weak enough, but to top it with this splattering of childish and irrelevent plot, characters and emotions, not to mention the rather stupid special effects, I found myself wondering why I had even bothered.I remember when it first came out how the kids in my class at school were so excited by it. I never saw it then, but I can see how the average 11 year old of the time would find it funny. But for me, a seasoned horror buff, there was nothing even vaguely amusing, gorey, or even mildly violent about the film as a merit.They call it Horror/comedy...is this just a way of excusing its lack of merit in the horror or comedy genres?The only saving grace in the film was that the stunts were performed by Kane Hodder, who played 'Jason' in several of the Friday the 13th films, but even that is just a point of interest rather than an extra star to the film.Boring, Bloodless, Unfunny. Don't even remotely consider it, even if you have a get one free voucher at your video store. "},{"Title":"Even though you might think the first set a fittingly low standard for the franchise, nothing can prepare you for just how bad this film is...","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You learn everything new everyday. Had I never watched this film, I wouldn't have known the following; apparently, cavemen had perfectly sharpened and rounded metal knives and wore make-up; apparently, newborn pterodactyl(whatever the plural form of that word is) have feathers; apparently, if you called an electrician in the late 80's, you'd get a pushy and respect-less jackass who prints out a business card that says electrician and adventurer. Seriously. The first was decent at best, this is just plain bad. No reason to sugar-coat it, no way around it, it's just bad. It shouldn't even be classified as 'horror', seeing as there are virtually no horror elements whatsoever in the film. The comedy elements are there, but they are just ridiculous and pitiful. The attempts at comic relief are so in-your-face and obvious that it's hard to sit through. The better part of the jokes and gags are cringe-worthy. The plot is nonsensical fantasy-babble. The acting is atrocious. The characters are paper-thin and poorly written. The dialog sounds like it was written by a child(and a mentally retarded one at that). The score is so unbelievably, unforgivably 80's that it's hard to listen to without screaming at the top of your lungs. The special effects are so ludicrously obvious and easy to figure out that one has to wonder if that's what they're supposed to be. The whole film doesn't really make even the slightest bit of sense on any conceivable level... I know this was just made for a laugh, but, for crying out loud, even the dumbest movies have some purpose(if absolutely nothing else, then at least to entertain). This doesn't seem to have any purpose at all(other than to successfully squeeze money out of what I suppose must have been somewhat of a box-office hit of a first movie of the franchise). I recommend this to... well, no one, I guess, except for possibly 80's movie freaks who may get a kick out of just how bad it is. Everyone else should avoid. 1/10 "}{"Title":"Western? Fantasy? Horror? A mess.","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first time I watched House II was on a Saturday morning. I remember having a spooky hang over and switching channels on cable.TNT had this weird schedules and aired the movie at 10 a.m.Now I understand that TNT's intention was to play a fantasy/horror movie for children. I prefer to think of that possibility than actually the channel's intention to play a horror movie.The thing is that House II is a mix of western movies from the good 80's with comedy, and horror. I actually felt bad for the grandpa. That's the only thing that this movie made me feel. Absolutely no scares, gore, or anything. This is the kind of horror comedies that are that bad that are not even funny. I spit on this movie.1/10. Bull's eye The soundtrack is the same as in Friday the 13th part VI! There's a scene where one of the characters is about to fall from the cliff, pay attention to the score. "},{"Title":"made the first one look like a masterpiece(and that ain't a  good thing)","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" my sister and i had all four movies in the House series and decided to have a House marathon.we had just watched the first one,and had somehow made it to the end.but it wasn't easy.it was not a good film, at all.so, we suffered through the second one in.we managed to make it through 40 minutes of this dog, before we finally had to put it to sleep.this movie made the first one seem like Shakespeare in comparison. the acting was atrocious,at best.the budget was next to nothing as was the first one.the whole plot was ludicrous,which is to be expected,but not to this degree.nobody would behave like these characters did,given the same situations. a low 2 * "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Young men are shocked to discover that there grandfather is a re-animated corpse and that him and a group of monsters lurking about in the house are dueling it out over control of a skull that has magical abilties. While the first one was clever, funny and fresh, this one comes off as forced, stupid, and dull. It bears no relation to the first entry and features a terrible premise and is poorly done.Rated PG-13; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Not a Very Good Film","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Viewed House # 1 just recently and decided to see if the second film would be any big improvement and found myself hardly able to stay awake during the middle of the film. I really can't blame the actors, they all did an outstanding performance and tried very hard to put themselves into their roles. Enjoyed seeing a very young Bill Maher, Headroom Max who was just starting out his career and gave a sort of cameo appearance, but he managed to steal a guys wife right from under him and drove away. There were some sexy hot looking ghosts and there was a great deal of humor. However, the film BOMBED OUT. I forgot to mention there is a Skull that Glows and was dug from a very old ancient grave. There is more mention of a skull, this picture really should have been named HOUSE 2 THE SKULL ! "},{"Title":"Horror ??? What horror ?","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't like the House series. I think these films were created for teenagers who can't decide whether they wanna watch horror or comedy. But they don't realize the House films fail in both genres. Episode 3, wisely re-named the Horror Show, was an exception because it starred the great actor Brion James (may he rest in peace) He made this film enjoyable and also the story had more horror in it. House 2 is a very dull thing. Two lowlifes hunt down a mysterious skull to keep a 170 year old alive. One of them looks a little like a Jim Carrey clone and pulls very stupid faces all the time. The other one looks like he's 15 years old. Great combination...not ! The land in a jungle and they're being chased by prehistoric birds. I kid you not ! When they come back to the House, they notice a little winged creature came with them and so did something resembling a green dog...And that is supposed to be FUNNY ?!? Well, it sure ain't horror. Before I started writing this review, I spent some time reading all the other ones, written by my fellow IMDb'ers. A lot of those guys will tell you to watch this film because of the good and original story !! ... Now, I am really confused. Did they see a different film, if you give any importance what so ever to a story...you'll see this ain't a good one. "}]