[{"Title":"A New Era Dawns...Temporarily.","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"121 out of 147 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The year 1987, the Man Timothy Dalton, the film? The Living Daylights and good news for adults across the globe because after sending off their kids to joke it up with Roger Moore for over a decade they could finally sit down to a Bond movie which, whisper it quietly, resembled a real thriller...and a good one at that. We should be grateful for Dalton's two stints as the Bond because they came within a whisp of never existing. Had the studio had their way, Moore would have been wheeled off for Brosnan and a serious reinvention of the series would have been dropped in favour of the, er, winning return to form we've been privileged enough to have enjoyed since 1995's Goldeneye.Dalton's take on the character was to return it (and I hope you're sitting down) to the brooding, cruel and methodical assassin envisioned by Flemming in his original stories. TD was a RADA trained Shakespearian actor for God's sake and certainly had no intention of smirking and punning his way through each adventure. Dalton said that half the world loved Connery and the other half loved Moore (which is hedging your bets a bit) but he bravely chose to play it like neither. We can only imagine at the relief Richard Maibrum must have felt, given the opportunity to finally write an real screenplay tailored to the new approach, having been no doubt advised in previous outings that plot and character was superfluous to requirements. The result is a story set in the real world . Goodbye super-villains bloated on world domination plots and hello to arms dealers, Afgan resistance fighters, double crosses and political assassinations. After so many remakes of You Only Live Twice it certainly is a tonic and Dalton's hard-edged, professional spy washes over you like a radox bath following a 300 mile trek through the Gobi. His performance reinvigorates the series and makes all thats old new again. The familiar elements are all here - the car, the girls, the locations, but anchored in a real cold war setting with Pretenders loving KGB agents round every corner and the credible whiff of counter-espionage, the whole thing crackles with an energy and an urgency that would have been a fantasy in any of Moores mirth-ridden efforts. Even John Barry's music, in his final contribution to the series, is a fresh and exciting affair - blending high tempo action cues with his usual gift for generating a sense of foreboding and pathos in equal measure. Yes, Bond hadn't felt this good or LOOKED this good since the mid-sixites but as if to prove the old adage that you can't have too much of a good thing, we didn't. Audiences found Dalton humorless and the heady excesses of good story, three-dimensional characterisation and real world setting somewhat distracting. After all, where were all the puns (Dalton's he got the boot aside), the jokes and the evil bloke at the end who plans to ravage the planet with deadly spores? People were beginning to ask and Dalton still had two films to go on his contract.... "},{"Title":"A Great Bond Film","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"91 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps one of the most overlooked films in the James Bond series, this one brought things back down to Earth for the series.  Though Roger Moore made a good James Bond, he had by now out-grown the series.  Timothy Dalton is perhaps the most underrated actor to play James Bond, due to his rather brief stint as the character.  He is terrific in both his films, and gives 007 a brooding that Bond has not had in any of his previous films.  The movie is also good because the romance between Dalton and Mariam D'abo is there and is wonderful to see.  Though Kara Milovy is not a tough Bond girl, she is one of the most sensitive and most romantic with Bond himself.  The side love story is great to watch.  The villains are not that good, for they are not given enough screen time, but the plot is great to try and figure out.  Though it's not half as confusing as Mission Impossible, it still took me a while to catch on at some parts.  On a side note, John Rhys Daves once again proves what a great character actor he is as General Pushkin. This Bond movie stands out for it is basically the last to incorporate the USSR, the KGB, and any other Cold War element plots.  Cheers to The Living Daylights, an unsung hero of the James Bond series. "},{"Title":"Not only a great Bond movie, but a great spy thriller.","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"97 out of 127 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  While many will debate and argue over Timothy Dalton for years to come, in much the same way as over George Lazenby, I going to put my foot out and say Dalton is one of my favorite Bond's, along with Brosnan and Connery. There never really has been a bad Bond actor, but Dalton, I believe is up there with Connery and Pierce and I love The Living Daylights. Dalton was my first 'new' Bond in many ways. I was four when this film was released, and was developing a love for the Bond movies at the time. I had grown up watching the Moore and Connery movies on television and Dalton was the first new actor in the role that I seen, which is why I have special affection for this Bond movie. I love it. Not only do we have a great Bond movie, but it is also a great espionage thriller that eventually turns into the kind of epic Bond adventure we all know and love. The plot involving the double-double cross of a KGB agent defecting to Britain called Georgi played brilliantly by Jeroen Krabbe, and Bond's attempts to find him when he is 'kidnapped' by playing on the trust of his girlfriend, Kara, a beautiful cello player performed magnificently by Maryam D'abo, is enthralling, and the way it leads from the London countryside, to the ferris wheels of Vienna and eventually to Afghanistan is superbly done. The film is mixture of the thriller elements of the Ian Fleming novels and the epic adventure scope of the movies.As James Bond Timothy Dalton is excellent, a fantastic choice to play the part. His decision to play the part more akin to the novels of Fleming than the humor of Roger Moore is an inspired choice. He is a mixture of the Fleming character and Sean Connery's Bond. While there is a serious nature here (the darker elements would be at the forefront more in the equally brilliant Licence To Kill), there is still room for humor as seen in the car chase (I've had a few optional extras installed when talking about the gadgets). Coming off the Moore films, it may have been too soon for a return to the serious roots, but it works well in the long run. The film doesn't feel like some far fetched action film, it feels like a great spy movie with great actors.  Adding to this a wonderfully 80's theme tune from A-Ha, a great score from John Barry and a plethora of great baddies as well as some great set pieces (the battle on the runway at the end is great as is Bond's climactic battle with henchman Necros hanging from the back of an airplane).I love this film a lot. It's dark, yes, although not as dark as the film that was to come, and is still cracking great entertainment. It is a forgotten Bond classic and it is nice that as time has went on, Dalton's movies as the character have remained as great as they were in the late 80's.  "},{"Title":"Dalton's Debut Back to Fleming!","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"82 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  With Roger Moore's 'retirement' as 007, in the less-than-wonderful A VIEW TO A KILL, Eon Productions began searching for a new James Bond for THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS. A promising candidate was Sam Neill, 39, popular star of TV's Reilly The Ace of Spies (and future JURASSIC PARK dinosaur expert). But Albert Broccoli didn't like Neill's tests, and announced he wanted Welsh actor Timothy Dalton, whom he'd first approached for the role 16 years earlier. At that time, Dalton had turned down Bond, saying he was too young. Now 41, both Dalton and Broccoli agreed he was the right age, and his tests were fabulous...but it was then discovered that the shooting schedule for THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS would conflict with Dalton's current project, BRENDA STARR, and he, reluctantly, had to pass on the project.Then an Irish actor, who had become a major television star in America, appeared on the scene. Pierce Brosnan, 34, his Remington Steele TV series about to be canceled by NBC, had impressed Broccoli on a visit to the Bond set 5 years earlier, and his tests were so good that he won the role. The script was adjusted, adding more humor (quips were one of Brosnan's strong points), and things were moving along nicely...until NBC, seeing the publicity value of a potential 'James Bond' in a series, renewed Remington Steele, throwing the entire Bond production into turmoil. The network refused to release Brosnan, and he had to leave. Fortunately, the delay gave Timothy Dalton time to complete BRENDA STARR, and he began shooting THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS two days after STARR wrapped.Dalton, an avid fan of Fleming's novels, preferred a harder-edged yet vulnerable Bond, with little or no humor, but screenwriters Richard Maibaum and Michael G. Wilson had already tailored the script to Brosnan, and Dalton quickly revealed that one-liners were not his strongest asset. He gave, nonetheless, a strong, smoldering performance as 007. As his leading lady, Maryam d'Abo, 26, who'd been 'discovered' while doing 007 candidate screen tests, proved quite good as a blackmailed Czech cellist Bond 'couldn't kill'. The villains, while not 'top drawer' Bond, were effective; Jeroen Krabbé as a defecting Russian general, dancer-turned-actor Andreas Wisniewski as nearly superhuman assassin Necros, and Joe Don Baker, as a 'good ol' boy' megalomaniac U.S. general.With action around the world, and a complicated plot involving a weapons heist and sale, the story attempted to be more 'topical' by involving the Afghan/Soviet conflict (which, unfortunately, 'dated' it, as well). Bond is monogamous for the first time, and the more 'physical' portrayal of FOR YOUR EYES ONLY had returned, to the delight of Bond purists.But LETHAL WEAPON would also debut in 1987, and the 'over-the-top' solid action film would cut deeply into THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS profits. The 007 film was considered almost 'quaint' in comparison, and Dalton would unfairly take the 'heat' for the less profitable film.The world was changing around 007, and no one was quite sure what to do about it...   "},{"Title":"One of the best.","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"66 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Quite simply put The Living Daylights is one of the best James Bond films they have ever made & if Wilson & co are smart they'll do more like this one.Having decided to give up the role of 007 in 1985 Roger Moore stepped down,Moore had saved the series in the early 70's but had stayed in the role a movie to long(they should have left it with the excellent Octopussy),the hunt was now on for a new actor who could take the role into the 90's....Thankfully Dalton was the man they found. As soon as he got the part Dalton went straight back to the source material..ie Ian Fleming's novels & it shows on the screen...the bond in the Living Daylights is the Bond character jumping right out of the books.The film really shows how keen everyone involved in it wanted to say that this was a fresh start but at the same time still show that this is a Bond picture & they pull it off very well..John Glen's direction is excellent,he really found his feet by now & all the aspects of the film are done well...A special mention must also go to John Barry who's score for the film is one of his best...oh if only they couyd bring him back rather than have his clone do the new ones....Timothy Dalton is very much undervalued in his contribution to the Bond movies but i do feel that in about 10 years & his films will be seen in a different light on how they are looked on today. The producers of the Bond movies really need to do the same again now as they did back in 1987...make Bond a character & no more films like Die Another Day..OK it made them tons of money but is it worth selling the sole of Bond to do it..... Give the role to Clive Owen & make Bond a character again.  "},{"Title":"Dalton's first is a good one","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"44 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One thing that can be said about Timothy Dalton's two appearances in the role of Bond is that both efforts where excellent.This one is more in the traditional Bond mould than the much darker Licence To Kill that followed it but was still quite a fresh, well scripted and acted story.It is a bit of a shame that the original plan to have General Gogol throughout rather than General Pushkin had to be dropped due to Walter Gottel being unavailable but even still, John Rhys Davies does well in his role.Bond girl Myriam D'Abo is a great improvement on her immediate predecessor even if she does not have a huge amount to do and the quality of the photography, particularly the Afghanistan sequences, are excellent.Unlike many of the Roger Moore Bond's there was a fresh air of originality here unlike previous efforts, which in many ways where bits of old Bonds remixed, reheated and served up.It is also a refreshing change from the previous A View To A Kill to not have Bond bedding everything female in sight for once!!  AVTAK produced four conquests for the rampant fossilised babe magnet (!) Moore, here just the one and discreet at that.Thankfully silly gimmicks such as another of M's silly offices (Back of a Hercules plane this time following previous instalments in a submarine, Egyptian ruin, sunken ocean liner and a monastery!)  were dispensed with quickly and never really seen in the Bond series again after this.A cracking soundtrack from John Barry (quite possibly his best)finishes off this excellent instalment, which saw the farewell performances of two more stalwarts of the Bond series, Walter Gottel in an all too brief cameo as General Gogol and soundtrack master extraordinaire John Barry (he actually appears here as the orchestra conductor at the Opera House at the very end).All in all a really good one&#133;&#133;  "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"46 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I just spent the weekend watching nine Bond movies, many of which I hadn't seen in years. When you see that many back to back, it makes comparison easier and each movie's strengths and weaknesses stand out.. After finishing, I realized that The Living Daylights was much better than my memory had perceived it. (I also felt the same about OHMSS). The plot is great with many twists and turns. Tim Dalton brings a very intense Bond to the screen and in this movie it works. I thought MaryAnn D'abo was a very good female lead. We also see a new Moneypenny. The only drawback to the movie is that the villains were somewhat weak. Overall, I now feel The Living Daylights is in the very top tier of the Bond movies. "},{"Title":"Possibly the best Bond movie","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"59 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton makes his first appearance as James Bond in this fast-paced, brilliant espionage thriller. Dalton's unique acting style coupled with a gripping plot, an excellent cast of characters, genuinely exciting plot twists, and surely the coolest car in the history of the Bond films sets this one apart from all the others. I've seen it again and again and it gets better every time. In this adventure, Bond must pit wits with a diabolical arms dealer named Brad Whittaker, rescue the charming Kara Milvoy (who he was originally tasked to assassinate), restore relations with KGB head General Pushkin, aid freedom fighters in Afganistan, and, of course, look good doing it. A truly great movie, and a must for any Bond fan. "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton brings back the danger in Bond&#133;","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton became the fourth actor to portray James Bond... Having replaced Roger Moore, Dalton's appearance on the scene inspired a sharp reversal of policy in the approach to Bond's films&#133; Moore's comfort with witty lines, light comedic situations, and fantasy plots was replaced by a hard-edged reality and some violent episodes that were better suited to Dalton's more realistic approach to the character of 007&#133; Dalton has the perfect Bond qualities&#133; He's good looking, athletic, commanding&#133; He's believable as a British secret agent with a license to kill, who can bed any lady he wants&#133; Dalton's debut in The Living Daylights is astonishing... His first close-up on the Rock of Gibraltar is riveting as he spies the death of a fellow agent&#133; His arrival via parachute onto the yacht of a playgirl is equally perfect&#133; There is no hesitation in his performance&#133;But unfortunately, the problem with The Living Daylights is its lack of strong villains&#133; General Georgi Koskov (Jeroen Krabbé) is too nice to be dangerous (he hugs practically everyone he meets), and Brad Whitaker (Joe Don Baker) is denied enough screen time to develop any true malice&#133; He's a gunrunner who likes to play with army toys&#133;The only truly villainous character in the film is Necros, played effectively by Andreas Wisniewski&#133; But he's not on-screen long enough to make any true impact, and even he has his sympathetic moments&#133; The plot is another throwaway because just as you're starting to figure out why Koskov and Whitaker are partners, the plot switches to a big drug deal in Afghanistan...Maryam D'Abo is the perfect mate&#151;an elegant, well-mannered, soulful woman dedicated to her musical craft, who is drawn into the adventure of a lifetime...Romance, a key element missing from many of the Roger Moore James Bond movies, is present in The Living Daylights in large doses as a definite on-screen chemistry develops between Bond and Milovy&#133; It's helped, of course, by the fact that both characters spend a great deal of time together on-screen&#133; Not since Thunderball, On Her Majesty's Secret Service, and The Spy Who Loved Me has Bond been given the special time to develop a believable relationship with a woman&#133;Desmond LLewellyn, who hadn't missed a Bond film since Live and Let Die, returned as Q, this time supplying Bond with an updated Aston Martin V8 with 'optional extras fitted.'Caroline Bliss, an actress who had come to prominence playing Lady Diana Spencer in ABC's 1982 drama Charles and Diana A Royal Love Story, stepped into Lois Maxwell's shoes as a younger, doe-eyed Miss Moneypenny... "},{"Title":"Ian Fleming's James Bond 007 Returns At Last!","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"38 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" At the end of thirteen years of comedic 007 adventures, opinions among many fans were for a return to the more serious films of the early Connery era. The hopes of fans were realized with this film that began a new era in the world of 007.Timothy Dalton is perhaps the closest actor in terms of vision to Ian Fleming's idea of Bond. He certainly looks the part, with his scalp of wild black hair and his piercing blue eyes, and can actually visualize 007. Just look when Bond is at the fair, having lost Saunders's murderer amongst the crowd and found the balloon with Smyert Spionam scrawled over them. This guy can act. Despite this being his first film as Bond, we get the feeling that he's been playing the part for years with his mastering of the character. Dalton is also great in the action sequences and his belief that he should do as many of his stunts as possible makes it hard to determine when its him and when its a stuntman. The change continues on with the Bond girl Kara Milovy. Maryam d'Abo may not have had a lot of acting experience before this but she is a good actress. Her character goes far beyond being just eye candy. She's realistic. She's an average woman who is drawn into this world on intrigue, action, and danger. Kara is an innocent brought into it all by a man she cares for deeply and whom she owes everything to. She is also very beautiful and while she isn't the smartest Bond girl of them all, her gradual relationship with Bond provides one of the series few true love stories.If the film has a fault in it, it would have to be the villains. While both Jeroen Krabbe and Joe Don Baker are great actors, this isn't there shinning moment. Both of the characters of General Georgi Koskov and Brad Whitaker are too UN-villain like to be bad guys. Any menace that Koskov might have had is ruined by the fact that he is constantly kissing everyone on the cheek. Brad Whitaker is also too weird to be a villain. He is in many respects the ultimate military historian and in another the craziest. At least unlike Koskov, he does have a great final showdown with Bond during the fantastic gun battle at the films end.The supporting cast is also excellent. Andreas Wisniewski is great as Necros. He is menacing and despite being an obvious take on Red Grant from FRWL, he manages to be original. John Rhys-Davies and Art Malik are fantastic as the allies of the film. Both actors are initially suspicious to us, but when they are revealed as allies they are the ones we want on Bond's side. Too bad we didn't see more of them. And let's not forget Thomas Wheatley as Saunders. He is the ultimate bureaucratic agent. But he can get the job done and he's so good that when he becomes the film's sacrificial lamb we feel for his loss. As for Caroline Bliss and John Terry it is hard to find good things to say. Both were replacements for well-known and beloved characters in the series and it wasn't going to be easy. Here they failed. Neither has enough screen time to establish them in the parts and when they are on screen they are lousy at best. The action sequences are among the best in the series. The teaser featuring the training exercise and later chase on Gibraltar was the best until Goldeneye. The car chase is not only the best car chase since FYEO but also the triumphant return of the classic Aston Martin. While the car has gadgets, they are at least believable and the chase features the classic scene of the police car being split in half and Bond and Kara escaping over the border in the cello case. Other great action scenes include the roof top chase in Morocco, the battle at the Afghan airbase, and the gun battle between Bond and Whitaker. But the films best action sequence is the cargo net fight at the film's end. The excellent editing together of the aerial footage and footage shot in the studio puts together the best fight sequence since the beach fight in OHMSS. Despite the action, the film's plot never suffers and makes this perhaps the best-paced Bond film.There is also the matter of John Barry's score. It is largely action based making excellent use of the main title theme song, the song Where Has Everybody Gone? and the James Bond Theme and taking a heavy synthesizer feel. That the score a feel of being both modern and yet a classic feeling. But perhaps the films best music is the romantic music used in the scenes between Bond and Kara. There is also the suspenseful music used in the desert sequences that, while featuring the synthesizer feel of the action scenes, still feels in place and reminds the listener of Barry's classic suspense music.The films songs are a mixed bag. The main title theme, a musical collaboration between Barry and the rock group aha, is a good main title song. It is heavily rock though and the lack of an orchestral feel hurts the song considerable and it pales in comparison to the main title song from AVTAK. The films other two songs , while being great to listen to, feel out of place in a Bond movie.Despite weak villains, a couple of questionable supporting players, a rather complicated plot, and a mixed song bag, this film delivers. With Timothy Dalton's grand performance as Bond, Maryam d'Abo as Kara, a good supporting cast, great action scenes, and a great score, The Living Daylights delivers a classic Bond adventure that ranks just outside the top five classic films. "}{"Title":"One of the Best Bonds","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"39 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Watching the Living Daylights, I can see that Dalton was *far* superior to Roger Moore. Moore was just a clown, looking for his next joke. When Moore wanted to quit after 1979's Moonraker, they should have let him go.But Dalton brought a serious side to the role. You can see that he's determined to get the job done, and realizes he could be dead any minute, so he focuses on the mission and not clowning. Just like Sean Connery did back in the 60's.---> As for the actual story, that too is serious & well-written. One of Bond's long-term enemies, Russian KGB Commander Pushkin, has crossed the line and is actively killing off agents. (To quote the movie He's gone mental like Stalin.) Bond is tasked to search out & kill Pushkin, but Bond refuses because he knows Pushkin & knows he'd never cross the line like that. Instead, Bond suspects someone else inside the KGB is setting up Pushkin for a fall.And thus begins a long adventure to discover the mystery man behind the killings. And like I said earlier, Dalton does an *excellent* job in this role. I highly recommend his movies. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Garbled and confusing Bond movie (spoilers)","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore bowed out of the Bond films after it was clear he was getting too old for the films from his last one A View to a Kill. In many ways this was a good thing, as the Bond films had become too dependent on formulaic plotting and villains, as well as an overdose of fatuous humour. A change was definitely needed. This movie reintroduces a welcome level of grit and seriousness not seen since the early Connery movies. It's a pity that, technically proficient though this entry is, it is bogged down by poorly written villains, and an often garbled and confusing plot.Pre-credits sequence sees the MI6 double-o section on a training exercise in Gibraltar, where several agents are soon picked off by an assassin, who is tracked and eventually killed by James Bond (Timothy Dalton). Soon after, it appears that the killings are part of a covert agenda by Russian intelligence to eliminate British agents. Complications arise through the association of fake Russian defector General Koskov (Jeroen Krabbe) and an unscrupulous arms dealer Whitaker (Joe Don Baker). With the help of Koskov's cello-playing paramour Kara (Maryam d'Abo), Bond tracks the pair of them to Tangiers then Afghanistan...There are the usual exciting action scenes, including an spectacular chase through the Russian mountains, with Bond and Kara ski-ing down the slopes on an open cello case. There is a well-arranged slap-up fight with a brutal jail guard, and the finale is an exhilarating horsebound raid on an Afghanistan Russian airbase. John Barry keeps things moving well with an upbeat, riveting score. It's very good the way he plays on the tune of Pal Waaktaar's eponymous title song for effect during suspenseful moments.Superlative though this is, it cannot save the storyline and some generally weak writing. The villain's motivations and ultimate goal are never made completely clear, rendering the story's many twists and turns confusing. This is re-emphasised by some misjudged performances. Joe Don Baker gleefully hams it up as Whitaker, but is unable to inject any charisma into the part. Jeroen Krabbe, who has turned in better performances elsewhere, puts in a camp, mincing performance as Koskov. There are occasions when he's convincingly subtle, but they are too few and Krabbe's remaining theatricals only damage his performance. Andreas Wisniewski is no more than the standard Aryan, seemingly invincible henchman. Maryam d'Abo is a washout as Kara, generating little sympathy or sexual chemistry. Others fare slightly better. Robert Brown and Desmond Llewellyn are fine, respectively, as M and Q and Robert Wheatley gives a good performance as a stiff but likable agent. John Rhys-Davies also fares well as a helpful Russian diplomat.Most importantly, Timothy Dalton is very good as a much more grounded Bond, who takes his missions and relationships seriously. There is less of the compulsive womanizer or cold-blooded killer here, and Dalton's more down-to-earth interpretation is very refreshing.Sadly, Dalton was to have only one more outing as James Bond, in the humourless, cruelly realistic Licence To Kill.  "},{"Title":"Worse than bad, dull","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton's debut as a more introspective James Bond is the only striking thing about this 14th 007 entry. It opens promisingly pre-credits but plumbs depths of banality thereafter. It's not even shoddy film-making, it's just bafflingly dull and uninteresting.Dalton, a surprise but inspired choice, hasn't quite got the presence of Connery or Moore, but he hints at an intensity that might have developed into something closer to Ian Fleming's original conception.But he gets little help from behind the camera. The plot, an unintriguing yawn about arms-smuggling, would have seemed out of date in a TV episode of 'The Saint' 20 years previously. Worse, both main villains are vague, buffoonish characters that exude no menace whatsoever.John Glenn's direction is characteristically nerveless. An ex-editor, he handles the thrills moderately efficiently but seems indifferent to the rest of the story. A tired, desultory music score by John Barry, once a mainstay of the series, further slows down the action. And it's a poor Bond pic that can't come up with even one set of any interest! In fact, why do men's toilets feature even once in a Bond film, never mind twice?Likewise, Alec Mills' photography can't find any real visual interest in Gibraltar, Tangier or Morocco. In the early Bonds, Ted Moore could establish the drama and exoticness of a location in just a couple of shots. Mills lends nothing in the way of mood apart from a parting shot of ice-covered mountains in the twilight, as Dalton and heroine D'Abo flee the KGB.If it wasn't for Dalton's debut you'd wonder why they bothered. These daylights are barely alive. "},{"Title":"Stuff my orders! I only kill professionals.","Date":"10 July 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights is directed by John Glen and adapted to screenplay by Ricahrd Maibaum and Michael G. Wilson from an Ian Fleming story. It stars Timothy Dalton, Maryam d'Abo, Jeroen Krabbe, Brad Whitaker, John Rhys-Davies, Joe Don Baker and Art Malik. Music is scored by John Barry and cinematography by Alec Mills.Bond 15 and 007 is assigned to Bratislava to help in the defection of Soviet General Kosov from the Iron Curtain. But pretty soon Bond is mired in a plot involving arms, opium and assassinations.With Moore retired the search for a new Bond invariably came down to two names who had been mentioned in Bond circles before, Pierce Brosnan and Timothy Dalton. TV schedules and commitments would play a part and eventually Dalton got the role and eagerly he read up on Fleming's novels to ensure he had a grasp on the beloved Secret Agent. In spite of many misconceptions about Dalton's tenure in the tuxedo, his take was stripped back and closer to Fleming's literary source, his intense acting style ensuring Bond was getting back to the thriller realm.The Living Daylights is a great Bond movie, mostly devoid of stupid sight gags and cheese laden quips, it sees Bond back to indulging in glorious fist fights, using brains and brawn to achieve his ends, and with Dalton putting the arrogant swagger back into the man, Bond is sexy and dangerous again. The plot is intelligent, operating on three fronts and spanning across the continents, production values are immense, Barry's final score is a knockout, one of his most atmospheric and the title song by Norwegian pop darlings, a-ha, is energy supreme and became a monster chart hit. Glen's action direction is practically peerless, including an excellent pre-credit sequence (where a training exercise turns bloody) and a mano mano fight between Bond and a baddie aboard an in flight cargo plane, the latter of which is a series highlight. Maryam d'Abo is a good Bond girl, making Kara Milovy brave but also sweetly innocent, the pairing of Dalton and d'Abo works very well.Where the picture mainly falls down is with the villains, who are just too lightweight to amp up the peril within the plot. Krabbe and Baker are far from being bad or even average actors, but they rarely offer a threat to Bond and it's a stretch to imagine they could seriously trouble him. Elsewhere, Robert Brown continues to lack an edge in the role of M and Caroline Bliss steps into the Moneypenny shoes vacated by Lois Maxwell and struggles to make an impact because the script doesn't allow her too. Big crime, too, is having Felix Leiter finally return only for him to be underwritten and performed by a dull actor (John Terry). One misstep in the film 's plotting sees Bond and Milovy escape from danger by using a Cello case as a sledge, it looks daft and feels like it belongs in one of Roger Moore's cartoonish Bond movies. Much has been made of Dalton being uncomfortable saying the quips, and that's right, it does show, but that is a world away from the Bond he wanted to play. I do wonder if this screenplay was tailored towards Brosnan, who was inches away from getting the gig? Or even a holdover from a script written with Moore in mind?No matter, Dalton ushered in a Bond of class and intensity and the worldwide box office chimed to the tune of over $190 million, nearly $50 million more than Moore's last film, A View to a Kill. Critics were mixed on the film and with Dalton's take on the Bond role, they failed to see it was a new era and that it was an actor refusing (rightly so) to mimic either of the Bond's that went before him. Fleming purists were much happier, and with that box office take proving, so were movie going Bond fans. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Dalton makes terrific debut in classic Bond film","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have nothing but praise for The Living Daylights. It's an explosive, action-packed ride from the glorious opening sequence through the ending, maintaining some level of (surprisingly effective) humor which was mostly included because the script was written, or edited, for Pierce Brosnan, who would only finally take over the role in 1995 for Goldeneye, but largely disposing of the silliness and tackiness of the Moore era, and creating a stealthy, thrilling, effective, and ruthless Bond. Dalton makes a terrific Bond, even competing with Connery for the 'definitive' title as far as movie Bond portrayals go, although Dalton is closer to Fleming's Bond than Connery. After the ultra-suave Roger Moore Bond, Dalton's Bond seems almost mean-spirited in comparison, there may be one-liners, but this guy at least seems fit to be a secret agent.The action scenes in The Living Daylights are all great. I can't think of one which I disliked, and the special effects might be the in the series up to this point. The plot here is actually intriguing, and neither too convoluted or too thin, and keeps you interested from start to finish. The screenplay is terrific, the best in a Bond film since On Her Majesty's Secret Service. Maryam d'Abo makes for a wonderful Bond girl in Kara Milovy, one of the smartest and most likable of all of Bond's 'love' interests. I really like Caroline Bliss' Moneypenny as well. How fresh and exciting this is when compared to the previous entry.I'm honestly hard pressed to find any serious flaws with The Living Daylights. Some have said that it takes itself too seriously, but I never felt that it did. Sure, it was much more straight-faced than most Bond films, but a film is only taking itself too seriously when it becomes thoroughly ridiculous while maintaining a 'serious' superficial look. I never thought that The Living Daylights did this. It, and the follow-up Dalton film License to Kill were both relative financial disappointments, mostly because audiences didn't care for Dalton's hard-edged Bond or the fact that the film had actual characters other than Bond, actual real-world stakes, and no silly villains. Then again, The Living Daylights did extremely well in comparison to most films that year, and it earned much more than A View to a Kill did, so perhaps it is only the lesser Licence to Kill that was a disappointment.How can you go wrong with a movie this well-shot and well-acted, this well-scripted, and so well-scored by John Barry, which would sadly be his last score for the series? A terrific Bond film with a harder edge than most, and one of the few in the series that remains faithful to the spirit of Fleming's novels. A contender for my favorite Bond film and among my favorite action films overall. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Alright, hold on tight now. It's down, down to the wire!","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The first of Dalton's double-bill as 007 is a merely above-average affair. The one thing that really stops TLD from being a better film is the fact that it's just too tame. This was the last Bond film to be given a PG rating as it was clear that they couldn't appeal to the family audience any longer. With a new Bond should have come a new approach. Yes, it does feel more modern and realistic but since the script was originally designed for Moore they missed a chance at taking advantage of Bond's dark side. Thankfully, they did exactly that in Licence to Kill.Ian Fleming's story had Bond on a sniping mission, detailing every characteristic and moment of his assignment. Upon spotting the person he's been ordered to kill he discovers it's a beautiful woman and chooses to wound her instead of killing her. Wishing M to fire him for disobeying orders he comments that he must have 'scared the living daylights out of her'. The story ended on this note. The film expands this premise and has Bond escort a defecting Soviet agent from Russia only to disbelieve his story of a Russian General going berserk. Upon investigating further he discovers a plot involving the Mujhadeen and an American Arms dealer. Despite these complications and developments, there's just not enough killing! Without meaning to sound bloodthirsty, I just think that Bond should have laid waste to more bad guys. The script doesn't really give him a chance to. And, as a result, the film seems watered-down and too broad. Director John Glen stages and frames the action very well, as always but it's John Barry's score (his last involvement with the series) that gives it that extra punch. The Bond theme, so incredibly worn-out and done-to-death, is given a new spin, a faster tempo and more modern feel. Despite being about nine when I first saw it, this is the first thing I realized. They ruined a lot of potential by not taking this renewing further and not giving us a tougher film.Of Dalton's reign as 007, Licence to Kill is definitely the superior film, but don't rule-out Living Daylights. Average it may be, but still far from being anywhere near bad. "},{"Title":"Signals the end of the old 007, and the birth of the new one.","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My Take If you want stunts, gadgets, action and a meaner Bond, this chapter delivers everything with style and panache. Timothy Dalton debuts for the role of James Bond 007, taking over for Roger Moore after his A View to a Kill, and his performance is excellent. This entry is a great movie, lots of action, a strong plot, a fine cast and John Barry's music, his last contribution to the series, is superb, one of his best. But those aren't the only reasons that make The Living Daylights very enjoyable. It's mostly special because it introduces us to a whole new different Bond. A more serious and darker character, much missed by previous Bonds. The plot also is more serious, a lot different than previous Bonds. This one has great villains too, although not as iconic as previous Bond baddies. There's arms dealer Brad Whitaker (Joe Don Baker) and former KGB defector general Georgi Koskoff (Jeroen Krabbe). This is not as grand as seeing someone trying to conquer the world, but they feel right at home in a grittier and more realistic Bond film. Maryam D' Abo makes a superb Bond girl. And of course, Dalton is excellent.I like this entry in the series. Sure it gets a little overlong when it reaches its third act, but overall it's a terrific Ian Fleming-style spy adventure and perhaps one of the best in the series. Rating ****1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton's  first entry in which faces dangerous adventures around the world","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton's first outing with overwhelming action and spectacular scenarios . This was Timothy Dalton introduction as tough and attractive James Bond of the Ian Fleming's famous creation . This Bond film deals with seductive James Bond OO7 as the ultimate spy hero who is assigned by MI6 a dangerous mission in the Rock of Gibraltar . Later on , Bond is ordered to protect a false KGB defector (Jeroen Krabbe) but he's kidnapped and James attempts to chase the corrupt and double-dealing Russian general . Meanwhile , there happens a high-octane race and discovers clues about a suspicious cello player (Maryam D'Abo). James is double-crossed and continues to follow the lead , deciding to investigate in Afganistan and Tangier. Following the clues all lead to a renegade weapons smuggler (Joe Don Baker as maniacal villain) who join forces with the phony defector.Timothy Dalton as new James Bond is cool , lacked in irony, suavity and sympathy characterized by Roger Moore however earns in dimension of humanity , coldness ,cunning , adding intelligence and toughness like Sean Connery and nearly to character created by Ian Fleming . In spite of the spectacular opening sequences the Bond films were starting to look a little bit old and tired just like its star Roger Moore , then the producers Michael Wilson, Albert R. Broccoli and his daughter Barbara Broccoli hired Timothy Dalton to up the series. However , Dalton only played two Bonds , ¨Licence to Kill ¨and this one with the same director John Glen . Here Bond is an efficient , relentless agent trying to chase obstinately the criminals , traveling around the world as always , as this globe-trotting story is set in Rock of Gibraltar , Vienna (in the palace of Sissi and the big wheel of ¨The third man), Bratislava , Tangier among them , to achieve his aims , Bond along the way uses violent means even pulling off brutal killings against enemies who wreak all sorts of havoc . As always Bond will use gadgets and spectacular cars provided by ¨Q¨ (Desmond Llewelyn) . In addition , there appears Caroline Bliss and Robert Brown debuts as ¨MoneyPenny¨ and ¨M¨ , respectively . The picture with a low-key intrigue contains sensational pursuits , silly set pieces, great stunts, frantic action packed , amazing gimmicks and stimulating images like are the happenings on the snow pursuits , the breathtaking aerial scenes, and the Afganistan fights . Enjoyable title song and stirring musical score fitting to action by the usual composer, the classic John Barry . Riveting and fancy main titles by habitual Maurice Binder . It's brimming with colorful and fascinating cinematography by cameraman Alec Mils. The motion picture produced by habitual producers, Barbara Broccoli and Michael G. Wilson , being professionally directed by John Glen who directed various outings (Licence to kill, A view to kill , For your eyes only. Octopussy) though with no originality . The film will appeal to James Bond series's buffs but good for fans only ; because this one goes on far too long . Rating  6 , well worth watching . "},{"Title":"A good adventure, probably better than history will judge it","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Most people loved Sean Connery as James Bond. Others realised that Roger Moore's interpretation was different, but at least his own. Pierce Brosnan had the modern day tale and Daniel Craig is our ultra serious Bond. Therefore, most people seem to write Timothy Dalton's time in as the superspy as somewhat of a footnote in Bond history (only slightly higher than George Lazenby's single outing).Yes, Dalton hardly 'owns' the roll. He's still finding his feet, but, if you recall, it took Connery, Moore and Brosnan a couple of films to really cement themselves in the position. Dalton isn't the most sure-footed in the roll, but the adventure itself more than makes up for it. It's kind of one of the 'Roger Moore era leftovers' about a rogue Russian general trying to play the Soviets and the West off against each other.Naturally the action is all there, plus we see Bond as more of a 'hitman' in places than a spy. It's nearly two hours long, but I found that it flew by. There are plenty of set pieces to keep you amused and the characters are nice and colourful.If you like the whole 'Bond package' you should enjoy this, regardless as to who's in the titular roll (just don't dwell on how the 'Afghanistan army' are classed as the 'heroic good guys' - eek, it was different back then!).http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton's Debut as Bond","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights was a film I awaited with much anticipation.After fourteen years in harness Roger Moore left the Bond franchise.The search was on to find the new man.They found an actor then lost him and then the search ended with Timothy Dalton.The last two Roger Moore films had been entertaining romps with a sense of style.The Living Daylights is a title taken from an Ian Fleming short story.The '00's are to participate in a kind of war game on Gibraltar.For me this is the best build up any of the James Bonds have had.We first see M giving the 00's the instructions for the 'game'. The three agents who we only see a back view of parachute on to the rock of Gibraltar.This jump is spectacular to say the least with a tense and subtle John Barry score guiding the agents into land.One '00' is paint balled on landing - 'Blast'-- Another is on the steep rockface climbing upwards.The 'game' is suddenly turned awry-- an impostor has infiltrated the excercise kills a soldier and cuts the rope of the '00'-- he screams as he falls-- cut to Timothy Dalton as the new James Bond turning into shot - What a great beginning .I cannot speak highly enough of this film.John Glen has his finest hour here-- He has a new actor in the leading role and so all the scenes have freshness to them.Robert Brown as M brings an emotional commitment to his performance -- like it really matters.It has a complex plot mainly concerned with drugs and arms dealing. Maryam D'Abo is Kara a cellist who is drawn into the plot by the chief villain Koskov played by Jeroen Krabbe(without doubt the most charming Bond villain ever to draw breath)The Aston Martin re-appears with a few optional extras and there is a lovely chase sequence with the car and a cello case as Bond and Kara escape. This Bond film has an originality about it --( the Blaydon Safehouse sequence has a beautifully quirky and off balance danger to it-- Bill Weston's butler and exploding milk bottles!)It has a feelgood atmosphere and a classically brilliant score by John Barry (This was the score he signed off with). Timothy Dalton as James Bond is superb. His scenes with Saunders are beautifully acted.There is a sensitivity and intelligence at work in his portrayal of Bond that re-invigorates the franchise. The other actors including Andreas Wisniewski as Necros,Jeroen Krabbe as Koskov,John Rhys -Davies as Pushkin,Robert Brown as M,Maryam D'abo as Kara,Thomas Wheatley as Saunders,John Terry as Leiter, Joe Don Baker as Whitaker, Art Malik as Kameran Shah and the rest of the cast all contribute to make this film one of the best in the series.John Glen should also be congratulated for making the 25th anniversary Bond film such an enjoyably exciting cinema going experience. "}{"Title":"Dalton the Best Bond","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I like Timothy Dalton best of all the actors who have played James Bond, because he is the only one to act like a real human being--with real human attributes and real human frailties. Connery and Brosnan are too uncaring and cold, and Moore was such a clown, particularly in the last 2 or 3 of his films. Lazenby was probably underrated but not in the part for enough films to get a real gage on. (I have not yet had the opportunity to see the new film with Daniel Craig, so I cannot comment on him now.) But Dalton acts like a real person in the part. Though some might consider this a detriment to the role of 007, it makes his 2 films at least somewhat more plausible than all of the others and his touch of humanity is quite refreshing, in my view.The villains are not the strongest in this film, but it has the best love story since On Her Majesty's Secret Service.Maryam d'Abo is a terrific, heart-melting leading lady; I rank her right up there with Izabella Scorupco from Goldeneye as the 2 best bond women ever.And the recurring role of Walter Gotell as General Gogol is always welcome.All in all a great show. "},{"Title":"Good action sequences don't quite mask the lacking villains","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I rewatched Timothy Dalton's second Bond outing; the Death Wish-esquire Licence to Kill recently and really enjoyed it. The Living Daylights is more of a Bond film than the later one, but several little nuisances make the film not as good as it could have been. The plot is expansive and experienced Bond director John Glen does a brilliant job of pacing the film so that the action scenes don't over weight the plot. However, sometimes the film gets a little too caught up in itself, and while it's good that Dalton brings more seriousness to the role and the film doesn't include a great deal of humour in his performance, films like this also need to be fun - and The Living Daylights isn't always. The plot focuses on the Russian KGB, and one of their generals - General Pushkin - who is suspected of killing off British secret service agents. Bond, however, doesn't believe this is so. Having known General Pushkin for years, he doesn't believe him to be psychotic and so begins searching for the actual culprit. Along for the ride is Kara Milovy - a cellist hired to kill her benefactor.My main gripe with this film is the fact that there isn't really a villain. Bond globe trots all over the place, and this means that we don't get any focus, and while Joe Don Baker's Brad Whitaker is a nasty piece of work - he doesn't appear for long enough to be seen as a threat to Bond. The action sequences, when they appear, are a contender for the best of the entire series, however, and this does provide a distraction from the paltry villains. Sequences that involve Bond outrunning army vehicles in a customised Aston Martin, and the sequence on a cargo plane make for excellent entertainment. There's a fair few gadgets in this film too, and the modified car is sure to please Bond fans. As a result of the fact that there's quite a lot to it, the plot sometimes does become more than a little bit tiring, and I have to admit that I was beginning to get bored before the climatic ending. The scene where Bond finally meets his 'nemesis' is well worked, and if the rest of the film could have been just a little bit more 'closed' like that scene, I'd have liked it more. All that being said, The Living Daylights is definitely worth seeing. I don't consider myself a Bond fan really, but I still enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"See ya Moore","Date":"27 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" See ya Moore and hello new Bond.The story is about Bond himself assigned to aid in the defection of KGB agent Jeroen Krabbe. 007 must prevent an unknown sniper from killing Krabbe before he can reach the West. The mysterious assailant turns out to be the luscious Maryam d'Abo, who, as it turns out, is not all that she seems. The plot wends its way through a scheme to trade several million dollars' worth of diamonds for weapons, which will be shipped off to mercenaries worldwide. So after that terrible mess known as A view to a kill which I didn't like at all, actually I thought that movie sucked, if you want to know what I truly thought of that film then check out my review of it. So Roger Moore is out and now we got a new Bond and a better one if I must say.Timothy Dalton in my opinion has to be the most charming, bad-ass and the by far the best Bond since Connery. He wasn't mean or a A-hole like Moore was, he was a Simpy man saving the day. The action scenes in this movie was so impressing and so well shot that I can't believe they got this in the year 1987. I couldn't guess what was visual effect's or green screen in some scenes, that's how good they where.With problems I only got some like the villain of the film was just the basic evil guy doing evil stuff to make Bond blink twice, yeah the villain wasn't anything great. The Bond chick in the film that I can't even remember her name but she was so useless and to be honest got in the way in a lot of things, now normally who will get some cool Bond girl in the past films and some in the new ones, but this one got on my nervous a lot of times. Overall The Living Daylights is a big improvement from A view to a kill if I must say, but it may not be the best Bond film I've seen, but I will not lie it was a lot of fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Good Fun","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond (Timothy Dalton) is living on the edge to stop an evil arms dealer from starting another world war. Bond crosses all seven continents in order to stop the evil Whitaker (Joe Don Baker) and General Koskov (Jeroen Krabbé).This film has some very 1980s with references to Barry Manilow and ghetto blasters. Q has stranger inventions than ever (much more than we saw in the early films), which adds to the humor. And then you have the frozen lake scene, which is also pretty humorous. In comparison to previous Bond movies, this is a bit lighter.Timothy Dalton may get overlooked as a Bond, much less identifiable as the character than Connery, Moore or Brosnan. But he is not a bad Bond at all. In fact, he is probably a better Bond than Moore was. Connery will always be the best, though. "},{"Title":"A solid, serious Bond entry","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the less than stellar box office performance and near-universal panning of A View to a Kill, it was clearly time for Bond to take a new direction. There are fewer puns, no fire engines, and no Roger Moore, who despite being a good actor was seriously getting too old for this stuff. Some would question whether hiring Timothy Dalton was the right direction, but overall I'd say it worked out pretty well. (More on that later.) Daylights involves one of the series' most convoluted schemes, involving a false defection, a campaign of assassinations, millions of dollars worth of state of the art weapons, and a massive shipment of high grade opium. There's no way I can fully describe it here, but it's actually kind of brilliant in an overcomplicated way. And it introduces two of Bond's most loathable villains, the treacherous and smarmy Gen Koskov, and the megalomaniac arms dealer Brad Whitaker (Joe Don Baker). Yes he did get annoying, but that made his death all the more enjoyable for the audience.Plus, we also get Necros (Andreas Wisniewski), who may be the most underrated of all Bond villains. Besides being the best looking guy on in the movie, he is totally badass. During his first appearance on camera actually kills a man with a Walkman, beats another man to death using whatever objects he could find in a kitchen, then blasts his way out of an MI6 safehouse. The kitchen scene was the most brutal in the series up to that point, and in my opinion was one of the film's best scenes, despite Bond's absence. Nor is airborne fight against Bond any less awesome.Other high points include the massive airfield battle between the Soviets and a band of Mujahedeen, a rousing pre-title sequence on the Rock of Gibraltar, and the requisite car chase, in which Bond evades Soviet border guards and light armor in a souped-up Aston Martin. I give the latter scene kudos for being one of the few times that an awe inspiring vehicular jump results in car being wrecked, as it surely would be in real life.Unfortunately, Living Daylights has some serious flaws. For one thing, this entry's Bond girl, Kara Malovoy (Maryam d'Abo) is certainly easy on the eyes, but she also comes off as one of the dimmest, weakest beauties in the series, to the point that when she does show some guts, it's rather jarring. I also wished the final confrontation at Whitaker's villa could have been drawn out a bit longer, and for some reason, the music seemed to be missing from some of the action sequences.As for Dalton's acting; it isn't nearly as bad as his detractors would have you believe. He comes across as serious, fairly sophisticated, and knowledgeable about the spy trade. I have no trouble believe him as Bond. But neither does he excel as Bond. He's not as witty as Moore, as stylish as Bronson, as earnest as Craig, or as all around awesome as Connery. Nor does he have the hard edge he possessed in License to Kill. He does well for his first outing, but hardly overwhelms. Of course Bond with Timothy Dalton is still far better than Bond with a 59 year old Roger Moore.Overall, The Living Daylights is far from the best film in the series, but neither is it one of the worst. As far as Bond films go, it's somewhere in the middle, which to say that it's still better than most of its competitors. And this one is undoubtedly a major Improvement on View to a Kill. "},{"Title":"Love The New Bond","Date":"1 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I like the new James Bond. He's different. In walks Timothy Dalton to replace Roger Moore after his seven turns as 007. The new Bond is a monogamous chap, less humorous and clowny, a little more serious and darker. Not that Moore's Bond wasn't serious when he needed to be... when he needed to be that agent capable of getting the job done he always did, of course! But here Dalton gives us a guy on the job almost all the time. Moore's silliness gone, in comes seriousness with Dalton. The action sequences seem to definitely get kicked up a notch. And we're back to great cars and gadgets and a henchman for the villain who is quite a nemesis, at least for a little while. It's been like ten years since I've seen this, perhaps this being the 4th time overall, and I think now, whilst watching all the Bond films chronologically, I have a greater appreciation for it.7.6 / 10 stars--Zoooma, a Kat Pirate Screener "},{"Title":"Dalton Better Than Film","Date":"15 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Could Timothy Dalton really have made a go of it as James Bond? I like to think so, and nothing about The Living Daylights suggests otherwise, however much it flails at the notion of rejiggering the classic franchise.The people behind the film, director John Glen and the folks at EON Productions, obviously figured that with a few nods in the direction of Roger Moore's eyebrow-raising charm, a note of authenticity could be subtly inserted into the Bond movies without anyone noticing. Dalton is game, and he strikes the right notes more often than not, making this a diverting if not engrossing addition to the Bond series. Too bad they couldn't find the right script to use his commitment properly.In an unusual return to the Cold War theme of Ian Fleming's novels, Bond is called upon to secure the defection of a Soviet intelligence chief. His suspicions lead him to a female cellist who doubles as an apparent assassin, and in no time he's up to his neck in Warsaw Pact skullduggery.Dalton deserved more of a chance to establish himself as Bond. This, his debut, was clearly written with Roger Moore still in mind, employing the kind of humor that often suited Moore but was only awkward to the more serious Dalton. That it succeeds as much as it does has to do both with Dalton's winning performance and to Glen's ability to put before us like spinning plates a set of clever setpieces that make us forget the lack of unity at this film's center.Maryam D'Abo is the lone Bond Girl in this film, and not a sex goddess a la Ursula Andress. She's more like the smart girl you cribbed answers off of in math class. Dalton for his part is charming without being jokey, a tenser, edgier Bond more in line with the Bond in the books than even Connery, bless him, ever was.The movie has a great start, with 007 and two other agents infiltrating Gibraltar in an exercise mission that soon goes haywire. Better yet, the movie moves on to capture the essence of the terrific Ian Fleming short story The Living Daylights in a very clever and gripping way, even inserting a vague sense of ennui that characterized Fleming's later period Tell M what you want, Bond tells an obstreperous colleague named Saunders. If he fires me, I'll thank him for it.One of the nice things about The Living Daylights is the way it develops Saunders as a better-than-usual foil. One of the bad things about The Living Daylights is how poorly it develops its real villains. One, an arms dealer played by Joe Don Baker, is featured in a final faceoff that plays more for comedy than suspense and achieves neither.Once I adjusted to the hopping about, I enjoyed the film for what it was and came to appreciate Dalton's serious approach, even if it was better served in his lone follow-up, License To Kill. He and D'Abo make as romantic a couple as is seen in any Bond movie without either partner meeting an unhappy end. Dalton had the right idea, not to treat Bond as a joke, but it would take a four-picture wheel-spin of futility with Pierce Brosnan before the producers made more of a lasting commitment to take Bond seriously. "},{"Title":"a monogamous Bond","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Starring a stage actor who looks slightly too earnest to be fully enjoyable as 007, this outing commits the unforgivable crime of featuring a monogamous Bond; a blatant attempt by the producers to discard all that has gone before. Additionally, the much-publicized 'edgier' type of Bond is woefully absent here, and what we are actually acquainted with is a soft-centred Brit.Consequently, despite its pacey action and epic final third, it goes through the motions being neither too distinguishable nor too Bondian. And Dalton, in spite of his admirable acting skills, cannot disguise his discomfort in dealing with a slack director like John Glen.Great John Barry soundtrack, though. "},{"Title":"Nothing New Here","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In the 15th entry in the series, Bond gets a face-lift as Dalton replaces Roger Moore. Also, a new Moneypenny is introduced as Lois Maxwell is put out to pasture. The plot also is somewhat of a departure from previous entries as this one doesn't feature a super villain. Unfortunately, none of these changes produces a film that is a marked improvement over A View to a Kill, the predecessor that is probably the worst one featuring Moore. Dalton makes a serious 007, lacking the playfulness of Connery and Moore. As such, there isn't a sense of fun. The plot is somewhat convoluted and tedious and it goes on much too long. Not having an interesting villain doesn't help matters. "},{"Title":"A good try, but it can't match it with the best bonds","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  'The Living Daylights' is, on the whole, a fairly decent film. But as a Bond film (despite the great adventure that lasts right through to the end &#150; a trademark when it comes to bond films), it is, perhaps, portrayed in a very different vein than the classic Bond films. While it was refreshing to see a new actor (Timothy Dalton) take on the role of Bond after the very wrinkled Roger Moore (who everyone agrees, despite being a great Bond, hung around for a little too long), you have to keep reassuring yourself that this new person in the suit and tie is supposed to be playing James Bond. Dalton lacked the look and feel of Bond, and probably took it on as too much of a meaningful acting role (while Bonds are supposed to be fairly laid back). His face does not really look like James Bond either! Having said this because we had a generation of Connery and Moore playing the part, I must admit that when I saw 1995's Goldeneye, immediately I thought of Pierce Brosnan as being James Bond. I did not immediately think that of Dalton. Having said that, Dalton does try his best. There are plenty of great gadgets, one-liners and action throughout, which thankfully do spring belief that it is a James Bond film you are watching. I'll have to agree that the credit sequence effects are the best in the series, also.The Bond girl is all right, although I do feel we see a bit too much of her (i.e. &#150; little variety!). Bonds car brings back a few memories of Goldfinger, and there is a really good sequence when Bond and the girl are sledding down the ski slopes in a Cello case! The finale of &#145;The Living Daylights' could probably even be the best in the series. The high tension, action packed exciting climax, in which Bond and the villain fight in the cargo hold of a plane, features some fantastic stuntwork and effects. This 20 minute sequence is probably the films biggest drawcard.On the whole, The Living Daylights will give you an adequate evening's entertainment. I doubt if you would think of it as a bad film (I didn't), but if you want to see classic Bond - Moore, Connery and Brosnan feature a more stereotypical view of the character, and Bond will probably be remembered more from the films that featured them. A good try by Dalton in this film though, as I have watched this film in its entirety whenever its been on TV, but I have never seen his second film (&#145;License to Kill') in its entirety due to an eventual lack of interest &#150; so TLD is my pick of the Dalton Bonds.3 stars out of 5 "}{"Title":"All Dressed Up And No Place To Go","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film twice when it came out and enjoyed if for its entertainment value (think Dalton and D'Abo were charming in their roles).  Those who think this film was among the best in the Bond series, though, have it all wrong.Dalton should have never been cast as 007, he's gentle, idealistic, at times broodish, these are not the characteristics of a secret agent, even the cartoonish kind, these are not qualities developed by Dalton's predecessors, he's the Bond antithesis, one might reasonably wonder why the secret agent in this film doesn't hand in his resignation and get a job as a management consultant.Connery, of course, was the best Bond who ever, and while some accuse his character of being sadistic, mysogenistic, and unemotional, Bond lives in a world where he must be cool under fire, he's clearly a Casanova who enjoys different women's company and will never settle down, and wry charm, of course, is the man's trademark.Dalton is the politically correct Bond, liked by those, perhaps, who never warmed up to the original formula.  Does that make him the more authentic Bond?  No one as nice as Dalton would ever be given a license to kill.  Dalton's two films are the apocrypha of the Bond series.   "},{"Title":"OK, but not very impressive.","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This review may contain spoilers -Timothy Dalton replaced Roger Moore as 007 in this movie.  His portrayal of Bond is much more serious and the humour of the Moore era is discontinued. With a diabolical musical score and an obfuscating plot you might think that this entry is all bad but it does have some redeeming features.  The opening sequence is enthralling and it sets the tone for this high octane adventure.  Moreover, the scene where the British safe house is penetrated is worth watching for its brutally realistic fight sequences.  Bond novelty keyring produced by Q is one of the better gadgets in the Bond series.You may find that many key components of the Bond formula are missing.  For example, the title sequence is very uninspiring as are the locations.  The viewer never gets the feeling that Brad Whitaker is the villain and therefore his death is without impact.  With the absence of both Roger Moore and Lois Maxwell, who played Miss Moneypenny in every official Bond film, this film lacks a sense of familiarity.  While Moore felt that he was too old to continue as Bond, age wouldn't have affected Maxwell as Moneypenny.  Bond's new Aston Martin is quite impressive and its gadgets prove to be useful to him.  In summary, Dalton brings new qualities to the persona of James Bond but he fails to emulate the superlative Roger Moore.  This isn't one of the better Bond movies but like all 007 adventures, it is worth watching. "},{"Title":"Bond Rises out of the Doldrums","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Since On Her Majesty's Secret Service in 1969, the James Bond series suffered a quality freefall. The series' seven worst films occurred during this time; only For Your Eyes Only is recommendable. The Living Daylights is the first to star Timothy Dalton as the man. Many in America were skeptical of the new British actor slated to replace 57 year-old incumbent Roger Moore, and reasonably so. The classically trained Dalton is a serious actor and Moore had accustomed the public to his humorous interpretation. As it turned out, Dalton did have the required wit, albeit a more subdued and subtle variety.Dalton's arrival reinvigorated the whole franchise. The tone is back to the serious, tense style from the 1960s. The suspense and action is at a level not seen since then. There is no more nonsense about light beams detonating nukes and no lunatics trying to create the perfect race or submerge a major city. In its place is a potent, dynamic film with a sterling plot. Sadly, it borders on surprising that the action has no inane wisecracks like Women drivers and All those feathers and he still can't fly.The story begins in Czechoslovakia where Bond is ordered to protect General Koskov (Jeroen Krabbé), a KGB mastermind intent on defecting to the West during the intermission at an orchestra concert. During the escape, Bond notices the sniper assigned to Koskov is also one of the cellists and becomes suspicious. Mere hours later, Koskov is recaptured by a KGB agent named Necros (Andreas Wisniewski), but not before briefing the Minister of Defense about a distressing KGB scheme to kill spies. M consequently orders the death of Koskov's boss, General Pushkin (John Rhys-Davies, from Indiana Jones).The wary 007 decides to investigate the mystery-shrouded sniper before making good on his orders and discovers that she is no sniper, but Koskov's girlfriend. He next tries to gain information by placing her under the impression that Koskov sent him to save her.From that point on, the plot accelerates as Bond tries to find Koskov before he is forced to carry out his orders. He eventually unearths a link between Koskov and Brad Whitaker (Joe Don Baker), a disreputable arms dealer who was expelled from West Point. The story builds deliberately, and just when we think we have figured it out, Whitaker mentions something completely unexpected, further complicating the matter. The true nature of their plans is not ascertained until close to the end.It was decided early that Roger Moore's tenure as Bond would be more lighthearted and less violent than Connery's and Lazenby's, so the action's quality and intensity both suffered. Roger Moore was also a poor stunt fighter. Both of those trends are terminated. In fact, there is a fight early on that is the best in years, and it does not even involve Bond. The pace slows down during the second hour, but a titanic payoff is on the way. What a payoff it is! It starts as a large gunfight between Afghan fighters and Soviets at an airbase, and culminates in arguably the best action ever filmed. It is one of those scenes that can make a bad movie worth seeing all by itself, but The Living Daylights is definitely not a bad film before it. The clever showdown between Bond and Whitaker is dwarfed in comparison. Dalton comes across charmingly in his debut. We believe that he truly has feelings for Kara. His humor is delivered more matter-of-factly, but still works, such as the time he attributes the separation of a police car to salt corrosion. His one mistake is stressing over some of his words, which makes Bond appear burnt out. The scene where he threatens Pushkin illustrates how especially well Dalton portrays Bond's mercilessness, as does a scene where he sees a balloon with taunting message and furiously pops it in his hands. Caroline Bliss replaces the old Lois Maxwell as Miss Moneypenny. Bliss is an accurate word to describe what dating her would be like, but her performance is flat. Even though Maxwell should have left ten years before she did, she is the one and only Moneypenny to this day. Samantha Bond did well in GoldenEye and Tomorrow Never Dies, but she was underused in the former and not properly used in the latter. The effectiveness of the part left with Maxwell, and I hope the franchise keeps Villiers on hand as M's secretary for the future films.The major weakness is the way the two villains are handled. Brad Whitaker's unhealthy obsession with war blurs his line between reality and fantasy, however he is absent for most of the runtime. Baker makes the most of his limited opportunities. The other villain, I will not reveal if it is Koskov of Puskin, is too jovial and fatuous. The third villain, Necros, rarely speaks but his presence in the superlative end fight stamps his mark indelibly. John Barry's soundtrack, especially his twist on Where Has Everybody Gone? that accompanies Necros throughout the movie, is the best work of his career. Only On Her Majesty's Secret Service has a score that even comes close. Lastly, the ending is too convenient when the head of Russian Foreign Service expresses pleasure at meeting an Afghan fighter, who happens to be at a performance hall with bullets strapped around his shoulder.On an interesting note, Bond's habit of seducing multiple women is put on hold. Kara, played by Maryam d'Abo, has more time invested to her development than any other Bond woman. d'Abo sports an accent that is so good I though she was Russian, but her expression is limited. The Living Daylights is a highly entertaining film despite its flaws, and quickly buries all that did not work in the Moore movies. It is one of the better films in the series. "},{"Title":"Why didn't you learn the violin?","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After 1985's A View to a Kill, it became apparent (at least to me) that the Bond series needed a change if it was going to be viable. Enter Timothy Dalton and The Living Daylights. What a breath of fresh air! With Dalton, Bond was changed from a smarmy, one-line spewing 00 agent without the physical presence to any longer play the role into a more serious, mysterious, and athletic figure. Dalton's Bond may come out with a clever line here and there, but he's far form the ridiculous quip machine that Moore had become. And to top it off, The Living Daylights sees Bond returning somewhat to his roots and actually doing a little spy work. Imagine that &#150; Bond as a spy! The Living Daylights isn't the perfect Bond film. Neither General Koskov (Jeroen Krabbe) nor Brad Whitaker (Joe Don Baker) make for very threatening Bond villains. They come off more as clowns than men to be feared. Also, even though I enjoy Maryam d'Abo's work in the movie, her Kara Milovy is a little too helpless as written. But any weaknesses I see in The Living Daylights are more than offset by the movie's strong points. Some of the various set-pieces are wonderful. I'm particularly fond of the clever method used to get Koskov into the west. And that final fight scene in the airplane is one of the best found in any of the Bond movies. The plot is interesting and just complicated enough to keep you guessing throughout The Living Daylights. Just when you think you've got things figured out, the plot throws another curve ball. Most of the acting is excellent. Even though it was Dalton's first time in the role, I think he nails it. John Rhys-Davis, in a much too small of a role, and Art Malik really standout and deliver a couple of nice performances. As should be evident, the positives easily outweigh the negatives as far as I'm concerned.I'm one of those who hate the fact that Dalton was only given the opportunity to play James Bond twice. I would have liked to see what he would have done with the role given more time in it. "},{"Title":"Fleming's Bond makes a stylish return","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights marked the end of an era for the Bond franchise in some ways, being the last film in the series to have a Cold War theme, thanks to the imminent downfall of the Berlin Wall, and also the last to boast a score by John Barry. In other respects, however, it marked a new beginning. With the aged Roger Moore finally stepping aside, TLD saw respected Welsh actor Timothy Dalton become the fourth official James Bond, a role he had first been linked with at the time of On Her Majesty's Secret Service. After the jokiness and campness that had pervaded the Moore era, Dalton was keen to play OO7 in a much more serious manner, and as preparation for the role he read all of Ian Fleming's original novels. The result in TLD is one of the most impressive interpretations of Bond to grace the big screen, an all-too human secret agent possessing a cold ruthlessness but also real emotions. Not since the early Connery films had OO7 been presented in such a realistic light, and Dalton's performance in both his Bond films is probably the closest any actor has got to portraying Fleming's original character.Taken as a whole, TLD matches Dalton's sombre performance by being one of the more down-to-earth Bond extravaganzas, a stylish Cold War spy thriller focusing on the defection to the West of Koskov, a leading KGB man who turns out to be in cahoots with a renegade American general-turned-arms dealer called Whitaker. There is plenty of the great action and stunning locations we expect from Bond films, most notably when OO7 and Kara Milovy sledge downhill on a cello case, and in the superbly staged fight on the plane towards the end, in which Bond does battle with yet another blonde henchman. Although not one of the prettiest Bond girls, Maryam d'Abo does have charm and a certain amount of spirit as Kara, and there are also great performances from John Rhys Davies as Pushkin and Jeroen Krabbe as the villainous but charming Koskov. As for the MI6 regulars, Desmond Llewelyn turns in his normal reliable performance as Q, while Robert Brown returns as M and Caroline Bliss takes over from the long-serving Lois Maxwell as Moneypenny, although she doesn't get much of a chance to make an impression. Meanwhile Walter Gotell returns once more for a brief appearance as General Gogol (his last), and Thomas Wheatley is quite impressive as Saunders, Bond's ill-fated ally in the field.TLD therefore has a lot going for it, but as it happens I think it falls just short of being a true Bond classic. One problem is the plot, which is too convoluted and becomes quite confusing by the time Bond and Kara reach Afghanistan. The major flaw, however, is the way the villains are underused. Koskov and Whitaker had promise as opponents for OO7, not least because for a change they are not seeking world domination, but you don't see enough of them. Joe Don Baker has fun with the role of Whitaker and his obsession with military history, but he does not get enough screen time to flesh the character out properly, and his final showdown with Bond is perfunctory. The film is also overlong, and A-ha's theme tune is pretty bad, a badly dated mess which could only have been recorded in the mid-to-late 80s.Despite the flaws, however, TLD is still one of the better Bond efforts, not least because it puts OO7 back in touch with his roots and doesn't play things for laughs. In the final analysis, it gets Dalton's all-too-brief Bond career off to a good start, and paves the way for the gritty, hard-edged tone of the excellent Licence to Kill two years later. "},{"Title":"A Dark and Serious Effort","Date":"7 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Although I was initially skeptical with Timothy Dalton in the role of James Bond, I must say that this movie was a definite improvement over the last couple of films starring Roger Moore. Now don't get me wrong, I still think that Roger Moore performed quite well and my criticism is not directed at him in any way. It's just that in some cases the overall direction seemed to drift too far away from the basic substance which made James Bond so unique in the first place. In any case, this movie essentially begins with James Bond (Timothy Dalton) successfully bringing a high-ranking KGB official by the name of General Georgi Koskov (Jeroen Crabbe) over to the West. Then upon interrogating General Koskov the British secret service is told that another high-ranking KGB official, General Leonid Pushkin (John Rhys-Davies) has apparently gone insane and has issued an order to assassinate numerous British and American spies in order to provoke a war between the Soviet Union and NATO. Unfortunately, prior to interrogating him more fully, General Koskov is suddenly kidnapped by Soviet agents and subsequently whisked back to Moscow. This turn of events makes it imperative for the British government to act quickly and Agent 007 is immediately tasked with assassinating General Pushkin before his plan can take effect. But before he does that James Bond wants to interrogate another person who might be able to give him some more information&#x97;a female sniper named Kara Milovy (Maryam d'Abo) who attempted to kill General Koskov before he could defect. Now rather than reveal any more I will just say that this is a more dark and serious effort which still manages to entertain fairly well. I especially liked the overall storyline and the performance of Timothy Dalton who quite capably managed to fill an extremely difficult vacancy. In short, this turned out to be a pretty good James Bond movie and I have rated it accordingly. Above average. "},{"Title":"Well Needed Restart.","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" At last, at last....a new guy in town. A more novelty kind of Bond enters along with Timothy Dalton, whom I was a lot skeptical to as a 12 year old dude, who's Bond on screen first and foremost was Roger Moore. In Dalton we got a little more sophisticated actor. Though both had stage experiences, Dalton was a more versatile kind of guy, playing the strings for more tones and tunes in his acting.The story itself was kind of dated, though Russians still hanging in there, to the end.... Defectors who's dreaming of affluence and luxuriance of their own, double-cross each side of the (still) cold war. Build your own castle before the iron curtain falls conclusively. (Some rear-view flashback there, uh?)Title song from then freshly star Norwegian pop-band A-ha is a good, catchy tune of its time. Way more complex and approachable than the terrible View-track from Duran Duran two years earlier. My personal opinion that is.Maryam d'Abo was the try-out girl (for acting against possible Bonds in test scenes) who hit big time, when impressing so much on the cast team that she got a ticket to ride along the full way. The best 007 woman since Carole Bouquet in ..Eyes Only; sophisticated but kind of secretive is a good mix for taking part in such a production as this.Villains Jeroen Krabbé and Joe Don Baker are as good as they can be. Doing their parts to the fullest, and remains quite memorable in the Bond Calendar. (So does Andreas Wisniewski as evil sidekick Necros.)Comeback for Aston Martin, in shape of their model Volante. (First A.M since On Her Majesty's.. in 1969.) Equipped and loaded to the fullest! This 1987 debut movie of Timothy Dalton was the start of a four film contract. As soon as the hardcore Roger Moore-fans was soften up a bit, Dalton got plenty of good reviews for bringing back some tightness in the Bond personality.18 years after first time being even considered, he was now filling the shoes of the legendary movie character James Bond.There was more to come from Mr. Dalton. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Debut for Timothy Dalton","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With the Roger Moore era over, we now welcome a new Bond, Timothy Dalton. His first movie is a great spy thriller that, like For Your Eyes Only, gives us a more down-to-earth approach to the world's favorite spy.Timothy Dalton is a decidedly different Bond from his immediate predecessor, Roger Moore. He plays Bond as tough, gritty, and mostly humorless. This is a welcome and refreshing new take on the character, and in his first performance, Dalton immediately makes the role his own.Kara Milovy, played by Maryam d'Abo, is the most underrated Bond girl, in my opinion. She and Dalton have one of the best on-screen chemistries in the series.The plot, while complicated, is very intriguing and it feels like a real spy thriller. The action in this film is great. We get a thrilling chase in the pre-credit sequence, an awesome snow chase with Bond and Kara riding on a cello, and an engaging climax with Bond and Necros hanging on an airplane.The theme tune by A-Ha is one of my top 5 favorite Bond songs. It gets my blood pumping every time I listen to it. The locations in Europe, Morocco, and Afghanistan have a nice realism to them.The weak point of the film is definitely the villains. Joe Don Baker's Brad Whitaker lacks menace and any real personality. His henchmen, Necros, is basically a Red Grant clone, not a whole lot more.However, the weak villains don't keep this from being one of the top 10 Bond films of all time. This was a great spy-oriented adventure and a great debut for Dalton.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Great Debut from Dalton but","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dalton is my favourite Bond and this is his best film. The scenery,gadgets,car are brilliant.I loved the opening scene and Miryam D'Abo's vulnerability as the Bond Girl,it help us see why Bond would  stuff his orders'. Only weak point are the villains,one dimensional and lacking any real ambition. I Found Joe Don Baker an annoying redneck. Was funny how the Russians were the bad guys and the Afghan rebels the Mujahedeen the wests allies...my how things have changed.The soundtrack is very 80's but I really liked the closing credits track by the pretenders Chrissy Hines.Overall great bond adventure. "},{"Title":"Licence to Steele","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After Moore's final Bond in 1985, EON was on the hunt for their fourth OO7. The famous gun barrel was pointed directly at Pierce Brosnan but due to the revival of Remington Steele, a contract Brosnan was still tied too, EON turned their sights towards Timothy Dalton. The Living Daylights has all the elements that make a classic Bond, a script that uses Flemings original short story within the overall plot.The cast, locations and action sequences are all there but its Daltons portrayal that makes this Bond film one for todays fans. At the time, Daltons performance was not fully accepted by the movie going public, a far more ruthless, cold blooded interpretation of Bond, which was very different to Moores previous character. With todays audiences thirst for originality, Daltons decision to return to Flemings original has eventually paid off, a style that can be mirrored to Daniel Craigs. EON must have been disappointed that NBC had a licence to steele Brosnan back but in hindsight, it was one of the luckiest scenarios in the series, providing the franchise with an actor that Fleming would have approved of. "}{"Title":"8 - Great","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" An underrated film in the series. Timothy Dalton particularly changed the Bond character to make it more faithful to Fleming's books. Instead of being a suave playboy, he's a burnt-out assassin. His Bond is a palpable thread to his enemies and was far more energetic than past actors in the role. This means less philandering and more mission. Unfortunately, the Bond girl (Kara Milovy) and the villains didn't have memorable performances. With a better cast, this would've been a possible contender for the best film in the series.The plot in this movie is different from past Bonds. There's no world domination or global destruction. Rather it's a plot of Soviet defection and people conspiring together to commit treason. It's a welcome change to the formula not knowing exactly what's going to happen next. In the 2nd half, there's a big set piece of Bond on an airplane (in the midst of a war) that's one of the most ambitious action scenes in the series.Despite not being one of the better known Bond films, it was a very important one for the franchise. It pushed the series toward storytelling, action and established Bond as a more dark gritty character. The later films since then have not turned back. "},{"Title":"Back to Being a Spy","Date":"30 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For awhile, the Bond films lost the spy elements to the series. Not that there weren't some great installments, there were. But I feel as though The Living Daylights brought the franchise back to its spy roots. The last time a film delved into that was probably The Spy Who Loved Me. And as much as I loved Roger Moore in the role for so long, Timothy Dalton did a fine job as 007. You immediately buy into him as Bond which is something Lazenby really struggled with years before. I also appreciated the pacing of this film. A lot of Bond films over 2 hours are noticeably 2 hours. But this film speeds by, and if it weren't for a rough middle act, this would be one of the best of the series.Obviously I'm watching this nearly 30 some odd years after it's release, but I couldn't help but notice the story resemblances to this years Mission Impossible Rogue Nation. Both being spy movies is a given, but it's opera house scene, along with the leading lady, and its twists and turns all seem to call back to The Living Daylights. But believe me, that's a good thing. I did like Maryam d'Abo as the main Bond girl with something else up her sleeve, but I thought the writing pushed the romance too much with James. Sometimes a women's role in a film doesn't need to feature a romance with the lead character. Other than that, she provided an interesting dynamic with Bond and the rest of the characters.It was nice to see John Rhys-Davies show up although I wish his role would have had more significance. His character tended to get lost in the jumble a bit with all the other secret intelligence that appear here. But again, I think this film benefited from its surprises and unpredictability. Having so many characters keeps us on the edge of our seat as to who makes it and who doesn't. I was also impressed with the writers decision to included certain lines about why this person wasn't going to be killed or why this person needed to be killed. So often in Bond films, I feel as though characters are killed off without real necessity or explanation. That's not the case in The Living Daylights.As if Bond didn't have enough Ski/snow chase sequences, there is yet another one in this film. We have to be nearing double digits at this point. But the action overall is quite impressive. Besides the explosive finale, there wasn't unnecessary special effects or explosions as there usually are. The middle to third act veers off a little bit for about 20 minutes but other than that, it's a well put together film. Maybe it's because it's a different actor, but I feel like this Bond film was much more modernized and didn't seem as dated as previous installments.+Dalton+Great finale+Unpredictable for the most part+Pacing & timely action-Veers off in the middle-Pushed romance7.3/10 "},{"Title":"A Serious Subtle Approach","Date":"29 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights is the entry in the Bond franchise that tends to get overlooked the most. Whoever has not seen it and is a fan of the series, is missing out big time. Bond is tasked with stopping a crazed arms dealer, Brad Whitaker from funding another war.Timothy Dalton may not be my favourite person to take up the mantle of 007, but he delivers a fine performance in keeping with how Ian Fleming always perceived the character. Cold, distant and devoted to the job.The Living Daylights forgoes any of the nonsense or foolishness of the Roger Moore entries and takes itself seriously, for the first time since 1963's From Russia with Love. Without losing the gadgets, gorgeous girls and wicked villains that the franchise is known for.This time the action is exquisitely choreographed. It helps that the film opens with the most sublime pre credits sequence created. We start off in the cliffs of Gibraltar and journey from Austria to Afghanistan. I could not list all the action sequences that thrill me the most because all of them are notable and entertaining in their grand invention. Maryam d'Abo as Kara Milovy is likable and that sure goes a long way. There is an air of mystery about her, enhanced by the fact that Bond has met her briefly before. Brad Whitaker is not a perfect Bond villain, but he remains fun to watch nonetheless. Joe Don Baker goes beyond the realms of craziness and it is this that contributes to an altogether entertaining villain.This instalment is notable for being the last film in the franchise that John Barry would score. It is tense and taught mirroring The Living Daylights in its own spectacular way.The Living Daylights is my personal favourite Bond film of the 20th century. Perhaps its only problem is a strength as well. This fifteenth entry is so powerful and memorable that it overshadows a weaker entry in the Bond canon; Licence to Kill. Still at least Dalton's too brief term as Bond started off with a bang, even if it had to end with a whimper. "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton as agent 007 has many exciting adventures in Afghanistan, Austria, Czechoslovakia and Russia before he is able to control his enemies.","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It is often observed with interest that there are times when the world of cinema is able to achieve what politics and politicians can only dream about. Whether it is about the portrayal of a war or efforts being made to achieve peace, cinema is always a step ahead of real life scenarios and situation. This point has been successfully proved in 15th James Bond film 'The Living Daylights' as British agent 007 is able to save the world from impending disaster when he is able to arrest a dissident Russian spy who unites with an American arm dealer. Authenticity seems to be the key word in this John Glen film as old days of communism in Czechoslovakia and soviet military intervention in Afghanistan have been faithfully recreated. Although the story might have certain minor shades of déjà vu, the use of latest warheads and fast action ensure that viewers remain glued to their seats. Lastly, watching this film would be of immense help to researchers working in the field of international relations to understand what the state of the world was before the disintegration of the Soviet union. "},{"Title":"Dalton brings the edge back to Bond","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond Review. Title Doesn't mean much, but sounds effective.Pre-Titles Bond takes part in a routine training mission, but a fellow agent is killed. Bond battles the killer in a car and defeats him via an explosion. This is a superb opening with the excitement level cranked right up. The idea of training in Gibraltar is smart, the stunts are excellent and Dalton gets a memorable introduction.Theme Song Norwegian Pop band A-ha provide a good theme. It might sound too poppy or flashy for a Bond film, but it does have a mysterious and exotic quality to it that works surprisingly well. I think the lyrics are catchy too and the rhythm does stay in your head.Plot Bond helps a Soviet general Koskov defect, and when the same general is recaptured Bond tracks him to cello player Kara Milovy. Together they uncover a plot involving an American weapons dealer who aims to start a war. The plot flows excellently. What I like is how it is set-up and executed, Bond has a lot of work to do to figure out what is happening and there are plenty of interesting twists to keep you guessing. In this sense the film is the closest to From Russia with Love in feeling like pure espionage which is fantastic.James Bond Personally I'm a big Dalton fan and think he makes an excellent debut. He plays Bond as someone who is frequently on edge and not always pleased with his orders, this is a much tougher and more resourceful Bond which is great to see. Physically he looks perfect, while his youthfulness is a breath of fresh air after Moore.Bond Girls Maryam d'Abo does a solid job as Kara. She's has a very warm personality and she plays with such kindness that it's impossible not to like her. She doesn't get involved in the action much and gets a few iffy lines, but she a really likable presence and it's interesting to see Bond stick with one girl which allows for a lot more character development.Villains Jeroen Krabbe makes for a weak villain as faux defector Koskov. He's very charming and gives the role plenty of energy, but he just never convinces. The role is played up for laughs a little too much as it's difficult to find him threatening or intelligent. Joe Don Baker isn't much better as Whitaker. He seems too jolly in most scenes and the character would have work being more menacing. Andreas Wisniewski is really good as blonde henchmen Necros. He could have been generic, but his cunning persona and varied impersonations give him an edge.Support John Rhys-Davies is solid as usual as the conflicted Pushkin who is forced to trust Bond. Art Malik is very good as Afghan freedom fighter Kamran Shah, bringing a lot of dignity and intelligence to what could have been a difficult role. Thomas Wheatley is also enjoyable as Bond's uptight fellow agent Saunders.Action The action is very good. The defection of Koskov is a superb scene, filled to the brim with tension and shot excellently. The car chase through the icy Bratislava countryside is a great deal of fun and features some cool gadgets. Necros' attack on the safe house is nicely intense and gets gritty too. The best of all is Bond's battle with Necros hanging off the back of a cargo plane, it's shot wonderfully and has a real sense of danger. The climax is okay, it's tense but not as big or exciting as it should have been.Score John Barry's final Bond score is excellent. It has more of an electronic influence which adds so much excitement and there are a number of really classy pieces that help the emotional scenes along. The songs used by The Pretenders are also fantastic.Production Values The more grounded and espionage based approach works fantastically well here. It's very reminiscent of the early Bond films and all the better for it, it feels like Bond has to use his wits and the work he carries out is a lot less outlandish. This all fits in perfectly with Glen's directing style. The cinematography is very good too, it goes for a more natural look and as a result certain scenes look suitably gritty or tropical depending on what's needed. The editing is excellent, with many of the slower moments being treated with a great deal of interest and the plot unwinds at just the right pace. The writing is pretty good, there are some dodgy lines but many of the dialogue heavy scenes are engaging. The locations are all great and varied, Vienna looks truly beautiful and Afghanistan added something different once again.Conclusion The Living Daylights was a great start to Dalton's all too brief time as Bond. Going back to a more basic and espionage based approach works brilliantly. Dalton does a very effective job and gives a refreshingly serious take on the character. Maryam d'Abo makes a much more real and emotional Bond girl which is another plus. The villains are the weakest point, but they don't hold the film back in all honesty. Elsewhere I think the score, action and directing are all very impressive. This was clearly a return to the roots of Bond and it showed perfectly that a Bond film could be both interesting and entertaining. "},{"Title":"How much world have changed since 1987!","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It really did! How much West tried hard to pull down the Iron Curtain! When it finally did, they are now sorry that they have pulled it down. They can not live freely from all the Poles and other Eastern Europeans flooding United Kingdom. They are trying to return them as much as they can, but Eastern Europeans are fighting back! It is not an easy cohabitation.When they made this film in 1987 they never thought that Europe would change so much, in this film Cold War is solid as a rock! I have to say that I enjoyed plot of this Bond film! It is a little bit more original then the previous ones, acting is excellent and toys with which Bond is playing are really original.I say if you like Bond films you can watch this one as well, but in any case you should watch it, for how world looked before the Wall fell! "},{"Title":"Dalton not Brosnan...","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" *** Warning! Spoiler Information Inside!***With mere hours to go on his Remington Steele television contract , a fateful deal is struck and Pierce Brosnan, ejected from the ride of a lifetime, is replaced with Welsh actor Timothy Dalton. Bringing back the leaner, meaner literary Bond would prove more difficult than imagined.The Living Daylights finds Bond in Czechoslovakia aiding her majesty's allies in the defection of a top soviet defense minister, who it seems at first is simply fleeing his country for legitimate concerns. Bond and her Majesty's MI-6 soon discover a shady arms deal with an American arms trader Brad Whitaker.The Plot is spot on , a rather straight forward rabbit , but with plenty of added stops to enjoy. Support from Art Malik (Shah), John Rhys-Davies (Pushkin) And Joe Don Baker (Whitaker). The Writing is well meshed with location shooting and transition to keep a fair pace that can stop at points. Good effects as well. Caroline Bliss is introduced as Moneypenny replacing Lois Maxwell. The Professional Chemistry of Dalton (Bond) and Maryam D'Abo (Kara Milovy) Cannot be ignored.A solid start.Three Stars(of 5). "},{"Title":"Much better then the last two movies","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The living daylights 1987I found this to a improvement in previous entries in this series.I do think it was time for new bond however it still takes me a while to get into a another person Playing bond , it might take a least two or maybe 3 movies to get used to it!I found this much better and started of really with some decent action scenes thought out.I loved that milk scene was great I found the plot more intruding and I was really into.Really good bond movie I am going give this movie a 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Good but a bit of a false start for Tim Dalton","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights isn't bad, isn't bad at all. Tim Dalton is good in the role, a lot more hard boiled than George and Roger and up there with Sean in terms of intensity and ruthlessness. We have a story which isn't so far fetched, the drugs trade (as indeed we will also see in 'Licence to Kill' and 'Live and Let Die') and the Soviet Union's contemporary war in Afghanistan. We have an interesting opening act in Gibraltar, the SAS were very much in vogue at the time after the Falklands and the storming of the Iranian embassy so of course they have to be in there. I rather like the fact that Bond doesn't get on with MI6's man in Vienna in the defection scene but they develop a rapport later only to be tragically cut short. The fight between Bond and the henchman dangling from the netting at the back of the plane is excellent especially with A-Ha's great theme music. We see the tough core of Dalton's Bond as he cuts his boot free to kill the bad guy whilst the man begs for his life (nothing compared to Licence to Kill of course where he not only torches a man alive but cold bloodedly feeds another to a shark). I like the realism of Bond's deal with the Mujahadeen who'll fight the Russians but happily help their ideological rivals sell them heroin then ambush the Russian convoy after their temporary allies have departed with the money and given them their cut.Still needs some work though, very weak Bond girl, a hugely forgettable return for Felix Leiter and just lacks the drive of the truly classic Bonds. "},{"Title":"The Most Underrated Bond Film","Date":"6 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In the ebb and flow of Bond series between serious and fun, this is the better of two serious Dalton films. If you are a fan of Craig era films I highly recommend this one. Where License to Kill leans towards more of a pure action film, this is a classic spy story and has a surprisingly intricate plot comparable to From Russia With Love.While I enjoy the Moore era films as well, they are aging quite poorly and often look like virtual parodies of the series in retrospect. The Living Daylights on the other hand is aging rather well. It is features a believable plot and some of the most spectacular stunts of the analog age of Bond films. TLD also marks the end of the USSR era within the Bond franchise and I think the series would lose something with it.Dalton's portrays a very deep and believable character. He is serious about his job, but clearly jaded by his past and conflicted about the motives and competence of those he is forced to work with. It meshes well with the bond girl choice of Kara, who presents a naive innocence virtually unseen in other bond girls, and who Dalton's bond is strongly drawn to try and protect.People complain that Dalton wasn't enough fun, but overall I think this movie is a blast and compares favorably to the likes of Skyfall, which people generally praise. "}{"Title":"Dalton gives 007 a serious and charming take.","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the first film starring Timothy Dalton as James Bond 007, where he gave Bond a serious, yet charming portrayal. Here he attempts to stop evil arms dealer Brad Whitaker (Joe Don Baker) from starting World War III, and to find the murderous General Koskov (Jeroen Krabbé), in a mission that takes Bond crossing all seven continents.Actor Desmond Llewelyn (Q) said that Dalton is the closest to Ian Fleming's original novel version of the character than any other Bond actor. While I haven't read the novels, Dalton did do a excellent job playing Bond - athletic, commanding, gritty and serious, but still retaining the bit of charm and witty remarks that defines Bond. He's not as suave as the previous Bond actors, but can act as a good action-star, as evident in many action scenes from car chases, escaping explosions and parachute jumps. One of my favorite scenes is when Bond dispatched an assassin in a burning truck in mid-air, and then lands on a boat with a lovely lady on the phone on board. Bond then takes the phone, says She'll call you back to whomever the lady was talking to, and dials MI6. This scene is a combination of action, wit, girls and charm - all key elements in a 007 film! Kara Milovy (Maryam D'Abo) makes an elegant Bond Girl and has a wonderful and romantic chemistry with Bond. As a classical music lover, I enjoyed seeing Milovy's musical talents in the film. In addition, the villains were OK, but not as menacing or devious as portrayed in the previous Bond entries.Overall, a pretty good first 007 film for Timothy Dalton. Plenty of action and fun, with a solid story to boot.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Transitional Dalton Bond trying to be more realistic","Date":"21 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" High ranking KGB General Georgi Koskov (Jeroen Krabbé) is defecting and he asks for James Bond (Timothy Dalton) directly. When pretty blonde cellist Kara Milovy (Maryam d'Abo) appears in the window to kill Koskov, 007 deliberately misses the kill shoot. Koskov escapes to London, and tells the Brits that General Pushkin (John Rhys-Davies) is trying to heat up the cold war by assassinating all the foreign agents. Then the safe house is hit, and Koskov is taken. The Brits orders Bond to assassinate Pushkin, but he just can't get over the incompetent cellist/assassin. Further investigation reveals that Koskov is corrupt, in league with arms dealer Brad Whitaker (Joe Don Baker), and trying to get rid of Pushkin for personal gains.This is the first appearance of Timothy Dalton as 007 taking over from Roger Moore. He's meaner and harder than the campy, jokey Moore. This is a reasonable attempt at rebooting the franchise, but Dalton could never be more than the rebound guy. They desperately wanted Pierce Brosnan. It's never good to show up with the second choice.As for Dalton's Bond, the fact that he lies so easily to sweet innocent Maryam d'Abo without blinking an eye probably turn some people off. The franchise change is a matter of tone. The schemes still has the campy feel, but there are hints of greater realism. It's a franchise in transition and still not sure where it's going. "},{"Title":"Great intro to Timothy Dalton's Bond","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Film is one memorable setpiece after another parachuting into Gibraltar, only to be ambushed by a sniper. Bond leaving the performance to try to assist a defector and stop an apparent KGB sniper. A kick ass fight between Green-4 and Necros (superbly played by Andreas Wisniewski, who has a most memorable, and rather funny, death scene) ; probably the sweetest Bond girl ever, Kara Milovy (played by Maryam d'Abo) My favourite aspect of this is that Timothy Dalton's Bond was a chameleon, who could pull off a number of different guises. Here, Dalton's Bond begins in paratrooper gear, and Dalton looks believable in it. Next, we see Dalton's Bond in a tuxedo at a concert hall during a recital, and Dalton looks believable in a tux. After walking to the apartment across the street from the concert hall, he closes up his jacket to conceal his white shirt, adds a pair of black gloves, and he's now in sniper gear. Dalton not only pulls off all of those appearances, but he also makes the transition from one to the next look believable. Dalton has Bond dressed casually, in a turtleneck and black leather jacket, and he looks believable in that. Toward the end of the film, Bond is in a jellaba and a turban in Afghanistan, and Dalton looks believable in that also, where a lot of others might just look silly. I cannot think of any other actor could have pulled off that many changes in one film and have it look believable. Dalton's Bond could walk into a room and blend in, whereas someone like Connery (who, if anything, was too charismatic) stand out, and will be noticed and remembered.He understood that Ian Fleming's literary character was not suave and debonair, nor was he witty and humorous. The character created by Fleming was not larger than life, he could blend in to his surroundings. He was an antihero, not a suave superspy like some of Connery's films, and most of Moore films presented him. Beautifully photography in Gibraltar, (the former) Czechoslovakia, Austria, and Morocco; it also has a great theme song, which is worked into the film's primary score perfectly.Only a bit too much humour on the part of the villains (they should have been tough as nails when behind closed doors) and a slightly long run time work against this one. But it is still one of my favourite Bond films, my favourite actor is in lead, as well as being the first Bond I ever saw. "},{"Title":"Bond Month #15 I Know You Hate Me Right Now Readers, But Here is an Only Decent Bond film","Date":"21 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After Roger Moore ended his era with the lackluster A View to a Kill, producer Albert Broccoli decided to cast the man he'd been after for years, Timothy Dalton. I just wish he been given a better movie to act in. This movie is very similar to Dr. No in the fact that it's not very memorable, but the main actor gives a very good performance for what the movie is.The story involves a mixture of a defecting Russian general and rebels in Afghanistan. Bond has to stop a covert operation in Afghanistan devised by a mad Russian general (who's really a kitten in private) and a mad-off-his-nut American general (who is seriously obsessed with weapons its not even funny) For the first time in a while the Bond girl is actually related to the plot, but she isn't really acted well by Myram d'Abo, making her into a simpleton who looks good. Yes the streak hasn't ended yet.You know, Timothy Dalton is a good Bond actor, contrary to the beliefs of some. He is way more dark and sadistic, which actually matches Ian Fleming's description of the character. However, there isn't a glitter of humor at all in this film, because Dalton makes no jokes. Even where there is an opportunity, he goes all insane wide eyes. I guess that's why some fans hate his portrayal, but I can definitely see what he tries to do with said portrayal.We have some good action, decent acting, and just enough to make this movie at least memorable.P.S. I have seen some of the useful ratings on my reviews. I am trying to present my own opinion, and some of these films are very hard to review because of the subject matter. "},{"Title":"Great Bond Replacement","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film was made in the dying moments of the James Bond legacy, furthermore Timothy Dalton had the look but the story was weak and disappointing, Pierce Brosnan was suppose to be the next Bond but because of lawsuits from NBC on the so called copying from Remington Steele this was a no go from both sides.Timothy Dalton has the look of Bond and delivers a performance that we would expect from a Bond film, except for a weak story and it also felt rushed, this film has a really great vibe and direction, but like I said the storyline is just not there. We just came from the Roger Moore era and which gave the Bond experience excitement but with this instalment, it just seemed to me like a one hour television show storyline from most of the popular shows on the tube at the time.I wish Mr. Dalton would of had the chance to be in the story lines that Brosnan got. What a waste of talent. Timothy Dalton did what he could, for what he was given, but his Bond films all 2 of them were just fillers all because of the NBC contract that Brosnan was in, and nothing more. As you would say to hold the tide and save the best for last. I don't think Dalton got a fair chance, at playing Bond even though he tried his best. "},{"Title":"In which Mr Timothy Dalton pulls it off...................","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The task of succeeding Podgy Rog,that is.Although if one were hyper-critical one could muse that Les Dawson might have made just as good a job of it,so self-aware and insufferable had our Rog become.But Mr Dalton got the gig and straightaway cut the tired old puns and innuendo. Here was a man who could kick serious arse.Sadly most of the others in The Living Daylights weren't up to it. Mr J.Crabbe flirts with Bond - surely a first,that.Miss M D'Abo is,frankly,not the sort of gel our Rog would have wasted his time with. And she's no Jacqueline DuPre either.Nor has Bond,in book or novel,ever expressed the slightest interest in or knowledge of music in any form. In fact he has been proud to be considered a bit of a Philistine.But maybe I'm being a bit picky. And if I had a Stradivarius cello that ended up with a bullet hole in it I'd be a tad upset and not immediately inclined to have sex with the bloke that put it in harm's way................still,funny things,women. Over-familiar plot about defecting Russian Generals induces a bit of a yawn factor and there's still a reliance on ridiculous gadgets that the last credible Bond - Mr George Lazenby - dispensed with over twenty years earlier. Having said all that,there are some pleasing echoes of Graham Greene in The Living Daylights,a schadenfreunde almost,that would leave our Rog struggling on the starting blocks. "},{"Title":"Duty has no sweethearts&#133;","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A Russian general named Georgi Koskov makes a dangerous defection from Russia, only to be kidnapped from his hiding place, and then he becomes the subject of James Bond's investigation, which leads him to the center of a global weapons scheme involving the Russians, the Americans, and none other than the Afghan resistance, the Mujahadeen. Timothy Dalton is not my favorite 007, but he does a good job in The Living Daylights, particularly in the opening scene, in which director John Glen involved two other 00 agents, hoping to create excitement and interest as to which of the three would turn out to be Bond. I'm not sure there was a lot of mystery involved when the movie was released, because surely people had already seen the movie poster, but the movie has a good opening action sequence and a good story, and that's really all we should demand from a 007 film.There is also much more gadgetry than in most of the preceding films, including some stun gas, a plastic explosive that can blow apart any safe, and, my favorite, a key that can open 90% of the world's locks. I gotta get one of those!Also, Q presents 007 with an Aston Martin equipped with a laser that can cut cars in half, rocket launchers, rocket power, bullet-proof glass, SKIS, a self-destruct mechanism (I'm wondering why Q thought it prudent to include one of those, since historically Bond uses his gadgets a single time before managing to destroy them completely), and a police radio transponder. The movie hasn't dated very well, partly due to a sad lack of logic in some key scenes. Koskov escapes to a top secret location but when a bad guy jumps the milkman on his way there, he finds a remarkably easy way in. Yes, the milkman! When he gets to the gate, the armed guard inquires as to where the regular milkman is, the bad guy makes some lame excuse, so the guard gets him out of the truck and frisks him, but doesn't bother to search the truck. Good Lord, he could have had a nuclear bomb in the back and just driven it right up to the house. Impressive security!But for the most part, the movie is well executed and interesting, and there are plenty of good action scenes, especially the conclusion, which takes place aboard a C5 in mid-flight. It's disappointing, however, that the Bond girl transforms into a dumb, helpless blonde near the end of the film, and it's interesting that Bond decides they have to crash land the plane because they are flying above mountains and there's nowhere to put down, but then manages to crash land right next to a long, straight highway. Some guys have all the luck! Nevertheless, even though the movie is a little dated, it's still a better than average installment in the 007 saga. Possibly Dalton's best? "},{"Title":"The Living Daylights","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The storyline of The Living Daylights is unusually complex for a Bond film, considering those films that came before and later on in the series. The plot involves Bond's rescue and later pursuit of a Russian defector, Koskov. During this mission he meets up with his usual love interest, Kara, and battles for survival against a relentless spy killer. Thrown in seemingly to confuse both the audience and Bond is the theme of illegal arms-dealings and a Stalinist decree to kill all spies, that now threatens the lives of Bond and every member of the espionage community.In this film, the character of Bond has once more taken a dramatic transformation. Compared to Connery and Moore, Dalton's Bond seems more driven towards his goal, and seems more professional as a result. Some Bond s may feel uncomfortable with such a change, having been used to an entertaining romp of constant action, comedy and . Instead, Bond now seems more focused on the job at hand, which considering the scale of the plot seems necessary for his survival. Bond's new love interest Kara is undoubtedly suited for the classic part of defenceless assistant. Somewhat unconvincingly, she can at points leap into action and save Bond from harm, before reverting back to being helpless once again.This Bond epic is more typical of the spy films of the early 40s and 50s, rather than other films of the Bond series, and seems to have a post Cold War atmosphere to it. Compared to the likes of other, more formulaic Bond films, such as the more recent Tomorrow Never Dies and Die Another Day, the storyline is less aimed at entertaining it's usual audience with quirky double entendres and recurring action and scenes, and more focused at presenting a web of conspiracies and intrigue, closer to that of the novels.Despite the many changes to the common formula of the Bond films, one thing could not be taken away. The idea of Bond travelling across the globe, facing enemies and unexpected allies the world over, is one that has made the series famous. The action jumps from the Russian border all the way to Afghanistan, two very different climates and cultures, each one further adding suspense and intrigue to Bond's mission. For some reason it seems that the action has been saved for the end, and those that are patient will be rewarded with a huge battle in a Russian military airbase, being raided by the heroic Afghan freedom fighters.All in all, The Living Daylights is a Bond film unlike any other. It is unusual in the way that this particular film has moved away from the Bond formula of guns, gadgets and s, towards something of a political/espionage thriller. The stakes are higher, the enemies are more believable and the ending sequence is one of the best in the series. This film should be watched for something else that the other Bonds in the series didn't offer; political intrigue, a focused, ruthless Bond and a credible love story between James and Kara. "},{"Title":"Dalton Starts off Limited Bond Era With Solid Effort","Date":"18 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights marks another new chapter in the ever-going Bond-Saga. Timothy Dalton, a long-time Bond prospect accepts the role, but only after Pierce Brosnan is unable to take it.The Living Daylights is a bridge between the Bonds. Written with Moore still expected to perhaps resume the mantle, a lot of Moore's humor is written into the script. However, Dalton brings a tighter, edgier, more serious personae to the role.The plot focuses on the defection of a soviet general (the last Cold War Bond). After the assassination of two 00's in a training exercise, Bond is asked to assist in the defection, by the general himself. While setting it up, Bond notices an assassin targeting the general- a young cellist whom he saw in the opera earlier. Bond disables her weapon, scaring the living daylights out of her, but is intrigued by the whole situation.The plot thickens, when the general is apparently re-kidnapped, and Bond is sent after the general. More agents are killed as the smert spionen (death to spies) decree is found on each dead agent. Torn between finding the missing general and figuring out who is killing MI6's best, Bond finds that the cellist (played by Maryam D'Abo) is integral to it all. Bond comes across a wily and bombastic American arms dealer Brad Whitaker (Joe Don Baker), who is in league with the missing general. Bond must align with a Russian minister, General Pushkin (John Rhys-Davies) to untangle the web of intrigue to learn what is really going on.The story travels from the former Czechoslavia to Austria to Afghanistan and many places in between as Bond must trace the vast amount of information he needs.All in all, a very good story with an involved plot and some nice twists. Dalton is a very solid Bond, in the George Lazenby mold, and works very well. The script is also well-written, but not spectacular. Some dialog is a bit brusque and cheesy. D'Abo is not the sexiest Bond-girl, but is very good in her role. Unfortunately, the General Whitaker character, as played by Baker, is too corny and comical to be accepted as a successful international arms dealer and weakens the movie with each scene he appears in. the defecting Russian general, Georgi Koskov, is ably played by Jeroen Krabbe (a dead ringer for the late Austrian singer Falco), but lacks some real cruelty as a heavy. The best scenes and acting occur in the Afghani scenes.The movie does suffer a bit from the problem of Dalton having to go according to a script for Moore, but in the end, a good movie is produced. Not the best of the Bonds, but an entertaining movie, nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Shame Dalton didn't take over sooner","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I like most of the Bond movie's and i can see positives in all the portrayals of our favourite spy. I enjoyed Moore's first 5 movies (Moonraker got silly, but it was still fun) After seeing Dalton's gritty and reckless take on the Bond character, i remember thinking that he should have replaced Moore before he made 'Octopussy' and 'A View to a Kill' Dalton's Bond is probably the closest to Fleming's original idea, and it's only the Connery level of charisma that is lacking. The living Daylights is a fine addition to the genre and it's an action packed thrill ride with a gritty edge.7/10 Nice one Timothy "}{"Title":"Hundred thousand changes, everything's the same.","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" You don't review James Bond movies, you evaluate them, rate them according to how well they meet expectations. There are certain things one has come to expect, even demand of a Bond film and each individual effort either delivers or it doesn't. So, here are ten elements that make a Bond film a Bond film and how THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS rates on a scale of 1 to 10 Title THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS Though it has nothing whatsoever to do with the plot of this film, it is certainly a catchy title. 8 points. Pre-Credit Teaser A crackerjack stunt involving Bond parachuting out of the back of an exploding jeep as it goes over a cliff into the ocean. It's irrelevant to the ensuing story, but it does introduce us to a new Bond in a flashy fashion. 8 points. Opening Credits With no theme or even point to it, Maurice Binder's opening montage seems purely random, like he pieced it together from leftover shots from earlier credit sequences. Neither silly nor overtly gaudy, it really doesn't make much of an impression at all. Strangely suitable for the theme music it accompanies. 4 points. Theme Song Written for the pop group a-ha -- though in this case maybe oh-no is more appropriate -- the producers no doubt were hoping for another Top Ten hit. It was not to be; it's a bouncy, engaging tune, I suppose, but they again forego the cynical romanticism of the best Bond songs for a hard driving sound with nonsensical lyrics that say nothing about the movie, Bond or anything else. Chrissie Hynde and The Pretenders contribute a couple of other songs to the soundtrack that are also easily forgotten. 5 point. Bond, James Bond Timothy Dalton sets sail on his maiden voyage as 007 and while I can't say he does anything particularly wrong, I can't say he does anything particularly right either. Now, Dalton would later show a comedic flare in films like THE ROCKETEER and LOONEY TUNES BACK IN ACTION, but as Bond he steadfastly refuses to explore the humor of either the character or the absurd nature of the films. Perhaps, as a reaction to the comic book shenanigans that Roger Moore pulled, he vowed to make his Bond a more realistic and serious character -- like that's a good thing. He is good in the action scenes; the less he says, the better. 5 points. Bond Babes Maryam d'Abo is certainly not your typical Bond Girl. As a Russian cellist who unwittingly gets sucked into international intrigue as the mistress of a defecting Russian general, she seems both frail and bewildered by what develops, yet somehow is convincing when she joins Bond in the derring-do. Treading lightly in the era of AIDS and political correctness, sex -- a defining element of the Bond mystique -- seems to be largely banished from the series and from the Bond Girls Voluptuous is gone, slight and demure is in. 8 points. Bond Villain Goldfinger! Largo! Blofeld! Scaramanga! And Brad Whitaker? Huh? Pudgy good-ol'-boy Joe Don Baker seems strangely out of place among the pantheon of Bond villains. Though to his credit, Joe Don plays an arms dealer with a good deal of glee. The same is true of Jeroen Krabbé as a defective defector who cheerfully tries to double cross just about everybody in the film. Baker and Krabbé seem to get that this is a comedy, a fact that totally eludes Dalton. 8 points.Bond Baddies In what may or may not be an homage to Robert Shaw's assassin in FROM RUSSlA WITH LOVE, Andreas Wisniewski plays an all-purpose assassin whose specialty is strangling people with the headphone cord of his Walkman. Despite the gimmicky weapon, the character is just another in a long line of icy, Ayranian blonde assassins who seem to come Bond's way. 4 points.Sinister Plot In a plot that is a bit hard to follow, arms and/or diamonds and/or drugs are being sold and/or bought and/or traded to finance and/or battle the freedom fighters of Afghanistan. To this end, the Russian general may or may not have defected and/or framed another Russian general of ... something. Whatever, the uncomfortable twist to all of this is that the freedom fighters who James befriends and aids would later be better know as The Taliban -- you know, the guys who gave us 9-11. Gee, thanks, James. 5 points.Production values A new Bond, a new attitude and even a new Miss Moneypenny (Caroline Bliss takes over for the aging Lois Maxwell, whose constant flirting with James was getting a little bit creepy.) Otherwise, the series maintains its slick gloss and stylishly over-the-top action scenes. The final battle aboard a drug-laden cargo plane is especially well done. 7 points. Bonus Points When they put their mind to it, the Bond Boys can come up with something original -- like escaping from the bad guys by sledding down a mountainside in cello case. But such cleverness has become less and less apparent. 5 points.Summary All in all, not a bad effort, with a credible storyline and a globe-trotting narrative that builds nicely to an exciting conclusion. Indeed, had any of the previous Bonds starred, it could have been among the best of the series. But Dalton's dry, stiff approach kind of sucks the life out of the story; Bond's got to be larger than life or what's the point? Bond-o-meter Rating 67 points out of 100. "},{"Title":"Great spy movie with a great Bond","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A more serious turn for the series introduced Tim Dalton as the super British Agent who this time tries to stop a weapons conspiracy that's probably linked to the Soviet military high command.After seven movies with Roger Moore it was definitely time for something different. Moore's films ranked from very good to quite poor but he did well in his role, although he made Bond a little too comical. Dalton is the complete opposite and Bond is here more believable as a spy who can be quite ruthless at times. Dalton is great and gives the character more depth and is obviously a better actor in all respects.The script here is terrific and action scenes are great as well. There's more plot here than in all of Moore's flicks and in many ways this is more like Connery's films in tone (and therefore probably more like Ian Fleming envisioned).Supporting actors contribute heavily. Krabbé is very good as the slimy defective, Davies good as always and D'Abo not only looks great but doesn't play a total blondie as well and that's a good thing.I wish Dalton had come to the series earlier as Moore overstayed his welcome but his two Bond films, especially The Living Daylights, remain series highlights. "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton was a man's man James Bond 007","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton was truly great as James Bond. There was not a moment that you could not imagine that he was capable of murder if necessary. He did not play the role for cheap laughs like Roger Moore. The script in this film is very good indeed as is the bond girl this time played by Maryam D'Abo. Andreas Wisniewski was incredibly evil as Necros. I just loved his fight scenes and the exploding milk bottles! Of course Desmond Llewelyn is the one and only brilliant Q. Walter Gotell was also great as General Anatol Gogol. While I eventually got used to the Pearce Brosnan as 007, Dalton was a man while the other never quite made it. Dalton has definite panache. What a shame he didn't continue in the role as he was excellent. "},{"Title":"my favourite bond movie","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Living Daylights manages to overcome the problem of it's length (all bond movies are a little too long) and remains interesting all the way through, assisted by a plot that never requires long dull conversations like many others in the series.Timothy Dalton is supremely underrated as Bond, and people who blindly label him as humourless are obviously confusing humour with campness; this isn't one of the forgettable pieces of fluff from the Moore years.Maryam d'Bo is a memorable Bond girl, she's certainly not the most attractive but she has an endearing innocence and her scenes with Dalton are always nice.The opening song and score throughout the movie is certainly the best of the series as well.Unless you're solely dedicated to the Roger Moore style of Bond movie, The Living Daylights is a great turn for the franchise.  "},{"Title":"A huge moment in history for Bond fans and cinema goers","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" So we were to say goodbye to one of the worlds most recognised faces this was the guy who had made millions out of the franchise and had delivered the role so well he had kept it going for the bulk of the 70's and 80's but even the great Roger Moore was no longer capable of playing the biggest role in movie history.The next guy who was to play the secret agent would naturally bring it out of the 'techno' style that we all had grown accustomed to.Timothy Dalton was to step into Roger's worn shoes and give the role an edge that no other actor to play Bond had wanted to cross. The reason being is that the serious and literal view (in reference to the books) Dalton took was something which was a huge risk. I mean we had Sean's looks and presence and Roger's humour which had been hugely sucsessful and had bought in millions of dollars.He was paid an impressive 3 million (more than Brosnans first pay cheque) which proved the producers really wanted him for the role. The gamble paid off as the film was a huge critical success and grossed more dosh than any of the last two Bond films (three if you include Never Say Never Again) The story itself has a plot which carries a great story as well as a really good feel. I think the soundtrack adds to the whole magic of the film but Dalton is the real key ingredient to the Living Daylights cake! I was 14 when I first watched this movie on television and it was on till 11.30 at night- I was so engrossed in the plot, the action and the way the film was made I managed to watch it till it was way past my bed time and I wasn't disappointed! Every time I start a new venture in my life (college, job or life etc) I always feel the need to watch this film it expresses something so deep within me......I think it was due to the fact I was lacking a father figure in my life and I found Dalton to have the compassion and genuine features which a good father should have, watch its a real gem......... "},{"Title":"Bond vs. Necros","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I just want to add one more voice to the chorus of praise that has been rightfully bestowed on this movie. In particular I'd like to draw attention to Bond's showdown with Necros, the ice-cool blonde killer with the exploding milk bottles and deadly headphones wire.Along with the brutal and claustrophobic fistfight with Red Grant in 'From Russia With Love', this is my favourite Bond hand-to-hand combat scene, and one of the best scenes in the entire franchise. I just can't see how our hero could be in a worse situation hanging out of the back of a plane at two thousand feet, fighting for his life while holding on to a net filled with bags of opium, the guy ropes fraying and a bomb counting down somewhere inside. God knows my job has its bad days but nothing like this! It's thrilling stuff, and Timothy Dalton carries the scene beautifully. He really looks like he's in pain when Necros is throttling him with the netting, and when he finally gets the upper hand he shows no mercy. In fact he absolutely relishes the kill, cutting his bootlaces bit by bit as the helpless Necros begs for mercy. After all, this is the guy that's been killing off Bond's colleagues; sending him freefalling to the ground far below, Bond looks down with a sense of grim satisfaction. Justice has been done. It's masterful.I can see why many people prefer the more light-hearted Bond films and I have time for all of his incarnations; however for me Dalton's efforts are among my very favourites and I wish he'd had the chance to do a couple more. He's very intense and pretty brutal - especially in the follow-up 'Licence To Kill' - but still stylish and cool, in a way they've perhaps lost with Daniel Craig, much as I like him. In particular Dalton wears his clothes very well, looking equally comfortable in Afghan dress or a tux. The man has style.Along with 'From Russia With Love' and 'Licence To Kill', this is my favourite James Bond film. "},{"Title":"Dalton is THE best Bond","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Wonderful movie this 10 out of 10 why? Dalton, characterisation and storyDalton is the serious brooding dark humoured real agent This film stands up on its own as a wonderful espionage movie, it's also the best Bond movie ever Its not pantomime, it's not double entendre, it's not corny carry on toilet humour like the tedious dreadful non actor Moore. How a man with no acting talent no character no backbone did 7 Bond's is beyond meConnery was great Brosnan was pretty darn good Dalton is the best actor to have played the role. He's a stage legend and he has the charisma, charisma, character and subtlety that makes a great actor.yet another great Welsh actor with black humour and hidden depths. From Burton to Hopkins to Ray Milleand to Stanley Baker to Christian Bale and beyond. How do they produce these talents from little old Wales? "},{"Title":"Bond number 15 Dalton enters the fray, the cold war turns red hot.","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Agent 007 helps Russian defector general Koskov to go West, triggering a vile plot by extremist Russian generals to sabotage détente efforts.Enter Timothy Dalton after Moore's calamitous last outing. Dalton, courted by the producers before they settled on Moore, goes for a more ruthless, tormented and violent Bond. One who is also refreshingly human. The plot takes us into the Russian campaign in Afghanistan and is a potent tale of the unraveling of the USSR and a frightening chaos that might (and to some extent in reality did) replace it. As the least popular of the Bond incarnations, Timothy Dalton delivers a perfect performance. Stepping is a Bond girl with an attitude is Maryam D'Abo, and fine villains enter the fray, providing a solid and interesting variety the scheming Georgi Koskov (Jeroen Krabbé, one of the most subtle Bond villains ever), gun runner with a war fetish Brad Whitaker (Joe Don Baker) and psycho killer Necros (Andreas Wisniewski). This last foe is truly impressive, a true Bond turned bad with his own gadgets and style to boot (nitroglycerine milk bottles!).The Living Daylights has many delights beyond its clever casting and characterization. After a cracking prologue in Gibraltar, where a 00 training mission goes horribly wrong, the plot carries us to Russia, London, Tangiers and finally Aghanistan with deft twists and turns, throwing in a handful of extremely competent set pieces in along the way Koskov's abduction at MI6 HQ, a savage chase scene that begins on frozen mountain roads and ends in a cello case (!) and ultimately an epic desert battle in Afghanistan. It is also that rare Bond film where Bond does some clever scheming of his own and manages to have a bit of foresight - something at which, given his status as Her Majesty's finest spy, he is oddly poor at in most of the franchise.To round things up nicely, A-Ha's distinctly 80s title song is quite pleasant and the music score is perhaps the finest of the saga.In hindsight it would appear that The Living Daylights is the smartest Bond film of the franchise, and Timothy Dalton the most ruthless and human Bond to date (until we see what Daniel Craig will bring to the role). The Connery era may have more charm and fantasy, but in terms of pure scale and intelligent spy adventure, you'll be hard pressed to find anything to even equal it this side of Tom Clancy's adaptations.After the legendary Goldfinger, this is 007's finest hour. "},{"Title":"Dalton is amazing...","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton makes his debut as the newest Bond in the blockbuster in The Living Daylights. At first i was unsure of Dalton, but he changed my mind the moment the movie started. Dalton may not have been the greatest star, but he was the best Bond. He was dark and edgy throughout the film and gave you an essence of a real spy. If you love the Ian Flemin books you would be proud. The movie itself was incredible. There were so many twists and turns at every corner and Maryam D' Abo was a terrific Bond girl. Bond seemed to truly like her. The action was great and the theme song was a smash!!! However, Dalton commands the movie with great acting. He should have been nominated for an Oscar. Ian Fleming would have been proud!!!! 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A capable Bond not named Sean or Roger? Absolutely.","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  An excellent entry in the James Bond 007 series helmed by the same folks that produced the excellent Octopussy, The Living Daylights features a Bond that is truer to the Ian Fleming vision than Roger Moore's previous seven portrayals. Timothy Dalton, despised by most folks I know in his role as Bond, embodies many of the qualities first displayed by Sean Connery in the first two or three 007 movies, though he doesn't have the raw handsome-quotient that makes the ladies swoon like they do for the original James Bond. Dalton strikes me as no-nonsense, tough, and elegant all at the same time, and doesn't come off as smarmy at any point in the film. It is a refreshing departure from the Roger Moore/smartass style that permeated the series since 1973's Live & Let Die. Prime Bond-babe duty falls to Maryam d'Abo, who does a fair job, but simply doesn't compare to previous 007-beauties such as Jane Seymour, Maud Adams, and Ursula Andress. I also applaud the decision to include an Aston Martin as Bond's wheels, in both coupe and convertible guise. As with the previous Octopussy, the locales are excellent, the scenery and sets believable, and the bad guy credible, played here by Joe Don Baker (who would later go on to play a couple of other roles in future Bond films featuring Pierce Brosnan). Even the theme song, performed by a-ha, is good. This one finds a place in my Bond top five, rated at 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Dalton should have done more Bonds!","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton is tough, witty, good with the ladies and dangerous looking, all vital for the Bond role. Shame he couldn't have come along sooner to elbow roger moore and his zimmer frame from the role. Dalton still looks young enough at 57 to play bond today. He should have done more as he'll never have the same recognition as Connery and Moore who did so many.  "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond film and often underrated.  Dalton does a very good job playing 007.","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This one has everything you would expect from a Bond film - beautiful Bond girl, cool cars and gadgets, exotic locations, and nice stunts.  The Living Daylights is one of my favorite Bond films and I believe it is often underrated.I disagree with the previous comment that Dalton was a bad choice for Bond. I really like his close portrayal of Fleming's Bond.  As Bond he is cool and serious which I think a person in his line of work would be.  I wish he could have played Bond more than twice.  "},{"Title":"The Tougher Bond","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton's debut Bond film Is the best entry In the film series. Featuring class gadgets,a beautiful Bond girl,wonderful locations,a typical mad villian and a excellent score from John Barry this Is Bond at his best.Timothy Dalton portrayed James Bond the way Ian Fleming Intended. Tougher than Roger Moore and more sympathetic than Sean Connery, Timothy Dalton was James Bond. It's a shame he only did two Bond films.  "},{"Title":"Not Really One of the Bond Classics","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" By the late eighties, Roger Moore was becoming too old for the role of James Bond, and Timothy Dalton was brought in to supply a fresh approach. The Living Daylights, the first of Dalton's two Bond films, has a particularly complex plot, even by Bond standards. At the centre is an alleged KGB plot to murder British agents and thereby spark off a new Cold War, leading into a conspiracy between a renegade Russian general and an arms dealer to ship advanced American weapons to the Soviet forces in Afghanistan in exchange for Afghan heroin. As normal, it falls to Bond to thwart this plot,assisted by a glamorous young woman. In this case the Bond girl is Kara Milovy, a Czechoslovakian cellist and the former mistress of the Russian general.The film is, in my view, more successful than either its immediate predecessor A View to a Kill or than its successor,Licence to Kill. The main reason is that it preserves the delicate balance, important to the success of any Bond film, between excitement and humour. A View to a Kill (and some of the other Moore films) suffered from an excess of jokiness which detracted from the tension. Licence to Kill, by contrast, went to the opposite extreme and became a violent revenge thriller with little in the way of light relief. In The Living Daylights, however, Dalton brings the right approach to the role, making Bond a professional secret agent rather than a comedian with a gun or an obsessive, brooding avenger.Another reason for the film's relative success is that there are several chase sequences, all very well done. My favourites are the scene near the end where Bond and the villain's henchman are fighting together while clinging to a net hanging from the back of a plane and the winter scene in the Czech mountains when Bond and Kara manage to evade their pursuers by sliding down a snow-covered slope on her cello case. (Was I the only person to wonder why it was winter in Czechoslovakia while in neighbouring Austria it was still early autumn? The trees in the Vienna scenes still had all their leaves, although some were starting to change colour).There were, however, some things about the film that were less successful. The best Bond films all have a memorable heroine and a memorable villain, and both these elements were missing here. For all the talk of making Bond girls more modern, Maryam d'Abo's doe-eyed, simpering Kara seems curiously passive and old-fashioned. Much more old-fashioned, in fact, than some of the heroines from the sixties- nobody could think of Pussy Galore, for example, as passive. Kara's musical accomplishments do not in themselves make her a convincing heroine.As for the villains, Jeroen Krabbe's General Koskov was weak and colourless. Joe Don Baker's Whitaker, whose obsession with military history is presented as a symptom of a violent, unstable personality, could have been a more interesting figure, but he was only on screen for short periods and was never really developed to his full potential. The politics of the film are rather unusual for a Bond film, in that direct reference is made to current affairs. Bond is often described as a Cold War secret agent, but in most of the films his adversary is not the KGB but either a megalomaniac individual, often a capitalist, or an international terrorist organisation. Where there is a Russian villain, that villain is normally a rogue figure such as Orlov in Octopussy; the Soviet government's official representative in most of the films is the relatively liberal, pro-détente General Gogol. At the beginning, The Living Daylights follows this pattern; Koskov is a renegade and General Pushkin, Gogol's successor, the honourable liberal. In the latter stages, however, the film takes a more critical line over the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. It is strange that the one Bond film that shows the Russians as the villains is the one that was made during the Gorbachev era when the Cold War was all but over. Although this is a watchable film, its weaknesses mean that it is not really one of the Bond classics. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A new Bond in an excellent film","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Directed by John Glen and produced by Albert Broccoli, it has script by Richard Maibaum and Michael G. Wilson, and is the fifteenth film in the franchise. In this film, besides the central cast inherited from previous films, Timothy Dalton embodies, for the first time, the role of James Bond, alongside a great cast Maryam d'Abo plays the Bond- girl Kara Milovy, Jeroen Krabbé gives life to General Koskov, John Rhys-Davies plays General Pushkin and Art Malik plays Kamran Shah.In this film, Bond is tasked to assist in the defection of a Russian general who, as in London, announces the resumption of Smert Spionam (Death to Spies) policy by the USSR. However, after several setbacks and after meeting the girlfriend of the fugitive general, Bond discovers that the defection was nothing but theater and there is someone interested in triggering a new world war.For the first time, Timothy Dalton gave body and life to James Bond. and, despite his way was quite different from the polite and courteous Moore, its not difficult for us, after some minutes of film, see Dalton as the new 007. Hard, violent and seductive at the right time, the actor was able to give a new impetus to the spy and bring Bond definitely to the eighties. And, although Maryam d'Abo doesn't fit the usual pattern of Bond-girls (super attractive, fatal, curvaceous and sexy), its impossible don't think that her sweet, gentle and loving ways blends very well with the vigorous and virile Dalton's Bond. The script is very interesting and addresses some issues that are still present in our society the fear of a new world war or arms trafficking, for example. Some scenes in this film are iconic, such as the escape of Bond and Kara to the border with Austria by skiing inside a cello case, or the incredible fight scenes in the Afghan airport. Also great is the opening theme, sung by A-ha, in my opinion one of the best achieved in the franchise. "},{"Title":"A more darker Bond and it's a entertaining watch","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" So this is the new reboot of the Bond franchise with Timothy Dalton taking on the role as James Bond. After Roger Moore retired from the Bond roles or was forced to. Roger Moore's adaptation of Bond was leaning towards a corny Bond that gets put in super campy settings. No offense to Roger Moore, but I just couldn't picture super beautiful women finding him irresistible in some of the Bond films he is in. Timothy Dalton wanted to go in a bit more serious and darker Bond direction. Timothy Dalton wanted to stay true to the Bond in the Ian Fleming novels. A Bond that is cold and has a bit of inner turmoil and dilemma he is dealing with. He also did most of his own stunts as the character James Bond. Plus he is actually quite believable when women fall for him. However I picture Timothy Dalton playing one of the other 00's like 009 or 004 in the reboot over playing 007. The action in this can be ridiculous at times. Where Bond has all the gadgets needed for just about every circumstances (such as his Aston Martin having a car ski mechanism in it). But it's not as outrageous as the previous Bond films. And the action clearly got a lot better in this, thanks to new technology that could be used for filming. There are few tension filled moments in this, just about everything in this is executed quite well. Maybe it's the lack of iconic parts or over the top scenes like the previous Bond movies. But this is a Bond movie that not many people seem to bring up when it comes to the Bond franchise. Although this is quite a well written Bond film with entertaining action sequences and direction. Plus it has a cold and cool Bond to go with it all. I personally was entertained and focused on the screen the whole time. The Living Daylights also introduces a new Moneypenny played by Caroline Bliss. Who is not just the prettiest Moneypenny in the franchise but is one of the prettiest girl in Bond franchise. Overall this is a underrated, cool, darker and entertaining Bond film that I thoroughly enjoyed. This is Timothy Dalton's solid entry into the 007 franchise.7.9/10 "},{"Title":"the best Bond in my opinion","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dalton shows a serious side that's been missing from the role since Sean Connery's earliest 007 days. And as a whole, the new picture is less of a special-effects affair than most of Roger Moore's Bond films.There's no shortage of action in The Living Daylights, but the movie adds up to a real adventure. Besides, the action scenes even have quiet moments A lyrical skydiving passage early on suggests that the film will have a bit of texture.Director John Glen and screenwriters Richard Maibaum and Michael G. Wilson are all veterans of the 25-year-old series. Glen and Maibaum go back to the Connery films, and it shows. In The Living Daylights, they tell a tale of arms deals and defections, classical musicians and drug runners, romance and intrigue.It's all a little too complicated to explain here; in fact, it's all a little too complicated, period. But if the plot threads tangle from time to time, if too much depends on coincidence, and if the story runs on about 20 minutes too long, there are more than enough good things in this film to justify a trip to the theater.The look of the movie is bright and vivid -- and the ''credits'' sequence is no exception. As scantily clad women gyrate to the film's theme music, they look strangely wraith-like. Perhaps they are ghosts of earlier Bond girls, reappearing here to cheer on their successor.If so their encouragement seems to have worked Maryam d'Abo plays the role of Czech cellist Kara Milovy with charm and sensitivity. She matches up well with Dalton, too. (They've both got the same sort of angular profiles.) Even the late Ian Fleming, who started this whole Bond business with his novels, might have approved of her.Other major players in this 15th Bond film (or 17th, depending on whether you include the anomalous Casino Royale and Never Say Never Again) include Joe Don Baker as a half-mad arms dealer, John Rhys- Davies as a KGB boss, Jeroen Krabbe as the double-dealing General Koskov, Andreas Wisniewski as a chameleon-like terrorist and Art Malik as an Afghan leader.The supporting cast features Desmond Llewelyn, returning as gadgeteer Q, and Robert Brown, returning as M, head of the British Secret Service. Caroline Bliss, who assumes the role of the ever- adoring Miss Moneypenny, is amusing in her very brief appearance. When she looks at Bond, she seems to be thinking, ''Let's have a look at the rest of those dimples.''Series-mastermind Albert ''Cubby'' Broccoli would do well to give us more of this Moneypenny in the future. And whatever Broccoli does, let's hope he holds onto his new Bond for a while.Remember the name Dalton, Timothy Dalton. Accept no substitutes. "},{"Title":"The living's in the way we die","Date":"3 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights is excellent. It's a Bond film with perfect story, perfect action and perfect locations. The only real flaw of the movie is the villains - Brad Whitaker played by Joe Don Baker only appears for about... five minutes making him pretty forgettable and General Koskov played by Jeroen Krabbé is just way too nice for a villain. Kara played by Maryam d'Abo is much better than the Bond girl from the previous film, she actually has character and a great chemistry with Bond. Speaking of Bond, Timothy Dalton replaces Sir Roger Moore and he's great in the role. He's more serious than Sir Roger, and while I still consider him to be my favorite, Dalton is great and brings his own personality. This Bond film is the last cold war story in James Bond franchise. Best thing about the movie are its locations ranging from Austria to Afghanistan. This is John Glen's best work, a film that is still stunning to this day. This is also John Barry's final score for a Bond film and is probably his best too. The theme song sung by A-Ha can match that of A View to a Kill, it's a darker Bond song and one of the most unique. We also have great action sequences such as ice chase. Necros played by Andreas Wisniewski is a great henchman and much scarier than actual villains of the film. John Rhys-Davies as General Pushkin is great and we get many cool scenes with him, although I would have preferred to have Gogol instead of him, I still really like him. Gadgets are also one of the best if not the best. This is an incredible Bond movie that is highly underrated, it's the most underrated film in the franchise and also one of the best Bond movies to be made. It's definitely Dalton's best and the best Bond film of the 80s. It would probably have been my all-time favorite Bond film if the villains were a bit better. I love this movie and I swear my nerves are showing, but I still want to give this movie a 9.7/10. "},{"Title":"Dalton reinvents Bond","Date":"30 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A very underrated film in the series.Dalton brings Bond back to believability - after the more playful (and increasingly ancient) Moore, Dalton is serious about doing the job. His relationship with Milovy is believable and Saunders like most Bond allies is killed - but is a nice character and you do feel a bit sad when he is killed. Moore fans are quick to say Bond is too harsh - but Moore at times was a bit too silly compared to for example Daniel Craig. The Aston Martin makes a well-deserved comeback as wellThe problem most people say about TLD is that the villains are poor. However, most real life villains do not have a lair with loads of lasers or an airship that flies over the USA. The villains could easily be merged into Koskov who is an arms dealer and a double agent. Cinematically, the ice chase and fights are well choreographed and there is some nice model work as well. John Barry's score is very good - there are a few videos kicking about on Youtube of the Ice Chase soundtrack put with Moore scenes - for example one of Octopussy.Overall, a very good spy film - good for a new young Bond fan given the relatively sane amount of gore compared to other Bond films. Non-Bond fans think of Skyfall, Goldfinger etc. but they really do need to see this one.Easily up there with one of my favourite Bond films. "},{"Title":"He met his Waterloo.......","Date":"29 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond helps KGB officer Georgi Koskov defect during a symphony performance. During his debriefing, Koskov reveals that a policy of assassinating defectors has been instated by new KGB head Leonid Pushkin. But as Bond explores this threat, a counter-plot surfaces, involving a shady American arms dealer and a pair of Russian assassins, Necros and Kara Milovy......Even though Moore's last outing was absurdly over the top, but enjoyable, he was way way too long in the tooth to carry on playing as Bond. Brosnan was unavailable (thank heavens), so Dalton stepped in for a couple of movies, and provided us with some much needed grit to the series, but unfortunately, it seemed that fans were used to, and. Wanted more of the wit and tongue in cheek-ness that the last seven movies provided.Dalton is wonderful as the secret agent, and to this day, I'll stand by my saying that he is the best Bond to date. Yes, Craig is wonderful, but he's not finished yet, but compared to the dire Brosnan cannon, the Moore smut, and the swagger of Connery, Dalton has that look of unease that makes his Bond that little much edgier.The film is a little bloated though, after a really impressive opener, we are treated to around 30-40 minutes of Basil exposition, parrots and some of the most British traits ever seen in a Bond movie........and then the exploding milk bottles make a visit, and the film doesn't let up until Whitaker meets his Waterloo.As with most Bond movies, the antagonists aims and goals are a little convoluted, and make very little sense, but there is enough action to cover the gaping plot holes, especially the set piece involving a plane toward the end.If I have one gripe about Dalton, it's that he doesn't really do one liners that well, so they fall a little flat, but otherwise, it's a solid Bond film, and Licence to Kill was to come, and in my view, that's the greatest Bond movie.... "}{"Title":"The Living Daylights -- A Great Title, but not a Great Bond","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond is now on a new mission which involves rescuing a Russian defector, stumbling on a complicated arms deal, and joining the mujahidin (who were the flavor the year in 1987, until many of them joined the Taliban or Al Qaeda and started making everyone else's lives miserable) in their war against the Soviet leaders in Afghanistan.The Living Daylights starts out impressively. There are some spectacular action scenes, Bond's landing on a cruise ship with a beautiful (but lonely) young lady who wants a real man is amusing, and then comes the cool 1980s main theme song, The Living Daylights. But the plot merely recycles old material and throws in the latest flavor of the month (the mujahidin) to seem topical, and frankly I expect something more entertaining and intelligent than that from a Bond film. To make matters worse, the producers also threw in a lot of shoot em' ups and explosions which always kill and maim the bad guys (or the guys confused enough to be siding with the bad guys) while leaving the good guys unscathed.Yet the biggest problem with this movie is the characters and their relationships. Timothy plays the title role of James Bond, but unlike Moore or Connery he seems to have forgotten that most of the film's plot situations are preposterous. He lacks a sense of humour, not to mention charm. Worse still, Timothy's Bond usually treats the Russian Bond girl Kara (played by Maryam D'Abo) like an immature school girl, rather than as someone he would like to seduce. Watching Bond and Kara on screen is like witnessing a traditional school master speaking with a puerile school girl. I am still at a loss to understand why Kara would want to sleep with James Bond at all. In fact, even Sean Connery's Bond (whom Honor Blackman described as the most sexist thing on two legs) never treated any of the Bond girls like that. If the new Bond is a disappointment, this disappointment pales in comparison to the villains. A Bond film depends upon great villains to generate excitement. The Living Daylights, to be blunt, does not have any great villains. Necros (Kerry Shale) is pretty demonic, but unfortunately he gets little screen time. Joe Don Baker, the chief villain, comes across as a laid back grandpa from the South rather than as anyone particularly menacing. There is another villain, whose name I cannot divulge here, but he too seems more like a cowardly playboy rather than a villain in the great Bond tradition. Dr. No, Grant, Goldfinger, and Blofelt would have blown this guy right out of the water in the evil department. Lastly, I could not help thinking that there are far better actresses who could play Bond girls in this movie. Maryam D'Abo tries her best in taking on the Bond girl role all on her own, but unfortunately she just doesn't have the legendary stature of Bond girls Ursula Andress, Daniela Bianchi, Honor Blackman, Luciana Paluzzi (who is also a great villain), Diana Rigg, Britt Ekland, and Maud Adams in order to carry it. She is also not helped by the fact that Bond does not seem to be in the least bit interested in sleeping with her. "},{"Title":"The third time's not quite the charm . . .","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" . . . as THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS stubbornly insists on plodding down the well-worn plot ruts of OCTOPU$$Y and A VIEW TO A KILL. That is, OCTOPU$$Y--the 13th Eon Company Bond flick--is the story of a renegade KGB man (Gen. Orlov) thwarted by Bond before he can harm America. A VIEW TO A KILL, the 14th Eon Bond, relates the tale of a renegade KGB man (Agent Zorin) thwarted by Bond before he can harm America. THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS, the 15th Eon Bond, retells the yarn about a renegade KGB man (Gen. Kostov) thwarted by Bond before he can harm America. If this sounds like a broken record, it's because virtually the same group of aging codgers wrote, produced, and directed all three movies. Unfortunately, the U.S. president in the 1980s had a mental condition totally preventing him from distinguishing Bond's Illusions\Delusions from Reality (something thoroughly documented at the time by Gary Trudeau). As a result, we had the Bond plot-like Grenada Invasion, and a gentleman named Osama bin Laden (called Kamran Shah in THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS) was given Carte Blanche access to American resources and know-how, based solely on the mental ruts of a few old F*RTS in Britain. The rest, as they said on 9-11, is History. "},{"Title":"The Last Classic","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights is the last film based on the original novels by Ian Fleming (Octopussy and the Living Daylights) Timothy Dalton was a great successor from his noble predecessor Roger Moore whose role of Bond was becoming overdone and exhausting showing the quality of his late Bond films. Originally For Your Eyes Only was to be his last and this is when Dalton should of seized the opportunity when originally offered. However the conclusion of this film is that it is true to the spirit and feeling of the original novel whilst still being a great action film. Maryam D'Abo is the best Bond girl ever with her beauty, background and sophistication that fits in ideally with the plot and is well paired with Timothy Dalton giving the film a perfect cast and good chemistry between the leads along with a good pairing of the two original stories in to the cold war context of the time. Although Octopussy was released 4 years earlier it was a complete experimental farce that tried to be an independent film but failed. Overall this is one of the best Bond films ever and one of the last based upon the original novels and a good film in its own right. Respectably the last Bond film Dalton should of done Casino Royale as the final rather then the superficial Licence to Kill as great finale as when the Cold War era to which Bond belongs was declining and ending and fits in nicely with the history Timeline of that era as does the previous Bond films. The Bond films should now be remembered as classics and in a post cold war world we need new literature and new cinematic characters rather then just recycle the Bond franchise which we still continue to do despite its expiration and exhaustion stripping it of its literal, historical and cinematic prestige and sophistication "},{"Title":"Part 15 is better then the first 14","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is part 15 to the James Bond movies. And it is better then any of the James Bond movies that came before it. Sean Connery Daniel Greg and Roger Moore are great as James Bond. But Timothy Dalton is better. There all better James Bond movie that came out after this one. License to kill is better. Golden eye is better. Tomorrow never dies is better. But still this is a great movie. It has great acting. A great story line. See it. The world in not enough is better. Die another day is better. But still this is a great movie. Joe Don Baker is one of the scariest Bond villains. All the bond girls are good actresses. M.a.r.y.a.m d'A.b.o is one of the prettiest Bond girls. See this movie. "},{"Title":"Solid Bond film with Timothy Dalton","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights was the first of two James Bond films featuring Timothy Dalton as 007. It's a solid Bond film, but rarely cited when the best films of the franchise are discussed. The problem isn't Dalton because he makes a fine James Bond and was what the series needed in 1987 (when the film was released). Although the Roger Moore era (1973-1985) is my favorite stretch of Bond films, mainly because they're so all-around entertaining, I think everyone was craving a more serious Bond by 1987 and Dalton delivers the goods.First the good The Living Daylights features a great opening sequence involving skydiving at the Rock of Gibraltar followed by a Jeep-going-down-the-mountain scene. A short while later there's a cool Winter chase sequence with Bond and his romantic interest (Maryam d'Abo) in a car with skis (shot in Austria). The last act takes place in Afghanistan (but was shot in Morocco and the Mojave Desert) and, at first, I thought it was going to be one of those boring action-endings, like The Spy Who Loved Me (1977), but the sequence increases in suspense as James and his babe try to get out of the country on a cargo plane, and the film still doesn't end at that point. This climax features three or four excellent suspense scenes and some funny quips as well.Unfortunately, the film is weak in the area of women. D'Abo is decent in a doe-eyed, winsome way, but that's it. Other than her, there are only brief flashes of women with no one particularly standing out.The cast also includes Joe Don Baker, Jeroen Krabbé, John Rhys-Davies and Andreas Wisniewski, mostly villains or possible villains.BOTTOM LINE Although The Living Daylights is not a highlight of the series, it's definitely a worthwhile Bond flick with the usual staples, albeit shaky in the area of women. Aside from Timothy Dalton, who makes a refreshing Bond, the opening and ending sequences are the best parts.The film runs 130 minutes.GRADE B "},{"Title":"new bond","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" the first bond without roger moore since 1971's diamonds are forever sees a new bond take up the role. timothy dalton had been considered before but after pierce brosnan couldn't play the role, timothy was chosen. he brings a harder darker element to bond matching his dark hair. the new bond is also joined by a new miss moneypenny but regulars geoffrey keen and robert brown return. For Geoffrey Keen it is his last appearance as Minister Of Defence and he walks off screen never to return. John Barry makes his last score on a bond film but it's very edgy and new with the first use of synthesizers. there's nice scenery in austria, gibraltar and tangier and the music keeps things ticking over. Bond is assisted by young bond girls, actresses Maryam d'abo and Caroline Bliss. "},{"Title":"A fresh start","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights is the first Bond movie with Timothy Dalton as 007. Dalton does an okay job, but he misses the warmth, humor and charisma that both Connery and Moore brought to the role. Dalton treats Bond like something from Shakespeare.The film is a bit too long, though the storyline is quite realistic. The acting is okay for the most part.The Living Daylights was written with Moore in mind, so there's still some humor elements left. Those elements would totally be gone by the next movie.The film is an improvement on the previous one, though Dalton still needs to grow in the part. "},{"Title":"The New James Bond, Living On The Edge.","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The year is 1986, with the previous film, Roger Moore closed the book on his Bond era after 12 year and 7 films. Producer Albert R. Broccoli sets about the task of casting for the new James Bond. The first choice was welsh actor Timothy Dalton, who had been in Broccolis mind, a possible Bond. Due to prior commitments, Dalton would have to decline this thrice in a lifetime chance. Fresh off of filming the TV series, Remmington Steele, Pierce Brosnan is eventually cast. With Brosnan now cast as Moore's successor, interest in 'Steele', which at this point had started to decline, suddenly was on the up. With Brosnan still under contract for Steele and with a new series given the green light, both parties could not come to an agreement for Brosnan, so he had to step down. With casting back underway, such names as, Christopher Reeve, Sam Neill and Lambert Wilsom were all to some degree screen tested and/or rumoured as Bond. But for Broccolli, there was only ever 1 choice, so he paid another visit to Dalton, who was now free to take up the role which you could say, he was born to play. Daltons decision to go back to the feel of the early Bond films (Dr No and From Russia With Love), and make his Bond, as Fleming had written him in the novels, was meet with approval from Broccoli and all involved. Bond was now no longer to be looked upon as a joke. He was now going to be a violent, intense, conflicted soul. A Bond who had done things in his past that made him hate himself, someone who when he closed his eyes, those he killed came back to haunt him, like that of the novels, a Bond who drank and smoke to an unhealthy excess. So that was it, Dalton was the new James Bond, and filming had began almost immediately out on the rock of Gibraltar. Opening with the best PTS thus far, Dalton is thrown straight into the action when Bond is engaged in a white knuckle chase, clinging to the roof of an escaping jeep. By all accounts (unlike the Moore era), the stuntman didn't need equal billing opposite the actor playing Bond, as Dalton was eager to do as much of the physical rough stuff as he could. With the current fear being AIDS, the producers decided to make Bond into a one woman man. And this is when we come to the Bond Girl. Maryam D'Arbo is cast as Czech Cellist (try that when your drunk), Kara Milovy. Milovy is a departure from some of the T&A girls of the past (and present), and is here being used as a pawn between Bond and Koskov. The villains, we get 3, Koskov, Whitaker and the required henchman, Necros. With the changes in style for the new era, the trio of villains are disappointing as they seem like they's walked out of any of the Moore films. Dalton would have to wait till the next film (1989's Licence To Kill, to get a truly menacing and evil villain. A new Bond means a new car, and after 18 years Bond was coming home to Aston Martin in their new V8 Vantage. No Bond car is complete without the extras, and the Vantage is no different with, Laser Cutters in the wheel caps, HUD display in the windscreen, missiles hidden behind the headlights, Tyre Sikes and a Jet Thrust Booster, that are all used in just about the most thrilling car chase in the entire series where Bond casually works his way through the multitude of goodies all the while avoiding being blown up by mortars. Accumalating in a shot that would make even the toughest car fanatic cry. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dalton, theatre trained with Shakespearean past, takes over as Bond for only two films, but does well, injecting a darker and more serious tone into proceedings again. Dalton however, and the films he was in, lacked the sparkle of humour which made Connery's stand out, and although the two movies lose points for this, it is at least a step towards preventing Bond from becoming a complete laughing stock, and they are still good entries for the series. Many see Dalton as the best Bond, but then again everyone has their favourite, but it should just be said that each actor brings their own brand to the character, and so far all have been likable.Well done to the writers for attempting to do something different with this film, while keeping to the tradition of the series as we see Bond tracking an arms dealer around the globe who plans to start a war. We see Middle-Eastern freedom fighters helping Bond, as well as all the usual stuff- cars girls, and the script has greater depth than many previous films, opting to be a thriller rather than an adventure film. Of course the Russians are involved once again, but there are many side plots, twists and counter attacks making the plot complex. This works to a degree, but with Bond films we are used to simple bad versus good guys, larger than life characters and memorable scenes. We do not always get this here, the bad guys do not stand out, and to viewers who are aware of the series, but are not strictly big fans, the villains and girls are forgettable. Fans though will enjoy them while watching and hope that this sort of trend will develop further in subsequent films. Maryam d'Abo is gorgeous as the strong-willed Kara, but she is the only true 'Bond woman' in the film, while Joe Don Baker is a strange choice for the bad guy. He plays him with eccentricity but he seems to be no match for Bond. Baker would return in two of Brosnan's films.The final chase scenes and battle are extremely well shot and exciting, the plane stunts are particularly good. The theme tune is interesting, unusual like the rest of the film, but it is very good too. Krabbe is good as Kosov, charismatic but not a strong character unfortunately, they should have given him more depth or screen time, but the ideas surrounding him were good. Overall, another good Bond movie with many good ideas, some of which required more work.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A good story but the production is lacking","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights and License to Kill were the only two Bond films to star Timothy Dalton in the lead role. Dalton was an unusual choice for the role as he lacks the warmth and charisma associated with other actors who have filled the role. Instead he portrays a harder exterior which was probably appropriate for both films.The plot and story for the film is very good. Although it follows the cold war theme used in Bond Films of the era, it gives it an unusual twist and introduces a personal aspect as Bond seeks revenge for being double crossed early in the film.The film is watchable, but is a little on the long side and lacks the panache found in the likes of Octopussy, The Spy who Loved Me and Goldfinger. "}{"Title":"A newer, meaner Bond, but still entertaining.","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"   The Living Daylights sees Timothy Dalton begin his two-film stint as James Bond. Dalton wanted to play the character in a more realistic manner than his predecessor (Roger Moore) so he went away and read all the Bond books and tried to get to the core of the character. His Bond is darker than all the others; a bitter, aggressive and often unpredictable character who still likes women and vodka martini but isn't overly fond of his job.    Bond is on a training exercise in Gibraltar at the start of the film when two of his colleagues are murdered by an assassin. He learns that the Russians are pursuing a policy of death to spies and that his name is on the list. Later, Bond helps a Russian defector (Jereon Krabbe) to escape to the West, but the defector betrays Bond by joining up with a renegade American soldier (Joe Don Baker) who is supplying drugs to various cartels and arms to Middle Eastern factions. Despite Dalton's low-key approach to the character, there's still overblown action true to the Bond tradition. The pre-credits sequence in Gibraltar is hair-raising, and there's an awesome fight between Bond and an ice-cool blond KGB assassin as they hang onto a cargo net which dangles from the back of a plane in-flight. Bond also seems more monogamous than usual, here spending the majority of the film wooing just one lady (cellist Maryam D'Abo). The title song by Scandinavian pop group A-Ha is moody and catchy. It's nice also to see the writers choosing some diverse and unfamiliar locations for the action, ranging from Bratislava to Vienna, and from northern Morocco to the Afghan deserts. The Living Daylights is a good, solid Bond entry, and it's unfortunate to note that Dalton (who's excellent) only got to portray this character one more time after this. "},{"Title":"A bond of many different public opinions","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's fair enough that many people dislike Dalton as Bond.  He did display a Bond that was monogamous and romantic, tired and serious.  However, he did have some qualities that were similar to the other Bonds; he's handsome (far more handsome than Pierce), he can perform action stunts and can think of ways of getting out of deadly situations (eg. getting out of the falling plane by using the car that was in it).  I reckon having those qualities plus those extra qualities have made Dalton one of the best Bonds.'The Living Daylights' might get boring for some.  However, it's refreshing for a chance to have a movie that goings from one destinations to another. It's refreshing to have Bond display some concern when his girl is angry at him (when he tried to touch the side of Kara's face and saying, Now, what's the matter? in a caring tone) instead of letting one of his ladies take a bullet that was meant to go through him ie.TSWLM.  Finally, it's refreshing for Bond to be plain angry (when Saunders was killed) and to show fear (when one of Witaker's 'toys' is about to shoot a missile at him).  I guess the boring parts that the critics talk about are when people have conversations but that's been a part of all the Bond movies.I give this movie 5 out of 5.  I enjoy the mixture of passion, action and the twists and turns of the story.  Watch this movie and decide for yourself if you want to see Bond have those extra qualities or a Bond who doesn't seem to show fear, who is extremely confident and seems to always have energy.Cheers. "},{"Title":"Bond Resurrection","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A generally much-loved edition of the series probably has more to do with Bond not being Roger than being Tim. The film itself is another workmanlike John Glen construction and sits very firmly in the mainstream spy thriller tradition there's a sequence including the ferris wheel from The Third Man and a rooftop chase in Tangiers that also includes the self-safe café where the corresponding sequence begins in the subsequent Bourne Ultimatum.Dalton is really rather good. In fact almost too good - listen to the 'hello, I'm classically trained' glottal-stopped annunciation of 'make that two' at the end of the pre-title sequence. He also struggles to reconcile himself with the one-liners, though, in fairness, they are lame 'he got the boot' and 'he met his Waterloo' are both entirely superfluous.The narrative of the film is strong though. How archaic seems a sequence in Afghanistan as the Mujahideen wage their struggle with the Russians. It gains much from its use of Art Malik, a fine actor that, alongside Dalton, really threatens to take the picture up a notch. Maryan d'Abo is a beautiful presence, soliciting sympathy but mercifully not much asked to pretend to play the 'cello. Jeroen Krabbé plays his entrepreneurial defector with commendable Guignol. Good fresh meat but from parrot to pool party, we're seeing it all again. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Laid Bare The Unique Ramifications of the 00 Code","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In case any may not know the 00 in 007 is the licence to kill designation. Although Bond did more than his share of arranging meetings between the bad guys & the Almighty, most of them were sanitised under the veil of self defence. The baddies were themselves trying to do him. From that standpoint, Bond rarely went beyond the liberties that police officers or even civilians could &/or should be allowed to take under the same circumstances. I suppose there are lawyers who could make cases of bad jurisprudence. In the opening scene of Moonraker, when the baddies pushed him out of the airplane sans-parachute & he took one of their's on the way down, some ambulence chaser may argue that he killed a suspect who was fleeing--albeit via free fall LOLWhat most Bond films barely scratch the surface of is the fact that Bond's sanction to use lethal force transended the self defense boundaries. Like Octopussy said in the film of her namesake, he's a paid assassine.He kills killers alright, but he's under no obligation to wait until they make an attempt on him. Sort of between war & law enforcement. Possible Spoilers Nowhere was this made more disturbingly clear than when Bond was assigned to take out Pushkin(I think--the John Reese Davis character) He was strongly suspected in the murder of several British agents, & though up to that point a trusted associate, the British government felt it had no choice but to sanction his termination. Bond was very reluctant, because he was torn between his doubts about his guilt & obeying his governments orders. He ambushed him while he was getting ready to make love to his wife.You'll have to see the movie to see what happens "},{"Title":"a little night music","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Living Daylights is enjoyable despite its sprawling, convoluted plot and a weak contingent of villains (each flaw might explain the other). The action is uniformly well staged, and the story contains genuine romance, which is somewhat rare in Bond films. The romance and musical elements are very classy and lend a waltz-like feel to the non-action sections. Bond's motivations have as much to do with old-fashioned chivalry as with intelligence operations.The story is uneven Bond's efforts to track down a would-be defector turn into a crusade against international oppression. There are a lot of characters and situations to keep track of as the movie unfolds. Neither Whitaker nor Koskov is very threatening as a villainous presence. One could claim that Whitaker is the `main' villain, but he's the weakest in the Bond series. Andreas Wisniewski as Necros exudes ruthless, deadly skill, especially when the character makes a mockery of an MI6 safe house. He's actually the most threatening presence in the film, far more a worthy Bond foe than his boss, Whitaker.Much more successful is Timothy Dalton in his first Bond outing. The Gibraltar opening is one of the high points of the Bond series, serving extremely well as the introduction to a new Bond actor. Later, one can almost feel the fire in Dalton's eyes as he portrays deadly anger at the death of Bond's colleague. A popping balloon perfectly punctuates the powerful emotion. The very appealing Maryam d'Abo as the heroine lends an effective balance of naivete and spirit to her role as a young woman who has seen little of the world but is wise enough to live in it fully when she gets the chance. This is a worthwhile Bond movie.  "},{"Title":"A very underrated Bond film","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As a James Bond nut I am always very disappointed when people slate Timothy Dalton, he was an excellent Bond! It's a real pity that we didn't get to see more of him as 007.He has a believability about him. You really believe that he is capable of killing someone, where Roger Moore had played Bond with more humour Dalton reverts to Ian Fleming's original idea of Bond, ruthless and sophisticated. He's more like Connery of Dr No and From Russia With Love, as such both this film and Licence To Kill would probably please Fleming far more than Octopussy or View To A Kill.The film itself is maybe not on the grand scale of You Only Live Twice or The Spy Who Loved Me, but instead it allows Dalton to show us that he's an excellent actor and a very worthy Bond.8 1/2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Can you say TOO intense?","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was fantastic in many regards. The story was well written, the characters and situations believable. I still find it funny that a lot of my friends that aren't 'die-hard' bond fans still think this is the one where he gets married.  Just for the record guys, it's his friend Felix that gets married to one of the three's company chicks. George Lazenby in On Her majesty's secret service is the only bond to get married.As for Timothy Dalton, I can't stand him as bond.  Some other person said they thought Timothy dalton was light-hearted and smooth as bond? Please tell me what scene that was because I think you're crazy. Timothy Dalton AND Pierce Brosnan both play bond too serious. Timothy Dalton was the darkest least suave bond of them all. Someone should remake this movie with a lighter, more 'Roger Moore' type actor, then it would be perfect. Or maybe pierce brosnan played more like remington steel.Bond's appeal was his smoothness and ability to take all the action in stride without sweating. Bond never took himself too seriously and had a humorous sense of style. I would have to say George Lazenby was the best at playing bond, then Roger Moore, then Sean Connery, then Pierce Brosnan. Timothy Dalton just plain sucked. (Sorry Timothy, but... you do suck as bond)Just my two cents. "},{"Title":"A solid entry into the Bond series","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There are many Bond fans out there who are critical of Dalton's portrayal of Bond- humourless, too serious, not a womaniser and has a goofish smile! but his portrayal is actually the closest likeness to Flemmings novels. Dalton is very hard edged as Bond (very believable as a no-nonsense tough guy agent, different from Rogers softer and dare i say it camp portrayal!). The film itself is good, plenty of action and a good music score, though I think that the plot of having a russian agent defect to the west was dated for the time, afterall this was 1987 not the height of the cold war! Its a shame that Walter Gotell (who played General Gogol for 10 years was ill at the time, since Pushkins role in the film was actually supposed to be Gogol (hence Bonds reluctance to murder him) so the character of Pushkin was written in to substitute and Gogols role was reduced to a cameo at the end- sadly Gotells last ever appearance in a Bond film. As for comparing the film with others in the series I would place it in the latter regions of the top 10- behind the likes of my personal favourites FYEO, Goldfinger, TSWLM, YOLT and TWINE. Nevertheless Daylights is a welcome addition to the series. "},{"Title":"Excelent Bond","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton brings a new excelence to the Bond series. He is both believable and enjoyable to watch and the plot is much the same. General Koskov and Whitaker are only outdone as Bond's enemies by Alec Trevelian and General Ouromov in Goldeneye and after that Bond this is definatelty the next best (followed by Tomorrow Never Dies). This film instills a deep feeling in me that I only get when I watch the three titles that i have mentioned and as i have mentioned it is a realistic film despite the fact that it is a Bond which it has to be said are often rather over the top. A must see for Bond fans and non-Bond fans alike!!!!! "},{"Title":"Brings back some recognizable elements","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm an exponent of the eighties so I can identify it well. It's not in the same league as the early Connery flicks like From Russia with Love and Goldfinger but it has its charm. Dalton is a rather serious Bond, like Fleming's character. He misses the toughness and humor and isn't a womanizer.He actually falls in love and has to put aside his feelings to complete his mission. The story refers to early work, like the cold war setting in Prague, where Bond follows his intuition, instead of his orders to kill the girl. Original is first the escape by general Koskov by pipeline and after that the revival of Austin Martin gadgets followed by the romantic crossing of the Austrian border. This is the best part of the picture. After this the film goes slowly downhill and becomes more a action packed late eighties adventure. The final is grading up it up again, while we see a confrontation in a cargo airplane, with a bomb in it and Dalton showing some punch after all. The score is catchy and typical eighties with tracks from AHA and The Pretenders. throughout I give it 3,5 out of 5.         "}{"Title":"Shaken, but not stirred...","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  From the opening of this film you could just tell that Dalton was a different kind of Bond to his predecessors. And to be honest, I liked it!For the first time James Bond was portrayed as I imagined him to be from the original Fleming stories. The dialogue was sharp and witty, and Dalton carries along the story with a mix of dark humour and gritty moodiness which really works!Sure, he's not as good as Brosnan, but for the period this film is certainly one of the best of the eighte...sorry, nineteen movies and although the plot is quite complicated it is by far the best in terms of character and making Bond a real human, as opposed to the foppish Englishman of Moore and the invulnerability of Connery.By far one of the best... "},{"Title":"Comes the morning and the headlights fade away...","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the great Bond Movies out there.  Dalton plays the character that bears resemblance to the Fleming counterpart. Great locales and action sequences to boot.  Like the fight between Bond and Necros (You know... Where has Everybody gone?), the new Aston Martin V8 (DB5's my fav) and the cool keyring.  This is a great Bond movie.   "},{"Title":"A rather flavourless Martini","Date":"3 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" (60%) Like a lot of Bond movies this is very much of its time, which is a nice way to say that it's dated, and this is 80's through and through. Although not everything is out of date. The Afghan government still has a foreign nation fighting its enemies for them in exchange for opium. So according to American and British world police policy, communism is worse than terrorism? It's official, real world politics makes less sense than Bond movie fun and games. Dalton is a clear attempt to bring some edge back to the character, which does work even though thanks to the pretty average script he's a little too bland overall. With it being a Bond movie it's still mostly entertaining, and thanks to its current affairs based plot, a little informative too, just very middle of the road to say the least. "},{"Title":"A very impressive debut for a very underrated Bond","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As they had done with Roger Moore in Live and Let Die, Eon erred on the side of caution and cast a well established actor as the new James Bond. Timothy Dalton, who had long been considered a leading candidate for the role, was an inspired choice for the fourth 007. His intense acting style and the fact that he was known for playing brooding characters meant that his Bond was immediately set apart from his predecessor. Moore played Bond as a charming, witty, lovable rogue while Dalton plays him as a serious, dangerous secret agent who takes little pleasure in his work. He plays the role as if Bond found his work a little soul destroying and he comes across very well as a result. His Bond is probably the most realistic of the first four in that sense. Dalton is also very impressive in the action scenes and, as far as I could tell, he did virtually all of them himself. If I had one criticism of his performance, it would be that he lacks Connery and Moore's talents for delivering the requisite Bond quips but at least makes a good stab at it.My biggest criticism of the film is that the two main villains are a little low key. Both Jeroen Krabbé and Joe Don Baker are good actors but neither of them is served particularly well in this film. Much like Largo in Thunderball, General Koskov is a character who is very interesting in theory but less so in practice. He doesn't seem like the type of person who would rise to the rank of general in the Soviet Army and I find it hard to believe that his fawning, Uriah Heep-esque gestures of friendships would fool anyone. While he has far less screen time, Baker doesn't fare much better. He's certainly quite funny as Brad Whitaker but I'm sure that the character should be funny. I think that he was miscast, frankly. I felt that he were told that Whitaker was a dangerous megalomaniac rather than being shown it, which is never a good thing in drama. Conversely, Andreas Wisniewski is perfectly cast as Necros, one of the most intimidating Bond villains. Like many henchmen, he is mostly silent and that serves to make him all the more menacing. The scene in which he infiltrates MI6 dressed as a milkman and his fight with Bond inside and out of the cargo plane in Afghanistan are two of the most impressive action sequences to ever grace a Bond film, particularly the latter. Maryam d'Abo is likewise very well cast as Kara Milovy, a naive young woman but a highly intelligent, brave and resourceful one. She is extremely likable in the role and the scenes in Vienna are very sweet, even if Bond's motivations are less than pure. In stark contrast to Stacey Sutton in A View to a Kill, he is very capable in dangerous situations and proves to be a loyal and beneficial ally to Bond. There is a certain innocence in their relationship which I found very endearing. In his third appearance as M, Robert Brown is once again far too nice in the role. Taking on the daunting cast of succeeding Lois Maxwell after 14 films, Caroline Bliss makes a good impression as Miss Moneypenny and is likable in the role. Desmond Llewelyn, now the sole on screen survivor of the Sean Connery era, plays Q with his usual skill and wit. In his final Bond appearance, Walter Gotell was intended to play a much larger role as General Gogol than usual but his ill-health meant that Eon could not receive the necessary insurance cover and General Pushkin was created to replace him. John Rhys-Davies is excellent as Pushkin, playing the role with great charm and no small amount of humour. The fact that he and Bond are willing to trust each other is a nice reflection of the detente, as is the warm relationship between M and Gogol. Art Malik is very good as Kamran Shah, the Oxford- educated senior Mujahideen figure. He makes for a fascinating character as he is one of Bond's more unsavoury allies. The vast political changes in the world since 1987 make the film's depiction of the Soviet war in Afghanistan all the more interesting. As with Gotell, this was Geoffrey Keen's final Bond film and it's a shame that his tenure ends not with a bang but a whimper as he gets virtually nothing to do. It was nice to see Nadim Sawalha and Virginia Hey pop up but their roles were very small.The use of locations was as excellent as usual, particularly Vienna and Morocco. The action scenes were some of the best in years, particularly the aforementioned cargo plane fight. I did find it a bit hard to believe that Koskov could survive the impact between the jeep and the other plane practically unscathed though. However, it was rather disappointing that Koskov was killed off screen. The climax of the film was rather weak, I'm afraid, with the confrontation between Bond and Whitaker being the only uninspired action scene in the film. At least Whitaker got his just desserts though! This was John Barry's final score for the series and one of his best but I wasn't too enamoured with the use of electronic music or the title song. Overall, this is a very strong, exciting and well made Bond film with a great plot. I thought that it was the most serious and realistic film since On Her Majesty's Secret Service. The unfortunately rather short-lived Timothy Dalton era is off to a flying start. If the villains and the ending were stronger, I'd give it a perfect score. Finally, the film is notable as being the last in which the Cold War plays a role and the last until Casino Royale to take its title from an Ian Fleming story. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Strong Performance by Dalton!","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton seems a bit too serious in the role and doesn't really have much charisma. That aside, his first Bond outing was surprisingly good.The Living Daylights is quite an action-packed, energetically directed adventure that moves along at a brisk pace, but manages not to go way over the top. The complex plot is well-executed, if somewhat confusing to follow. Maryam d'Abo makes a charming Bond girl as Kara, bringing a welcome romantic side to the story. There's also a simply hilarious scene in which Bond and Kara go downhill through the customs on top of a cello case.The supporting characters are interesting, but the villains cause a flaw to the film. Whitaker is an underdeveloped character and Koskov cannot be taken seriously. And like pointed out, they aren't given too much screen time. If you can ignore that, this is actually one of the better Bond movies that came out in the 80's. "},{"Title":"How times change","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Some films don't outlast the march of time and some become filled with irony. Since this film was made, the cold war has ended and the allies in Afghanistan that help Bond, are today the very enemies that the UK and the USA are fighting. The Mujahadeen are depicted as brave and oppressed by the Soviets, yet today the West depicts them as murderous terrorists.As to the film, its great fun in the Bond tradition and I like Timothy Dalton as Bond as he has an everyman look to him and is an effortless actor.The script is tight, the film and sound perfect and the pace just right. Its just difficult to watch in 2011 with all that has subsequently happened in Afghanistan and the world.Let me leave you with the words of William Gladstone a 19th Century British Prime Minister. The lives of the people in the snow covered hill villages of Afghanistan are as inviolable in the eyes of almighty God as our own. How quickly we forget the lessons of our past. "},{"Title":"TIMOTHY brings back the real bond !!!!!","Date":"15 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I used to love watching rogers adventures as 007 since childhood. He is my favorite's bond personally, secondly i liked Sean Connery because the second one i ever saw since childhood. After becoming the die hard fan of 007 i decided to watch all the movies of bond. Liked Sean Connery movies, except Diamonds are forever. I saw The living daylights 5 years back i liked the movie but not the bond which played, thinking of roger would have played it. As i grown up i saw The living daylights months back, i realized that Timothy played the real bond of Ian Flemings.The movie starts with the new era of bond... bond doesn't loves his assignment he kills his enemy brutally. Timothy plays his darker side as bond. totally serious out for reason not for jokes which roger did. The movie doesn't have any villain with intention of destroying world or create world war, it simply shows the dealers of the high class arm & weapons along with KGB Russians. Spectacular action sequences like the plane fight which was wonderfully directed. Director John Glen bring the real bond & starts the new era which should have been done long time back. John Barry played one of best score of his bond career in this movie, & the last movie of his to give bond score. WELCOME to the movie to show you what bond is made up of. My Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"A more serious Bond, but still clings to comic book elements. 77.5/100","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 16th of 23 Bond movies (15th of 22 official movies) Timothy Dalton - who was an unknown quantity to me when he took on this role - makes his debut as super spy James Bond, replacing Roger Moore, who had, in my view, the best catalogue of quality Bond movies. Dalton's Bond is more serious and droll, but, unfortunately, the movie still clings to the gadgetry that marked previous Bond movies as well as the cartoony humour. My main gripe with Moore's Moonraker was the depiction of laser guns, which were anachronistic. You get lasers in this movie too. There's also a scene which is a bit too cartoony for me...when Bond adopts an unusual mode of transport with Kara Milovy on the snow. Anyway...Exotic locations Czeckoslovakia, Austria and Tangier.Plot Top KGB mastermind General Georgi Koskov contacts MI6 in order to defect to the West and requests Bond by name to help him accomplish this. Koskov asserts that General Gogol's successor (Gogol is a frequent figure in these movies) is a bad egg, like Stalin, and has assassination of US and British spies on his mind.Franchise clichés Pre-title sequence - Dalton is solid in the gun barrel sequence...I tend to associate Connery with a wobbly back leg in his shooting stance. Dalton looks like he won't fall over if a gust of wind blows! For the first time in a Bond movie you get to see the faces of other 00 agents (Octopussy had one with clown make-up on...children's parties can be such matters of national security!). The agents are taking part in a Ministry of Defence exercise...which goes pear shaped. Here Dalton shows himself to be a grittier Bond and there is greater realism...he still has time for the ladies though! Theme song - By a-ha. The end credits list two more songs by The Pretenders...an end theme, if you will. You see 007 in neon lights.Sexism/misogyny - I didn't note any.Moneypenny - as the geriatric Roger Moore was pensioned off as Bond, so too has Lois Maxwell as Moneypenny. There's a much younger actress now playing this role to Dalton's much younger Bond. They're openly flirting...again! Q - Still played by the same guy...he's getting long in the tooth now! M - My notes did wonder if this was the first time a new actor had played this role...looking on Wikipedia it's mentioned that the original M (Bernard Lee) died before he could shoot his scenes in For your eyes only. Robert Brown played M in Octopussy.Wine buffery - Instead of the same old same old, there is nicely handled scene here which has a nice twist. Perhaps, for the first time, Bond says the phrase Shaken not stirred with regard to his favoured drink the vodka martini (pretty sure that it's usually ordered for him so he never has to say those words).Silly female character names - Kara Milovy. I don't know what it means...but I'm sure it's disgusting!End teaser - James Bond will return, i.e. no specific title nominated.Things to watch out for * Barbara Broccoli is the associate producer...the daughter of Bond producer Albert...Bond runs in the family.* Actor Nadim Sawalha is a credited in this film. I seem to recall someone with that surname being credited in The man with the golden gun. Wikipedia lists Nadim as having also featured in The spy who love me. Looked in Wikipedia because I wanted to find out if the actor in the Bond movies was related to Absolutely Fabulous star Julia Sawalha. Nadim is the father of Julia and Nadia Sawalha. Julia was in Absolutely Fabulous.* Bond in a super upmarket hotel in Vienna asking for his usual suite...good thing he always wins at poker as I doubt that civil servants could make that kind of money! * Curious...is there really a Section 26 paragraph 6 which states information be given out only on a need to know basis? This phrase is used by Saunders, head of Section V at Vienna.* Bond has a Walther sniper rifle...seem to recall that this brand is his preferred one for handguns.* Speaking of brands...lots of product endorsements in this movie...this aspect is maybe getting more prominence now? * Bond speaks Russian...god, what CAN'T Bond do? * Bond smokes...not sure what the last movie was where I saw him smoke.* 004 and 002 are seen in the pre-title sequence. 008 is mentioned, but he is not featured in this movie. Only the first two get end credits...a first for the series, I think...at least where you have seen their faces.* Czeck police cars are sponsored by an Australian beer brand...I could be joking there.* Felix Leiter is in the movie. He gives James the alias Jerzy Bondov...if I'm not mistaken...which I could be.* Mujahideen feature as allies...not sure how PC that would be nowadays! * Series regular General Gogol has moved to foreign service and has been replaced by General Leonid Pushkin.Note to self Russian label on item...OCTOPOKKHO...that's a rough representation...cyrillic letters used, so the first 'K' is backwards. Means? "},{"Title":"Excellent. Really is...","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Maybe i'm biased as this is my favourite Bond film.. but i truly believe this Film is a terrific move forward from the previous poor quality Moore films that had began to ruin the franchise.Dalton is different. He is neither Moore, Connery, or Lazanby, he is his own. He is Ian Flemmings Bond, the one described in the books. He is a unique Bond and in some peoples eyes the best...yet unfortunately Dalton suffers with being forgotten due to the fact he made only 2 movies. However, i think with a bit more recognition he would have been renowned as one of the best if not the best Bond.The Living Daylights is a brilliant move on and the start of a new era...despite a bad Moneypenny..and more changes that could have been made to the franchise to secure it being different to Moore's e.g continuing with the same M, and having the same director.. it still is a very good new start for the franchise.The soundtrack is excellent, and has some brilliant scenes. The plane fight..is quite brilliant and the rooftop chase gives the viewer goosebumps.The Living Daylights is a fitting tribute to Bond and just generally a joy to watch..i recommend that if you are to have any Bond DVD in your collection this should be as equally included as any other Bond.R. "},{"Title":"A near perfect Ian Fleming thriller","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With 'The Living Daylights', Bond producers Albert R. Broccoli and his stepson Michael G. Wilson not only created one of the best Bond films in the franchise, but also a very good stand-alone spy thriller. Furthermore, it is not loosely based on Ian Fleming's characters. No, the short novel 'The Living Daylights' has been brought to the screen in perfect detail.The pre-credits sequence is easily one of the best in the franchise. No stand-ins for newcomer Timothy Dalton. He does the amazing but also credible, believable stunts all by himself. The one-car chase works perfectly and John Barry's modern touch of the Bond theme add's great suspense to it. One of the best Bond openers, together with the pre-credits sequence from 'On Her Majesty's Secret Service', 'The Spy Who Loved Me', 'Moonraker' and 'The World Is Not Enough'.After the simple, minimalistic main titles from Maurice Binder and A-Ha's amazing Bond tune (Alicia Keys and Jack White must have forgotten to write a terrific tune/melody), Ian Fleming's short story kicks in in which Bond spies on what seems to be a KGB sniper (Kara Milovy). M's orders are clear Helping General Georgi Koskov to defect to the UK. Also an important storyline in Fleming's short story.It is here where espionage kicks in. By now the audience begins to think Gogol's successor Leonid Pushkin is the real villain. The people responsible for the script want us to believe that Pushkin re-introduces the good old SM(i)ER(t)S(pionnom)H spy assassination lists introduced in 'From Russia With Love'. And Georgi Koskov is the one wanting to escape Pushkin's deadly hands. M's answer to 007 Kill Pushkin.But Bond is Bond and he senses trouble. He has a nose for these kind of intelligent schemes and soon he finds out the defection is a big bogus. It was merely an power-hungry attempt of Koskov to bump Pushkin from his trone. And by doing so giving his close ally Whitaker full opportunity to expand his weapons deals. Ultimately, the scheme also foresees in making the British Secret Service look like an incompetent organization. And suddenly, the good old Soviet Union again looks like the 'most dangerous nation on Eath'. Ingenious.Off course Koskov and Whitaker's scheme falters and soon Pushkin and Bond team up. It is here where we see remarkable similarities with that other spy thriller 'From Russia With Love' in which the villains are shady characters with grey character traits. Where Whitaker and Koskov team up in this film, Rosa Klebb and Kronsteen team up in 'From Russia With Love'. And both duo's are supported by a menacing henchman Necros and Grant.Necros is both handsome and deadly as we can see in MI6's Blayden residence. The fight scenes are awesome and jaw-breaking. Soon the same Necros is fighting again, but this time in the Hercules plane, with Her Majesty's Agent 007. It's easily a great action sequence. Possibly the highlight of the film. The other highlight of the film is the well-performed car chase between Bond's Aston Martin (first time since 'On Her Majesty's Secret Service') and the Chechslovakian Lada's. Again, John Barry's music really brings great suspense to these action sequences.Kara Milovy is the more emotionally involved Bond girl who's playing a Stradivarius cello. She's not a dumb bimbo, like Stacey Sutton was in 'A View To A Kill'. Kara falls in love with James Bond but at times is also helping the villains by drugging Bond with a dirty Martini, just like she helped the villains with a sniper rifle filled with dummies. She's merely a tool for the villains, just like Tanya was in 'From Russia With Love'.Unfortunately, as a Bond girl she is not as good as Tanya. Perhaps because she looks a bit too dreadful in her shoulder filled eighties outfits and her Soviet bob line haircut. And although the villains, Whitaker, Koskov and Necros, have some great intelligent schemes to fulfill, they don't look as menacing as Rosa Klebb, Kronsteen and Grant. Perhaps Koskov and Whitaker needed a well organized crime syndicate to support their plans, like SPECTRE or QUANTUM.Having said that, 'The Living Daylights' was a delightful Bond film after Moore's disaster in 'A View To A Kill'. Timothy Dalton portrays a human spy and not an Austin Powers-like clown. He's cold-blooded and quite rough, just like Ian Fleming wanted. 19 years later Daniel Craig performs a similar James Bond that is even more cold blooded. 'The Living Daylights' is, together with 'From Russia With Love', 'On Her Majesty's Secret Service', 'For Your Eyes Only' and 'Casino Royale' one of the best Bond films of the franchise. Well done 'Cubby', Michael and 'Babs'! "}{"Title":"Should be in the top 10 of the Bond films","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I've always liked Connery and Dalton more than Brosnan and Moore, though its not really Brosnans' fault at all (very bad plots in a couple of his movies). Anyway, The Living Daylights is far ahead of LTK. The guy that plays Necros is very believable and Kara Milovy is not just another dumb blonde (though she shows bits here and there). Pushkin and Saunders are good too. The music is a little different, but is one of the better scores when compared to the others in the Bond series. Krabbe as Koskov takes away from the film. Good actor (see The Fugitive if you have any doubts) but I think there are too many other characters with Bond, Kara, Kamran, Saunders, Necros, Pushkin etc. Not much room for Koskov. Joe Don Baker as Brad Whitaker takes something away from this one as well. American arms dealer is just kind of weak overall. Seems like they could have left him out and had more lines for Koskov. He is much better as Wade in GoldenEye and Tomorrow Never Dies. Overall a good film, much much better than the one before and after it in the series. The second best from the '80s Bond films (For Your Eyes Only being the best) and #7 in the top 10. "},{"Title":"The Living Daylights- Bond series ressucitated back to life","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I really admire The Living Daylights. After a couple of questionable outings(AVTAK, Octopussy) Bond returned to top form with this explosive outing. The action sequences were brilliant, the opening sequence and the last action sequence blow me away every time I watch it. This movie was released in 1987 to mark the 25th anniversary of Bond and what better time to revive Bond. Lets face it Moore is well past his prime and Dalton was a great replacement, shame he only made two Bond movies. The theme tune by Aha is one of my favourite Bond soundtrack. TLD was a great entry in the long running franchise and in my opinion brought it back to life. "},{"Title":"A more darker toned Bond movie and one of my favourites","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The previous James Bond movies were great but they always had a bit of comedy in them, 007 would always say some one liner after doing something. Another thing was that James Bond was always like this hero that never really showed much emotion, he was just there to stop an organisation from stopping the world and getting the girl that was it. After Roger Moore gave up the tuxedo in A View to a Kill since he felt he was getting a bit old for the role Timothey Dalton then took over as Agent 007 in the movie The Living Daylights, the movie was a lot more darker than the previous James Bond movies. Timothy Dalton made James Bond more human and closer to Iam Fleming's character in the novels, 007 shows more emotions in this one. Timorthy Dalton even said that he was trying to make the character James Bond more human since he's not a comic book superhero but a spy. He does a great job portraying the character, Timothy Dalton really should of done a few more 007 James Bond movies.The film starts with James Bondn and a group of other Agents on a training mission, something happens as the Agents are killed off by a group of people who then pretend to be the Agents. James Bond is then attacked by them, after surviving the attack James Bond is sent on a mission to protect a man named General Georgi Koskov who's been targeted for assassination, James Bond and another Agent keep an eye out for anyone who may be the Assaiasn, as General Georgi Koskov goes to his car James Bond sees the Assiasgn getting ready to fire. Instead of killing her James Bond shoots the Rifle out of her hands, 007 and the Agent then must leave the area before they're caught. Georgi is then sent to a hideout by MI6 for protection, suddenly someone attacks the hideout and kidnaps Georgi but little do they realise that the attack was on purpose as Georgi is collaborating with a group of people who could be planning on making the next World war. James Bond decided to go undercover and find information about Georgi with the help of a woman named Kara Milovy who was the assassin and is apparently Georgi's lover, he then tries to protect her as a group of people working for Georgi try to stop them. James Bond and Kara soon try and stop Georgi with the help of some Freedom Fighters before he completes his master-plan. The Living Daylights is a great James Bond movie since it's a lot darker than the previous films and Timothy Dolton makes the character seem more like a real person, The Living Daylights should be seen. Check this out. 10/10 "},{"Title":"BOND#15 Scaring the Daylights Out of a New 007","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" MASTER PLAN steal some millions from the Soviets to deal in Opium. No one can deny a sense of excitement, of anticipation, in this introduction of a new Bond after a dozen years of the same old Moore Bond, whatever your feelings about the Dalton choice. Here was the biggest fresh start of the Bond franchise ever, up to this point. The teaser involves a test exercise with 3 double-0 agents at Gibraltar, with one of the agents, of course, revealed as Bond a couple of minutes in to it. The test becomes very real as one of the 00 agents is in fact killed by an enemy agent - this scene echoes at least one other, an early one in Octopussy - where-in other 00 agents appear to be very vulnerable and nearly inept in comparison to 007. Of course, Bond himself, as interpreted by Dalton, seems more vulnerable throughout this film. He's on the other end of an extreme from the Moore version whereas Moore waltzed thru the dangers without breaking a sweat, Dalton has a genuine look of fear on his face during several of the action scenes. There are, for example, a couple of tense moments when some animal unexpectedly appears, a loud noise attached, and Dalton looks like he's nearly had a heart attack. This naturally adds to the tension, something lacking in the Moore version, but, on the other hand, we also get an uneasy sense that this is no longer the supreme agent we're observing, but just another British spy, barely getting by. As another contrast, check out Brosnan's version in the teaser of Goldeneye - he tenses when bullets are hitting close, but there's also a steely resolve and experience to counter the on-rush of fear. Dalton, however, reminds of the 'deer-in-the-headlights' during some of the dangerous sequences. His self-introduction ('Bond. James Bond') is way too casual and inferior to the Connery & Moore versions, despite his solid dramatic credentials.The other point about Dalton is that he just simply seems better suited to playing classy villains rather than the central hero; he would've been good as the treacherous 006 in Goldeneye, for example. Others have described his looks as 'serpentine' and he does suggest someone who would cross the line (which he indeed does in the next one License to Kill), not stay the course for Queen and Country. On the plus side, his human Bond is most effective when he needs to show rage or offense, such as when a fellow agent is killed right in front of him. But, you worry for him; it's telling that the most brutal fight scene involves Necros (non-too subtly named, another super-Aryan henchman) and another agent, not the almost-fragile Bond. The plot takes him to exotic Tangier and then war-torn Afghanistan, where he teams up with the rebels against the occupying Soviets. The story meanders here and there, but overall it's a fairly effective spy adventure, with Bond having to figure out that a supposed defecting Soviet general may not be on the up-and-up (actor Krabbe in a hammy yet entertaining performance). Joe Don Baker, also hammy, pops up as a secondary villain, a failed West Point cadet/merc/arms dealer who likes to apply military theory to his machinations. Rhys-Davies, of Sliders fame, does well as another colorful Soviet general. The action kicks in very well in the 2nd half, including a nuts-and-bolts escape from a Soviet jail, with Bond accompanying/protecting a young female cellist for most of the way. M & Q and even General Gogol continue from the Moore era in much the same way, but there's a new Moneypenny, who doesn't make much of an impression. But, she's better than the new Leiter, probably the least effective of all the Leiters over the past 25 years. Dalton, as Bond, would return once more in License to Kill. Bond7 Villains7 Femme Fatales7 Henchmen7 Leiter4 Fights8 Stunts/Chases8 Gadgets5 Auto6 Locations7 Pace8 overall7 "},{"Title":"great James bond movie.","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is another great James bond movie and for all the same reasons it has lots of action in it it has a good screen play to it is also timothy Dalton's first time playing James bond and he does it great the acting in it is good and the actors in it are good the villains in it are good. I'm sure you will not be disappointed with the living daylights. I'm sure that you will have a good time watching the living daylights and you will watch it over and over again. Great adaption of the living daylights. So make sure you buy or rent the living daylights because it is a really good James bond movie.Overall score ******** out of ********** ***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton brings a wonderful Bond","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In 1987, Roger Moore retired from the role of James Bond, and the world was given the hero in the form of Timothy Dalton. This time Bond is more darker, but without going too deep. The action scenes include a few gems, and is not nice treat to actually see Dalton joining in, such as the feeding care pre-title sequence. The gadgets are also impressive this time, and a much better improvement than the previous adventure. The Aston Martin has also got a new makeover but still retains the Bond qualities. John Barry returns for the last time to bring us (in my opinion) one of the best Bond soundtracks. Although he was reportedly unhappy with the title theme by A-HA, i find that it really fits the feel of the movie very well.The rest of the cast are excellent. A new Miss Moneypenny is featured in the form of Caroline Bliss. As shes only featured in the two Dalton films, and still only gets a small screen time, the character is hardly memorable. Timothy Dalton has proved himself as Bond in one of the better Bond flicks.James Bond will return in Licence to Kill "},{"Title":"A Colourful Picture","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 'The Living Daylights' by Timothy Dalton is an interesting take on the Bond franchise, but one that suffers from large amounts of unevenness. The film has great dramatic moments, but the more fantastic elements of it make it a little less credible.Also the more tongue-in-cheek moments derail the film somewhat. However, many scenes are filled with an intriguing mood and Dalton undoubtedly delivers. Also the film is far from boring with many memorable moments to set it apart from other Bond-films.However, in light of Dalton's far grittier 'License to Kill' this film does not live up to its emotional content and feels rather unremarkable as a Bond-film. "},{"Title":"A false dawn","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Maybe watching an old Bond two days after the newest Bond was not a great idea, as the earlier film struggles by comparison. I had somehow never seen either of the Dalton Bonds, and I agree with what I'd been told &#150; Tim was actually pretty good. In what was almost a prototype of Casino Royale (2006), Dalton tried to take Bond back to a harder centre, following the years of Roger Moore's eccentricity, but the staples of bad puns and frankly silly gadgets overwhelmed his efforts, and the final film comes off as patchy and confused. A serious plot and a gritty character come up against daft gadgets and an over the top, almost Carry On style villain, as Jeroen Crabbe acts like he is in a Christmas pantomime and not a serious film at all. That said, as ever with 007's cinematic efforts, the film is enjoyable and satisfying, and I am looking forward to checking out Dalton's second attempt. "},{"Title":"I agree","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I agree with Bobilicious2000, this was an excellent Bond. I voted an 8, and that's liberal for Bonds. Based on this movie, Dalton was on his way to many more Bonds, and no one could have predicted the License to Ill that would follow. That movie could have been much better. Along with OHMSS, this movie was one of the best forgotten Bond films. I haven't seen the New Casino Royale as of yet, and I'm still skeptical. Wouldn't it be great to make a film with all the Bonds having a cameo that would explain the succession? I actually wrote a basic plot line for a two part movie that would do just that, but that was before they cut Brosnon loose. "},{"Title":"The Living Daylights...Splendid!","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Probalbly John Glens best Bond flick or even film. This was one of the first James Bond films i ever saw. I think Live and let Die was my first. Anyway, this is also timothy Dalton's best performance. Although,he was good in Licence To Kill, too. There were things that weren't needed in the film, though. 1.That scene at the theme park and the whole roller-coaster love. 2.The scenes where that Russian guy smooches all over Bond and makes him look like an idiot. The villain was stupid, too. I loved the airplane sceen a lot. This Bond movie had all right ingredients. It is truly one of my favorites. Great fun, too!!!! **** stars out of 5 "}{"Title":"Close to perfect, but with a few flaws.","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This has always been one of my favorite Bond films. The flaws that many have pointed out are there Dalton does not quite match the wit that Connery and Moore brought to the role; he seems a bit stoic, even anal, in comparison.But the story...the story! Few other Bond films can boast as memorable an itinerary as this film - from Gibraltar, to Berlin, to England, to Prague, to Tangier, to Afghanistan. And it all fits together, in a story that leads the viewer along as Bond unravels a twisted scheme of arms smuggling, drug dealing, and spy killing against the backdrop of the Cold War. In contrast to many Bond films, which pitted 007 against solitary cartoon villains (cool as those villains often were!), or simply unimpressive gangster types, The Living Daylights faces Bond off against genuinely scary villains that actually appear to come from the world we live in.In addition, the film has more than its share of classic Bond moments, not the least of which, IMHO, is Dalton's formal introduction as Bond, James Bond - after parachuting onto the yacht of some rich heiress in a bikini (who has just been complaining to a friend on the phone about the lack of real men in her life) Bond grabs the phone, hangs up, and calls headquarters to say he'll report in an hour. Then he notices that the lady's pouring him a glass of champagne and he says better make that two.  "},{"Title":"Unremarkable Bond","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This Bond film is not dreadful but it isn't really a highlight in the series either. Dalton, in his Bond debut, takes the realistic approach to the character, which unfortunately is devoid of any charm or imposing presence. I'm not denigrating his ability but given the large than life persona of the character in the public consciousness, his approach comes across as dull and lackluster. The stunt sequences, gadgets, villains, and female co-stars are also unremarkable but not let it not be said dreadful. All in all, a middle of the road effort, 6/10. "},{"Title":"the Welsh James Bond ...","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After the throw-away jokeyness of the Moore years in the franchise, it was nice to see not only a more serious approach to the role of Bond, but a real cutie in the lead as well ... I do go back to LTK and TLD more than any other of the series due to their energy (great stunts), humour (it is there in TLD if you care to look!), and a couple of great leading ladies.  Here, Maryam d'Abo (who has recently put together a fascinating documentary on the Bond girls) is pretty sweet as the cellist from the Eastern bloc who wins Bond's heart (for this film anyway, but through all those different countries and cultures!).  I do like the cello ride through the border guards (tacky though it may be) and the wolf-whistling device from Q's workshop.  Joe Don Baker and his war gadgets is a pretty good adversary as well and Jeroen Krabbe is creepy as the defector.  But the film belongs to Timothy Dalton who should have had more a chance than he had to make a mark in the role.  Enjoyable. "},{"Title":"one of bond best","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  this is (along with tomorrow never dies and goldfinger) the best bond. timothy dalton is very good as bond, jeroen krabbe is superb as koskov and all the other actings are very well. the plot is ok, but the best of all are the action sequences( my favorite is the battle with necros). you have to see this one. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Passionate and vulnerable Bond, set in the Cold War era","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  My favorite Bond flick of them all.  Timothy Dalton plays a passionate and vulnerable Bond, giving the character much more depth than previously portrayed.  It was the last Bond film dealing with the Cold War before it ended, giving younger audiences a feel for the special intrigue of that era. The film also has one of the best Bond soundtracks. "},{"Title":"Okay Bond, but no Moore or Connery","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton makes his entry in the role as James Bond.  First impressions are very good.  Dalton seems to handle the action well, and he is a lot younger and fitter than old Roger Moore was two years before. However, Dalton isn`t as good in the role as Bond as Moore, Connery and later Brosnan.  But I must say that he is still decent, and miles above George Lazenby. A Russian general wants to jump over to Britain.  He succeeds, assisted by James Bond.  But KGB bring him back shortly after his arrival in London.  Bond is sent out to recover him. The action is good, but this is not as good as the older(and most of the newer) Bond-flicks. It is nevertheless worth a look.7/10  "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton is fine as James Bond!","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I was very sad when Roger Moore decided not to return as Agent 007 and I thought the series should have stopped. Then Timothy Dalton was introduced as the new James Bond and I really wondered whether he would not be completely miscast as Bond. But when watching THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS I had to admit Dalton was fine as Bond.Fine, but not great. Even if the way Dalton played Bond was closer to Fleming's character than were the way Sean Connery or Roger Moore played Bond, Dalton lacked that kind of brilliance Connery and Moore had.THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS is one of the best Bond movies. The plot is complex, the characters are interesting (especially General Leonid Pushkin, played by John Rhys-Davies) and acting is appropriate; John Glen's direction is excellent as usual, and John Barry's score is one of his very best.Among the best scenes of the LIVING DAYLIGHTS the teaser, the opening sequence in Bratislava, Necros' attack, the car chase, and the fight with Necros.One minor flaw of THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS is it's pace it's a fast-paced action movie, but during the sequence in Afghanistan the pace slows down for a while. Caroline Bliss and John Terry are miscast as Miss Moneypenny as Felix Leiter, respectively.Pierce Brosnan is a more convincing Bond than Dalton was, but it's a pity that Dalton appeared only in two Bond movies... "},{"Title":"The sniper was a woman!","Date":"20 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With Roger Moore gone as 007, a replacement had to be found. Cubby Broccoli wanted Pierce Brosnan, but the actor was committed to the T.V. series 'Remington Steele'. The final choice surprised many ( including me ) - noted Shakespearian actor Timothy Dalton. The phrase 'tall, dark, and handsome' could have been created specially for him. He had been offered the part back in 1968, but turned it down as he considered himself too young ( he was right ). The change in actor also signalled in a major shift in tone for the films, away from what had been established in the Moore era and back towards the harder style of the early Connerys. Dalton was much closer to the Fleming character than his predecessors. There were other changes too - with A.I.D.S. very much in the news, Bond's womanising was cut down. 'The Living Daylights' is based on Fleming's 1962 short story of that name. After a stunning opening in Gibraltar where a training mission for the 00's is brutally interrupted by actual death, the film proper begins with Bond supervising the defection of top K.G.B. mastermind 'General Koskov' ( Jeroen Krabbe ), a job which involves the shooting of a sniper who he discovers is a beautiful cellist named 'Kara Milovy' ( Maryam d'Abo ). The first twenty minutes are brilliant, and one suspects Fleming himself would have approved of the results. Back in England, Koskov tells M ( Robert Brown ) that the K.G.B. are planning an operation - called 'Smiert Spionam' - involving the deaths of American and British agents, and that 'General Pushkin' ( John Rhys Davies ) is behind it. The K.G.B. snatches Koskov back with the aid of voice-changing assassin 'Necros' ( Andreas Wisniewski ). Koskov has misappropriated party funds to buy opium from rebels in Afganistan ( this was made during the Russian occupation ). He is in cahoots with an American arms dealer - 'Brad Whitaker' ( Joe Don Baker ) - who is obsessed by military history.This is not your usual Bond story, as you may have gathered. Richard Maibaum and Michael G.Wilson's script is well written, but suffers from being over-complicated. It also lacks a central villain - Koskov is too amusing to be a threat to Bond, and Whitaker ( who could have been one of the all-time great 007 villains ) is woefully underused. Some great action scenes though; we get a new version of the famous Aston Martin which cuts a police car in half with a laser as it gives chase, and fires rockets at roadblocks. The destruction of the bridge is stunning, as is the fight between Bond and Necros aboard the plane. John Terry is the latest in a long line of 'Felix Leiter's' ( the first time the character had been seen since 'Live & Let Die' ( 1973 ). Thomas Wheatley is very good as Bond's contact 'Saunders'. John Barry provides the music for the last time ( and has a cameo ). The theme song by a-Ha tends to divide people; I rather like it. The Pretenders provided two additional tracks - 'Where Has Everybody Gone?' and 'If There Was A Man'.Though 'Daylights' performed well in Britain, in the States it was greeted with indifference. Fleming fans rejoiced at the arrival of Dalton's Bond, but the public found it hard to adjust after twelve years of Roger Moore. Dalton only did one more film in the role - 'Licence To Kill' ( 1989 ). Interviewed on breakfast television in 2006 - not long Daniel Craig's 'Casino Royale' had opened - the presenter said its success vindicated Dalton's performance. It is hard to disagree. The Dalton Bonds were ahead of their time. Only now can we fully appreciate just what a great Bond he was. "},{"Title":"An immensely good Bond movie","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For me many of the Bond movies deserve 10 stars so I'm not rating this one the very tops, that for me is Octopussy because I like Roger Moore particularly well.But I also like Timothy Dalton - remember him in Flash Gordon? And of course recently in Hot Fuzz..... And he's another superb Bond.In Living Daylights, we see a Bond who's thoughtful, and less inclined to crack jokes. This Bond's quips are still there and still effective, but said with grim undertones or more sarcasm than we've had from other Bonds. Dalton's also very tough and athletic, whilst avoiding the crude musclebound thuggery we had in the recent CR with Craig. I don't like to hear Dalton compared with Craig. Dalton is still elegant, sophisticated and charming, all attributes that Craig's Bond doesn't just lack but looks as though he'd never acquire - yet must somehow acquire if he's ever to be taken seriously as morphing eventually into Sean Connery's Bond. I love the gritty realism in this movie that Dalton gives us - like Connery in some ways, yet in others very different and different to all the other Bonds. It all adds to the Bond magic to have these variations whilst still retaining the Bond ethos that was a staple of Bond until so disastrously almost completely abandoned by both film makers and actor in Casino Royale 2006 in their (failed) efforts to emulate Bourne.I'm impressed by this actor's athleticism - he really does look fit and it comes easily as he has such a natural grace - something that again Craig lacks as he's packed with relentless energy but without grace. All the other Bonds have grace - it's important. I was awed to hear that Dalton rode the top of that car in the pre-titles sequence - no stuntman. And he made it look as though he could do that any time as Bond should. Makes me wonder how many more of the more difficult Bond stunts Dalton did.Dalton shows a wonderful gentleness towards the heroine without the syrupy sentimentality that so marred CR2006, whilst at the same time being harsh and commanding when their lives are at stake or when he must have information and she doesn't want to give it.This is an excellent plot too. A very commendable Bond in all respects. I also liked very much the slightly off-beam departure from the norm, the quirky but very exciting Licence to Kill which was a very telling exhibition of Bond losing his temper with his boss for once and going his own way to get revenge plus some particularly interesting settings and a neat plot. "},{"Title":"Truly one of the best bond movies!","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie, it has a lot of excitement, action and it also had this Bond feeling...very good!. Timothy Dalton is good as Bond, he's cold and his movie-lines are great. Maryam d Abo is one of the best Bond women ever. John Barry makes his last music score to this film. This is absolutely one of his best soundtrack he's ever made. AHA makes a good titelsong. The movie starts with an unforgettable chase when Bond is trying to stop an assassin in a truck...awesome. I also enjoyed the car chase in the winterclimat. John Glen is one of my favorite director's of all the bond director's. I really recommend this movie to all Bond lovers. It's better if you see it on the Ultimate Edition with DTS sound. "}{"Title":"My second-favourite Bond Movie","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This came as a surprise, even to ME. But when I really think about it, Daylights is second only to OHMSS on my Best Bond Movies list.Tim Dalton is unfairly criticised by a lot of people. They say he's too serious, but he's really not. The truth is that, unlike Sir Rodge, he's SERIOUS ENOUGH. I once read an interview with Moore in which he said his reason for playing Bond in such a silly way is that he doesn't believe in heroes, so he can't take them seriously.Perhaps if a CERTAIN hero didn't stroll around grinning like a TOOL, it might be easier to believe in him, and therefore take him seriously. Eh? EH?!Tim, unlike Dodgy Rodge, DID treat the character seriously, and this approach makes even the most far-fetched parts of the movie seem believable. And THAT's what these movies should really be about, making the unbelievable seem real. Another great thing about his serious take is that his deadpan delivery of the one-liners actually makes them seem FUNNIER than they would if he'd been walking around with a silly smirk and his eyebrows raised. Like Rodge.He's also great in the action scenes. Very quick and agile. Unlike Rodge.The script (of which only the opening 'sniper' sequence is Fleming-based) is excellent. Great gags and action sequences woven through a detailed, complex (but in no way convoluted) story, which, unlike many Bond flicks, is quite unpredictable.The characters are more realistically portrayed than many Moore-era ones (except maybe Necros, who's very much a Bond-movie henchman, though a good one). The only thing which doesn't really click is Whitaker and his wax museum. The way Joe Don plays the character works well in the context of the movie, and it makes sense that a guy like him would be into military tactics and stuff. But the whole 'vanity waxwork' thing seems more in keeping with a raving maniac-type Bond villain, like Hugo Drax or Karl Stromberg. Call me pedantic if you like, but that's what I think.Jeroen Krabbe injects Koskov with heaps of charisma, and you really don't know whether to like him or hate him. He's one of my favourite Bond baddies. Art Malik is very cool as Kamran, a very cool character. John Rhys-Davies is...John Rhys-Davies. But with a Russian accent. And that's just fine.Maryam D'Abo is good as the lone Bond girl. Kara seems like a sort of model of purity and innocence (gullibility?) in a world of bastards, and Maryam plays her excellently. I used to think the bit where she suddenly grabs the machine gun and goes all kick-arse was a bit inconsistent, but I think I get it more now. The fact that she still doesn't really know what she's doing makes it seem less jarring than it could have been.Caroline Bliss IS pretty awful as Moneypenny, but at least she's English, which is an improvement on Lois Maxwell (who would have been fine if she'd made more of an effort to disguise her Canadian accent). Samantha Bond is far better, though.Robert Brown is the crabbiest M of the lot (not just sarcastic like Dame Judi). He doesn't have the presence of Bernard Lee, but his pure CRABBINESS makes his portrayal very entertaining to watch.The Aston Martin is awesome! Missiles! Lasers! A rocket motor! Oh yeah!John Barry's 80s-electro-assisted score hasn't dated as badly as I thought it would. The Pretenders song playing on Necros's Walkman is well-used as a kind of harbinger of impending doom. The theme song by a-ha is one of the catchiest, most fun-to-sing-along-to Bond themes yet. It's not as good as the Duran Duran one from A View to a Kill (one of only TWO good things about THAT turkey), but it's close.The scene at the end of the movie with Kara playing her cello--complete with single bullet hole--is one of the great iconic images of the Bond franchise. It's up there with Ursula Andress's bikini and the golden Shirley Eaton. But like a lot of great things about this movie, it's often overlooked or ignored. And that's a shame, because when you really look at it, The Living Daylights is one of the most absorbing, entertaining, and (considering it's the 15th movie in the series) ORIGINAL Bond flicks ever made.You know, I think I'm gonna go watch this movie again. "},{"Title":"Dalton is the perfect James Bond according to Ian Flemings books","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I believe Timothy Dalton has brought the authors character of James Bond to it's peak. Although, Sean Connery does an excellent job as Bond, Dalton is Bond according to Flemings books. He has all the range and sides that are true to the character of James Bond. Well, done Mr. Dalton, wish you were in more movies these days, your excellence glows on the screen. "},{"Title":"Best Bond Ever","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am a big James Bond fan and this is hands down the best James Bond film in the series.  If you have read any of Ian Flemming's books you would see that this is the James Bond that Flemming was writing about.  A tough no nonsense Bond.  The Bond series was still fun, but fast becoming a joke under Rodger Moore.  The Living Daylights brought Bond back to his roots.  This is certainly more realistic than any of the other Bond films.  To get a sense of what I mean watch Moonraker and The Living Daylights back to back and it will be clear how Timothy Dalton's interpretation of Bond saved the franchise.  If you are looking for implausible plot lines with underground fortresses where evil geniuses plan the end of the world than look somewhere else.  If you are looking for a believable story where a corrupt soviet general and an American arms dealer are attempting to make a huge profit at the expenses of everyone else around them than you are looking in the right place.  The Bond movies always have great opening scenes and The Living Daylights has the best.  See it today.    "},{"Title":"Dalton is underrated","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After Roger Moore's 12 year run as 007, Timothy Dalton took over in the late '80s. Dalton is the most underrated Bond and is usually not considered one of the best due to his short run. The Living Daylights was the perfect Bond role for Dalton (Licence to Kill, although good, is a bit too dark for the average Bond fan). Dalton shines in this film and plays a much more human Bond unlike the over the top self-parody some of the Moore films had been. The action sequences are solid, the relationship between Bond and the girl is one of the most developed in the series and you can sense the two really care about each other. It's a shame Timothy Dalton did not make one or two more Bond films, for if he did he would probably be considered better the best Bond since Connery.  "},{"Title":"No Joy In Bond Land","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This summary contains spoilers because it comes with a what I would like to have seen done list.A fan of Bond movies...I never thought about why...until this one. It is because the Bond movies have always had an element of joy about them. James Bond isn't saving the world just for England but because he loves life and the good things in it. As an audience we get to watch him enjoy life in between terrific stunts. Drinking great champagne. Dining in a tailored suit. Travelling in style and never lonely. After Moore... Bond changed ....not only with the actors but also in the writing and retrenching of Bond. The DVD with the deleted scene of the magic carpet ride illustrates exactly what I am talking about in terms of direction.I would have left that scene in.It is perfectly in line with a Roger Moore Bond. Good fun and witty. But of course not gritty enough for the new style. I found Timothy Dalton's dialogue and delivery to be superb.There is good humour in a very low key style. Why the compliments?Because this is a movie half good and half bad. So far the points on my half bad part is only that it is not what I enjoy....while of course there are a lot of Bond fans that love a more grounded and realistic Bond...so what could I change that I think most would agree with? The casting of the Bad guys. While it is hard to pick a favorite bad guy in Bond film history it is easy for me to say that the bad guys in TLDL is the worst casting. I also felt that the scene with a milk man and his milk bottles turning into bombs was very painful to watch.That whole scene should have had a makeover. One thing that couldn't be changed was the unfortunate illness Walter Gottel was suffering and he was unable to make a considerable appearance.Had he been in the role given to John Reese Davies then it might have been a different picture altogether because of our familiarity with Gottel. The ending was really awful. Everyone shows up at the party and Bond is waiting to surprise the cellist in her room. The Afghan leader should not have appeared at the concert...this is a far more silly moment than the magic carpet ride would have been. This being Timothy's first Bond the screen writers should have given us an ending to anticipate his next movie. Instead it was a very dull ending. Great points about it....Timothy was very good .....good stunts....Brown's M is very good....rooted in an actual Fleming short story. "},{"Title":"Ace Film","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film is quite easily one of the greatest Bond adventures ever. Set largely in the former eastern bloc during a notably bleaker time than any of the previous Bond films, it sets a new standard in the Bond dynasty. In other words this is a much more complex Bond film than any other preceding it. This is represented by a much more complex Bond than ever before, Dalton plays a Bond more evocative of the literary character than that of the one dimensional, often monosyllabic Bonds of the sixties and seventies. Additionally, it is important to mention that this is also a considerably less pretty and glossy film than any of the later incarnations of the series. I find it most unfortunate that the direction of The Living Daylights was not pursued in later Bond films and that instead, a deviatory path was chosen and a significantly less dramatic Bond emerged. "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton was a completely underrated 007","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After Roger Moore's tenure as 007 was over the studios wanted to go with an up and coming actor named Pierce Bronson. They had commercials featuring him pretending to be a spy and it was only a matter of time before he took the mantel of the super spy. The studio, however, did not foresee having difficulties getting Bronson out of his current contract for the television show, Remington Steele, so they quickly found another Bond, Timothy Dalton. Had they simply waited another year they could have used their first choice as Remington Steele's last season was the same year this film came out. I am kind of glad they did go with someone else though and I just wish they saw what they had with Timothy Dalton as he was a much better Bond in retrospect than was Bronson. Unfortunately, the studio was still apparently infatuated with Bronson, so while this Bond film did rather well at the box office the next film with virtually no advertising and inserted in at the theaters in the middle of the summer of 89, a year of blockbusters aplenty would underperformed and they would pluck Dalton out of the role despite the fact his two Bond films are very good. I like this one the best of the two as it is one of my favorite Bond movies and better than Moore's last two outings. It would also perform better at the box office than Moore's previous outing.The story has someone killing a 00 agent at the beginning. Bond has to help another agent with the defection of a high ranking Soviet official and is charged with assassinating another Soviet official who is said to have gone rogue. The person who defects is recaptured, seemingly by the KGB and Bond must figure out what is going on, because all is not as it seems. His instincts leads him to a lady who plays the cello and at first looked like a sniper, but as Bond earns the lady's trust he soon finds out that the defector may have had ulterior motives as he is connected with an arms dealer named Brad Whitaker.The action in this film is great and it features some cool gadgets as well. They never went as overboard on the gadgets and plot as they would with the Bronson films which is the reason we now have Bond movies with virtually no cool gadgets! Dalton is great as Bond, he for some reason gets this knock as being a super serious Bond, but he pulls off jokes quite nicely and when he and Maryam are doing their scenes together his smile is the most genuine I have seen from a Bond actor. I think the super seriousness stuff stems from his second film, License to Kill where he was a bit darker, but that was a film where Bond was trying to get revenge, plain and simple. Joe Don Baker is pretty good as the villain of the piece, he is not in the film all that much, but I always say the smaller the role the better from him.So this film was fast and fun and a very good Bond film. Seems Dalton was the choice to be Bond like forever as he was even considered as early as the 60's, I had no idea he was that old, but the studios wanted Bronson more. I am guessing Dalton was someone else's choice so they got their way, but then the studio kind of torpedoed Dalton so they could get theirs. It is a shame, I wouldn't have minded seeing a few more Dalton 007 films as they were certainly a more realistic type. Heck, one could almost say that Timothy Dalton was Daniel Craig before the Craig 007 films! "},{"Title":"Unfortunately, I do not have many good things to say about this Bond","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  My Rating ** out of ****. The Living Daylights opens with a tremendous action scene. Its a wild ride around Gibraltar that ends with Bond in a luxurious yacht. There is one other scene that actually surpasses that. However, those scenes are about the best thing you can find in this mostly dull Bond film.The Living Daylights was the first film that featured Timothy Dalton as Bond. The results of his performance are mixed. It has been said that Dalton's interpretation of Bond is the closest to the Bond in Ian Fleming's novels(I have never read the novels so I do not know).It is not hard to admire what Dalton is doing hear. It is the closest Fleming would have wanted Bond to be in a film. However, it is much harder to actually like his Bond. For the most part, Dalton's Bond is rather dull.The rest of the cast is weak. The Bond girl is one of the weakest I have ever seen. The villains are also weak. There is no good banter between bond and Q. The opening scene promises a potentially great Bond film. Dalton actually says his first lines with conviction. However, for the next 75 minutes, it is pretty boring. The last 40 minutes actually do pick up but its too late. There is an incredible action scene at the end though. Bond is fighting one of the villains on a net full of opium thats hanging outside a plane. But the movie feels extremely bloated. The film is too long and I am sorry to say this Even though Dalton looks like Bond, he is not Bond. "},{"Title":"Realism isn't always a good thing","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In The Living Daylights, James Bond crosses many countries as he tries to stop a plot involving drugs and weapons smuggling. Timothy Dalton debuts as Bond, and is in many ways Ian Fleming's Bond. With strength, darkness and the right amount of charisma, he is a good Bond although Brosnan, Connery and Craig are superior and more enjoyable to watch. Dalton does well but is a bit too dark for the character. With this being a cold war thriller which lacks the silliness which plagued the Roger Moore era, this is a return to Fleming, right? Yes and no. Sure, it's similar to Ian Fleming's writing in some ways but the novels had glamour, energy and genuine sparkle. This may copy Fleming's themes and character interpretations but lacks all of the energy of the books. This is a dry, half hearted and drained spy thriller with about as much charisma as a mouldy cheese sandwich. Sure, there are 3 decent set pieces and it has some interesting plot points and a good henchman, but ultimately this is one of the hardest Bond films to sit through since it's so boring.The main Bond girl feels like a human being but is a pretty uninteresting character while Lois Maxwell is missed as Moneypenny. Desmond Llewelyn is still great fun as Q though. The villains are blanks who fade from memory very quickly. This doesn't really feel like a Bond film much of the time. The main problem is how dull it is and it completely lacks flair. Films like Moonraker and Octopussy are lame but at least they actually had energy. This one is just boring. That's the best way to sum it up and that's what it all boils down to. It's just plain dull. Lacking emotion, a plot which is actually understandable and anything to truly make audiences smile, this does not deserve its lead at all. Dalton nobly does his best but the truth is Licence to Kill is a better film. It may be even more humourless and dark than this one, but it has emotion and energy. That one is actually enjoyable. This makes you yearn for the excess of Die Another Day.4/10 "},{"Title":"Best Bond film... Honest!","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I've always been a fan of the James Bond films, and I've always followed the accepted wisdom of Timothy Dalton being the worst actor to play Bond.However as I've grown up I've realised that Dalton's performance is much closer to Ian Fleming's literary character. Other actors have their spin on the character, which is fine, but surely at some point someone should depict the character *as he was intended to be*? Therefore then after some seriously hammed-up Roger Moore outings (Spy Who Loved Me, Moonraker) by 1987 it was about time Bond returned to the books.It's against this 1987 backdrop that The Living Daylights was released. Glasnost and perestroika were in full swing, and the fall of the Berlin Wall was two years away. This is the last James Bond with evil KGB assassins, Moscow's Red Telephone and Walter Gottel's KGB chief Gogol. If you, as I do, see Bond as the quintessential Cold War spy, with Cold War gadgets and Cold War enemies, then this is what it's all about.Ever since TLD, Bond has gone on 3 personal vendettas (Licence to Kill, Goldeneye, Skyfall), gone after 2 crazed terrorist megalomaniacs (Tomorrow Never Dies, T.W.I.N.E.) and done what, exactly? (Die Another Day, Quantum of Solace). It's fair to say that James Bond is a Cold War franchise, and ever since 1990 he has lost all relevance. There's another secret agent with the initials J.B. who's reeling in the megabucks in this digital, 21st century  Jason Bourne, whose enemy is a much more real threat to the people of the UK or US today - that is to say, his government spying on its own people. The threat of the Russians nuking us today is nonexistent - Bond needs to move on, but can't really. People will always go to see a 007 film, but there's no getting around the fact that Bond is firmly an Establishment man and he's never going to go rogue like Bourne - despite the fact that would much more reflect our Snowden, Assange influenced times.With that in mind then, TLD is Bond's last Cold War hurrah, the very last time we'll see Bond as he is meant to be, against who he is meant to fight. And I love every second of it. Smert Spionam, 1980s Skoda car chases through the cobbled streets of Thczecheslovakia, KGB assassins disguised as milkmen and booting the Soviets out of Afghanistan with the help of the friendly, freedom-loving Mujahideen?! Does it get any better than this?Don't let the fact that the Afghans went from being our buddies in the 80s to our sworn enemies not 15 years later cloud your judgement of the film - that's just the narrative of our governments. There's always got to be some bad guys.Dalton portrays Bond as he was meant to be in the books. More a womaniser than Roger Moore's charmer, more cold-blooded assassin than Sean Connery's spy. I personally prefer it and even if you don't, at least if anything it's a change, and I think he does it very well. It's just a shame that Dalton only did 2 films, and that Moore didn't call it a day a bit earlier. I like Moore, but he was clearly too old by 1985's A View To A Kill and a script like 1981's For Your Eyes Only would have been perfect for Dalton. Dalton should have been *the* 80s Bond, but things didn't turn out that way. At least we have The Living Daylights.There are two types of Bond film. The overblown, mountain-lair world domination baddie ones (Think You Only Live Twice, The Spy Who Loved Me, Moonraker) and on the other hand there's the stripped-back, spy thriller, low-tech gadget ones like From Russia With Love, The Man With The Golden Gun, For Your Eyes Only and into that bracket fits the Living Daylights. I personally prefer the latter type of Bond. It's not as bombastic and big budget but it's equally thrilling. It's also a bit more believable. The only thing unbelievable about TLD is that Joe Don Baker plays the arms dealer villain in this film then, two films later, he's Jack Wade, the new Felix Leiter. Who knows why this happened, but it's bizarre. However, as with the fact that the Taleban are the good guys in this film, it's neither TLD's fault that Joe Don Baker was cast as a protagonist in a later film. These are two oversights that can be explained with a small peek at the chronology. TLD has no other faults ; the action is good, the car is cool, the girl is demure but beautiful in her own way, the baddies are menacing and the Cold War setting is in its pomp. The pacing of the film is excellent, and the only weird unexplained event is how Bond warps from Pakistan to Morocco to deal with Whittaker. I suppose we had the CIA monitoring Whittaker that whole time in their boat, but it could be explained better. Even just a segment of a plane journey to explain how he got there, or a small debriefing by M would have sufficed.It is, in my opinion, the best Bond film (Perhaps save Goldfinger and From Russia With Love). It's certainly the most realistic Bond film, and the most loyal to the books. It's the last hurrah of the Cold War, it's the last time Bond will see off KGB agents. What's not to love? Goldeneye tried to play on the idea of the end of the Cold War and the fallout, but it became more of a personal vendetta with 006. All in all, I give this film 9/10 (only not a 10 because I wouldn't give anything 10 - nothing is perfect). Watch it! "}{"Title":"The Best Bond film in History.","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion this is best James Bond film ever made.Like every other James Bond film, the plot of this film also gives a sense of radical perception and tense receptivity from the start. We can see that there will be a deeper story behind a simple escape by General Koskov, while there will also be an unparallelled sense of cooperation between Bond himself and the female sniper he spared, Kara Milovy.The tension gradually surges after Koskov is being abducted, as there will be a new segment in the plot (and will have to be handled by James Bond, as usual). As Bond and Kara Milovy meet in Vienna, a better impression of them develop Bond is more focused on the mission he was assigned, while Milovy is more dazed and worries about her cello more than anything. This contrast between characters made this already unparallelled and unlikely cooperation even more questionable, but because of James Bond's intelligence and his broad perception into future matters, this always work out as he planned.Then we see the other side of the story, where Koskov and Whitaker is trying to finalize a deal with KGB about an arms shipment. Then Necros, a henchman of General Koskov and Whitaker, kills James Bond's ally Saunders, with a bomb. Bond is then drugged by Milovy due to a confusion between peace and understanding. Although some people at this point will begin to finalize that the cooperation between the pair will crumble, through a moment of tranquillity they realize that it is still the world they had to take on by themselves.The plot takes another twist, as we can now see Mujahideen and the Afghans in a fierce civil battle/resistance against the Soviets. Through natural sensation abilities, we know that Bond will team up with the Afghans to finish the mission. A shipment of opium is seen on the warplane, as Bond attempts to go undercover yet again beneath the enemy's eyelashes. After a thrilling gunfight led of Kamran Shah against the Soviet base, Bond wins a duel against Necros and throws him off the plane. At the exact moment, we come to the climax of the film. Bond hears a ticking of an explosive on the warplane, and he disarms the explosive 2 seconds before his and Milovy's total demise. Bond then proceeds to destroy the bridge that the Soviets armoured vehicles were trying to cross, thus saving the Mujahideen cavalrymen from further casualties. At the very end we see him confront Whitaker, who gave him a world of troubles at first with KGB body armour and traps. But as we all know, Bond lives on no matter what. He uses a plastic explosive that Q assigned him, and checkmates Whitaker by crushing him with a pole.At the final scene we see that Bond and Milovy romantically share their mutual successes together, and we all know that yet again the James Bond era will never diminish. This movie was an absolute masterpiece. Embedded with thrilling actions, a tense yet quite unpredictable/creative plot plus a dreamy final song at the end, this film is one of the best. "},{"Title":"An OK start from a new kind of Bond","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Rating-6/10The Living Daylights is a Bond that really changed the way we see Bond forever and was the first Bond to attempt to bring darker and more serious tones than previous. With a plot that is fun and full of adventure the film isn't too bad and although not the strongest Bond it still manages to entertain and give us what we expect from James Bond I film. I felt this film was actually a strongly OK movie, and here below is why so.The story isn't the strongest plot of all Bonds but it still serves a more rational one opposed to that of the super villains seen before in the series. It isn't always fun to be fair and that is where the plot suffers maybe the most although it is smartly done at times and Bond gets up to some good action that we maybe haven't seen before. Finally on the story I felt this is slightly more subdued that previous and future Bonds and sometimes instead of action the plot is used to strengthen the story through talking(which doesn't always work).Timothy Dalton is very serious in this role and actually doesn't act like he is in a comedy, hey brings a much more competent Bond and he is very believable in the role too, a good show from him. I felt all the supporting cast were fairly average and this will always be remembered as Daltons first movie, I did like some of the support characters used though and Art Malik as Kamran Shah is a useful ally to Bond in this and this is something we don't always see. I felt Bond in this also acts much more as if he doesn't enjoy his job too much and that the pressure can sometimes get to him.This is actually written better than many before this although then onto the directing which can sometimes bring the effect the script has down, John Glen did something to make this feel as if people just aren't in enough for the story to work properly. I enjoyed the stunts and as I say they have a good air of believability about them where the stunts actually don't require sets and silly little vehicles to look real.The thing with this film is that it isn't fun enough and can be very dull at well many times throughout but I must stress it had it's better moments too. With Dalton being so serious it could be said that this is just too much like a straight action film and fails because he just acts straight faced all the time, this is partly true but he does actually complete a bit of a enjoyable adventure by the end. One last thing to say is that the Bond girl is so unemotional you just feel she wants to leave Bond right there and then and even in happier moments she seems almost sad about it.Bond fans may respect this for being darker and now it there personal preference that comes in here, for those who just like action adventure and crime well this is just like any modern type of this film and so is worth a watch. I think people who enjoy a more serious type of Bond such as Brosnan and Craig may also want to see this as this possibly is the first ever Bond where you feel Bond actually is a sort of real person.Overall a 6/10 this is a Strongly OK movie and although nowhere near being good it is still very near to being Kind of Good. I feel with Dalton taking the reins here you get some action you want to finally see from someone like Bond but that also I missed Moore just a little and Dalton never brings humour(and he is given the chance)to the forefront. One last thing to say is that The Living Daylights brings us realistic villains who all though want to do massive villainous acts, still manage to be villains with a rational money stream. "},{"Title":"Tim deserves more recognition for his Bond work","Date":"26 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Whilst rarely if at all mentioned as the best Bond of all time, the much maligned Timothy Dalton makes an impressive debut here in The Living Daylights. John Glen combines the usual great stunt-work with cogent action and effective suspense, the villains (chiefly Joe Don Baker as the maniacal weapons dealer) and the versatile Jeroen Krabbe as an ambitious General wanting to resurrect the Cold War, make for an energetic instalment that is conspicuously devoid of the self-parodying that marred the later Roger Moore efforts (in my opinion).The supporting cast includes John Rhys-Davies as a cagey Slavik, Art Malik as a resistance fighter and John Terry as the ubiquitous CIA agent Felix Leiter joining the usual Bond alumni in Robert Brown (M), Geoffrey Keen (Secretary of Defence) and Desmond Llewellyn (Q). Maryam d'Abo and Virginia Hey play the Bond girls, though Dalton is a less convincing chick-magnet, projecting a more professional, workman-like image. I liked Dalton in the Bond role; he offers a relaxed kind of determination, but the smart remarks demanded of the script don't suit his demeanour and at times, he seems to be reading dialogue that would suit another actor. Arguable casting missteps aside, that shouldn't detract from the action of The Living Daylights which is first rate among its peers though apparently overlooked during Dalton's brief foray, now considered something of a pause between the larger-than-life egos of Roger Moore and Pierce Brosnan interpretations. "},{"Title":"Involving and pleasingly sufficient Bond frolic, which draws on a web-like narrative and enhanced character study to concoct a cheery entry to the series.","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Within a mere two years of the departure of one actor's incarnation of James Bond, another blazed onto screens in 1987's The Living Daylights &#x96; of whom within about sixty seconds of landing into the role, (and having yet to have actually said anything), found themselves wrestling with the roof of a jeep as it hared down a narrow cliff-side road at near top speeds. The drawn out; weighty and ordained feel that the later films of Roger Moore often had, whom to many overstayed his welcome but in hindsight merely dug his own hole by lampooning and therefore demeaning the role in 1981's The Cannonball Run, felt as if they had been momentarily banished. Bond's introduction here is a back-to-basics infiltration exercise at a sleepy base, itself eventually coming to transform into a real-life plethora of betrayal; mistrust; espionage and cold blooded murder, something Bond is still ever-alert to foiling and does so in engaging, ruthless style with the aforementioned jeep escape John Barry's Exercise at Gibraltar a pumping, pulsating orchestral track overlying proceedings. The film itself is a fair old romp, a narratively challenging piece encompassing a studious amount of character study; from its dramatic opening as a new face quite literally drops into the role to its Man With the Golden Gun/Scaramanga's lair-inspired finale showdown against a gun-toting mad man, the film works surprisingly well.It is Welsh born Timothy Dalton playing the lead role of MI6's top 00-agent, James Bond; his role here seeing him play several guises throughout the duration, from l'homme fatale to assassin to allied rebel freedom fighter in a complicated but not overly-so story to do with defection, arms dealing and espionage. The film's attitude towards its abiding lead, and Dalton's style in playing it, suits that overlying sensation just the two of his outings had; that notion of going against authority or of having a distinct problem with authority which came with, often correctly, refusing to accept all orders and scenarios on face value from his contemporaries. The Living Daylights, and in some ways like the film that followed it, has at the best of its times a far starker or distincter tone to it; something oozing a sense of ruthlessness, thanks largely to Dalton's often underrated performance as the British spy - something which goes hand in hand with the material he's given. By the time the film has settled somewhat into a groove to do with international relations, criminal organisations, amusing power exchanges as well as ruthless and rather evil masterminds on the opposite sides doing precisely what it is the good guys don't want them to, Bond's internal clashing with his Military Intelligence band of allies makes for rather good viewing as the organisation itself clashes with the Russian KGB firm.The film begins in familiar enough territory, somewhere in the Eastern block as The Cold War rages around us; Bond and an ally are working with a defecting General named Georgi Koskov (Krabbé) who wants to get to the West and spill some rather important beans to them regarding the identity of some double agents. But he's a marked man, and what Bond later perceives to be rather-a preordained assassination attempt rears its head one evening; the film making fantastic use of previously established diegetic concert music as an overlying piece of music which builds to its own natural crescendo whilst a woman with a sniper rifle readies her aim at Koskov and Bond readies his at her. After receiving the names, Koskov is inexplicably recaptured by the KGB thanks largely to a Russian mercenary named Necros (Wisniewski); a kind of I.D. to Bond's Ego, a man of many accents and languages of which he ominously varies before the true nature of the man is revealed a man of many roles and physical capabilities in infiltration and one-on-one combat.In amidst all of this is Joe-Don Baker's rouge American war-mongering would-be general, actually a petty arms-dealer, named Brad Whitaker; a man very much fond of exquisite food; the high-life and detailed company in the form of bikini-clad women as well as his KGB cronies, all under the beating sun of his Tangiers villa. His introduction is one of subtle arrogance, a standing amidst the statues of some of history's more infamous leaders; a standing in a statue-like manner as if placing himself within similar realms to those. Things become more complicated when Maryam d'Abo is unveiled as the female sniper from earlier, Dalton effectively forced into playing a role within a role during which she still inadvertently comes to feel for him; a transition impressively spared the treatment of an underwhelming 'love montage' and instead lends time to their development around numerous locales in a number of realistic scenes which do not advance plot but compliment character.The films are still adhering to a classical, more traditional approach to the Bond trademark he's still darting off to tropical locales, which are established by way of your traditional long shots encompassing easy iconography, and a sequence which feels somewhat annoyingly obligatory involving a car full of gadgets just has to rear its head. But the film sticks to its character and plot driven guns, the thing threatening to run off of the rails once everybody's reached The Middle East and a drug plot has entered the fray, but the reigned in; ruthless sensibility which hangs impressively over proceedings has, in hindsight, been sorely under-looked over the years and has only really experienced a deserved reinvention with Craig's coming to-be following the likes of Die Another Day. Regardless, this 1987 entry to the canon can be looked back on with a fair degree of fondness. "},{"Title":"Dalton shines in one of my personal favorite Bond flicks","Date":"22 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" There have been more than twenty James Bond films produced over the past fifty years. THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS (1987) is the first to star Timothy Dalton as 007 and the fifteenth in the official canon. It's the one with the lady cellist, the pipeline to the West escape route, the milkman assassin, Bond as a sniper, the new 1980s Moneypenny, the carnival rides, John Rhys-Davies, the battle in the Middle East, and the ghetto blaster.Dalton only made two films as Bond, so his contributions often get lost in the shuffle. Still, this is one of my personal favorite Bond movies. I enjoy Dalton's take on the character and I much prefer this adventure to his second James Bond outing (the gritty LICENCE TO KILL 1989). Dalton is a classically trained Shakespearean actor and he's great at playing a modern-day (1980s) super-spy without imitating Sean Connery or Roger Moore. Dalton's 007 is less of a womanizing playboy; he's more human, and seems like a genuinely decent guy. This Bond film has a more realistic style than many of the earlier escapist fantasies, but it's still a lot of fun.The story takes us to Czechoslovakia, Austria, Morocco, and Afghanistan. Bond pieces together a plot by a maniacal arms dealer (Joe Don Baker) to play the British Secret Service and the KGB off one another in hopes of inciting World War III. The velvet-voiced John Rhys-Davies makes a memorable appearance as a KGB general. Maryam d'Abo plays the main Bond girl, a deceived cello player whom Bond grows fond of. My favorite part is the climax on the plane, where Bond must deal with just about everything (an enemy henchman, a open hatch, a bomb, an empty fuel tank).THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS seems a bit uneven because it simultaneously tries to continue in the decades-long tradition of the film franchise, while giving the series a fresh start to go with its new star. The basic format of the film is the same, with a pre-credits mini-adventure, a title sequence with a pop tune and a bunch of scantily-clad women, and some Cold War espionage thrills. Familiar characters like M and Q are carried over, along with Bond staples like the vodka martini and the innovative gadgets. But with Timothy Dalton's more natural approach to James Bond, the film takes on a more realistic tone. With the fresh new Bond comes a fresh new MI6 headquarters, filled with 1980s-era computer equipment. And the series gets a new Miss Moneypenny. (Caroline Bliss replacing Lois Maxwell after twenty-three years of service.) Although Desmond Llewelyn returns as Q to give the film some continuity, I always think of THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS as a sort of reboot of the Bond series.I always liked THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS. In my mind it is one of the better films in the Bond franchise. It easily cracks my top ten Bond movies, perhaps even making my top five. Dalton is great as a new type of James Bond. The action is pretty realistic for the mid-'80s, but still very exciting. This film even manages to capture a sense of romance, something that doesn't always play in Bond movies. Although Timothy Dalton's two Bond films are often overshadowed by the work of Sean Connery, Roger Moore, and Pierce Brosnan, this is one of the better 007 movies. Don't overlook THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS. "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton's First Bond Looks Like It Was Written For Roger Moore","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton's initial outing as James Bond Agent 007 in Octopussy director John Glen's 'The Living Daylights suffers from the conspicuous absence of a larger-than-life central villain. Unwisely, veteran Goldfinger scenarist Richard Maibaum and For Your Eyes Only scribe Michael G. Wilson split the chief villain's duties between two characters--the Joe Don Baker arms dealer named Bad Whitaker and the Jeroen Krabbé character General Georgi Koskov. Aside from this critical flaw, Glen's fourth James Bond escapade falls just short of perfection. Treachery, romance, excitement, imagination and considerable suspense invigorate the 16th entry in the long-running franchise. Jazz composer John Barry, who scored all the Sean Connery Bonds, came back to do the orchestral soundtrack and it is memorable. The title song is a snappy little tune performed by the Top-40 Norwegian band called ah-ha. This Bond is rather complicated, largely because the chief villain consists of two characters who juggle a grand scheme that will exploit the British as well as the Soviets. This Bond boasts the best non-007 close-quarters combat scene between a villain and a British operative.Dalton plays Bond with the emphasis on realism and his Bond follows his instinct more than orders, something that doesn't sit well with his superior, M. Like all previous Bond adventures, The Living Daylights trots the globe, moving from the Soviet Bloc countries to North Africa and Afghanistan. A former editor and second-unit director, Glen orchestrates the complex action sequences with aplomb, from the runaway jeep on Gibraltar, to a snow chase, and finally a hand-to-hand combat scene aboard a cargo jet as Bond and his adversary slug it out on a cargo net flapping in the breeze. Actually, The Living Daylights was written for Pierce Brosnan. NBC-TV put a wrench in his plans to become Bond, however,so Brosnan had to withdraw and Dalton replaced him. The Living Daylights have vestiges of a Roger Moore 007, but things would change with the next Bond and Dalton would play him straight without puns.The Dalton Bond makes his first appearance in the traditional pre-credit sequence, and this set-piece is especially ingenious because you don't who is the next Bond. British Intelligence has devised a training mission based on the island of Gibraltar and these double-0 agents are already suited up for action before they bail out of a cargo plane flying over the Rock. M (Robert Brown) informs them that Your objective is to penetrate the radar installations of Gibralter. Now, the SAS has been placed on full alert to intercept you, but I know you won't let me down. Good luck, men. Somebody wants British Intelligence to think that the KGB is out to murder their agents. "},{"Title":"Criminally under-rated","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a superb Bond film. It gets better with repeated viewings as well, so if you haven't seen it in a while, try watching it again. Without going in to too much detail, it is the wonderful and ahead of its time portrayal of Bond by Dalton that makes the film. We are all hearing now how Danial Craig has given Bond a hard edge for the 21st century, but this is what Dalton did 20 years back. He managed to portray Bond as a realistic character, but also with a dark side that meant you could believe he was a government assassin. What a shame he never got Goldeneye due to contractual/legal wranglings and delays. The story basically follows Bond tracking his suspicions around the freeing, and then re-capturing of a KGB informer who claims there is a plan in the KGB to kill western spies. The plot takes him across Eastern Europe, and then in to Afghanistan, for what on the face of it sounds a rather ridiculous plot direction, but somehow just about works, thanks to Art Malik's always excellent acting. In general the plot is a little up & down, but such is the strength of Dalton's acting, as well as several memorable one liners ('Why didn't you learn the Violin'), that the film really is a triumph. The pre-title scene set on Gibraltor is first class by the way! It makes you wonder, was Dalton actually the best Bond? "},{"Title":"Bond #15 A deep breath of fresh air","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sure, ALL Bonds are eagerly anticipated. But in 1987, people were looking forward to the release of The Living Daylights more than ever before. The age of Moore and Connery was over, and the question was if Bond had a future at all or would come to an end. When I went to the cinema to watch this new Bond, I had seen Dalton only once before as a poor man's Robin Hood in &#132;Flash Gordon, which was not exactly encouraging. But Dalton was well prepared for the job, as he explained in interviews. He had read Fleming's novels and intended to play Bond closer to the original, with a certain ruthlessness, and in the end Dalton became an absolutely convincing Bond. It's the little things that matter, for example the scene when Dalton crushes a balloon, frustrated that he could not save a fellow agent. A photo of Bond on a flying carpet was shown in the papers before the premiere, but fortunately the silly scene was removed before the picture's release. If you compare Roger Moore's &#132;Octopussy adventures in India to Dalton's adventures in Afghanistan and Morocco here, the difference is obvious it is not a holiday for Dalton's Bond, it is a dangerous mission like it could happen in real life (well, the bit with the plane requires a very lucky day to survive).&#132;The Living Daylights is not simply a step back to the Connery days. For example, instead of just one super villain such as Dr. No, Dalton faces three possible villains here, an arms dealer and two generals, and it becomes clear that his mission &#132;go kill the bad guy is not as plain and direct as it seems. Besides, except for the bikini chick in the Gibraltar scene, it can be said &#132;The Living Daylights treats women with less machismo than earlier movies. Maryam D'Abo as the cellist gets a great part, her courage is stunning the armed rebels who were about to withdraw.&#132;The Living Daylights was a crucial moment for the Bond series, a deep breath of fresh air when it was needed, and I wouldn't create my personal Top 5 Bonds list without it, still today. Got one of the most memorable soundtracks, too. "},{"Title":"Classiest opening and classiest closing ever seen in a Bond movie!","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Classiest opening and classiest closing ever seen in a Bond.I shall postpone too much praise of Dalton, because he will forever be untouched with splendor he presented in LVD and LTK. John Barry simply outdone himself with the most generous score ever. This is Bond for those that understand finer lines of life.Dalton's movies will again reminds us what was like to live in more interesting times. To offer intelligent (while still fun) presentation with emotion and life-like acting of true substance. Real locations and real people with (thanks to Richard Maibaum) proper story. How did we departure from here to sociopath presentation of Daniel Craig's Bond? Where meaningless violence and ego trips fuel to supply the only truth of present Bond  License to sell to best bidder ( "},{"Title":"Razor sharp realism and brutal emotional honesty make Dalton's debut winning 007 entertainment","Date":"21 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When the jovial silliness and lighthearted touch Roger Moore brought to the 007 franchise eclipsed in an embarrassing medley of excesses in 1985's A View to a Kill, producer Albert R. Broccoli could hardly be blamed for aiming for a fresh start, returning back to the basics and redefining the iconic character in a more realistic, gritty fashion more akin to creator Ian Fleming's envisioning of his suave spy. And, despite the fear that the series may have struggled to stay afloat in an era of continually emerging new action franchises, such revitalization granted Bond the necessary edge to stay one step ahead of the competition of knockoffs, making The Living Daylights one of the strongest entries in the 007 series to date.The transition between the silly escapism of the Moore era and such unprecedented meatier substance could have made for an uneasy shift (traces of which emerge through the occasional ill-advised Moore-like quip the more stoic Dalton was less fitted to deliver), but such a potentially rocky hybrid of tones of the sort which befell Moore's earlier For Your Eyes Only is mercifully averted. Returning director John Glen appears to have achieved a directorial second wind, shaking away the cobwebs of A View to a Kill and infusing the film with a throbbing energy and sturdy cohesion, never losing track of the definitive thrilling Bond moments amidst the added gravitas. Instead, rather than functioning as sheer escapism, the trademark action sequences and stunt-work are incorporated tastefully and effective into the narrative rather than intrusively disrupting it. Interludes such as an exhilarating gadget laden Aston Martin car chase, a terse MI6 training exercise on the Rock of Gibraltar and a breathless airborne fistfight suspended from a plane's dangling cargo bag function credibly within the plot, instead of the usual sense of the plot being tailored around a series of setpieces, keeping the film entertaining while additionally believable as consequence.Additionally, as the era of Dalton's Bond is often associated with grim brooding and excessive seriousness, it is easy to overlook the moments of humour which pepper the film, with such delightfully surreal touches as Bond's riding a cello case down a snowy mountainside as a means of escape, a villain using explosive milk bottles as assassination weapons, and the bizarrely twisted yet thrilling (second climax) offering welcome winks to the audience amidst the uncommonly credible exterior narrative. Simultaneously, The Living Daylights is laudable for engaging in external political commentary to an extent unmatched within the series, not only addressing the precarious Soviet relations nearing the crumbling of the cold war, but also on the looming overseas conflict in Afghanistan (where an extensive section of the film takes place) and the ensuing arms and drug smuggling. As such, those accustomed to the more simplistic, overblown plots of the Moore era may struggle somewhat to keep up with the convoluted narrative, but Glen never unnecessarily overcomplicates matters. Focus is continually redirected inwards, with the budding romance between Bond and political prisoner Kara serving as the centerpiece to the story, shining through as surprisingly genuine and tender, as opposed to one of Bond's usual superficial flings. However, arguably most noteworthy of the film is its willingness to take time out of its incessantly breakneck speed narrative for moments of character interaction, which, rather than slowing the action, serve to reinforce it, providing a sense of authenticity which make the flashy action exteriors all the more exhilarating through the lack of the customary pervading fantasy. John Barry's musical score also attains an uncommonly luscious lyrical beauty, and even the enormously catchy Duran Duran theme song manages to mostly survive being painfully dated. It is the aforementioned raw emotion and vulnerability which makes Timothy Dalton's Bond strike a chord of credibility unmatched until Daniel Craig's recent incarnation of the character. Beating out such competitors as Sam Niel, Liam Neeson and later successor Pierce Brosnan for the role, it becomes abundantly clear that, considering the chosen artistic direction, no one could have proved as fitting for this particular Bond than Dalton. Blending a fierce humanity with the character's suave wit and carefully masked animalistic fury, Dalton's Bond pulsates with a rare presence, making it an increasing shame he was only given one more chance to demonstrate such a compelling take on the conflicted spy. In addition to Dalton's 007, The Living Daylights demonstrates one of the stronger ensemble casts in the series. While Maryam d'Abo continually struggles to overcome a tendency towards flat emoting, her love interest figure, trusted with a substantial amount of screen time and presence, does not disappoint, generating an affable warmth and charm making the central romance refreshingly heartfelt. Jeroen Krabbé delivers a remarkable performance as one of the most complicated figures in the Bond franchise as a defecting Russian general, his infectious charisma and quirky mannerisms bringing the character to vivid life. Similarly, Joe Don Baker's flamboyant arms dealer (and, crucially, the first American antagonist in the franchise) feels slightly out of place, but Baker's obnoxiously overbearing presence makes for a suitably loathsome, if sometimes ineffectively used, villain. The criminally underrated John Rhys-Davies is a highlight as another stoic Russian general, with Rhys-Davies blending welcome world weary humour into his characterization, and Art Malik is pure class as the head of an Afghanistan revolution. Finally, Andreas Wisneiwski as a headphones sporting hit-man makes for one of the most bizarre yet memorable villains in the series, a superbly formidable yet subtly comical performance. Director Glen's masterful blending of the typical 007 thrilling action setpieces within a lightning quick and razor sharp narrative makes The Living Daylights a winner - one of the most fresh, vibrant and resonant Bond films to date, and ideal viewing for those seeking more substance instead of fantasy escapism without sacrificing the larger than life enjoyment factor of the series. -9/10 "}{"Title":"Stiff Timothy Dalton, weakly plotted Bond film. Modest entertainment","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" While 'The Living Daylights' is better than the creaky 'A View to a Kill', that's not saying much. Timothy Dalton is younger and fitter than Roger Moore, but he lacks Bond's easy going charisma. He also seems a bit too stiff. The plot is all over the place and the mid-section plods after a decent beginning. Joe Don Baker has too short a role as the nefarious villain. There is a decent battle in Afghanistan towards the end which is exciting. The stunt work is effective. This is modest entertainment at best and best watched with lowered expectations.Overall 5/10 "},{"Title":"Not the best Bond film, but better than the last few Roger Moore ones","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After six films starring Sean Connery, one starring George Lazenby in between Connery's last two, and seven starring Roger Moore, Timothy Dalton became the fourth actor to portray James Bond in the official movie franchise, in the fifteenth installment. If you ask me, the franchise had really been limping along with Moore's later Bond films, and unfortunately, like Connery, he certainly didn't go out with a bang. However, The Living Daylights, the first one starring Dalton, of two, isn't the best, but the franchise still showed what was probably its best film in a while.At a concert hall in Bratislava, Czechoslovakia, James Bond and his ally, Saunders, are on a mission to help Soviet General Georgi Koskov defect. After they leave this concert hall, shortly before the end of the show, they search for an assassin who will attempt to kill Koskov outside the building. They notice a sniper up high on the other side of the street who happens to be a cellist named Kara Milovy! Bond aims to kill her, but going by his instincts, he feels she's not a professional, and decides to deliberately miss and just scare her off. From there, Bond continues his mission, trying to solve the mystery of why the cello player would attempt to kill Koskov. He ends up in more than one part of the world, once again finding himself in danger a number of times, in a number of places, as he faces his enemies! The pre-opening theme sequence of this movie is not one to forget, and after that, Bond and Saunders on their mission in the dark of the night can be quite thrilling. Other suspenseful highlights in the film include the chase through the snow (and on ice-covered water), and some airplane scenes towards the end. The suspense isn't as consistent as it is in certain other Bond films, but there is enough of it to make it work for the most part. There may not be as much humour here as there is in some of this film's predecessors, and Timothy Dalton shows a bit of a change in Bond after Roger Moore, making the character a bit more serious, but I still found some humour in this film. For instance, the scene where Koskov is about to be sent through an oil pipeline, and is told it hasn't been done before. So, this movie does have occasional humour to add to the entertainment value which is mostly provided by the excitement.The merits of The Living Daylights are certainly not enough to make it the greatest Bond film ever made, and some fans obviously don't like it, but in my opinion, it's a reasonably satisfying installment overall. It still has enough to make it superior to Moore's later films in the franchise (his last couple are almost frustratingly tedious if you ask me). In fact, I would say it's better than any of the films in between The Spy Who Loved Me and this one! With another actor taking the role of James Bond in the franchise, for better or worse, it obviously isn't exactly the same, but if you like James Bond and spy thrillers, you might not want to expect this fifteenth installment in the official movie franchise to be a masterpiece, but you can at least hope to find enough suspense and some occasional humour to entertain you. I definitely found those, and I watched it with not exactly low, not super high, but reasonable expectations, which I think were met. "},{"Title":"The times, they are a changin'","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The writing for Communisim was on the wall, even if in small print.Afghanistan was playing a crucial role, but no where near as it would in the future of politics. Aids had finally exploded to a degree where even the President had to acknowledge it.OK, got that? Russia's political unrest plus Communists in the middle east.. and cut out the sex.Welcome Peirce Brosnan... oops, forgot about the execs at NBC... OK, bring in Timothy Dalton. Originally offered the role years before, but deemed to young, Dalton took the helm, but to a lighter 007. No excess of martinis, no excess sex with the exotic women... meet the Politically Correct nightmare of Bond. Ian Flemming just threw up in his mouth a little bit. A long Cold War 007 vehicle, Dalton did harken back to the stern Bond of yore, more Connery-esquire than Moore's capable one-liner delivery.The film gets lost in itself, needing to make up for the lost social excess. A great 007 vehicle all the same, and a pretty good test of Dalton's Bond range in his otherwise short 007 career. "},{"Title":"Time for a change. But keep it shaken not stirred.","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond is back, along with that suave air and now hard-boiled approach, but without losing that susceptible fragrance. Actually he was the only one to really enhance it and give Bond some raw emotional pull. Despite Dalton's many detractors and appearing in only two entries, for me he was my favourite Bond. He seemed to give the character a much needed injection and a real unpredictability, and the lack of those one-liners was a welcome change. A ruthless edge was created, and the hunger shows with vigorous verve.Going back to a more traditional set-up, The Living Daylights was a mature and cleverly planned out espionage narrative filled with spectacular set-pieces, well devised twists and interestingly believable characters. Humour was only in small doses, and if so more like cutting little jibs, which would suit Dalton's straight-laced style and never came across forced like the latter end of Moore's stint. Sure Moore's films were fun, but they sure became tiresome and beyond silly. Director John Glen slickly handles the project with cunning grit, well-timed judgement and a strong technical showing. There are plenty of memorable, and generally cracking set-pieces piled onto each other (but never over-doing it) and salient location choices enter the frame. The script stays one-step ahead, and sticks to engrossingly scheming spy business. If there was a weakness, it could be contributed to a stodgy mid-section and a feeling of being a bit long in the tooth.Larger than life villains are usually one of the centre pieces of a Bond film, and Living Daylights seemed less concerned in planting anyone dynamic or intimidating. Sure Joe Don Baker was enjoyable, but he didn't see much screen time for such captivating character. Jeroen Krabbe was the same. But this it gave a touch more reality, then throwing up some cartoon-like bad guy. But again there's nothing wrong with that. John Barry's sterling musical piece is adventurous, but exotic in tempo. Truly a strong score. The rest of the cast are acceptably laudable. Maryam d'Abo is gorgeous, and fits well. Andreas Wisniewski is tactically good as General Georgi Koskov's henchman. John Rhys-Davies and Art Malik provide solid minor support. Something about this entry just gets better upon each viewing. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to most people. Dalton's a great Bond","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights is special among James Bond films because for me, it signifies a real return to form. I never thought much of Roger Moore's time out in the tux. I feel Bond is someone with a dangerous edge, and sadly Moore doesn't have that quality. Also the seven films he did contained some of the most ludicrous and overblown plots ever to (dis)grace the Bond franchise.But watching TLD is like a gust of fresh air. The plot may be a little convoluted (even for a Bond film), but the sudden injection of seriousness feels that all the more welcome, especially with the supreme silliness we had to endure during Moore's tenure.Set in a grittier, more dangerous era, that somehow feels appropriate. The film needs a like-minded actor to carry it off. And Timothy Dalton is that actor. He's come in for a fair amount of criticism, but he has all the right qualities. This is a Bond with a startling edge.Right from the very beginning you know TLD is going to be a very different Bond film from what you've (sadly) seen of the character over the last few years.Beginning with a test scenario on the Rocks of Gibraltar, M sends three of his agents to outwit the SAS. Until an assassin shows up and kills one of them, sending the message Death To Spies. One of the agents happens to be 007, and what we get next is one of the most exciting and perfectly sustained action sequences to feature in a Bond film in a good long while.This murder sets a chain of events in motion including a phony KGB defector, an insane US army general, faked assassinations, beautiful cellists and lots and lots of action.I have to admit the plot for The Living Daylights is a bit of a head scratcher. Labyrinthine plotting is one thing, but after awhile I did start to get a bit lost. The writers may have made the film a little too complex. For instance, instead of just giving us one major villain, the film wheels out two. But despite all that, I really enjoyed TLD. I know he has a legion of haters, but Timothy Dalton is quite excellent as Bond. People tend to criticise him for his deadly serious interpretation of the role. Anyone who says that has no understanding of the character whatsoever. Ian Fleming created Bond as a ruthless agent with a borderline cruel streak. He's someone who would shoot you with nary a glance. And Dalton encapsulates those qualities perfectly.Its that side of Bond that Dalton wanted to embody, making his take on the role the most faithful of any other actor. Even more so than Sean Connery. And besides, its nice to see a Bond film taking itself seriously after so long. Seeing such a dramatic, plot-driven character based Bond film reminds one of the days when Connery was in the role. And its because of this approach that The Living Daylights gets back a lot of the self-respect that had been lost through Moore's tenure.Also TLD has some of the most breathlessly staged action sequences you'll ever see in a Bond film. Aside from the wonderful pre-credits teaser, we get a really exciting car chase in Bond's customized Aston Martin, complete with rockets, lasers, bulletproof glass and even skis!And there's also the usual plethora of fistfights to enjoy. There's a hair-raising one between Bond and an assassin on a plane's cargo net, hanging out a cargo door in midair, while there's a bomb on board just minutes from going off. There's even a good one between the same assassin and an MI6 agent. Its a good fight too! It's nice to see one where Bond isn't playing the big hero. Can't imagine any other film in the series trying something like that!The Living Daylights is not without its flaws though. As I said, the plot is more complicated than it needs to be. I did get a bit restless when the film makes a somewhat needless sidetrip to Afghanistan. Joe Don Baker and Jeroen Krabbe are two of the most forgettable Bond villains in recent memory. What their masterplan entails is never properly explained. The new Miss Moneypenny hardly sets the world on fire. And Maryam d'Abo, although radiant, is one of the less inspired Bond girls.Director John Glen keeps things going at a breathless pace. He considerably redeems himself after the unfortunate double-act of Octopussy and A View to a Kill. And he makes sure things never get too silly. Something that seemed to completely escape him on his previous two films.Its a shame Timothy Dalton's Bond films are so disliked. I thought they did a superb job of rebooting the stale Bond series. Something Pierce Brosnan and Daniel Craig would continue to improve upon in their entries. The Living Daylights is not quite a classic, but its such a vast improvement from what had been seen beforehand that it makes me like it all the more.An underrated Bond film well worthy of reevaluation. "},{"Title":"got to love the theme song ! !","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights, released in 1987, is the fifteenth spy film in the James Bond series, and the first to star Timothy Dalton as the fictional British secret agent James Bond. The film's title is taken from Ian Fleming's short story The Living Daylights, first published in The London Sunday Times colour section on February 4, 1962. The first American publication was in the June 1962 issue of Argosy under the title Berlin Escape. In 1966 it was the second story to be added to the short story collection Octopussy and The Living Daylights, published two years after Fleming's death. The beginning of the film is almost completely accurate to the short story.The film begins with Bond investigating the deaths of a number of MI6 agents. A Soviet defector, Georgi Koskov, informs him that General Pushkin, head of the KGB, is systematically killing Western operatives. When Koskov is seemingly snatched back by the Soviets, Bond follows him across Europe and Afghanistan.Produced by Albert R. Broccoli, his stepson Michael G. Wilson, and his daughter Barbara Broccoli, it was released in 1987. This was the last film to make use of an Ian Fleming story title until 2006's Casino Royale.9/10 "},{"Title":"Bigger than some, more satisfying than most - the right Bond adventure, unfortunately at the wrong time.","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights (1987) is Timothy Dalton's introduction to the Bond franchise and in hindsight is a far more engaging film than critics of the time gave it credit. After aiding in Soviet General, Gregori Koskov's (Jeroen Krabbe) escape from behind the Iron Curtain, James Bond (Dalton) realizes that he has been the unwilling accomplice to an elaborate hoax. Furthermore, he begins to find himself falling in love with Russian cellist, Kara Milovy (Maryam d'Abo), Koskov's paramour. When the general is recaptured, Bond decides to help Kara escape prosecution for Koskov's attempted murder, first to Vienna, then Morocco, and finally Afghanistan.In every way, this film is big. From its pre-title sequence, in which Bond and several allies parachute over the rock of Gibraltar, to its stunning car chase staged across the frozen Alps, director John Glen infuses his production with a scope and balance that at least attempts to keep the camp elements at bay. What he is hampered by is a trio of unbelievable and foppish villains; Koskov, the psychopathic, Necros (Andreas Wisniewski) and war enthusiast, Brad Whitaker (Jo Don Baker). None are up to the task of generating diabolical thrills or innate hatred from an audience. Instead, they appear as three blind mice lined up in sequence for the forgone conclusion of having Bond destroy them en route to the final fade out.As with On Her Majesty's Secret Service, the narrative of this Bond flick goes for much more detail and depth of plotting than most films in the series &#150; simply because it recognizes that, in lack of any genuinely indelible style from its leading man &#150; substance is a fairly valiant substitute for box office success. Although The Living Daylights did not live up to its expectations, it was nevertheless a solid effort at preserving Bond's supremacy in films.The MGM/UA DVD is a fairly pleasant viewing experience. Although there is a considerable amount of edge enhancement throughout, colors are fairly accurate and deeply saturated. Contrast levels appear bang on, with deep blacks, near pristine whites, and fine details realized throughout. There are hints of age related artifacts but none that will distract. The audio is stereo surround and presented at an adequate listening level. Extras include two documentaries, audio commentaries, junket promo materials and the film's theatrical trailer. "},{"Title":"Best Bond film of the 80s,weakened only by Dalton","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton's debut as James Bond has one huge problem-him. Dalton lacks both the charisma or style to be Bond. Sure,the filmmakers wanted a character more like Ian Fleming's Bond,but they still give him a few quips which are terribly delivered. Only in the action scenes is he convincing and here,far more so than the often badly doubled Roger Moore.However,complaint over! The Living Daylights is otherwise a fine Bond film,the best of the 80s films and possibly the best since On Her Majesty's Secret Service. The story does become a little bogged down in complexities but is still interesting. Although there are slightly less action scenes than usual what there is is terrific,especially the incredible pre-credits sequence in which a training exercise goes wrong and Bond ends up hanging on top of a jeep,the very moody Cold War-movie type passage with a man smuggled into the west through a pipe,the terrific snow chase with a new Aston Martin,several brutal fight scenes,and the climatic battle between Afghan rebels and Russians which ends with Bond fighting a villain on a bag of sandbags hanging from a plane. In between there is a bit more time for romance,with the best love story in a Bond film since OHMSS,providing slightly more emotion than usual,and an absolutely superb John Barry score,his last for Bond,in which he skillfully incorporates synthesized beats. Shame about the awful A Ha theme song though.Generally a very good addition to the series but just imagine it with Sean or Pierce! "},{"Title":"Watch it and make up your own mind","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It has to be said that, in general, Dalton is considered by many to be the weakest Bond. However, what people fail to consider is that when Dalton took over, the Bond franchise was practically on its knees with nowhere to go - the Bond creative team realised that they had to inject some kind of realism into the films - enter Dalton. He is the chalk to Roger Moore's cheese and, as far as I can see, this was too much for the critics of the time to digest. What many also didn't get was that this was the closest you'll ever get to anyone playing 'Ian Fleming's James Bond. As far as I'm concerned, the only credible actor to play Bond was Dalton. The others, Connery included, fall short of the mark. If you don't believe me, take the trouble to read a Bond novel, then watch either this, or Licence to Kill, and make up your own mind. "},{"Title":"Dalton's Solid Debut","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Following the geriatric clown, Roger Moore's departure from the role the call went out for a new Bond and despite Pierce Brosnan's best attempts it ended up going to Timothy Dalton. Dalton took a radically different approach from his predecessors and actually read the books that Flemming wrote (as opposed to Brosnan who bases his portayal on the previous Bonds). The result is a much more down to earth and serious Bond, although thankfully this doesn't hit the humourless nadir of License to Kill. The plot although somewhat convulted starts with a sabotaged double-o training exercise in Gibralter and what is arguably a work of dictorial genius with Dalton's screen introduction as the camera cuts from a falling agent to Bond. I'm not going to spoilt what follows but in an egg shell we get cold war defections, spies, counter spying, drugs trafficking, arms running and even a visit to Afghanistan. Despite it's complexity it's refreshingly down to earth, so much so that jokes that were customary in Moore's era such as the ghettoblaster seem nothing short of lame. The problems with the film are two fold. First of all the villain or should that be villains because we never get a true sense of who exactly is the master villain are pretty badly drawn. Whittaker is just an army chair general with a 3inch tall army of death and Koskov is a blundering fool with plenty of slapstick. Saving the day for villains is Necros who gets more screentime than any henchman since Red Grant, complete with exploding milk bottles, a headphone garotte and multiple disguises - it's nice to see another henchman who is a Bond equal. The second problem is the lack of womanising on screen. Now I may sound a little chauvanist but the idea is Bond sleeps around. The love interest Kara is rather characterless, and I find it hard to believe that Bond would ever be attracted to a woman like her. In many senses though it's a return to form. Dalton's portrayal of Bond is superb, he's got an unerring sense of control and confidence. He can be charming but also cold and calculating, and as the death of his friend shows he can be downright dangerous if the need is there. His anger and then resulting shame at pulling a gun on a woman and child for carrying a balloon is one of the highlights. The Aston Martin returns once again, after a break of 17 years complete with some decently choreographed car chases and stunts although I keep wondering how a secret agent could sneak across the border in a car like that unnoticed. It's a bit more low key than some of the more OTT movies but this should be welcomed.  Unfortunately when it came out the Americans didn't welcome it. Whilst the gross shot up internationally, in the USA it did the same business as the dire View to a Kill had done two years before. Sadly the Americans never got Dalton's Bond but thats their loss. 8.5/10 "}{"Title":"The sexiest Bond, the sexiest killer ...","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This first of two the Timothy Dalton 007 movies (let's not talk about his second round -- it was rather awful) is a very rounded, exciting and besides his cool British flair, sexy Bond movie ... After the aseptic years of Roger Moore and all those awful attempts of other actors to fill the shoes of the unsurpassed 'lady killer' Sean Connery (what a delightful ham!), Dalton brought back some component that was missing for such a long time!...But why stopping there? ... Take Andreas Wisniewski as Necros, the merciless killer whose life has to end on a shoestring ... If in the old Bond movies, men and boys could drool over the bikini clad beauties in the swimming pool or beach scenes (and almost every 007 movie had at least one), this one makes all sexes drool (so they are inclined) over a perfectly built, blond young hunk of a man ... Rarely had a male 'sidekick' more screen time to show off his gorgeous physique ...So, even if you weren't a Bond fan before and maybe never after -- go and watch this movie/video/DVD and find out for yourself ...Cheers ... Julia ) "},{"Title":"NOT for the half brained Bond viewer...this is Bond at its best!","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton fascinated me right from the start of the film, never has a Bond been so captivating to watch! Personally I thought he was amazing, maybe because he was s such a change to Roger Moore's humourous Bond, but for me, not one thing about Timothy Dalton was wrong about James Bond's character. He was the perfect age, had exactly the right look for a secret spy/assassin, and was deadly serious in his role. How can people say he's awful because he doesnt make a wise crack about everything around him. He still pleases the audience with the humour when necessary, and I think he's the perfect 'romantic' Bond. Unlike Roger Moore's character you could believe he genuinely liked the Bond girl, instead of simply looking for a quick 'shag'. The plot was brilliant and unlike some Bond film's didnt get boring and predictable half way through. This film didn't just rely on explosions and some clever gadgets, but a complex plot and a story of who to trust. The girl was gorgeous in my opinion, but did get slightly annoying towards the end of the film. The baddies although not the best in the series by far, put on good performances, but unlike most people I didn't like the character of Whittaker. Koskov was sly and cowardice, and not your average psychopath like most Bond baddies, he was simply believable. My biggest complaint about the Bond series is why Timothy Dalton didn't appear in more Bond films. He simply never gets boring on screen, and seems so genuine. Overall I think The Living Daylights was finally designed for real Bond fans again, instead of the last couple of comedy action films. Don't get me wrong...Roger Moore is hilarious but this is what Bond films should really be about.  I wish someone would tell that to the current money seeking idiots who made the latest Bond film (Die Another Day), in hope of attracting a new audience in the 'dumb, wanna see stupid stunts teenagers'.  "},{"Title":"A fine addition to the series, but not the best","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Since License to Kill is one of the best Bond movies, I easily expected this one to be near the top of my list. The Living Daylights, often considered one of the best installments in the series, was great but not as good as License to Kill. For one, Timothy Dalton's performance was kinda mediocre, whereas his portrayal of Bond in LTK was perfect. The Living Daylights still has the right kind of action, such as the battle in Afghanistan. Kara Milovy (Maryam D' Abo) was almost a mirror image of Stacey Sutton (Tanya Roberts) from A View to A Kill (By the way, AVTAK is a very cool movie). However, she was much more attractive and wasn't as helpless. This movie also features one of the best theme songs, with Aha taking the reins this time. When I heard it for the first time about a few months ago, I thought it was cheesy. But within a couple of weeks I listened to it again and liked it a little more. From then on I started to enjoy it, and it's actually better than Take On Me, which is often considered Aha's sole hit. The song even reaches the ultimate scale of theme songs such as License to Kill, AVTAK, For Your Eyes Only, LALD, TSWLM, and Goldfinger. Anyways, the movie's villains are pretty good too. I really enjoyed Brad Whitaker (Joe Don Baker), but Gorgi Koskov (Jereon Krabbe) wasn't that great. Bond's association with Leonid Pushkin was also one of the most thrilling and interesting parts in the show. Overall, The Living Daylights is still a great movie, but License to Kill is way better. My rating 3 and a half stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"A refreshing change of pace.","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"   After the departure of Roger Moore with the rather mundane A view to a kill It was good to see a change from the almost comedic atmosphere Moore seemed to carry about with him. In my humble opinion The living daylights is not just a good Bond film but a good general spy thriller. I enjoyed seeing the Bond that I had read appear on screen for the first time since Connery. Dalton plays Bond seriously because Bond is a serious character, a government assassin and spy (I think somebody else wrote that before) The attack on the Afghan airfield and Bond's fight to the death with Necros while hanging out the back of a transport (notice that on the ground it's a Hercules but in the air it's a Provider)are technical high points, John Barry's last Bond score to date is also superb. Overall this represents a refreshing change of direction towards a serious thriller and it is by far one of my favourite films. "},{"Title":"Average new Bond","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Good action movie as all Bond movies are and here we get a temporary new Bond as the great Roger Moore gets too old for 1997.A back to basics approach is done here much like the other temporary Bond in HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE (Lazensby 1969) where the portayal is more down to Earth.But although Dalton is a great actor and is also very handsome,he just is too dull and unromantic.His worst scenes in this movie are the scenes where he truly tries to be romantic with his woman but comes off as forced.The screenplay/script was average although the ciematography was very good.The villain here was not written very well also.Comes off as one of the worst Bond movies over all but still we all know a Bond movie rates as one of the best movies of all time (unless one deplores action movies).Only for action movie fans and fans of the lead actors......  "},{"Title":"Boring Daylights, The (1987)May contain spoiler but I doubt it","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has some good action sequences and some memorable moments but the plot is weak and Dalton is weak. Timothy Dalton does a good performance but while he is the accurate Bond, you must remember that the movies aren't exactly 100% like the novels and short stories. Also the villian and Bond girl are the WORST in the series. Even The Man with the Golden Gun which is the worst Bond picture has a better villian and Bond girl. The ending is also pretty similar to the ending in The Man with the Golden Gun.**out of****stars "},{"Title":"Very Good Bond Film","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  With Roger Moore retired from the Bond role, the makers of the series began putting the series back on track.  The two elements that made this possible was vastly improved screenwriting and the casting of Timothy Dalton as Bond, one of the few actors to play Bond that were actually well received and respected before taking on the role.Dalton threw away the comic book virus that had infected the Bond character over previous years, and cured the ailment with a more serious Bond, one that is closer to Fleming's original character.  Under Dalton, James Bond evolved into a more human, darker and mysterious character, something that Bond fans either embraced or rejected.The story line is greatly improved over previous Bond films, and while the film runs out of steam a little towards the end, the modifications made to the series were a welcomed change. "},{"Title":"If you've read the books, Dalton is the best Bond ever","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Come on, admit it. Most of us have never read the Bond novels by Ian Flemming. We only know the wise cracking, smirking, occasionally heavy handed, gadget using Bond from the films. BUT, if you've read the books, you know Flemming's creation was ideally suited to Timothy Dalton as James Bond. Originally, James Bond was cruel to women and a mercieless killer when necessary, a far cry from Roger Moore's smirking one-liners. And the villains were rarely these caricatures that Bond faced in the films, they were Russian bad guys, not ranting lunatics plotting to take over the world. The hell with that! You want Bond as he was intended to be? As he hasn't been since the initial films Dr. No and From Russian With Love? Dalton is your man. Brosnan is good as a movie Bond, but Dalton is the way Bond was meant to be. "},{"Title":"A solid debut for Dalton.","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In my book, Dalton is the best James Bond of all, and The Living Daylights is easily one of the four best Bond movies (only Dr. No and  For Your Eyes Only are clearly better). The story is nicely down-to-earth, and Dalton is the perfect embodiment of Ian Fleming's novel character. This James Bond has real personality and is very likable. The opening action sequence is the best opening ever, and Maryam d'Abo is a lovely, INNOCENT Bond girl. Unfortunately, Jerome Krabbe is an awful villain, but his blonde sidekick is great, and this movie features the best, most adorable Moneypenny. The action does have its unfortunate share of silly comedy (which is too sharp a contrast for the serious, mature story and performances). The shoot-out in Afghanistan is sloppy, but the fight on the airplane is excellent. Unfortunately, this movie makes the big mistake of having a too-realistic political situation, making it go out of date fast. That said, the movie is entertaining, has a lot of life, and showcases Dalton's abilities nicely. "},{"Title":"Dalton IS Bond","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When i was 7 my parents took me to my first Bond movie The Spy who loved me.so after 10 years of Moores bond when they replaced him my heart sank.However i was now 17 my tastes had changed though even today i liked the Moore Bond movies.when i saw this movie in July of 1987 at a late show in Great Yarmouth by the end i thought WoW!the opening is clever with a great action sequence to get things started.the plot is more intriguing.the Villain is more charming and smarmy.But Dalton is so on form.after the great precredits sequence we have a great pipeline scene that has tension and Dalton Pulls off the line your the firstbeautifully timed.theres a most realistic fight scene in a kitchen where everything bar the kitchen sink is thrown in the audience i saw it with were as amazed as i was.now years later i saw a deleted scene involving a magic carpet.it sounds silly but its just a rug thrown over telephone wire so Bond can escape from an asasination i think this scene should of been in the movie.it may of helped it in the states.there is more romance than usual for a Bond.the music score is Excellent.Jerome Krabbe is Wonderful in this.his so good you actually like him.But this is Daltons movie. I think the Producers were wrong to replace him.The man with the golden gun was one of the least sucessful bond movies ever.yet they stuck withMoore and The Spy who loved me And Moonraker became Two of the biggest Grossing bonds ever.they should of allowed Dalton to at least one more movie.I know Licence to kill failed but so did Star trek 5.even sure fire hits were bombing thanks to Batman and Indiana Jones.maybe had they gone for the near xmas market they would of got Brosnans type of gross.This is a must see. "}{"Title":"Bond is back and better than ever","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  James Bond has returned as Timothy Dalton plays 007 in the Living Daylights in what I consider the best film in the series. For people who got tired of Roger Moore's light comedy act should consider watching this film. Dalton is very serious and down to earth in the Living Daylights. The Living Daylights provides a fresh new look for bond. Daylights combines all the ingredients that made Bond popular into a fantastic film. "},{"Title":"Dalton the best ever? TLD best movie ever?","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton is honestly one of my least favorite actors, and as a Bond he is yet worse... he doesn't quite qualify as the worst bond ever, but he doesn't beat George Lazenby by much...The plot in this film isn't actually bad at all, I just think it could have been tons better with different actors all around...Dalton as above...and though I like Mitchell (Joe Don Baker) in the newer ones as Jack Wade but as the Quasi villain in this one he's laughable and an extremely shallow character...  "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I came to this conclusion not long ago. I hated Dalton's Bond for many years and disliked his very personal way of portraying 007.But now I've seen this movie a couple of times and I must say that this is one of the best in the series, if not the best. After years of Roger Moore parody on Ian Fleming's Cold War hero, Dalton steps in and returns the credibility to the part which Bond deserves.The story is good and really classic Bond, the action is just right and the gadgets are not too ridiculous. The Bond girl (d'Abo) is not a complete bimbo for a change and the supporting roles are filled with competent actors like Jeroen Krabbé amongst others.If you dislike Timothy Dalton, read a Fleming and see this movie! Then perhaps you'll understand what Bond is all about! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good Bond film.","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton is my least favourite Bond; he seems too stiff in the role and doesn't really have much charisma. That aside, his first Bond outing was surprisingly good.The Living Daylights is quite an action-packed, energetically directed adventure that moves along at a brisk pace, but manages not to go way over the top. The complex plot is well-executed, if somewhat confusing to follow. Maryam d'Abo makes a charming Bond girl as Kara, bringing a welcome romantic side to the story. There's also a simply hilarious scene in which Bond and Kara go downhill through the customs on top of a cello case.The supporting characters are interesting, but the villains cause a flaw to the film. Whitaker is an underdeveloped character and Koskov cannot be taken seriously. And like pointed out, they aren't given too much screen time. If you can ignore that, this is an above-average entry in the series. "},{"Title":"Another great Bond film.","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I don't think there is such a thing as a bad Bond film, just that some are slightly better than other ones. The Living Daylights is one of the best. Timothy Dalton was a great Bond, but sadly only ended up doing two 007 movies. This was the first and best, before Lincense to Kill.This has great action, great storyline and a great Bond girl in Maryam D'abo, only the villains let it down, they are too boring, not as bad as Jonathon Pryce in Tomorrow Never Dies though. The film is more romantic than some of the others, with there only being one Bond girl in it, luckily shes a good one! Its too hard to rate which Bond is better than the other because they all bring something different to the role. But Dalton didn't let anyone down. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton takes control","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After Roger Moore retired from Bond's role it was Timothy Dalton's turn to take over and say the magical words;my name is Bond, James Bond.But only for two movies.The first one of them was The Living Daylights in 1987 which includes Maryam d'Abo as the beautiful cellist Kara Milovy, Caroline Bliss as miss Moneypenny, Robert Brown as M and Desmond Llewelyn as Q.This isn't the best Bond movie but it is very entertaining with lots of brilliant action sequences.Timmy Dalton did a nice job as Bond.Couldn't beat Connery and Moore though.He didn't have Sean Connery's charisma and Roger Moore's humor.He showed us darker James Bond which many people didn't like.But watch The Living Daylights if you're not like many people and you want to see Dalton in action. "},{"Title":"A decent entry in the 007 series","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton inherited the License to Kill from Roger Moore in1987 in this interesting sequel to the never-ending James Bondseries. This time, Bond must thwart the efforts of sadistic armsdealers. Dalton is a good 007 because he is somewhat faithful tothe image of the agent in Ian Fleming's books. But somehow,Dalton didn't really floated my boat, because he didn't seemthat enthusiastic playing Bond, compared to how Connery, Moore,and especially Pierce Brosnan did their films. Still, with greatstunts and likeable performances, The Living Daylights is acertified perfect espiona "},{"Title":"Action, action, action!","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As an action movie fan, I sometimes rent an old Bond film rather than subject myself to the latest Bruce Willis or Jerry Bruckheimer vehicle. I've seen all the films more than once, and own four myself Two Connerys and both Daltons. I grew up watching and liking Roger Moore but the two Bond films since Goldeneye (yuck) make me miss the last Bond, Timothy Dalton. This picture has an exciting prologue with some creative British professionalism in the stunts, also it contains two down and dirty fights, one with 007 and one with his co-workers. I am a student of judo (the British are big on it too) and appreciate a good well staged fight over some of the explosions passing for action here in Hollywood. Remember how you grimaced (amusingly of course) at seeing Sean Connery menaced by giant Aryans or smiled at by a 250 lb. killer Korean? This movie grabs a bit of the old glory! And folks, BMW's are fine, but 007 drives a British car!! "},{"Title":"Shaken, not stirred","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Wow! What an awesome film. This just goes to show that Dalton should have been given more than two bond films to act in. I mean what other actor can play bond and portray him as smooth and charming, yet calm, cool and possibly cold hearted. Dalton does not deserve the bad press he recieves from the majority of people who have seen this film. I mean it is a fantastic film and deserves more praise. This movie also boasts the best pre-title sequence in a bond film ever.I have to say it this movie ROCKS and I give it 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good 007 picture","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After Roger Moore retired from the role of James Bond, Timothy Dalton stepped into the role of 007 in The Living Daylights. Pierce Brosnan had originally been given the role, but due to his contract on TV's Remington Steele that he couldn't get out of, he had to drop out. I thought this movie was pretty good, although it's not one of the best. I think this film would have been better if Brosnan had been 007. Dalton is a fine actor, but his James Bond is too serious. One of the best things about James Bond movies is the humor and this film only has a little of that (through some of Q's gadgets). Another problem with this film is that it lacks strong villains. I thought the main bad guys in the movie (played by Jeroen Krabbe and Joe Don Baker) were kind of silly, and they're not in the classic tradition of Bond villains like Goldfinger, Oddjob, Blofeld, and Jaws as well as the villains in the more recent 007 adventures. Same goes for the women. In this movie, in a slight change of pace, instead of two main female characters there's only one played by Maryam D'Abo. She's all right, but like the villains, far from the best. The one main attraction in The Living Daylights are of course the stunts and action sequences. They alone are the reason this movie is worth seeing. And for that, I give the movie a slightly positive review. *** (out of four)   "}{"Title":"My favoured James Bond- Movie!","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Living Daylights is my favoured James Bond- Movie, because of the real tough espionage- action. Timothy Dalton is my second best Bond- actor (number one is still Roger Moore), he is not that charming like Pierce Brosnan or Roger Moore, but acts like a real spy, without making that many (silly) jokes like the other James Bonds. Don't understand me wrong! I like them all, from Sean Connery to Pierce Brosnan, but Timothy Dalton is the most professional! "},{"Title":"In duty, you have no sweethearts!","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I purchased The Living Daylights this weekend, i never disliked it and thought it had some good parts in it, and now I enjoy this film more than ever and rate Timothy Dalton as the 2nd best Bond actor. Although I do prefer Licence to Kill to this (slightly) it is an excellent apology for A View to A Kill and Timothy Dalton was an excellent apology for Roger Moore's overlong reign. It contains an excellent cast with Mary'am D'abo (Kara Milovy), John-Rhys-Davies (General Leonid Pushkin) and Andreas Wisniewski(Necros), it contains excellent action scenes and I belive That Daylights has the best Soundtrack out of all the Bond films so far!. The only snagg is Jeroen Krabbe as unbelievably camp Soviet General Georgi Koskof, who is actually working for the arms dealer Brad Whittaker (Joe Don Baker), who was not bad for the small role that he had!, watch it, you may notice how old Walter Gotell was looking as Gogol "},{"Title":"The Most Underrated Bond Film","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best Bond films I have seen, and a sigh of relief after the late Roger Moore era. Moore was a good Bond, but too jokey at times. Here, all of the fallacies, such as bad puns, sight gags, and overblown sets, are out of sight. Timothy Dalton brings a strong-but-silent feeling back to 007, much more like Ian Fleming's character in the books, and gives him a more caring, gentlemanly quality. The Bond girl, in this case Miriam d'Abo, is treated like a lady, and Bond does not try to fling her into his bed first thing. The story is complex and intriguing, with characters that make you guess whether they are good or bad. There's even a great stunt sequence on a cargo plane. "},{"Title":" The Best Bond--Too Late","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton makes an impressive debut as James Bond.  His Bond is different from past Bonds.  In the immediately post-credit scene when he moves from the concert hall to the building across the street to shoot an alleged KGB sniper, he turns from bon vivant immediately to a steely-eyed hit man.  If you haven't seen the movie, I won't tell you how it comes out.  It doesn't matter.  In that first scene you realize this is what Bond is -- a government assassin.  And you believe Dalton could do something Sean Connery might be able to do, but Roger Moore couldn't, and that's shoot a man in cold blood for some, perhaps minor, expedience of government.Dalton is perhaps the best all-around actor ever to play Bond.  He's the only Bond from Connery to Brosnan who, if snatched from Bond and dropped in Shakespeare, wouldn't be out of his depths.The movie itself is extremely good, although certainly not as good as the first four Connery flicks, or a smattering of Moore's.  One problem is the villain -- is it the unctuous Koskov or the ridiculous Whittaker?  This lack of focus mars the movie.Kara Milovy seems to be a detriment, but the character provides two wonderful things  1) she's totally inept except at the cello and she's an albatross around Bond's neck (watch for his expression through the airplane window in the Afghan raid)  and 2) she's not a the tough sexpot he's accustomed to, and he finds himself actually liking her, rather than trying to get her in the sack (let any other Bond try that one).But more than his talent and range of emotion, Dalton seems, unlike the others, to have researched Fleming's Bond and maybe even read some of the books.  Seeing him in Q Department, he looks the part of Bond, from the comma of hair he can't keep brushed off his forehead on down. The movie is a delight, full of nonstop action;  each problem builds upon the next and toward the end everything that can go wrong does go wrong, leading to an amazing battle in the skies (after which Bond can't even get his typically gruesome play on words out without something going wrong).But because of lack of focus on the villain, the movie is far more limp than the best of the series, and it's only the rock solid Dalton, returning Bond to his tough, no-nonsense, steely-eyed roots that keeps the movie afloat.The only arguable problem with Dalton as Bond is that he isn't Sean Connery.  If he had tackled Dr. No or Goldfinger, perhaps the book Bonds and the movie Bonds would not have diverged so widely.   "},{"Title":"Among the best three James Bond movies .","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Personally i found most of bond films before Timothy Dalton (except From Russia with love) not very appealing to eye. The photography was not impressive at-all , many many scenes seemed very clearly taken in studio, or with bad lighting, visual effects compared to today standards were bad,  Moore was dressed badly, and always looked old to me!The Living Daylights (and  A view to a kill) changed all that in late 80s. Compared ,visually  at least, with the older bond movies they looked much more better and impressive too me. And in addition of the visually clarity and superiority Living Daylights has two more breathtaking elements, the best looked James Bond ever and great music married exceptionally with the action and romance scenes.  "},{"Title":"No 3 in the top 5 Bond'f of all time","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  For me personally this is in the top five of the best Bond's and has possibly the best and one of the most believable Bond girls played by Maryam d'Abo.Timothy Dalton is cruelly slagged off as Bond but in 'The living daylights' we have a believable plot,a fairly serious Bond (He is a spy after all) who keeps a women he obviously feels a lot for in the dark about his mission for her Majestys secret service.The only bit I found bizarre was when he gets in the car with the two female CIA agents who 'want to have a party' it seems as though he doesnt know who they are and is clearly relieved when they happen to mates of Felix Leiter.It's a shame he didnt go on to do more Bond films,especially when you think that Roger Moore did 7!.Best bits?-the fight when the are hanging out of the plane,and the typical blonde ayrian henchmen who kills people with his walkman headphones!-very eighties!Worse bit,a-ha's theme tune,just slightly better than Lulu's effort for 'The man with the golden gun' "},{"Title":"It surprised the living daylights out of me...","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What a great film.  This movie's plot is absolutely perfect.  There are no holes in it whatsoever, and every actor gives a great performance in what is probably the most overlooked movie in the series.  This is Timothy Dalton's premiere as Bond, and he looks genuine.  Maryam d'Abo is one of the cutest Bond girls I have ever seen!  She is so compassionate, and I can see that she honestly cares about Bond.  The only thing I would have to gripe about are the villains' screen time.  You just didn't get to see Joe Don Baker's character more developed.  Oh well, you get to see him act some more as Bond's buddy Jack Wade in Goldeneye.  Overall, this is a very good addition to the series and should be consider one of the better Bond films. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the BEST of the Bond films...","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This REALLY was an underrated JB film. John Barry's music, as well as, and the others was magnificent. Definitely one of his best JB scores! I liken movie this to the scope of Raiders of the Lost Ark. Great locales and cinematography - very open! Dalton was perfect (although his 2nd Bond film was flat). The action and romance were very 80's - Just GREAT! I am really looking to own this one on DVD (perhaps in 1999) "},{"Title":"Black Horse of the 007 Series","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Living Daylights might just be the best 007 movie overall. This film has everything a Bond movie is famous for. An incredible plot (Koskov had me fooled), a beautiful girl, a terrific title song song performed by a-ha which you can never get out of your head, a host of terrific baddies (though Whittaker should have had more screen time), and naturally, Q's host of gadgets and gizmos (how about that couch that swallows Q's assistant?).Timothy Dalton does a superb job as our favorite secret agent. Though no one will ever overtake Sean Connery, Dalton gives him a run for money with a true-to-life dipiction of Ian Fleming's character.Even though Jack Lord will always be the original Felix Leiter, and David Hedison will be known as THE Felix Leiter, John Terry does a fine job of portraying the famous CIA agent who aids Bond on occasion.The Living Daylights may not be the best known of the Bond movies, but it should be. This is one of the best, up there with Licence to Kill, Live and Let Die, and Goldfinger.  "},{"Title":"Scares 'The Living Daylights' out of people who dislike Bond and Dalton.","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS goes (In my view of course) along with (In release order) FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE, LIVE AND LET DIE, THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN, A VIEW TO A KILL and the later TOMORROW NEVER DIES, as the best of the Bond series. Timothy Dalton is clearly born to have played James Bond, he might not have Connery's suaveness or Moore's smooth voice, but he's great as Bond.  THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS is a non-stop action-packed modern 007 adventure not to be missed!. "}{"Title":"Excellent Bond movie","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A well made Bond movie. Timothy Dalton was an excellent Bond, betterthan Pierce Brosnan and just as good,if not better than, Roger Moore. Inthis excellent film Bond tries to get th the bottom of a labyrinthineplot to turn the Cold War into World War III. The only drawback to thismovie was the lame theme song from AHA. Other than that. "},{"Title":"Dalton's Portrayal Highlights the Best of 007","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  My personal-favorite, non-Connery 007 is Timothy Dalton.  He displays the same kind of real human reactions within the context of an unreal situation that Harrison Ford brings to The Fugitive or Frantic.But my preference may have something to do with what I look for in a Bond film, for example, the ugly little Cold War skirmishes of Goldfinger and For Your Eyes Only.  I felt that The Living Daylights, especially, captured that notion.  This film avoids one of the chief flaws of 007 films--when Bond is a superhero who saves the world.  I suppose that Ian Fleming's interest in space and the globe-spanning conflicts of You Only Live Twice and (gag) Moonraker made that inevitable. "},{"Title":"This is a very exciting Bond film, which injects new life into a tired series at this point. Dalton makes an auspicious debut!","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" We've all been lucky to have entertaining people who have been James Bond. Roger Moore was far from perfect, but after a few films, he made for a very good Bond. He got too old for the role. Believe it or not&#x85; Pierce Brosnan was set to take over the role at this juncture. But he couldn't get away from his show Remington Steele. He had to wait until 1995 where he would finally cement himself as James Bond. This was actually the very first James Bond movie I saw, so I kinda hold it dear to my heart. It's also a really good action movie ( Wait until you see the fight sequence in the Airplane during the finale!) It has one of the most exciting openings you'll see in a James Bond film. I also liked how gritty it was. Sean Connery is the most entertaining Bond, but Timothy Dalton may be the most realistic. His cold blooded approach to the role was very refreshing for the time, and I loved his all business attitude. He does have some Bond wit that we all love, but it's a really different portrayal as Bond. Some say he is the best Bond. I'd be inclined to disagree, but he might just be the Bond that resembles the books the most closely. Dalton was absolutely wonderful and probably tied for my 2nd favorite Bond with Daniel Craig. Maryam d'Abo is one of my favorite Bond girls of all time. There was just something about her that was so sexy and endearing. I thought she was excellent. Her chemistry with Dalton was awesome as well. Jeroen Krabbé makes for a very good weasel. He did his job pretty well. I liked how his character was unpredictable. Joe Don Baker is no stranger to Bond films. He was solid in his role. John Rhys-Davies was alright. I'm not really a big fan of his. Art Malik (Of True Lies fame) plays a prisoner here, and did well.Final Thoughts This movie doesn't get enough credit amongst Bond fans. It has consistent action, along with perfect pacing. It really rejuvenated the Bond series, and I was kinda sad to see Dalton go after only two films. I recommend this one highly8/10 "},{"Title":"Bond Back to Basics","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a great reader of Ian Fleming, but Timothy Dalton matched the Bond I envisioned while reading Fleming better than anyone else so far. With his Shakespearean background, Dalton may be the best pure actor in Bond. Roger Moore and Pierce Brosnan were likable but limited, with their respective Bonds were pitched to their range.Sean Connery got Bond off to a good start, partly because he had the best movies (Doctor No, From Russia With Love and Goldfinger no doubt top of many best-Bond lists). While Connery's Bond enjoying the finer things in life, because he might get killed any day, he came off as a refined thug.Though I like Connery's and Moore's Bonds and rank their better movies above Dalton's, the moment Dalton enters his first scene in the movie proper, he displays the eyes of a hit man. After all, though Bond is employed by a government and not the Mafia, he is a paid killer by profession. As Ian Fleming's short story The Living Daylights makes abundantly clear, Bond is an over-educated assassin (in the short story, whiling away the time before his kill by reading a German novel).It was gratifying to see some accuracy creeping back into Bond's scripts. The Living Daylights (movie) was surprisingly close to The Living Daylights (story) -- at least, during the movie's first post-credits sequence. The short story is set on a bomb-cratered landscape on the East German border, not a fancy hotel and concert hall in Bratislava, but the rest is there the defector, the persnickerty comrade, the night glasses (though the movie gives them a welcome comic relief), the blonde KGB assassin with the gun in her cello case, Bond's intentional near-miss. Unfortunately, all this takes only a few minutes of screen time. From then on, the writers spun an entirely new yarn.Spoiler In the movie, the blonde with the cello case is not a KGB assassin, as she was in the short story. It might have been fun to keep her a KGB assassin, having her and Bond square off as enemies in the movie (as opposed to being allies as in The Spy Who Loved Me). But this movie was intended for Roger Moore (before his defection) and only tailored here and there for Dalton's harder style. I can see Dalton playing cat-and-mouse with a female KGB assassin just as good as he is, against an actress in the mode of Ursula Andress or Famke Janssen. This was beyond Moore's capabilities, and possibly his inclinations.Though I thoroughly enjoyed the movie the story is difficult to follow and I did not really piece it all together the first time through. The Soviet defector is apparently kidnapped by the KGB and swept away from a secure compound; but in reality he is in league with an international arms dealer (played by Joe Don Baker).The movie's best scenes after the original defection concern Bond's wary alliance with Soviet General Puskin (a masterful John Rhys-Davies). Just in case you don't know, Pushkin, like Gogol, the name of the general played in earlier Bond movies by Walter Gotell, is a nineteenth century Russian writer.When Bond tries to track down his missing defector, he is captured (of course) and there ensues a long sequence of events with Afghan rebels fighting Soviet invaders. This is capped by one of the best fight scenes in any Bond movie, where Bond and his opponent are clinging desperately to netting fluttering behind a military cargo plane. Anyone not excited by this fight hasn't got a pulse.The Living Daylights has many pluses Timothy Dalton's edgy Bond as slit-eyed hit man (though his cruel approach disappointed some Bond fans after a decade and a half of Moore's bon vivant, Hugh-Hefner-as-spy Bond); John Rhys-Davies; Jeroen Krabbé's delightful take on the defector; John Glen's direction; and, as usual, Bond's car with its extras. Minuses, unfortunately, include three essentials for a Bond movie the Bond girl, the Bond villain, and the villain's henchman. Joe Don Baker's sleazy arms dealer, Brad Whitaker, is not after world domination, and he's too much of a buffoon to succeed if he tried. In The Living Daylights Bond is not pitted against an adversary worthy of his mettle; and he has a dull name, too. Brad? My IT guy at work is Brad. Whitaker's henchman is well-nigh indestructible, but lacks the personality of Odd Job, Tee-Hee or Tattoo. Bond girl Kara Milovey (a moderately better name than Moonraker's Holly Goodhead) is not really Bond-girl pretty and she lacks the spunk usually associated with Bond girls. She seems more the type of girl Bond might marry, if his first wife, Tracy, hadn't been Diana Rigg (a hard mark to meet!) On a personal note, I missed the ballads that opened Bond movies I grew up with (Nobody Does it Better, For Your Eyes Only, All Time High.) But times and musical taste change and Bond must keep up with them (remember the remark Connery's Bond made about the Beatles in Goldfinger?) Overall, The Living Daylights contains the best of Bond performances by Timothy Dalton, a story that moves too fast for you to notice its soggy bottom, and no time wasted by Bond dallying with women shoehorned into the movie just to be eaten by dogs or killed by an iron Frisbee. The climax is an anti-climax coming after the fight in the sky and the movie goes out with a whimper rather than a bang, but you can't have everything. After fourteen Bond movies it must have been difficult for Cubby Broccoli's team to develop new ways of exploding villains. "},{"Title":"One of the few Bond films I like","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton's short-lived tenure as Bond saw the franchise jettison the unfunny one-liners, cheesy action and irritating gadgets that had consumed it, and the result was a critical kicking. Funny, as 'The Living Daylights' is one of the best, giving Bond an edgy and less smug tone that's far more interesting than Sean Connery boring the tits off me in a flat adventure or Roger Moore's eyebrow puffing through a shonky cheddar-fest. Unlike so many entries in the series, the action sequences are pacy and exciting, with John Barry's score adding momentum, while Dalton makes a strong (and chronically underrated) lead and the supporting cast impresses. Except Maryam d'Abo, she's shite. The plot slackens off before the finale, but as the movie manages to get that far without constantly winking at the audience, that's good enough for me. "},{"Title":"By far, the most underrated, under-appreciated Bond film","Date":"26 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It seems like everyone loves the early Sean Connery Bond films, and it seems as if most people at least like one or two of the Daniel Craig films. I can't, however, find many people who like either of the Timothy Dalton films. It's a shame, really, because The Living Daylights, to me, is an underrated gem. It is easily my favorite Bond film since the Sean Connery era, and in some ways, it is my favorite.Why is The Living Daylights so good? The number one reason is action. Out of the top ten action scenes in the Bond series, at least two of them are in this movie. The first is a spectacular car chase with the best Bond car ever, a beautiful sports car upgraded with missiles, skis, spikes for ice, and lasers. (I've had a few option extras installed &#x96; one of my favorite Bond lines). Every other car in the Bond movies, save the one in Goldfinger, is dull compared to this one. The other great action scene comes near the end. I won't spoil it for you, but it is one of the wildest and most thrilling death struggles I have ever seen. When I first saw this film in the theater, there was a mixture of gasps and excited laughter from the audience at the craziness of it. This was, in some ways, a golden age of action scenes in movies. It was when budgets were big enough to do cool stuff, CGI was still ten years off, and directors weren't too lazy to choreograph great action scenes. This movie is an example of how great action can be.The second reason this movie is so good? Gadgets. I already mentioned the car, but Dalton's bond in this movie had a couple of other nice ones as well. I'm always disappointed when a Bond movie doesn't have at least one or two gadgets. They are part of what makes the movies so cool, and what makes every heterosexual male fantasize about being James Bond. Who wouldn't want to have all kinds of little futuristic, secret toys in their pockets?I have never understood why Timothy Dalton didn't catch on with audiences. So he wasn't quite as macho and charming as Sean Connery &#x96; big deal. Compared to Roger Moore the Clown, he was fantastic. He was serious, tough, and dark enough, but he still retained a sense of humor, and so did the movie. Dalton had great range &#x96; imagine Bruce Willis, if Bruce Willis was a classically trained British actor. During the action scenes, he retains a sense of calm and confidence, without cracking a dumb joke every five seconds (but maybe the occasional smirk). That is why the crazy action scenes work so well. I found Timothy Dalton to be way more enjoyable than Pierce Brosnan, and I like him better than Daniel Craig too.This movie had some pretty decent villains, although the plot was unnecessarily convoluted. The big henchman, who Michael Fassbender reminds me a lot of, is one of my favorite Bond henchmen of all time. He isn't just a big brute or a bodyguard. He is also an assassin, with capabilities about on par with Bond. If there is a true weakness in this movie, it is that the Bond girl is pretty weak. Granted, most Bond girls are pretty weak, but this one (other than being very easy on the yes) is kind of a nuisance. She does some retarded stuff sometimes, and doesn't do much besides shout stuff like look out with her eyes wide open.I recently saw Skyfall, and I was thoroughly disappointed by it. Bond movies have fallen so far from what made them so enjoyable &#x96; James Bond uses gadgets, kicks ass, foils the villain, and gets the girl. He doesn't need to be a clown, and he doesn't' need to be a dark, brooding hero either. Instead of constantly reinventing this formula, I wish that somebody would make another Bond movie like this one. "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton was the definitive Bond","Date":"18 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film marked the franchise's quarter of a century, and for me it was a very positive turning point. Timothy Dalton channels more emotion into one expression than Roger Moore summoned in seven films, and the way his Bond develops relationships makes this a deeper and more enjoyable character study than any other Bond film. This is evident not only in the film's monogamous love interest but in the growing respect and trust between Bond and Saunders, conveyed with intelligence and economy and making the death of Saunders and Bond's reaction to it actually matter. Joe Don Baker and Jeroen Krabbe lack gravitas as the villains and both of their characters might have fared better in a Roger Moore vehicle but John Rhys Davies makes an impact, Thomas Wheatley does very well as Saunders and Maryam D'Abo shows an appealing balance of vulnerability and courage. I question aspects of the direction, with some of Dalton's lines getting lost in the background, but the action sequences are well handled and Dalton carries the film from the first minute to the last. This was a Bond with bite, a killer with a soul, and every time I see it I'm more convinced that Timothy Dalton was the definitive 007. "},{"Title":"A real world James Bond.","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm not that into James Bond nowadays. I've seen all the movies, several more than once. Too many of the plots involve evil trust fund babies trying to take over the world, destroy the world or steal the all the money in the world. When the Bond films try to ground themselves in some semblance of reality, they still indulge in fantastical gadgets and implausible action-set pieces featuring everything from wheelie popping big rigs to parkour. The only exception to this rule, so far, has been the Living Daylights.The story has nothing to do with global domination or obliteration. It's just about a scam being perpetuated by a Soviet officer and an American arm's merchant to skim millions off the Soviet's occupation of Afghanistan. As such, TLD's storyline feels very much in line with the reality of Cold War era politics. It was so dead on it even had to have a disclaimer put at the beginning of the film.As for Bond himself, Timothy Dalton nailed it. First off, Dalton, circa 1987, looked like a regular, run of the mill guy. He didn't have a deep, overly confident voice. He didn't have a swagger. He didn't have broad shoulders or a distinct lack of empathy for the human condition. He was one of us. Thanks to Dalton's performance, Bond's humanity, which is usually ignored, got to shine through. The look of surprise when he found out the sniper was the cellist; the look of pure rage when Saunders was murdered; and the horror on Bond's face when he nearly shot a mother and her child because he misread the situation painted a very human portrait. So, when Bond spring to action, it had a little more impact than in the other films. Case in point, the ambush of General Pushkin was some pretty ice cold stuff.As for the rest of the cast, I had no problem with them. Kara was a doe eyed ditz, sure. But she'd been painstakingly sheltered from certain realities. It made absolute sense how Bond could develop real feelings for her over the time they were together. As for the bad guys, good work. Many say the villains of TLD weren't up to the task, but I say nay. In the real world, killers for hire don't wear razor rimmed hats or have bionic braces. They're just really good at getting you to stop breathing through proper planning, preparation and execution. So Necro measured up by being physically unremarkable, save for the fact he was exceptionally skilled at what he did. Koskov and Whitaker, however, really take the cake. The reason people who pull strings like to stay behind the scenes is because, 90% of the time, they don't have the gut for the live stuff. So these two being such lames is not only realistic, it is commendable the studio was brave enough to not amp them up to some impossible level of formidability.However, this isn't to say there isn't action. There are car chases, gunfights, fistfights and explosions galore. The pursuit and confrontation between Bond and an assassin in the opening; the attack on the safe-house; the Soviets pursuit of Bond and Kara; the rooftop escape in Tangiers; the brawl at the prison; Bond hijacking a plane in the middle of a firefight between the Mujahideen and Soviets; the fight between Necro and Bond; and the death of Whitaker were all on it. With the lone exception Bond and Kara's escape to Austria, nothing was overdone and felt plausible. Bond's marksmanship and affinity with firearms never felt unrealistic. His proficiency at unarmed combat wasn't flashy, but remained extremely effective and practical. This Bond had one foot firmly planted in hard reality and the other right up someone's ass.There have been over two dozen Bond films, each one claiming to reinvent the wheel and change how the character will be perceived. Some have had better luck at this than others. But The Living Daylights stands as the only one that can honestly be classified as a genuine espionage thriller. TLD delivers a very human Bond to a setting that feels ripped from old newsreels and not from a pulp serial. If that sounds up your alley, treat yourself to a viewing. Go ahead...you deserve it. "},{"Title":"Bond helps the Mujahideen (my, how times have changed!).","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion, the biggest travesty of the whole James Bond series is that Timothy Dalton only got to play the character twice his version of 007 was the perfect balance of the hard-edged espionage action of Ian Fleming's original stories and the fantastical, gadget-laden world of the previous blockbuster movies.The Living Daylights, Dalton's debut as the world-famous spy, has an intricate plot grounded in the very real world of cold war politics and international arms dealing, but retains just enough of the franchise's more fun elements to make it a hugely satisfying experience.Of course, the cinema-going public, who frequently display what bad taste they have in such matters, didn't approve and Dalton's stint as Bond was tragically cut short (but at least not before he starred in License to Kill, one of the best of the whole Bond series, and a far more gritty and effective movie than any of Daniel Craig's efforts). "},{"Title":"A decent Bond flick but still lacks the slickness of previous Bond movies.","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I went into this with modest expectations back in 1987 with a new Bond.I had liked Sean Connery the most out of all the Bonds and never really got into Roger Moore because he was too old and just didn't look like an action star so anyone after Moore was a welcome sight. So enter Timothy Dalton.He tries his best but in all honesty - he just doesn't have much to work with - the action scenes deliver but the in between is where it drags. His female love interest is so wishy-washy whiny you just want to slap her and tell her to shut up. There are also some really bad lines meant to be serious but more groan material like why did they write that. Joe Don Baker is also a bad choice for a villain - he is no match for Bond and to me one of those buffoons out of a video game that is an easy kill. The ending is also pure tongue in cheek sap with the Oh James do me fade to credits with a bad ending song - the Pretenders while a good pop band sing 2 really bad songs in this movie - The irritating Where has everybody gone and the ending theme If there was a man , AHA sings the mediocre title song . 7/10 "}{"Title":"a welcome facelift for 007","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A transfusion of much-needed young blood can't disguise the fact that James Bond has been an anachronism for too long now. The films still provide the same sexist, sadistic escapist entertainment, but the world has changed since the days when jovial megalomaniacs like Auric Goldfinger and Ernst Stavro Blofeld plotted global domination from their mountaintop fortresses. And let's face it these days who needs a 'license' to kill? Newcomer Timothy Dalton is at least more of a human being than a wind-up superspy, playing the role closer to the casual, cold-blooded amorality of Sean Connery than to the geriatric lechery of the last few Roger Moore efforts. Never mind the actual plot, which finds agent 007 pursuing a renegade American arms smuggler and his Soviet colleague from Gibraltar to Afghanistan. It's all just an excuse for more of the usual hair-raising, Perils-of-Pauline stunt work, minus much (but not all) of the juvenile humor and distracting gadgetry, which was turning Bond into a caricature of his suave former self. "},{"Title":"One of the best of the series","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" TLD has one of the best opening sequences in the series; it perfectly introduces the new 007 in the middle of a deadly situation, then throws him into a startling action scene, before falling into the arms of an exotic beauty and stating, 'Bond. James Bond. Then bang!, straight into the credits and one of the coolest and most exciting theme tunes of the series.Daylights is perhaps the quintessential Bond movie, as it contains elements of everything; the serious, Cold War espionage thrills of the 60's movies; the silliness and comedic set-pieces of the 70's movies; the John Glen-ness of the 80's obviously; the larger-than-usual emphasis on romance and romantic atmosphere of On Her Majesty's Secret Service; and the beginnings of the fleshing out of Bond's character which continued into the Brosnan and Craig movies.And it executes all of this with hardly a misstep. Dalton hasn't the way with witticisms Moore provided, but the suggestion that he is merely a miserable, broody Bond is misplaced. His Bond does glower and seethe with resentment at times, he also displays happiness and every other emotion. Dalton's Bond also smiles more than any other Bond. And most of the other actors simply smiled ironically at suggestion of a sexual conquest, Dalton's Bond is far more genuine with his emotion.The movie does very little wrong, but although very story-based, lacks a strong forward momentum. It's quite leisurely, even the final act feels like, Well, where shall we go next? The film also lacks the strong sense of danger that the best entries do. Henchman Necros is more believable than your Jaws or Oddjob, but completely lacks the threat they provided. It also doesn't help that he is set up as a super-assassin in the first fifteen minutes, then does nothing until his fight with Bond in the finale.As for the other bad guys, though they have been criticised as weak and forgettable, I quite like them on this viewing. They are smart, scheming criminals, independent of any country or criminal organisation, it makes them quite unique. Brad Whitaker with his plan, ultimately, is most comparable to Auric Goldinger. His obsession with war is a Fleming-worthy character trait, and the waxworks of himself as major historical warriors was clever suggestion of an unbalanced mental state. Also great is the way he rips the legs off his lobster with a complete lack of self-awareness or grace. He's a greedy, childish brat in a man's body. Koskov is annoying, a semi-comedic foil who one senses at the end was intended to appear in the series again.Bond girl Kara is perhaps a little lightweight in the sexy stakes, but she is a more rounded character than usual, and Maryam d'Abo comes across very sweet and genuine. Unfortunately some old-fashioned, this girl is useless at everything, humour of the early 70's Bond movies creeps in, but it's forgivable. Her swift rise from being a member of the orchestra to having a world tour is somewhat naive and unnecessary, especially as there seems to be no reason for it. Nevertheless, one of the better Bond girls.TLD has some of the best action of the series, including a perfectly executed opening sequence on a jeep, the gadget-laden Aston Martin chase, the battle hanging out of the aeroplane (which is still jaw-dropping), and the final shoot-out with Whitaker. Glen's action direction has less punch than in his first effort, For Your Eyes Only, but his skill with tension and sudden shocks (the monkey, the dove, Bond almost getting shot after killing Whitaker) is evident as always.Mention must also go to one of John Barry's most evocative scores, and the cinematography which really captures the exotic feel of the numerous locations involved. TLD feels like one of the most globe-trotting and global Bond movies, especially compared to the following movie, which was centred in the Americas.As Licence to Kill took a different turn for the series, The Living Daylights feels like the last 'classic' Bond movie (partly due to the fact that John Barry did not contribute again). At least until Casino Royale. It's certainly one of the best of the series, with one of the best and most rounded performances in the role of Bond himself. "},{"Title":"After GOLDFINGER, OHMSS...the best Bond film. Period.","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the flakey, joke-filled mess of Roger Moore's uneven films, true 007 fans were rewarded with THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS, a complete change in tone and tenor that honors Ian Fleming's James Bond with the actor who most resembles the book's hero Timothy Dalton.I saw TLD opening day and was thrilled through the whole movie, from the fantastic dolly shot of Dalton's first appearance; the tough brutal fight scenes (probably the best in the series); the beautiful recreation of the original short story in the opening scenes (particularly Bond's disgust at shooting somebody into strawberry jam); the mix of genuine politics and espionage; John Glen's sturdy intense direction; John Barry's last (and effective) score; the unforced romance between Bond and Kira that's the most successful since OHMSS; the incredible battle from the airplane net; the care given to minor characters (note that bad ass kitchen fight between Necros and the unnamed agent); and with Dalton leading the way, probably the best ensemble acting in a Bond film.I felt a little sad opening day after the film, for as much as I loved the attempt to finally show us the novel 007, I knew that general audiences would not warm to Dalton, who was too serious to deliver the pre-requisite puns audiences favored over character.Still, Eon should be proud for attempting a complex assassin and Dalton's Bond will go down in history as the truest.I mean, just look at that shot of him after he's stashed Jeron Krabbe (btw, a terrific performance despite the complaints here that he's too nice -- not when he gets into that Russian uniform)in the boot of the car and his incompetent partner asks him where he is -- Dalton gives him a deadly look that is pure Connery/Bond. "},{"Title":"It's like a plane that never take off","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With the breakthrough of Timothy Dalton as new James Bond and a great sequence of action in Gibraltar,The Living Daylights seems to be another delightful movie like the precessor A View To Kill.But,what we see after the opening, is a film different from the otherssometimes seems like a romance(a lot of scenes in theatres with long kisses between Bond and his girl(Kara)),and a confuse plot with inconsistent villains(they are pathetic).Besides that,we have some holes in the screenplay...(what was the trip to Afeghanistan?...It was totally unnecessary and with no sense...seems like a frustrated try to elongate the movie by the limit of 2 hours,like every Bond movie) About the cast Dalton is a little bit unconfortable...and too serious...(even in jokes he doesn't laugh) Maryam d'Abo passes in test of Bond girl and we can see a good relation between the characters(him and Dalton) Desmond Llewelyn is excellent and his performance is the best one since Octopussy Caroline Bliss is almost imperceptible with his minimal chats...Moneypenny here is relocated to a second plan...(an outrage for the fans of this great character) Lastly,after this movie we can't wait for the nextLicense to Kill,much better than this one! "},{"Title":"The Most Underrated Bond Movie?","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's so sad that Timothy Dalton receives so much bad press for this movie! Not only was he following Roger Moore in character, he was also establishing himself as James Bond. It is my opinion that he carried out both of theses tasks with grace and flair. Dalton in my opinion was the best and most convincing Bond to date. He was English, not cheesy like Moore and a great actor. He was true to Fleming's original vision of Bond, and very believable in the role.What a great movie from a great era! The best soundtrack ever, featuring A-ha in the main theme (A track which is still performed live and well accepted) and Chrissie Hinde on the end theme. The best Bond car ever!!! That Aston Martin will surely be mine one day?The flow, the feel and choice of location for the movie is perfect, the characters are believable and it has a truly English vibe about it.I enjoyed this movie in the cinema as a child, and will always remember it as a great. Give it a try, and make your own mind up! "},{"Title":"Dalton is a genious","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  what a film! dalton is great as bond, the action is great and so is everything else. good to see the back of roger moore and a shame dalton didn't make goldeneye. it really annoys me that the franchise got into legal problems after licence to kill. "},{"Title":"Not a bad film, but","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad film, but Dalton is no James Bond.  You can see why he did only two films.  The story is done well, but lags in the middle.  This would have been one of the better films, but Dalton can not deliver a joke, and makes this film humorless.  He plays a good agent, but has no Bond charm.  Connery, and Moore, do laps around him.  In the end, this should have been Bronson's film, but he still had contrack obligations with NBC. "},{"Title":"Please, this guy is not James Bond!","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is what makes this film a failure. Apart from its main character, the film is solid, at least up to a certain point where it starts to be too naive (particularly the presentation of the Mudjahedins brought me a lot of laughs). Maryam d'Abo is sweet and attractive but is that enough? We have seen goddesses parading from the Bond films. The plot is ok, the effects very nice for 1987, the classic lines in position but Timothy Dalton does not represent what I have in mind for James. He ruined a film whose plot would make Sean Connery jealous. The scene on the wheel almost made me smash the TV! Where is the manhood? I mean if Leo Di Caprio had black hair, it would be the same thing! A big NO to Dalton and thank God he's gone!  "},{"Title":"Best Bond film, 1967-1999","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know why Timothy Dalton left the Bond series.  If `Licence to Kill' failed it was because of the script.  I know a lot of people think that the quality of a James Bond script has no affect whatsoever on box office takings, but they're wrong, I tell you, wrong.  At least, I hope they're wrong.`The Living Daylights' is simply the best written and plotted Bond film since Roald Dahl's `You Only Live Twice'.  (The earlier film wins on dialogue, the later one on story.)  Moreover I would have thought that everyone would be gasping in relief when the reign of Roger Moore ended.  I would have thought Dalton would be given grace to make at least three consecutive turkeys before being knifed (or pushed into resigning, or discouraged, or whatever happened - I don't claim to know how these things work).Kara (Maryam d'Abo) is, incidentally, probably the best female character to appear in the series at all, with the possible exception of Judi Dench's M.  For one thing, she's in the story for a reason.  (`Can I come too?' says the typical Bond girl, just as Bond is about to infiltrate the Red Army.  `Sure, why not?' says Bond.)  She's also plausible cellist.  Indeed, All of the incidental characters in this film are pretty good, from arch-villain to whatsisname at the beginning.  And give me that dangling-in-the-air action sequence any day over the more gimmicky stunts where trucks do cartwheels or boats drive through restaurants.  You'll notice, by the way, that the scene I'm referring to handles the bomb-in-the-background suspense the right way, for a change.  We know there's a bomb on the plane; we know that its clock is ticking; but we DON'T know how close it is to exploding - which makes us all the more uneasy.  So many directors muff it by showing us the time on the bomb's clock every other shot.One last thing why the title?  What's it a reference to?  It's true the film contains the line, `You scared the living daylights out of me'.  It also contains the line, `I'm not going without my cello,' but the film was in no danger of being called, `Without My Cello'.  I'm compiling a list of completely mystifying movie titles and there are quite a few Bond ones among them `Live and Let Die', `A View to a Kill', `The Living Daylights', `Tomorrow Never Dies'.  I'm always on the lookout for more mystifying titles, though.  I'll be grateful for any suggestions. "},{"Title":"A classic Bond Film.","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It has everything that a good Bond Film should have A good story, a beautiful girl, some spectacular action and a great Bond. I never liked this film at first- I was annoyed that Roger Moore had been replaced by someone who played Bond straight and down-to-earth, but recently I have come to realise it's strengths. Dalton is a talented actor, and this film reminds me of the gritty films of the Early 60's. No silly humour here, although there are some hilarious moments. Maryam d'Abo is very beautiful as the love interest, and Jeroen Crabbé is great, but not really up there with Goldfinger. The best things about the film in my opinion is the music (John Barry) which really puts an edge on the action scenes, and the amazing pre-credits sequence, which is what Bond films are all about. "}{"Title":"One of the strongest entries in the series","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have sometimes said that Timothy Dalton, who joined the franchise with this fifteenth (give or take) film, is my favorite Bond actor, sort of as a reaction to his generally poor standing. In all honesty, at least Sean Connery is probably better, but I do think he helped revitalize the series after a few quite silly films; he is a bit to his predecessor Roger Moore what Daniel Craig is to Pierce Brosnan. Dalton is grittier than most, but still handsome, not completely averse to one-liners, and prefers his dry martinis shaken rather than stirred.Other than the introduction of a new lead actor, The Living Daylights is a relatively standard Bond fare with all the classic elements in place, but they are uniformly strong here. A-ha's synthpop title song is one of the most memorable, the locations are exotic, the mad Russian villain is mad and Russian, the Bond girl is not just helpless and pretty but gets to kill some bad guys of her own, and instead of the usual dull countdown climax we get a much more exciting airplane finale. Altogether, that makes it one of the strongest entries in the series. "},{"Title":"Bond rises from the Ashes!","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights managed to bring Bond back down to Earth with a bump, and not a moment too soon following the very average 'A View to a Kill'. The producers rightfully did away with the whole 'comical' feel of the previous films, and replaced it with a more realistic, gritty feel that reminds us more of Connery's Bond. This was also helped by the casting of Timothy Dalton as Bond, who is very underrated in my opinion and deserve more of a chance that he was perhaps given. The film starts in Bratislava, where Bond and his ally Saunders are tasked with assisting defecting KGB General Koskov escape from the East to the West. They are able to successfully manage this, and Koskov agrees to help MI6, admitting that there is a secret plot to kill Western spies. However, after the debriefing, the mysterious henchman 'Necros' leads an assault on the MI6 safehouse, apparently kidnapping Koskov. Bond, not entirely convinced by this apparent escape, soon follows the trail of missing Koskov, and discovers that he has set up MI6, and that he and an American arms dealer are working together to smuggle heroin out of Afghanistan, whilst also setting up powerful Russian General, General Pushkin. I think that this Bond film is one of the best. It has a grounded, believable plot in the idea of a rogue general using the military to smuggle drugs and arms between unstable Middle eastern states. Compare that plot to some of the Moore plots, and you see why this is much better. This also has some sparkling actions scenes, from the thrilling opening pre-credits sequence, to the attack on the MI6 safehouse, to the final action scene in Afghanistan, with some thrillers inbetween. They are all very well choreographed, and none are too long, too drawn out or suffer from any 'light hearted' comical moments. The film's gritty feel is enhanced and perfected by Timothy Dalton's gritty Bond. He has his suave moments, but where Dalton really excels is the 'ruthless' moments. I actually think in those moments, Dalton even beats Connery. You always feel with Dalton's Bond that there is something disturbing behind the eyes, and you are left to wonder how far Bond will go to achieve what he needs to. In comparison to the final Moore films, Dalton's Bond has some very worthy characterization. Dalton's Bond is also given some great support. Kara,(Maryam D'Arbo) is a worthy, graceful Bond girl who's naivety wears off throughout the film as she sees Koskov for what he is. Art Malik as Kamran Shah steals the scenes towards the end of the film in Afghanistan, and John Rhys-Davies shows why he was the 80's go-to character actor with his portrayal of General Pushkin. Unusually, where this film does slip is with the villains. I'm a huge fan of Jeroen Krabbe, and I think he makes for a brilliant villain in the film 'The Fugitive', because that demands a subtle villain. But Bond needs more than just a subtle villain, and therefore Krabbe's General Koskov just isn't a strong Bond villain. He also has the worst exit for a Bond villain, because he's merely arrested. Let's face it, we like the Bond villains to die. I'm afraid that the villainous character of Whittaker is no better either, and is more annoying than anything. Overall though, I don't think that the slip with the villains is enough to stop this relentless ride, and The Living Daylights, for me, is worth 8/10. "},{"Title":"Easily removes the bitter taste from the previous film  (SPOILERS)","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After Roger Moore (wisely) decided to quit playing James Bond in Eon productions official series of films, it was up to producer Albert R. Broccoli to cast a new leading man. This would be difficult, as Moore had already held onto the role for 12 years straight and Cubby was unsure how the public would react to a new Bond after getting used to Sir Roger's more light-hearted portrayal. So when it was revealed that Timothy Dalton had been chosen as the new 007 (over future Bond Pierce Brosnan), people were uncertain of which direction the films would take. Thankfully, the finished result proved that a more serious look into the world of James Bond could work when the humour finds a balance. Combined with Dalton's stirring (or was that shaken?) performance, the film ranks up there as one of the best in the series.So why does Dalton stand out? Even though he only did two films (the other being the excellent but under appreciated Licence To Kill), he put his mark on the series by attempting to bring Ian Fleming's Bond straight from the original novels. The outcome is a more hard-edged Bond who doesn't care for bureaucratic politics and similar distractions. He gets the job done quickly and efficiently, though he still finds the time to act the suave gentleman when the occasion calls for it. But make no mistake--he means business when he's on the job.The film opens in a typically grand way Bond is on a training mission with two other 00-agents when an enemy comes in and sabotages the exercise. Bond gives chase in a thrilling sequence where the only thing that matters is clinging on to dear life. For the first time in a while, an action scene is not obviously populated by stuntmen (Dalton did some of his own stunts) and we feel an attachment to Bond. Really, however, it's a slam-bang way to introduce the new 007 and works perfectly, even managing to stand on its own.After the surprisingly routine title sequence, the movie picks up again in a sequence inspired, appropriately, by Fleming's short story The Living Daylights, where Bond has to help general Georgi Koskov (Jeroen Krabbé) get across the street without getting shot. The mission succeeds and Koskov is smuggled out of the country in an ingenious way. Unfortunately, things are not what they seem and eventually Bond is chasing after gun runners and diamond smugglers while hanging onto the back of a cargo plane in mid-air and tangling with the Mujahideen in Afghanistan. When you look at it that way, it's as if nothing's changed for our favourite secret agent! I'm not even going to try to summarize the plot because it would take too long. This isn't a fault--screenwriters Richard Maibaum and Michael G. Wilson create a story full of twists that causes the audience to think. While the Afghanistan elements of the film have dated, I credit them for at least trying to stay current with what was going on at the time, even though the intrigue is sometimes convoluted. Other elements of the script are noteworthy the limited use of gadgets heightens the sense of realism, and there's the danger of Bond having to rely on his skills, rather than Q's inventions, to get through the film. The key chain is a brilliant example that Bond doesn't need lasers or explosive pens to defeat his enemies.Speaking of the cast, the actors are fantastic. Maryam d'Abo brings innocence to Kara Milovy, one of the better of the Bond girls. John Rhys-Davies is in top form as the tough and assured General Puskin. He and Dalton have an intense confrontation in a hotel room that's surely one of the best scenes in the franchise. Meanwhile, Art Malik and Thomas Wheatley create top tier allies that are instantly memorable. The only miscasts are Caroline Bliss and John Terry, who don't leave that much of a mark on their long-running characters, Miss Moneypenny and Felix Leiter. On the villainous side, Koskov is too flamboyant, while Brad Whitaker (Joe Don Baker, who would return to the world of Bond as CIA contact Jack Wade) doesn't do much of anything. The only stand out is Andreas Wisniewski as Soviet assassin Necros, the best henchman since Jaws.While director John Glen has the movie running 10 minutes too long, he manages to keep the story flowing and recovers from the creative misfire of A View To A Kill. The action scenes (including a kitchen fight that doesn't even involve Bond) are impressively staged and have a definite flair to them. Glen also uses the films exotic locations to maximum effect. The Rock of Gibraltar, Tangier, Vienna, and Afghanistan are all beautifully photographed, and aren't just used as background scenery for Bond to pass through. He also takes time to develop the relationship between 007 and Kara. The Living Daylights would also mark the last time that composer John Barry would score a Bond film, and he goes out in a bang. Using the great songs by A-ha and The Pretenders as a template (as well as the classic Bond theme), Barry crafts a soundtrack that fits the film like a glove.If Moore had called it quits with Octopussy, Tim would have probably been chosen to do Moore's swansong, and maybe this reinvention of Bond could have happened sooner and the public might have reacted more warmly to Dalton. As it is, by the time The Living Daylights was made, other action heroes were starting to dominate the arena. Coupled with the AIDS scare going around at the time, interest in Bond was fading, even though the movie was by no means a failure. In the long run, the movie was a strong debut for Dalton, and even though it was already his second last, it reestablished James Bond as relevant and dangerous. 9/10 "},{"Title":"An impressive debut for Dalton","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" TLD is a terrific entrance for Timothy Dalton, whose 007 has all of Roger Moore's cunning and none of his... tedious monotony. Dalton is reminiscent of Connery's brilliant performances, but is somehow more... human. He brings a unique intelligence and complexity to the pantheon of Bond actors.TLD's plot, while somewhat difficult to follow, is nonetheless interesting and full of real twists that are often hard to find in Bond movies. With antagonists that are amusing, rather than abhorrent, and a Bond girl that has an actual role in the plot for once; plus a few extremely well-acted and interesting minor characters the likes of which dominated the Moore dynasty. Decent action and chase sequences, judging by the fact that I rarely lost concentration throughout them. All in all, one of the best of the 70s-80s Bond movies. "},{"Title":"Awesome.  A great Bond, true to the books.","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A great film.  I agree with many of the other user comments here.  I must say that I am a huge fan of the novels, and Timothy Dalton plays Bond truly, and to the max.  In the novels, Bond was a very flawed character - in this film, witness his anger at the death of Saunders (popping the balloon with his bare hands).  The cinematography may be somewhat flawed, but I honestly feel that there is no better Bond film for dialogue, or action.  And it is globe-trotting - an element that is very important to me, the Bond fan.  I mean, we visit Chekoslovakia, London (of course), Tangiers in Morocco, Gibralter, Austria, and Afghanistan (a stunning performance from the 'should-be' Bond, Art Malik).  Miryam D'yabo (excuse my spelling, I am VERY drunk...) is a fine Bond girl, if a bit too arty for the weak, licentious crowd.  We also have a phat Bond car - the Aston Martin, plus fine performances from Joe Baker, the wonderful Jonathon Rhys-Davies and Jerome Krabbe.Finally, I must say that John Barry's incredible talent has reached its pinnacle here.  This is the problem with modern Bond music.  In the Barry days, the theme music WAS the score, and vice versa.  I don't see Madonna's pathetic Bond song (selfishly about herself) featuring within the score of 'Die Another Day' like the three commissioned Bond songs do here.  Witness the crazy blond Russian's theme, and the beautiful love theme, The Pretenders' If There Was A Man.  One of the last great Bond films. (Goldeneye, of course, is crushingly wonderful, too).I hope you agree.  I have seen this film about nine times, and it gets better every time.Peace out, my friends, and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Dry Bond debut for Dalton.","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After Roger Moore's less than spectacular exit from the James Bond series,those in charge of these productions needed a strong debut from someone new.They didn't get it.Perhaps Timothy Dalton's lack of success as Bond has a lot to do with the fact that he only ended up with the role after Pierce Brosnan had to pull out and honor his Remington Steele contract with NBC.Connery and Moore added a great deal of charm to James Bond,and with Timothy Dalton,the charm level seemed to drop a few notches.Perhaps this film is to blame.The story is very dry and I had trouble staying interested in it.The only remotely exciting thing about the film was the performance of Joe Don Baker as a renegade arms dealer.Otherwise,this installment of the series is among the most forgettable. "},{"Title":"A good Dalton in a weak Bond movie.","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie might very well feature the best characterization of Bond till date but unfortunately the movie itself is not very good.Let my start of by saying that Timothy Dalton really was a great Bond! I absolutely love what he did to the Bond character in the two Bond movies in which he appeared.The story is weak even for a Bond movie and at times it is confusing. For instance it never has really become clear to me who is the real main villain (an essential part in a Bond movie). Is it Brad Whitaker (Joe Don Baker) or General Georgi Koskov (Jeroen Krabbé)?The movie also lacks some good memorable scene's, although the end battle is pretty big and spectacular for Bond standards. The action is good but everything around it is not. Maybe a different story would have helped?A Bond worth seeing (mainly thanks to Dalton) but not a memorable one.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Timothy Dalton Is James Bond.","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton debuts in the first of two appearances(sadly) as James Bond 007, who is on a mission to stop an alliance from a renegade Soviet general, and an illegal arms dealer, that take him on a globe-trotting adventure from London, Vienna, and Afghanistan, where he must ally himself with the locals in order to prevent these illegal weapons from falling into the wrong hands, and destabilize the region.Plot is refreshingly realistic and down-to-Earth, reflecting the far more serious take on Bond that Timothy Dalton brings to the character, a welcome change of direction, and his performance is superb. Too bad it lasted through only one more film... "},{"Title":"Decent start for Dalton, but also hints at the problems behind the scenes.","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Living Daylights introduces the world to the next James Bond, Timothy Dalton. Dalton had been considered briefly and actually got the role this time after Pierce Brosnan was held prisoner by NBC (his series was essentially canceled, but when publicity came out about him becoming Bond, they exercised their option and greenlit more episodes). Dalton makes for a fine Bond, playing the character more like the novels, with a colder, more ruthless demeanor. Unfortunately, he was saddled with some restrictions that other Bonds never had to experience. In light of the AIDS epidemic, Bond was not allowed to sleep around anymore, cutting down on the bevy of women in the film. OK, fair enough. He was also stuck with the fact that the producers had all but exhausted the literary materials (not that they had been using much of them since the Connery era, apart from titles). He had the further problem of decent villains. The Cold War was pretty much over and, despite the Afghanistan setting, the Russians weren't really players anymore. Meanwhile, for legal reasons, SPECTRE was out. So, Dalton gets stuck with a rather moronic arms dealer in Joe Don Baker. Hardly the stuff of Bond. Finally, the scripts were being written in committee and were rather disjointed, though that is far less evident here than in the next one.The film starts out well, with the teaser sequence introducing our new Bond in an exciting chase with an assassin, roaring through the Gibraltar location. The stunts are well done and it starts things with a bang. Dalton is very convincing here and he immediately sets the audience at ease with the change of actors. The ending, on a yacht, is pure Bond. The film continues in this vein when Bond must protect a Soviet defector from an assassin, who turns out to be a female cellist! Bond carries out his mission, in the grand tradition of these things, but smells a rat. What follows is in the best traditions of Bond. So far, so good. We have another exciting chase sequence and escape, with some nice comedic touches, but nothing as farcical as in the Moore years. Then things get overly convoluted.The film bogs down in the middle as we get the poorly executed plot revolving around Brad Whittaker's attempts to increase tensions between the East and West, to sell more arms. Bond goes on a merry chase through the Middle East and into Afghanistan. Along the way, we get more excellent stunts, but the plot is worn way too thin. It's saved by the spectacular fight on the cargo plane, but undercut by the ending in the villain's compound. Definitely a case of too many cooks.there is a lot to like here. Dalton provides a nice turn as a more serious Bond, evoking the Connery era and the literary character. He is young enough to carry the physical part, though he is not the biggest actor to carry the role. His intensity makes up for his size. Maryam D'Abo is pleasant as the love interest. She is no Diana Rigg, but the part doesn't give her a lot to do, apart from smile and run around. Jeroon Krabbe is excellent as the defector and John Rhys Davies makes for a fine successor to Gen. Gogol. Our assassin Necros is well essayed. Joe Don Baker is another matter. I just don't buy him as a world-threatening villain. Davies would have been far more suited to this role, or Krabbe himself. Baker comes off as too much of a loser to be much of a threat. He was far better used in the Brosnan era as a CIA contact.Overall, the film is pretty good, apart from the middle section and the convoluted plot of trying to set the East and West against one another. It was more than clichéd at this point and it would have been better to introduce a new threat, such as a new SPECTRE (obviously, it would have had to have been a new group), drawn from the ranks of the world's terror networks and espionage agencies. Also, the attempts at a more PC Bond fell flat. Bond is fantasy, so let it be Bond. I'm fine with toning down the racism and misogyny that had plagued it through the years, but they also ended up cutting much of the glamor. Let's face it, these films are male fantasies of glamor and adventure. Meanwhile, the stuntwork was excellent and the more serious tone was well appreciated. If you want to watch the Dalton era, stick with this film. "},{"Title":"The most underrated Bond movie.","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have often heard Timothy Dalton being criticized lacking humor but Roger Moore had too much of it. His movies, while mostly entertaining, were not very easy to take seriously. Dalton is the exact opposite of that. He is a tough, serious agent who wants the job done, he is probably the most realistic version of 007 and he does it well. But is that all that makes this a very effective Bond flick? No! This time the plot is not the usual Villain Wants to take over the world routine. It's actually about something a spy would be doing. We don't even start out knowing that the villain is the villain and he is one more interesting Bond villains I might add. The girl in this movie, while hysterical at times, can do somethings herself and she is in the movie because of the plot not for showing her boobies and of course this movie has its share of high-speed action. By far the most underrated Bond movie. "}{"Title":"So-so Bond adventure","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" KGB operative Georgi Koskov (Jeroen Krabbe) has defected to Britain, so James Bond (Timothy Dalton) is sent to kill the sniper trying to kill him. But Bond deduces that the sniper is Koskov's girlfriend Kara (Maryam d'Abo), so Bond poses as Koskov's friend and uses Kara to find him.The plot of this movie is very good, but it has an extremely slow pacing, d'Abo doesn't have the presence of a good Bond girl, and the villains are poorly-defined and overplayed.You have to give the producers credit for casting d'Abo, a normal girl who Bond slowly comes to love, but d'Abo doesn't have what it takes for the role. In more than one scene, she's just dead weight.There's really not much action, either. The KGB kidnaps Koskov at the beginning, which includes some good action. Then, it's really not until the end, in a climatic battle with henchman Necros (Andreas Wisniewski) on a net hanging out the back of an airplane, that any more action occurs. But unfortunately, the latter scene only occurs after a large boring segment in Afghanistan.Dalton is probably the best actor to have played Bond, and he plays Bond dangerously. There's some humor here, but it's not of the silly style of Roger Moore. Bond movies are often seen as a way for straight guys to look at good-looking women, but there really aren't very many here. Kara is the only female character with more than thirty seconds of screen time.Truthfully, there's more of a selection of good-looking men than women this time the sexy Dalton, the handsome Krabbe and the athletic Wisniewski. But the point here is high adventure and confusing you so much that you don't realize how ridiculous it all is, not the usual display of eye candy.The title song by A-Ha may very well be the film's highlight. "},{"Title":"Nice but certainly not even near to the best Bond films","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sure many will agree with me when I say that 1980's wasn't a very good 007 decade. Roger Moore was starting out to be a bit too old for the part but unfortunately nobody had the heart to tell him that so he persistently kept on returning to the role of agent James Bond and nothing seemed to stop him. Then he was replaced by a serious-minded fellow called Timothy Dalton which was (perhaps) a bad move from the producers considering he was a completely opposite of Moore.After all audience was already more than familiar with Moore's comical approach to 007, the man had played the part for 12 years. Was it the smartest idea to create an utterly different character out of Bond right after this? Of course no one knows what The Living daylights might have looked like with young Pierce Brosnan filling the shoes of Roger Moore but one can always dream about it. This movie looks like a masterpiece put only if I compare it to the latest Bond adventure Die another day.To put this as nicely as possible, I personally feel (and as always this is a matter of opinion so as far as I understand everyone has still a right to have one) The Living daylights is certainly not among the greatest James Bond movies of all times. If I look at all the 20 films of the classic action adventure series I can't place this film very close to the top even if I wanted to. The Living daylights belongs in the weaker half (bottom 10) and in the company of movies like On Her Majesty's secret service, A View to a kill and Tomorrow never dies.Timothy Dalton has never actually been my favorite James Bond and even his second and luckily last performance in Licence to kill surpasses this one. Although Dalton is far from being a bad actor he never really showed it in his Bond flicks. If someone says he's the best Bond of them all, then I'm glad that the world is still a place with lots of different opinions and we are not all alike.At least he looks good, he definitely looks like James Bond there's no doubt about that. What a shame he used his charm and style very sparingly and ended up making 007 look like a bore. In the end the biggest problem of The Living daylights is really not the fact that it's an awfully bad film (story is great, action scenes work, theme song is memorable) most of the other Bond movies are just so damn good. I guess that's nobody's fault. "},{"Title":"The Best Bond","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Living Daylights is my favourite Bond Movie. The elements that are often considered weaknesses in the film are the exact reasons why I like it. Following the over-the-top camp of the Moore years, Dalton steps into 007's shoes and brings an entirely different Bond to the screen. He's far from humourless as is often said, it's just not an obvious humour like that of Moore. The next largest complaint is that Bond's womanising is limited to one subject in the movie-two if you count the woman in the pre-credits bit. This is often attributed to the fact that The Living Daylights is a product of what we might call the  `AIDS Awareness Era.'  Contrary to popular opinion, I feel that his uncharacteristic monogamy lends greatly to the movie. It goes well with Dalton's serious, no nonsense portrayal of the super spy. The film also features the return of the Aston Martin, this time in the form of the gorgeous Vantage Volante v8. The villain isn't the strongest of all the 007 films, but must Bond fight a super villain in every film? Of course not, and it adds a little realism to the series after the many `way out there' Moore years.  The Living Daylights is a wonderful Bond movie. It is unique and features an excellent portrayal of James Bond by Timothy Dalton. Many say that Dalton's Bond is truer to Flemming's character than any other of the on-screen portrayals. Watch it. It's well worth your time. "},{"Title":"A high point in the Bond franchise","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A View To A Kill had been a step up from much of Roger Moore's inconsistent term as 007, which often lost itself in silliness. The Living Daylights continues this trend with a tight plot, good action, strong romance (as opposed to just sex, as is common in Bond) and solid performances from a cast of both well-known and new faces. The result is a film which is not only good Bond, but good spy-thriller.Timothy Dalton delivers a performance by turns serious and charismatic; his Bond is a highly-trained government operative trusted with saving both his country and the world, who bears great responsibility in addition to the usual arsenal of gadgets and unlimited budget. He provides a stark contrast to both Roger Moore's buffoonery and Sean Connery's overt masculinity.The Living Daylights survives as one of the best Bonds, though thanks to his second effort (License to Kill), Dalton is sadly often overlooked for his contribution to the Bond franchise. The fault, however, is with the latter film's dire plot and lack of Bond elements, and Dalton is an essential part of making The Living Daylights a highlight in the Bond series. "},{"Title":"Amazing! Purely Amazing!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Living Daylights is easily the best bond movie ever. Timothy Dalton is deadly serious about his role, which is a good thing after the antics of Roger Moore. Unlike Moore's later films, there is an absence of badly thought out jokes and sad, unrealistic plot turns. Art Malik is brilliant in this masterpiece of a film and Catherine D'Abo is equally good. The opening scene is probabley the best in the film, as the main action sequence drags on a little. A great movie which will be loved by bond fans all over the world. P.S Its a real relief after the terrible 'A View to a Kill'.   "},{"Title":"Bond peaks out...","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film was written by the duo Maibaum/Wilson who have co written the five best Bond films (For your eyes only, Octopussy, A view to a kill, The living daylights and License to kill). Maibaums passing away has however stopped any further collaboration between the two writes, and Wilson has continued with Bond as a producer on the far more mediocre Brosnan projects.This is the peak film in the top five Bond films. It features a Bond that can be identified with as a real person. Timothy Dalton portrays an agent that not only is an expert Black Jacker, but also a trained assasin. I feel the latter part makes an interesting change to the Bond that Moore portrayed that had a far more touristy feel to him.There are some classic bad guys (the giant Necros fills Jaws role perfectly), and the arms dealer Whitaker played brilliantly by Joe Don Baker.What makes this film truly amazing is apart from John Barrys classic score (along with Ahas title song) and the many twists and turns in the script is the realism of the plot. I feel this is a very welcome change from 1979s Moonraker.Timothy Dalton has claimed the place as the best Bond ever. He playes the role with an amazing ease and realism, something that Pierce Brosnan never has come even close to achieving. I feel it is only Ironic that the two agents how buy it in the first scene were played by actors who are near lookalikes to Roger Moore and George Lazenby. A new Bond is here, and capable of taking care of business! Amazing!  "},{"Title":"GREAT BOND FILM","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton made his debut as Bond in this classic Bond film.Bond films have evolved over the years. The 1960's and 70's were pure fantasy where Bond fought strange villains and travelled to space. Then the 1980's saw Bond becoming more realistic and dealing with believable villains. The Living Daylight is probably the most realistic Bond film ever.(POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD)The pre credits sequence is great where Bond jumps on top of a van to catch an assassin. There are many great scenes-particularly one where KGB agent Necros infiltrates Secret Service HQ. The end sequence where Bond battles Necros whilst hanging from a cargo plane is top notch.Dalton made an interesting Bond. He was human and very serious but there was a lot of subtle humour in the film if you watch. Dalton was actually asked to play Bond many times over the years (even in the late 60's when he would have been in his early 20's) so it was great to see him get the part in 1986. When I watched this film at the cinema I remeber enjoying it and thinking of how many great Bond films Dalton would do. Little did I know that Dalton would only do one more Bond film after this.One minor criticism-Jeroen Krabbe who plays General Koskov was not the most memorable Bond villain although Krabbe is a good actor. If anything, the best villain in this film in my opinion is the KGB agent Necros.The beautiful and underrated Caroline Bliss made her debut as Miss Moneypenny and Q was back. There were some good gadgets in this film including a device that let off stun gas if Bond whistled a certain tune (I cannot remember which tune exactly). And who can forget the beautiful Maryam d'Abo playing the intriguing Kara Milovy.A great Bond film with a great song as well. "},{"Title":"Definitely one of the best!","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit that this is definitely one of my favourite films in the series. I find it strange how people compare Dalton unfavourably with other actors before him and after him. I grew up on the Roger Moore films and hence was very much acquainted with them, and definitely enjoyed them.When I saw The Living Daylights in the cinema, I was absolutely blown away, and thought that Timothy Dalton did a fantastic job in the way he portrayed James Bond. It was a fresh approach, and it was progressive. It was valid, and I didn't sit there comparing him to Roger or Sean. Part of the reason why the series has lasted so long, is because each actor has a diffrent interpretation of the role which keeps it fresh. Roger isn't going to be like Tim and Tim isn't going to be like Roger. What would be the point in that? If they were all the same I would be bored out of my skull!I also enjoyed the cold war feel of the film, especially growing up in a culture where when I was in school we were always being told how to prepare for the prospect of a nuclear war. Dalton certainly has the presence, and looks very believable and in parts deadly. I love the scene in Gibraltar, and the scene at the opera to name a few, where he first meets Saunders before he is to carry out an assassination. The way he works himself up is simply brilliant.His handling of the role is described by some as being flat or wooden, but quite frankly I find that those comments are just regurgitated by what people have read in the press, and clearly they have not thought it out for themselves. A perfect example of this is I once lent the Dalton Bond films to a few friends who were all protesting saying that they heard they were not that good. Upon returning the films, having seen them, they were amazed how good they were, and agreed with me that they had been mislead by what they had heard about it. They all agreed that he played the part in context to the story very well, and they now rated him as a really good Bond.Some also say that he lacked the humour, but he was trying to play the role based on the Ian Fleming character of the books who was considerably different to the films. In alot of ways I respect his braveness. Another thing one notices with Bond is that for the producers it is a catch 22 situation. When Roger was in the role, I remember people were complaining that they were tiring of the one-liners, and the supposed  sameness of each of his films. So they try out a more serious, and different approach and people complain about how po-faced the new Bond is. It seems to me that some people are never satisfied, and could be the reason for the eventual termination of the series.For this reason, it stands out and compares very favourably with the previous interpretations of Bond, and the subsequent efforts. "},{"Title":"Definitely one of the best!","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit that this is definitely one of my favourite films in the series. I find it strange how people compare Dalton unfavourably with other actors before him and after him. I grew up on the Roger Moore films and hence was very much acquainted with them, and definitely enjoyed them.When I saw The Living Daylights in the cinema, I was absolutely blown away, and thought that Timothy Dalton did a fantastic job in the way he portrayed James Bond. It was a fresh approach, and it was progressive. It was valid, and I didn't sit there comparing him to Roger or Sean. Part of the reason why the series has lasted so long, is because each actor has a diffrent interpretation of the role which keeps it fresh. Roger isn't going to be like Tim and Tim isn't going to be like Roger. What would be the point in that? If they were all the same I would be bored out of my skull!I also enjoyed the cold war feel of the film, especially growing up in a culture where when I was in school we were always being told how to prepare for the prospect of a nuclear war. Dalton certainly has the presence, and looks very believable and in parts deadly. I love the scene in Gibraltar, and the scene at the opera to name a few, where he first meets Saunders before he is to carry out an assassination. The way he works himself up is simply brilliant.His handling of the role is described by some as being flat or wooden, but quite frankly I find that those comments are just regurgitated by what people have read in the press, and clearly they have not thought it out for themselves. A perfect example of this is I once lent the Dalton Bond films to a few friends who were all protesting saying that they heard they were not that good. Upon returning the films, having seen them, they were amazed how good they were, and agreed with me that they had been mislead by what they had heard about it. They all agreed that he played the part in context to the story very well, and they now rated him as a really good Bond.Some also say that he lacked the humour, but he was trying to play the role based on the Ian Fleming character of the books who was considerably different to the films. In alot of ways I respect his braveness. Another thing one notices with Bond is that for the producers it is a catch 22 situation. When Roger was in the role, I remember people were complaining that they were tiring of the one-liners, and the supposed  sameness of each of his films. So they try out a more serious, and different approach and people complain about how po-faced the new Bond is. It seems to me that some people are never satisfied, and could be the reason for the eventual termination of the series.For this reason, it stands out and compares very favourably with the previous interpretations of Bond, and the subsequent efforts. "},{"Title":"One of the Better Bond Films","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I gave it an 8, which I think is a little generous using the criteria I use for most movies, but since I give this a 9 on the Bond scale, I can see giving it an 8.I really liked Dalton as Bond in this movie.  This Bond actually seems like a spy and less like a cartoon character.  Also, Living Daylights has much a much better plot development than the other Bond films.  Overall, it seems to have more of a mature feel to it. "}{"Title":"This one is the best","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Good story,music,sets all in this first Mr Dalton's Bond series. The moment the movie begin, i realised it can be done better but never mind, that should be fine.Another thing to hate is the blow up thing, the mansion near the beautiful garden. Other than that, totally enjoyable.Locations are great, some nice sandy place and concert hall. Brilliant performance Ms d'Abo "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond films","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Being a big fan of the Dalton Bond, I must say that revisiting 'The Living Daylights' on DVD was a joy. Make no mistake, Dalton's Bond is superb!Dalton strips away the Roger Moore baggage and makes the character very gritty, a tired spy, yes A SPY! Going back to the original Fleming novels for research, Dalton brings out a Bond who is not perfect, a flawed human man. Dalton is by far the most human, he is no cartoon.The plot for first timer viewers will be confusing, but give it a 2nd watch, and you'll understand it better. The plot is very cold-war, very real at times, down-to-earth. The only problem with the picture is that the villains are under-used, they are not strong, or have the depth. But, saying that, they work well.The Bond girl is refreshing, no longer does Bond jump into bed asap - this was very nice.Dalton's debut as Bond is superb, although his jokes don't come off as well as Roger Moore, or Sean Connery, everything else is fantastic.The Bond score by John Barry is fantastic, nearly perfect, his best effort since Moonraker.Roger Moore's Bond was a lot of fun, but Dalton provides something knew, which kept the Bond franchise alive. Make no mistake, Dalton is a terrific Bond, I wish people would understand that he wanted to make the character real.James Bond will return!  "},{"Title":"Return of Fleming's Bond","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There is something inheritly wrong with today's James Bond so-called fans.  Today's fans demand that James Bond must become an adult comic book with superfical OTT bad guys like Carver in Tomorrow Never Dies or like Drax in Moonraker.  The bad guys MUST have OTT memorable henchman like Jaws or OddJob.  This isn't what James Bond is meant to be, yet through the media and the so-called dumbing down of society, the comic book Bond is what we get.To be honest, I prefer Dalton's human and more down to earth approach to playing James Bond.  And in this film, ironically scripted for Moore, he delivers where Brosnan hoped to deliver in The World Is Not Enough.Dalton plays the character very coldly, smoothly and more like the book than I've ever seen in the entire Bond series.  The eyes of a wolf that Dalton has are piercing, the eyes of a killer.  True, Dalton is no Connery - and true Dalton can't seem to handle comedy or the kind of lines Moore would enjoy.  But Dalton isn't that kind of actor.I enjoyed Living Daylights, from the action packed start sequence onwards it feels like a proper spy action yarn.  Most of my friends say that it goes downhill after the action pre-credits sequence, I don't agree.  The sequence helps the entire story, and the build up of Bond's character.The plot revolves around the framing of the head of the KGB for killing American and English spies - and although it feels confusing it does not making it hard to watch or understand (unlike Mission Impossible), and unlike other James Bond films - the globetrotting does not ditract from the plot - nor does it make you wonder why are they here again?. The action, for a Bond film, is worthwhile to watch, the acting is also excellent, if not hammy at times.  This film brings back memories of From Russia With Love or On her Majesty's Secret Service.  This is the Bond I've always wanted to see, and I'm glad an actor such as Dalton played him.  This film remains one of the best of the James Bond films.  Not because of the comic book styled plot or megalamaniacal bad guys or the henchman or even the action - but because it returns to what Fleming wanted on screen.My Rating 8/10. "},{"Title":"Dalton's one good outing is amongst the best","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I hadn't seen The Living Daylights since 1987 - it seemed for a long time to be a rarity in video stores in my area.  All I had to go on (except vague memories) was the appallingly bad Licence To Kill to rate Dalton.  Now with the DVD special editions, I am finally reminded that Dalton was a good Bond and more importantly that the film is one of the best in years.The plot is strong, unlike the films that immediately surround it (A View To A Kill and Licence).  The action is top-notch.  One weakness, however, is how dated it feels even older Bond films don't feel as dated in some respects.  I'm thinking in particular of a couple of gadgets the walkman strangling cord and the ghetto blaster are silly and stupid.  Way too topical and mid-80s.That aside, however, I can say that The Living Daylights, in terms of sheer excitement, is the best Bond film from 1987 to present.Dalton, too, did a better job here than in Licence.  His Bond is more fleshed out - in Licence he is a bore too dark, too mad, and just unappealing.  Here, he has the darkness and madness, but he actually manages to keep a grasp of charm and humor.  I prefer Connery, Moore, and even Brosnan overall to Dalton - but in this one movie, Dalton actually outperforms all of them. "},{"Title":"This is a good, if not perfect Bond film.","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is an okay, if not perfect Bond film. THe plot is hard to follow, but the action sequences are some of the best in the Bond films. The villain is weak, and Joe Don Baker isn't great in the role. If the plot and villain were better this would be one of the classic Bond films. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"The Living Bond","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Every Bond has his own style and charm. And Timothy Dalton is the best living Bond. His appearance is fair and square. We see James Bond as the real man ever.Sean Connery does it with style, George Lazenby does it with calm, Roger Moore does it with humour, and now Pierce Brosnan does it with sleekness.I reckon that this is one of the original, yet still has the true Bond spirit, international conflicts, exotic places to go, and many enemies to deal with, not loosing the relevancy and actuality of current event.The score is even more good. Not only a-ha's Living Daylights, but also the music score along the movie is one of the best ever.This is Dalton's best as James Bond. A constant fun in all day evening movie! "},{"Title":"BEST BOND ACTOR, FILM, THEME SONG, WOMAN!","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  If you want to hear the plot, read another review! This is my opinion!THIS IS THE BEST BOND FILM! Believe it or not, this is the ONLY 007 film that has a believable plot and a somewhat good theme song! Lot of people never liked Timothy Dalton as Bond, but if any of you had ever taken the time to read any 007 books, you would realise that he is Bond!My personal 007 faves to date are 1. The Living Daylights 2. Licence to Kill 3. Diamonds are Forever 4. For you Eyes Only 5. The World is Not Enough2 things really shocked me when I went to see this The Living Daylights! (1)Bond didn't screw the opposite sex left and right! He actually treated the girl with respect! Tell me all the other Bond actors who did that!(2) Dalton portrayed Bond as a real person! Not some superman who laughed when his life was hanging by a thread! Too bad Dalton didnt act in Goldeneye. It probably would have been a much better movie.All and all, this was a damn good movie....its worth seeing. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Possibly the Best Bond Film","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In my humble opinion, John Glen II's The Living Daylights is the best inclusion in the Bond series.  It was ridiculously overlooked because it starred an underrated Bond (Timothy Dalton) and lacked the glitter and marketing of today's Bond flicks (no comment).  Recently, however, fans are giving the movie a second look and recognizing it as one of the great Bond films.The Living Daylights starts off as a simple assignment to kill a KGB sniper.  However, Bond  disobeys orders on instinct. This plot twist sets the tone for a dynamic film full of unpredictable turns, murders, and betrayals.  Bond, initially investigating a plot to kill British agents, continues to follow his `instinct' and uncovers another assassination plot, forcing him to question who the enemy really is.  In doing so, he travels through a half-a-dozen countries, ruins a fully loaded sports car, and, of course, finds romance.  Simply put, the perfect Bond plot.As an action film, The Living Daylights holds its own and then some. It's full of breathtaking sequences - from skydiving onto the Rock of Gibraltar, to skiing down a mountain on a cello, to hanging onto a plane midair (side note - this scene is UNREAL).  These are just the action scenes.  The drama is just as intense.  My personal favorite is the confrontation between Bond and General Pushkin (John Rhys Daves).  If you haven't seen it, check it out.As a Bond film, The Living Daylights excels.  007 is in top form. Although not as cool as Connery, nor as pretty as Moore, Dalton's performance is outstanding.  His portrayal of 007 as a rebel, an idealist, and a romantic adds depth to the character's somewhat arrogant and misogynous stereotype. In addition, the movie develops a romance that is the most realistic one I can recall in a Bond film. Add along quality dialogue (reminiscent of the older Bond films) and one of the best soundtracks I've heard, and one gets a damn good film.  "},{"Title":"One of Dalton's Best, almost ties with LICENCE TO KILL (1989)","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  First excellent Bond film for a new actor (Connery had the OK Dr. No to start with, Moore had Live And Let Die, and Lazenby had On Her Majesty's Secret Service). Timothy Dalton is definitely the best James Bond second only to Sean Connery. The film is just slightly better than Diamonds Are Forever and just below Goldfinger. This one contains some of the best action sequences; A fight on a plane tail and the best (and funniest) car chase sequence in Bond History (especially good about this scene is the return of GOLDFINGER's Aston Martin). Its a shame that this one is Dalton worst Bond film, its sequel LICENCE TO KILL would be Dalton's best.  "},{"Title":"Painfully underrated","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Living Daylights comes very close to being one of my favourite Bond films. Timothy Dalton can actually act, and is far more faithful to Fleming's original character, thus breathing badly needed new life into the series. Dalton is hard and professional, but he also gives the impression that his relationship with Kara is an emotional one rather than one of Moore's almost sordid conquests.What the film lacks however is a strong baddie. Both Whitaker and Koskov are faintly comical, slightly pathetic characters. Art Malik provides an inevitably strong cameo but no-one comes close to stealing Dalton's thunder, this probably rates as one of the top two performances as Bond, the other being Connnery in From Russia With Love.  "}{"Title":"One of the best Bond movies ever.","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best Bond movies ever. Dalton did great for his frist Bond movie. It has a great theme song. Sometimes it's hard to understand some of the plot. Whitaker is not as dangerous as Bond villains from the past. Bond's car is perfect. The Keyring is one of Q's best gagets. The scenes and settings are great. The Living Daylights has every thing a Bond movie should have. "},{"Title":"Avant-Garde Bond","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The departure of Roger Moore from the franchise with Octopussy induced a vacuum at United Artists. The inevitable reply was The Living Daylights, a work that solidified the revolving door for the Bond role. Daylights also was a salute to the changing face of the Cold War and esiponage. The reason it succeeds, is a greater development of James Bond the character and not the caricature. In films past, James Bond had numerous challenges. The plausibility of these stories often became lost, and Roger Moore was more animation than actor at times. But Moore, like Connery before him, had infused so much of his dapper personality into the role, it seemed as if no one could ressurect the work. In 1985, Warner Brothers signed Sean Connery again to star in Never Say Never Again. It became evident that more development would be needed to save the franchise. Enter Timothy Dalton, a dramatic British actor. His presence immediately put the atmosphere into sobriety. James Bond was real, and so was the enemy. Earlier films had reluctantly included The Soviet Union as a major foil. This was curious, because James Bond was the epitome of Cold War spies. The Living Daylights suggested that while the West feared the Soviet's potential for destruction, the greater concern was the enemy within, willing to sell out in the face of adversity. Using this theme gives Daylights an injection of morality and ethics not found in the traditional amoral Bond mindset. As we see, James Bond has no reason to smile in The Living Daylights. His debonair and photogenic manner do him no good amongst the Afghanistan rebels. But Bond grew and matured in this film and so he survived. Moreover, as Bond the man changes, so does the franchise. "},{"Title":"Tim Dalton is a great James Bond. The Living Daylights is one of the best 007 movies yet.","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  For what it's worth, I was very impressed with Tim Dalton's Bond. It was a refreshing change from that self-centered, wussy Bond character portrayed by Roger Moore.The movie itself is good - there's a lot of action, good supporting characters and Tim manages to bring real emotions like fear and anger back into Bond, like Sean Connery did back when Dr. No was harassing the countryside. The stunts are good. Most of them are believable.Tim Dalton is the best Bond since Connery. He's as good as - or better, than Pierce Brosnan. "},{"Title":"The best Bond of the 80's","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The best Bond movie in the 80's, Timothy Dalton takes over from a legend in Roger Moore and quickly outdoes him as he plays the hell out of the role. He's rough, he's tough and he's Bond as Bond should be. The title song is rocking and if the producers thought that Dalton would fail being a last minute replacement they were wrong. Timothy Dalton brings the series back to it's serious hard edged Connery roots and let me say it's about time. "},{"Title":"The best James Bond movie!","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Living Daylights is the best Bond movie in years. Timothy Dalton plays James Bond perfectly. The story is great, the actor is great, and there's a lot of action and romance. There are not as many Bond girls as in other movies, but Dalton proves that Bond doesn't need all those girls to be the best Secret Service Agent. "},{"Title":"A James Bond that Ian Fleming would have recognized.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  All right, I admit that I'm prejudiced. I saw all the Bond films theatrically beginning with DR. NO. Yes, I have read all of Ian Fleming's books. Consequently, I have a definite idea of what James Bond should be like.Back in the 1970's, I grew to intensely dislike Roger Moore. I asked the question, who could play James Bond the way that Fleming wrote the character? One name came to mind - Timothy Dalton. He resembled Fleming's description of the character. Even more importantly, his dark, brooding quality made him tempermentally right for the role. Albert Broccoli and company saw the same thing. They offered him the role several times over the years. Unfortunately, it took roughly ten years for him to actually agree to play it.When he did, I was not disappointed in his work. If only the scripts and the direction had done more to support his back to Fleming approach. For those who don't know Fleming's original character, Dalton's Bond may come as a bit of a shock. Believe me, it's the kind of shock that I experienced as a boy when I saw Sean Connery waste Anthony Dawson's Professor Dent in DR. NO. That was quintessential Bond. Dalton is the closest realization of the character as Ian Fleming wrote it, even more than Sean Connery in certain respects.Connery improved on the character as written in certain respects. He made Bond very much his own. Imposters like George Lazenby, Roger Moore, and Pierce Brosnan can at best only be tolerated. Connery has only one serious rival as Bond and that is Timothy Dalton.What a pity Dalton's two Bond films were not marketed better. "},{"Title":"Entertaining First Half But Falls Apart in the Second","Date":"15 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights (1987) ** 1/2 (out of 4) James Bond (Timothy Dalton) appears to be on a rather simple case of protecting a Russian general but soon he uncovers an arms dealer (Joe Don Baker) trying to start up another world war. THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS would be Dalton's first of two attempts at the Bond role and while he's no where near the same league as either Connery or Moore, I thought he fit the role quite nicely. I think this Bond was a lot more straight-forward than what we had previously seen as this one here doesn't take any time out for flirting or games. While there are a few romantic/sex scenes, the majority of the running time features Bond in a very serious mood and pretty much sticking to professional business. I thought this made for an interesting change of pace and for the first hour I was having a pretty good time. I thought the first hour delivered some pretty good action scenes as well as some nice laughs. Some of the best moments happened early on with a rather amazing car stunt down a small road on a cliff. Now, I'm not sure how they filmed this but I was constantly holding my breathe for that poor stunt man on the roof of the car with a cliff right beside it! I think the second half of the movie is where things start to fall apart for a couple reasons. For starters, the story itself just isn't interesting enough to really hold ones attention for such a long running time. I'm really not sure why so many of these Bond pictures have to run at an extended running time but this here goes on way too long. Another problem is that I just really didn't care for the villain and found him to be one of the weakest to date. Again, Dalton does a nice job in the role of Bond and I also liked Maryam d'Abo. Joe Don Baker does what he can with the role of the villain but it's certainly not enough. THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS is a decent entry in the series but the second half just can't carry enough weight. "},{"Title":"Bond Has Rarely Been Better.","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The short two-film run of Timothy Dalton as James Bond started with a great bang in 1987 as the series got an adrenaline shot after Moore limped away from the series. Reminiscent of the earliest installments that were so good, The Living Daylights works because of its twists and turns, great action and show-stopping performances from all the key players. Bond helps a wimpy Soviet general (the excellent Jeroen Krabbe) escape from the Iron Curtain, but something does not seem right. When he is later captured anyway a true mystery starts. The suspicious Maryam d'Abo is the beautiful cello player who becomes the Bond girl here. Darkness looms though as international arms dealer Joe Don Baker seems to have crazed aspirations to make a boat-load of money by selling weapons to all major world threats in the hopes of starting World War III. A really impressive Bond film that stands pretty tall with the better works the series had when Connery dominated in the 1960s. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"A new but not improved Bond","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The 17th James Bond starts with a new face as the secret agent, Timothy Dalton, and while he is better than Roger Moore, he just doesn't have the swagger that Sean Connery or the newest Pierce Brosnan.  The story, 007 gets duped into a fake defector plot, then hunts him down, uncovering the usual arms and drug smuggling.  The stunts were good and the gadgets quirky. But the story and the movie got quite stale..It is overlong and short on Bond women..only one(!?!) Maryam D'Abo. There are much better Bonds.. On a scale of one to ten...5 "},{"Title":"The Year James Bond Went Politically Correct","Date":"30 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In spite of his rather dismal professional career I used to like Timothy Dalton. He was always easy on the eye. When I heard he was doing Bond I was thrilled. I thought he'd make a great Bond. Physically, he did. Otherwise, he was one of the worst JB ever. Not entirely his fault, though.This was the year when the Bond franchise ill-advisedly went PC. To appease feminazis ... oh, pardon me, I mean feminists, of course ... they decided to make Bond into a serious, tough-but-vulnerable, one-woman (at a time) man (Oh. Please). The results were predictably disastrous. Bond went from being charming, suave and lethal to being stuck-up, sanctimonious and tedious. I suppose we should be grateful they stopped short of making him a nonsmoking, tofu-eating teetotaler.Understandably, Dalton looks terribly uncomfortable in the role, which is obvious from his wooden humorless performance. For all her Stradivarius-playing cellist Marian d'Abo does the typically silly, easily infatuated Bond Girl. You pretended to love me! she cries inevitably. GROAN. So much for feminism.As someone else said, the only good thing in this turkey is the sound track.If this is not enough to convince you to give this a pass and stick to the Connery-era Bonds, nothing will. Just don't say you were not warned. "}{"Title":"Where The Living Daylights Stands","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights stands 15th on my list where the 007 films have been ranked from worst to the best. The Living Daylights is Timothy Dalton's debut performance as 007 and is very good. Timothy Dalton is my favorite Bond actor but doesn't act in my favorite Bond film being Thunderball (1965). The Living Daylights has very exciting scenes and a very nice theme song. It is a very good come back since A View To A Kill (1985). Timothy Dalton is dark and smooth as Bond just like Ian Flemings wrote him in the books. The film can get boring but not for long because there is the frequent action scenes coming along round every corner. The Living daylights is definitely a great adventure of the Bond series but the Bond girl is very, very bad in my opinion. She has a forgettable name as Kara Milovy. See, its just those small features that make it stand 15th... "},{"Title":"Living Daylights Won't Scare that Out of You ***","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I love Timothy Dalton's acting, when it came to playing James Bond, he was seriously miscast. He just didn't have that sexy way with women that we came to expect 007 to have.This thriller is a good film with the Soviets actually playing against each other. You can get confused at some points with everyone seemingly turning against each other. Joe Don Baker, as a corrupt American arms-dealer,seems to be playing all sides here.The action is bountiful with the usual great chase scenes. The film takes us just about to every hot-spot in the world for that period of time-the last sequences in Afghanistan, are memorable to say the least. "},{"Title":"A welcome return to the hard-edged Bond","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  May hold spoilersIn 1987, Roger Moore, who has done seven James Bond films, including the most financially successful 007 film at the time, resigns from the role as 007. With his departure, the producers are faced with the task of finding a new James Bond and changing the character's image. While Sam Neill and Pierce Brosnan are popular choices and tested for the role, Neill is not chosen, and Brosnan is unable to remove himself from the REMINGTON STEELE television program. Timothy Dalton, a popular choice for the role ever since ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE is cast, and this decision truly re-invents James Bond like never before.THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS was a welcome return to the real-life espionage and character-driven roots of Bond from FRWL and OHMSS. I enjoyed several of Roger Moore's films, but most had an isolated, dull feel to them. This is a welcome departure from that. Timothy Dalton became my favorite Bond actor from just watching the trailers. It was he who had the script modified to make Bond the character right out of Fleming's pages and re-read all the books to get grounded in the character. I loved his decision; Bond has not been this interesting since OHMSS, and I sincerely hope the next Bond actor goes back to this style. Everything Dalton does as Bond is absolutely perfect and has no true flaws whatsoever. The new-found realism and vunerablility of Bond make him a character we can identify with far more easily in this film. Bond has one leading lady in this film, Kara, and she is very effective. Not quite as good as Tracy, but up in the ranks with Melina Havelock and Pussy Galore. Like FRWL and FYEO, this film seems very much like the type of missions spies had to undergo during the Cold War. After so many goofy Moore megalomaniacs, the realistic villains in this film; Genral Koskov, Whitaker, and Necros; are a refreshing change. The new Moneypenny is up to the job, Q is his usual fine self, and after waiting since LIVE AND LET DIE, Felix Leiter finally shows up again in a Bond film, even if it IS his smallest role to date. Bond's MI6 ally Saunders I particuarlly like. At first, he and Bond don't like each other, but respect and friendship between them builds. When he is killed, both 007 and the audience are very moved. The other Bond ally, the leader of the Afgahn resistance, is also a very likeable character.It's very hard to find much fault with this film. The acting, music, story...everything goes so well together. We have a gadget-laden Aston Martin as well as a few other clever gadgets, great battle sequences, and intense moments. However, Robert Brown's M still isn't even comparable with Bernard Lee. I liked the role of General Puskin, but Gogol is far better. At least he showed up at the end of the film. And Koskov's acting to dupe those he has betrayed is very exaggerated and I can definately see why Puskin and Bond saw through it and got him arrested. However, the film holds up well.A very bold return to the Bond formula of old, this film gets an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An adult James Bond","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is certainly one of the best Bond movies ever. And, in my opinion, the best, and the only one allowed to be part of my private DVD collection. Dalton is a more adult Bond, serious, at times sombre, and even romantic. He is connected to one Bond girl only, along the whole movie, and that may disappoint the regular Bond fan. Sean Connery used to take four(five, at times!) girls to bed during his Bond scripts, and Roger Moore, although already a senior citizen, used to score no less than three times each movie. People tend to like it, specially teenagers, but I personally think that this sex aura at times makes the watcher miss the plot completely. In recent times, the skinny irishman Pierce Brosnan returned to the old tradition and spends more time watching beauties in micro-mini shorts and underwear than pursuing the bad guys. This Living Daylights is not for people who do enjoy Brosnan heartrob style. Actually, its nearly the opposite. We see Bond as a professional agent, not a voyeur. The Gibraltar sequence is great, and the plane scenes near the end are also amongst the greatest action scenes of the series. People who enjoy Dr. Evil style villains will also be disappointed. Tim Dalton is not an Austin Powers style Bond, as well... Whoever likes this type of Bond, would be certainly more pleased by renting Tomorrow never Dies, or From Russia With Love, true examples of the cartoon style Bond.  "},{"Title":"Bollinger RD? The best!","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Nothing polarises opinion faster than the question 'What do you think of Dalton's Bond?' To some he is the ultimate Bond, a consummate professional spy with charm and rugged good looks, true to the spirit of Fleming. To others he is too dark, too wooden, too humourless to play the role which had been cheapened by Roger Moore's ageing tomfoolery. I believe him to be most definitely the former.The Living Daylights explodes onto the screen with the Gibraltar exercise, one of the best 'teasers' of all the Bonds. The theme music is superb (as is the entire score by John Barry) and the action never lets up. Dalton is a real actor with range (unlike the smarmy and limited Moore) and so for once Bond truly involves us in his life. The romance with Kara Milovy is the best written and acted since O.H.M.S.S. and Bond's inner feelings are exposed to us for the first time. The gadgets and stunts are top-notch (especially the Aston) and Dalton does a lot of his own work. The supporting cast all work well together (with the unfortunate exception of John Terry as Felix Leiter)and the globetrotting is extensive and fast paced.This film is the definitive Bond of the 1980s with Dalton dominating the proceedings. If things had turned out differently, he could well have been the best Bond ever... "},{"Title":"Revitalizing Bond","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film causes some huge controversies in the Bond circles.  But I think it is one of the greatest in the series.  Why?  Timothy Dalton is a terrific Bond for one reason he read up on the literary Bond.  He brought to the screen a realistic Bond.  Hard-hitting, serious, with a job comes first mentality.  It is the Bond we have been waiting for ever since Roger Moore stepped in after Sean Connery.  The plot is believable and very structured. Bond didn't go into outer space or battle a man with steel teeth as he had been doing.  The Living Daylights returned to the Bond of the Fleming novels.  It totally destroyed the form that the series was taking with Roger Moore, which would have probably destroyed the series if kept up.  Add to the mix a variety of different villains, plot twists, non-stop action, suspense, and the type of espionage one has come to expect from James Bond. It never got outlandish like with the Moore series, it stayed within realism, as much as Bond can.  This is one of the top five in the series and deserves it.  The series needed the boost and it got that and more.  In the end it proved Nobody Does It Better than James Bond.   "},{"Title":"Thank God Roger Moore is gone!","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I praise the film for knowing Moore isn't James Bond anymore. He could play M, as a matter of fact. Oh, I know that's painful, but it's true. And they cast somebody who can act, another punch, Timothy Dalton as Bond. Even if he only played him twice. While this is the weaker of the two films, it has some moments that make it as good as some of the better films in the series. I like the Bond girl, a nice switch up. A girl who starts somewhere and ends somewhere, what a main protagonist usually does, but since that wouldn't make sense if it was Bond in this spot, who better to give it to than the Bond girl. Smart move there. But still, this has got to go on record for the worst Bond villain/s of all of them. Whitaker is nowhere near given enough screen time, Georgi isn't at all threatening, and the rest is history. I still liked the action scenes though, my favorite being the car chase, plus the end battle. For Dalton, it was a good start, but his finish would be better. "},{"Title":"The best Bond of the 80's","Date":"21 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights (1987) takes its name from one of Ian Fleming's short stories. The film is directed by John Glen, his fourth Bond movie in a row, and stars Timothy Dalton for the first time as James Bond.The movie starts with Bond helping a KGB officer General Koskov to defect to west. Koskov informs the British Secret Service that his superior General Pushkin is a madman who wants to kill all the British agents. Koskov is soon seemingly kidnapped and Bond is assigned to assassinate Pushkin. Bond however doesn't trust Koskov and starts investigating his musician girlfriend Kara. It soon turns out Koskov indeed is playing both sides and working with an insane American arms dealer Whitaker to gain full power of KGB. I'll say it straight, The Living Daylights is a damn good Bond movie, one of the very best made. It's the only one that really comes close to From Russia with Love, being a great blend of intense investigation thriller and brilliant action. The tone of the film is more serious than in previous 80's Bond films but the action still goes all out, with a chase scene over iced lake and one of the most memorable fights Bond has in an airplane. Timothy Dalton is one of those actors you either love or hate as Bond. Many people at the time were put off by his more serious and less witty take on the part. After seven films of Roger Moore it was a big change. I think Dalton is great. There's so much energy in him yet he never fails to be suave and charming. Just the opening scene is enough to make it clear he is right man for the job. The rest of the cast is great. Maryam d'Abo may not be the best Bond girl but she gives a great support as Kara, a woman who is in love with Koskov but becomes drawn to Bond. Jeroen Krabbé plays the self-centered Koskov, Joe Don Baker the war crazy Whitaker and Andreas Wisniewski the lethal henchman Necros. Alone none of them would be all that memorable villains, but together they make a pretty impressive team. The film also features Art Malik as Afghan fighter Kamran Shah, Thomas Wheatley as Bond's stern but trusted colleague Saunders and John Rhys-Davies as General Pushkin, role he sadly didn't reprise in later Bond films. First time featuring Caroline Bliss as Miss Moneypenny. All do wonderful job in their roles. Also notice the short cameo of Walter Gotell, as this is his final Bond film as General Gogol, role he had played in every Bond film since The Spy Who Loved Me. The Living Daylights is one of the best Bond films made. Filled with excitement and action, great actors and not once seeming too long, it's a full points movie. "},{"Title":"Starts out well, then goes awry.","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  If that UNACCEPTABLE Lazenby hadn't played 007 once, Dalton would have been my least favorite Bond. He is too humorless and unappealing, and when he does try to smile, he looks kind of goofy. And what can you say about his Bond Girl? She is the least beautiful Bond Girl of the entire series(just compare her to Bouquet or Auger or Dalton's next Girl, Lowell). The irony is that, although Dalton is much worse than Connery and Moore, the film is much better than some Connery (Diamonds are Forever) and Moore (A View to a Kill) entries. It starts out very well, like a solid spy yarn full of twists, but goes awry and loses its way in the (spectacular)second part. Joe Don Baker is a very interesting, highly original villain, underused by the film. "},{"Title":"A minor Bond","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With the Timothy Dalton era as 007 (which lasts for two films only) the Bond series begins a temporary decline...I've got nothing against Timothy Dalton, I know he's a good actor. But he simply isn't James Bond -he has neither the sophistication nor the humor for playing the part. The lack of humor is the biggest problem with him -he really takes him too seriously and is too romantic... James Bond is an assassin as well (although he kills legally), so there's no point in humanizing the character.Purists say the Dalton version is the closest one to Ian Fleming books, unfortunately it doesn't work for movies...The are good points, nevertheless Bond comes back in a cold war thriller, in which he has to stop a trafficker in arms linked to a KGB fringe. The plot is more realistic and the film gives something fresher to the series. Locations are unusual for a Bond flick and action scenes are well made.But the problems are Dalton, as I said; Maryam D'Abo -she's not a memorable Bond girl at all, she seems a copy of Nastassja Kinski, and the bad guys (Joe Don Baker and Jeroen Krabbe) are often ridiculous. John Barry's score, as well, is not very exciting. The legendary composer brings a more contemporary sound, but at the end it seems the soundtrack for a luxurious TV film.A minor Bond compared to the others. Unfortunately Timothy Dalton will do even worse with the following movie... "}{"Title":"Dalton is good, the movie isn't","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie just never captured my interest at all. The normal Bond formula is here, lots of action, but it's just sitting there on the screen, leaving the viewer completely uninvolved. I though Dalton was quite good as Bond, he bought a real brooding seriousness to the role. However, Maryam d'Abo absolutely ruins the picture with her completely lifeless performance. Not one spark of personality or wit exists in this persons body. She is basically half the movie, and that half is missing. It's also not helped by Joe Don Baker, a silly goofball of a villain who provides the unintentionally comical climax to the movie.Overall, it's sad that Dalton's first outing as 007 comes in such a boring, hum-drum movie. With better material he could really shine, and he does in the next film. This one however is completely uninteresting. "},{"Title":"Dreary debut for Dalton","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" British actor Timothy Dalton took over the reins from Roger Moore in the first of only two outings. The result is one of the dreariest Bond films on record.Bond Dalton looks the part of Bond and he certainly has the seriousness factor down. Unfortunately, he fares less well with the humor. In one especially ridiculous action sequence (one of the few the film deigns to stoop to), Bond and his leading lady travel through the snow and cross the border while riding a cello case and both the film and Dalton seem to halfway believe that it is a deeply realistic moment.The woman The Bond series was making a supposedly telling nod toward monogamy by providing only one actress for the hero to court. Unfortunately, said leading lady is the bland and utterly lifeless Maryam D'Abo, who sports no distinctive personality whatsoever. At least Tanya Roberts from the prior film was unintentionally amusing, but D'Abo is so stilted and unexciting that she almost seems to suck the life from the viewer.The villains I am hard-pressed to remember a more instantly forgettable array of inept and crummy characters. Joe Don Baker is briefly on-screen as a military fanatic who plays with what appears to be G.I. Joe action figures and Jeroen Krabbe is a supposed defector who runs around exuberantly kissing everyone on the cheek. They seem such an unimpressive bunch that Miss Moneypenny could probably swat them out of action.This film is one of the few to make the deadly mistake of being unspeakably boring. Other than the interest of seeing a new actor give an interpretation of the Bond role, there is nothing to recommend this effort. Even crummy entries like Moonraker had their guilty cheese factor moments, but this film does not even have that kind of charm. A noxiously dull effort and a less than stellar start for Dalton. "},{"Title":"The Living DOA-lights","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Every once in a while there comes a film that you watch that is so ludicrous that it makes you wonder who was responsible for writing this tripe.  I mean what was this movie about?  First they were in England then they were in Russia, then Austria, then the desert, and so many other places that I stopped keeping track because it seemed to be unattached to the storyline. Speaking of the storyline usually in a bond movie one villain with one motive is plenty, but for some reason the writers felt that this story needed three villains with multiple motives of which none were linked.  Now lets examine the villains.  The first villain that I will refer to is the one that I call Headphones.  Headphones  is a seemingly useless character whose motive seems to be undeterminable.  Who does this guy work for?  Who is he kidding using headphones to strangle his victims Which writer thought this one up??  Are we supposed to believe this?  What purpose does the character Whitaker serve?  He is just another pointless villain.  And then there's Koskov (better known as Dr. Nichols) I think he was the head villain. I'm still not sure.  In the end all you're left with is a puzzled, cold, and empty feeling.  I would have to compare this movie with that irritating girl from the Pepsi commercials.  From the start they were confusing, and in the end you know you would be better off without having ever seen either of the two.  You could probably get a team of movie experts into a room for 2 months of analysis, and even then they would still come up with no good explanation of this movies point.      "},{"Title":"Are you kidding?","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" John Rhys Davies, who played the Soviet general Leonid Pushkin has a British accent which comes and goes, but never does he sound Russian. Its embarrassing.The fight scenes are just silly, almost like something out of Monty Python, two guys slapping at each other. Its simply not up to snuff. The special effects are from the sixties. I could forgive if the show was from 1960, but its not, its from 1987. Remember folks, StarWars was from 77. The Living Daylights was from ten years later. We should expect better from a movie for special effects.The sound effects are similarly poorly done, a street trolly is practically silent. What really bothered me was Jeroen Krabbé's pancake sized areolas. They ruined the rest of the movie for me. The basic premise of the movie, the script was good. I suppose the movie for the time was not too bad, but compared to the explosive well choreographed fight scenes in Quantum of Solace or Casino Royale the fight scenes in The Living Daylights were amateurish. Still, the movie is worth watching especially during a Bond filmfest. "},{"Title":"Dalton, Timothy Dalton","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS (1987) *** Dalton's first entry as Bond has our hero embroiled with Afghanistanian freedom fighters and a renegade KGB defector out for the usual grandiose exploits.  Maryam d' Abo is the girl a classy cellist who has stolen 007's heart and enjoys a chase down a mountain of snow on her instrument! "},{"Title":"The Worst James Bond movie","Date":"22 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton is terrible as Bond and Caroline  Bliss is a nerdy Moneypenny. The only good parts  about the movie are the theme song  and that  Desmond Llewelyn is still there as Q. "},{"Title":"James Bond And The Future Taliban","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Living Daylights finds James Bond dealing with one of the wilder villains that 007 ever encountered. Though Timothy Dalton could never replace Roger Moore for me as Bond, Moore never got to deal with someone as genuinely nuts as Joe Don Baker, arms dealer and pretentious military man to the extreme.When The Living Daylights was made it was exactly 20 years after I first saw Timothy Dalton as King Philip Augustus in The Lion In Winter. Those 20 years were quite a difference in character between the young and callow King of medieval France and the supremely confident 007. In both parts Dalton acquits himself very well.Someone is out killing British spies and leaving telltale clues around putting the blame on a Russian general played by John Rhys-Davies. That story gets a big boost in credibility when another Russian general defects. Credible to everyone, but 007 of course who spots certain anomalies in the defection of General Jeroen Krabbe.Part of those anomalies are with Maryam D'Abo, cello prodigy and very reluctant assassin. This of course requires further investigation in which James Bond specializes.It all revolves around international arms dealer Joe Don Baker who steals the film in the scenes he's in. In fact my favorite scene is one where 007 isn't in at all, where Rhys-Davies strips away all of Baker's pretensions. Dalton's 007 was more about business than Roger Moore and Sean Connery were about although he certainly got his share of action. Dalton's last scene with D'Abo flying a stolen Russian cargo plane with as much skill as she showed with a gun before with 007 fighting off chief Russian assassin Andreas Wisniewski was in the Bond cliffhanger tradition.The Living Daylights was nothing if not topical with the action centering for a lot of the time in Afghanistan with the Russian occupation there. Remember those mujahaddin who rescue 007 are in large part today's Taliban.Dalton did a reasonably good job as James Bond, but he can't replace Roger Moore. "},{"Title":"The better of Dalton's two Bond films","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" While this is nothing brilliant, this could have been much worse. Out of the two films Timothy Dalton did, this is the better of the two as I personally disliked Licence to Kill. The plot is nothing special, the script is thin, the pacing is pedestrian and the film is overlong. Conversely, the locations are superb and very picturesque, the music is brilliant, the action is credible, the direction is decent and the acting from Dalton, Jeroen Knabbe(the Soviet general), Maryam D'Abo(as the beautiful Czech cellist) and Joe Don Baker(as the arms dealer) is not bad at all if not superb. Overall, it is decent but not extraordinary. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The Living Daylights","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After seven films Sir Roger Moore finally decided to quit the role of James Bond (aged 58!), but he was good at being so English. This is the first of two appearances by his replacement, Welsh actor Timothy Dalton. In the role Dalton takes his character pretty seriously to make him his own, a harder and grittier version, and he makes the film more like a thriller, but that was the intention, and it provided more ideas, Daniel Craig has made a similar attitude in his debut. Anyway, Bond's mission is to stop a once trusted General Georgi Koskov (Jeroen Krabbé) from smuggling diamonds and raw opium (drugs) to other places. The girl of the picture is the beautiful cello player Kara Milovy (Maryam d'Abo) and the villain of the picture (besides the silly Koskov) is Brad Whitaker (GoldenEye's Joe Don Baker). Also starring John Rhys-Davies as General Leonid Pushkin, Art Malik as Kamran Shah, Andreas Wisniewski as Necros, Thomas Wheatley as Saunders, Desmond Llewelyn as Q, Robert Brown as M, Geoffrey Keen as Sir Frederick Gray, Walter Gotell as General Anatol Gogol, Caroline Bliss as the new Miss Moneypenny and John Terry as Felix Leiter. I can't completely understand the two stars the critics give it, but I suppose there are unnecessary scenes, but the Aston Martin chase and Hercules plane moments keep you satisfied. James Bond was number 3 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and the film was number 16 on James Bond's Greatest Hits for A-Ha's title song (they also mentioned The Pretenders' If There Was a Man). Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Licensed to Annoy","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The movie is unbearable and horrible.This is the sickest movie in English language.The diection is HORRIBLE.The screenplay is terrible.The story is a rip off..Bond and the other unknown overact a lot.The others are useless.The screenplay is horrible.The dialogs are worse.The climax is rubbish.The cinematography is UNBELIEVABLE.The costumes are good.The music is brilliant.The picturisations lyrics are superb.The leads lack chemistry.The twists are quite pathetic.Avoid at all costs Rating-1/10(Only because of the songs nothing else) I have never seen this movie and i have no intentions checking this out.I cant believe they make a film of a secret agent no one does not know at all.Don't understand why they make a film on a real life person who.How could this be.If it is Bhagat Singh,Mahatama Gandhi then it is all right.The character James Bond is such a dumb,Stupid and an Annoying character.Also a very boring character with no common sense.The direction must be pathetic.This must be garbage and not worth the watch. Dalton and others must be wasted.The songs wellllllll i don't know.The sets,costumes all look fake.This is make believe stuff.Maryam d'Abo does not look pretty she only looks pretty in all these glamorous roles wearing pretty and sexy outfits with a nice hairstyle.Anyway i have not watched it(Really i am saying)but i have no intentions watching this garbage !!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Dalton Is Good. Nothing Else Is","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Timothy Dalton makes a great Bond since he plays the character straight and with a hard edge . You can believe this Bond is a cold hearted killer just like in the novels which is not something you can say about Moore and Lazenby . But apart from Dalton there`s nothing approaching half way decent with THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS . The script is unfocused and meandering and once again director John Glen ruins the stunts with some very poor back projection . Am I alone in being amazed that Glen was continually brought back to direct the Bond series throughout the 1980s ? "}]