[{"Title":"Red Sorghum is a cinematic wonder...","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"39 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Red Sorghum will delight those that enjoy the art of cinematography.  This visually stunning film truly deserves its international acclaim simply because of the way it presents the tale through its remarkable use of imagery, lighting, and filters.Until I saw this film, I would have never thought that one could say so much about character, setting, mood and plot simply through the use of layout and image composition.  This controversial film set in the 1920's - 1930's, by the rebellious Zhang Yimou, follows the life of sorghum wine farmers from Northern China.If you follow the history of Chinese film, you will see how nicely this film combines motif's of many of its precursor films.  Chinese history and culture has been vastly explored through many Chinese films, however I believe that this is a good film for the average American film goer to get a taste of the Chinese film industry and culture through their perspective.  I say this for a variety of reasons, the pacing of this drama is quicker and faster moving compared to other related Chinese films before its time. Generally Chinese film have a tendency to be slow, when set aside the general American preferred standards.It presents to us some of the Northern Chinese cultural traditions. Its display of the Japanese brutality could not have been better presented.  The Japanese have been quite swinish during this period in Chinese history. All I can say is it says it all as it really was, very well indeed.This is the last but most important reason to watch this film... look at its cinematography.  It has to be among the best I have ever seen.  It amazed me to see how resourceful a cinematographer can be when working for a film of little budget.  Yimou showed me how simple things can be filmed to be works of art.  Unfortunately I have not been able to see the film in its original cinematic scope however, even in full screen it is still quite visually stunning.  The aperture, f-stop and lens settings were set just perfectly giving the film a very rich vibrant look making Yimou my favorite Chinese film cinematographer/director of all time to date.  Oh, it is a film that you just have to see for yourself! Hope you enjoy it! Happy Viewing!  "},{"Title":"Barbaric and beautiful","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"39 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Although I don't think this is quite as good as some of the other films that master Chinese film maker Zhang Yimou has made--e.g., Raise the Red Lantern (1991); The Story of Qiu Ju (1991); Ju Duo (1990)--Red Sorghum is nonetheless an outstanding film strikingly presented visually and thematically.Gong Li stars as the betrothed of an old leprous wine maker. The film opens with her being carried in a covered sedan chair to the consummation of her wedding by a rowdy crew from the sorghum winery. It is the 1930s or a little before. They joust her about according to tradition and sing a most scary song about how horrible her life is going to be married to the leprous old man. Through a break in the sedan's enclosure as she sits alone in fear and dread she catches sight of Jiang Wen, a burly, naturalistic man with a piercing countenance. A little later after a bit of unsuccessful highway robbery during which she is released from her confinement, they exchange meaningful glances. The young man doing the voice-over identifies them as his Grandmother and Grandfather. (Obviously the leprous old man is going to miss out!)Zhang Yimou's technique here, as in all of his films that I have seen, is to tell a story as simply as possible from a strong moral viewpoint with as little dialogue as possible and to rely on sumptuous sets, intense, highly focused camera work, veracious acting by a carefully directed cast, and of course to feature the great beauty of his star, the incomparable and mesmerizing Gong Li. If you haven't seen her, Red Sorghum is a good place to start. Jiang Wen is also very good and brings both a comedic quality to the screen as well as an invigorating vitality. His courageous and sometimes boorish behavior seems exactly right.I should warn the viewer that this film contains striking violence and would be rated R in the United States for that and for showing a little boy always naked and for the watering of the wine by Jiang Wen and the boy. Indeed the film is a little crude at times and represents a view of pre-communist China and its culture that the present rulers find agreeable. The depiction of the barbarity and cruelty of the Japanese soldiers is accurate from what I know, but I must say that this film would never have seen the light of day had communist soldiers been depicted in such a manner.Nonetheless the treatment is appropriate since Red Sorghum is a masculine, lusty film suggesting the influence of Akira Kurosawa with perhaps a bit of Clint Eastwood blended in. There are bandits and tests of manhood. The men get drunk and behave badly. Masculine sexual energy is glorified, especially in the scene where Jiang Wen carries Gong Li off to bed, holding her like a barrel under his arm, feet forward, after having watered her wine as though to mark his territory. The camera trailing them shows her reach up and put her arms around his neck and shoulder as much in sexual embrace as in balance.Obviously this is Zhang Yimou before he became completely enamored of the feminist viewpoint; yet somehow, although Gong Li is allowed to fall in love with her rapist (something not possible in contemporary American cinema), Zhang Yimou manages to depict her in a light that celebrates her strength as a woman. One can see here the germination of the full blown feminism that Zhang Yimou would later develop in the aforementioned Raise the Red Lantern, Ju Dou and Qiu Ju. As usual in Zhang Yimou's films not only are the sets gorgeous but the accompanying accouterments--the pottery, the costumes, the lush verdure of the sorghum fields, even the walls and interiors of the meat house restaurant/bar and Gong Li's bedroom--are feasts for the eyes, somehow looming before cinematographer Gu Changwei's camera more vividly than reality. There are some indications here however that Zhang Yimou had not yet completely mastered his art, and indeed was working under the constraint of a limited budget. For example there was no opening in the sedan through which Gong Li could see Jiang Wen, and there shouldn't have been one (a peephole maybe). The pouring of the wine (into presumably empty bowls that obviously already contained wine) by Jiang Wen needed more practice. In his later films Zhang Yimou would reshoot such scenes to make them consistent with the audience's perception. Additionally, Gong Li's character was not sufficiently developed early on for us to appreciate her confident governance of the winery she had inherited. Uncle Luohan's apparently jealous departure from the winery and his implied relationship with and loyalty to Gong Li were also underdeveloped.However these are minor points in what really matters in film making--telling a story and engaging the audience in the significance and the experience of the tale--in these things Zhang Yimou not only excelled, but gave promise of his extraordinary talent that would be realized in the films to come. See this by all means, but don't miss his Raise the Red Lantern, in my opinion one of the greatest films ever made.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"A Singular Chinese Film","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  There are several versions of this film available on video.  Some are in wide screen, some aren't.  The impact of the visuals is lost without the full-shot wide screen.  Then there are two different subtitled versions, one that has large subtitles and another that uses smaller but less intrusive subtitles, which is the best of the two.  So depending on what version of the video you're watching, your experience of the film can vary.  But assuming you get your hands on the good version...This film is like a quiet fairy tale that transforms into something that I didn't see coming.  The visuals are stunning.  The story slowly unfolds but is presented so well that it's completely compelling.  The acting is as good as it gets.  And the ending hits you like a punch in the stomach.This films stands out from all other Chinese films I have seen.  It has a character uniquely its own, and is well worth seeking out. "},{"Title":"Joyful, painful, funny, and horrifying and why isn't it on DVD?","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Credit goes to Yimou for stripping this epic 2 novel series down to this spare and gorgeous little hour and a half. For all the recent fantastic forays into Chinese fantasy, this story (which is allegedly true) shown as it is, is as close to a fairy tale as it gets, at least until the very end. Every shot is a painting. For some reason this film is still near-impossible to find on DVD. I truly hope it is not being suppressed for anti-Japanese sentiment expressed in it. That would be a terrible shame. This film was released shortly before Tienanmenn (sp) and it has a boldness and frank humor rarely seen in Chinese film since. "},{"Title":"Red Sky, Red Wine, Red Blood, Red Dust of the Earth","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Red Sorghum.  Red is for blood.  Blood/Wine coursing through your veins. Blood Pumping Love in your heart and Courage as well.  Blood of your loved ones killed in war.  Blood of your enemies.  Blood of your Brothers.  I get it now.  I remember his masterful use of color.  Just like how he retells the stories in different colors for Hero.  This is how I felt after watching Red Sorghum.Gong Li is stunning as usual.  Check out Zhang Yimou as Brother Lohan.  He displays such dignity.  Muscle Man quite often steals the show with his bravado.  The songs are uplifting and beautiful to hear.  The scenery takes you away and the fields of sorghum are alive and pulling you in like Nature Herself.While gutwrenching like his other movies,  the characters in this one are especially endearing in their loyalty to each other.  What more can I say. Poetry brought to life.  "},{"Title":"Good Wine","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I have been a fan of Zhang Yimou's films since 1999 when I first watched his 1991 film Raise The Red Lantern for my East Asian Novel class, and since then I have watched several other of his films such as Not One Less, To Live, The Road Home, Happy Times, and Riding Alone for Thousands of Miles. Each one of his films brings something new to the table and delves into such issues as urban/rural conflicts, political corruption, and Japan-China relations. Red Sorghum is Zhang Yimou's first film as a director and while it may be a bit simpler than many of his later films it contains elements that almost every fan of his films will be familiar with beautiful settings, very fleshed out characters, and moments of conflict where those who possess little power are overwhelmed by larger forces. Also, Red Sorghum is Gong Li first film, and it is nice to see that even at such a young age, 21, that she already possessed on screen charisma that can really grip the viewer's heart. While not as masterful as her performances in To Live or Chen Kaige's Farewell My Concubine, her tears and iron core are still quite moving.Based on Mo Yan's novel of the same name, Red Sorghum tells the story of a young girl nicknamed Nine, she is the ninth child of her family and she was born on the ninth day of the ninth month, who was given to a leper named Big Head Li who traded a mule for her. On her trip to Big Head Li's home, while being jostled about in the sedan chair as custom would have it, Nine peeks from behind the curtains and spots one of the well-muscled sedan carriers and falls in love with him at first site. Later, After killing a would be thief and being able to see Nine for the first time, the sedan carrier, who is only referred to as my grandfather by the narrator, falls instantly in love also. On a trip back to her father's home, as custom would hold on the third day of marriage, Nine is accosted by a masked man who turns out to be the sedan carrier. There under the shadows of the sorghum they make love. While a her father's home Big Head Li is killed although no one knows who did it, so upon her return to the winery Nine inherits the place and asks the workers to stay and work for her. Included amongst these workers is an older man named Luohan whom Nine takes to immediately. However, the Sedan carrier also returns drunk and says some quite rude things about Nine, however, the two eventually come to peace with each other and for a while things seem to be going well&#133;until the Japanese army invades.Red Sorghum is at times hilarious such as when The sedan carrier, Jiang Wen, sings and cries to himself when he is in a wine pot for three days, sad, and absolutely brutal. There are some scenes after the Japanese army has invaded that will truly make one cringe. While some of his later films are better known and show the evidence of skilled craftsmanship from years of experience, Red Sorghum should not be missed for its significance in the history of recent Chinese cinema as the first pairing of Zhang Yimou and Gong Li. "},{"Title":"The Chinese Apocalypse Now","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Definitely one of the best anti-war movies with an unforgettable ending where a child sings a song that goes to your heart. Red colours the whole movie, which deals with wine (remember the recipe) and love as well as with the cruelties of the Japanese in China. This film lacks words and totally relies on cinematography. A feast for the eyes, even stronger as the later JI DOU or RED LANTERN by the same director, each image wants to burn itself into your brain.  "},{"Title":"Mmmm.... delicious leper wine...","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Here is a solid film by Yimou Zhang, from the fifth generation of Chinese directors. Red Sorghum is told as a flashback, a narration by the main character's grandson. Gong Li plays an attractive lower-class Chinese woman who is sent, against her will, to be married to an old leper who runs a winery.The story takes place on the eve of the Japanese occupation before World War II and later features some ugly scenes from their invasion. There is an underlying motif regarding feminism (a lot of this generation of Chinese directors seemed to deal with this) and the inability of females to be even remotely empowered in this time and place. I enjoyed seeing the class boundaries and customs of late-Qing China, the occasionally goofy sense of humor, and the almost lawless, ruthless communities out in the desert.The film takes place in only a handful of locations, but features some gorgeous cinematography. The vibrant red colors (perhaps an allusion to Communist rule and foreshadowing bloodshed? It's hard to tell whether this film is for or against Communist China) are illustrated vividly by the sorghum wine and the long views of the sun setting across the Chinese desert. The pacing is slow but efficient and the story is a memorable one.It's quite indisputable (to me, at least!) that, although this was Yimou Zhang's first film, it's loads better than his later movies, Hero and House of Flying Daggers. Hopefully one day he'll catch up to where he started. "},{"Title":"more colorful than the title suggests","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The much heralded renaissance of New Chinese Cinema can be an acquired taste to many Western filmgoers, but this handsome period piece (directed by the cinematographer of 'Yellow Earth', 1984) is livelier and more accessible than most. Part folk tale, part historical drama, it tells the story of a young virgin (sold by her father into marriage with a wealthy leper, in return for a mule), who after her husband's mysterious death continues to run his successful vineyard, with help from her loyal wedding bearers. And yet for all its undeniable physical beauty and colorful action the film can be a dry experience, at least until the outbreak of the second Sino-Japanese War in the 1930s. With the Japanese occupation some emotional urgency finally breaks through the film's mantle of reserve, which up to that point had marked even the more bawdy episodes of communal singing and drinking. "},{"Title":"Life around the color red.","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This film captures the Chinese landscape with a touch of love, love that the filmmakers had for their people and their culture which fuses with the sorghum fields and the folk songs they sing when they are happy or when they are in pain and anguish, beautifully. I felt the Japanese effect or the tyrannical force with which they subdued the Chinese should have been shown a little more, it all happened in a jiffy. The storytelling is pretty but fails to connect on many levels. Like the transition of a poor village girl into a strong distillery owner and the level of trust and love she is shown by the workers and the sudden infatuation that develops and is accepted between her and Yu. Also the way we are shown the attack sequence was not at all engaging, it only had slow-mo shots of people falling/running but the final shot of redness surrounding Yu and his son was brilliant. Watch it, for you'll get a peek into Chinese culture, the position of women in it, their traditions and songs and most importantly the red wine, red like blood mingling to mark a jarringly tough Chinese wartime life. "}{"Title":"Reviewing Red Sorghum (1988)","Date":"12 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Reviewing Red Sorghum (1988) The movie Red Sorghum (1988) adapted from the novel of the same tile won Golden Bear Award at the 38th Berlin International Film Festival. The film won the international reputation for its director, Yimou Zhang; and also star the actress, Li Gong.This film is about the story of 'my grandmother and grandfather' in a rural village in Northern China. The story started from my grandmother who was on the way to her prearranged old husband's winery distillery factory. My grandmother, a young bride, was sent to get married with an owner of a wine distillery factory. After experiencing attack by a bandit, abduction, and mysterious death of her prearranged husband, my grandmother inherited that wine distillery. The story was ended by the death of my grandma during the period of Japanese invasion.Off-screen voices adopted as one important dramatic element is unique characteristic of this movie. The plot is structured into a completed story by the narrator- I , the grandson of the protagonists. At the beginning, audiences can hear the off-screen voices arose I'll talk about my grandpa and my grandpa (Red Sorghum,1988). The narrator did not appear in the movie, which makes him in the neutral objective position; in the other hand, he is the descendant of story characters, which makes him becoming a subjective participation to some degree. I was telling the story; and also I was told about my family history. Off-screen narration appear 12 times in the movie. The relationships between characters and the progress of plot at turning point depends on 'my narration', for example, the relationship between my grandma, her prearranged leprosy husband and sedan carriage worker (my grandpa); the mysterious death of leprosy husband, the process of my grandma abduction, the left of Uncle Lohan, and the appearance of Japanese troops. The integration of real family history and unreal story completely depends on my off-screen narrations, which helps the connection of past with present, the real with the unreal. The film narrative approach ultimately generates historical distant effects in time and space.Cinematographic style is another prominent characteristic of the film. The director stylized the film with intense and rich red color. The screen is completely occupied by bright red color. At the beginning, a red scarf is filled with the whole screen; under the red scarf is my grandma's brighten young face with red makeup; the red sorghum stalk is glittered with the flash sunlight in the fields; the red sorghum wine liking rains is prayed around; the naked body is completely full of blood; and the world become the totally red after the mysterious total solar eclipse. At the end of the film, the flowing black red sorghum emphasized on the screen, which generates a brilliant and strong visual effect. This is not a realistic representation of time and space; it is the externalization of human innate desire for natural life and validity. Regardless of the plot, the extension of the red force gives audiences a pure emotional experience that is filled with wild and heroic.Unlike other Chinese films of the same period, Red Sorghum is not a typical realism film. The director did neither tell a legend of China's farmers nor seek for  the national cultural root (Ni, 2002). The film only wants to praise 'life, endless vitality, freedom, life expansion and stretch' (Ni, 2002).The sun is regarded as the origin of life. The brilliant red filled with the screen represents the mythology of worship of the Sun (Ni, 2002). Covered with a mysterious color, the director explores the significance of freedom and the nature of life, which goes beyond political ideology, social structure, and cultural differences. The themes going through the film are about the vitality and the freedom. The film expresses the desire for a liberated, plain and undistorted state. This is not the world what has been understood by people now; it is a world that concerns for the life rights of human being instead (Ni, 2002). Because the praise for vigorous vitality and freedom is an universal idea of human regardless of language and culture, this film won the international honors.Overall, the high artistic achievement in cinematography and the uniqueness in plot structure make this film becoming one representative works of China's fifth generation filmmakers. Audiences can read the reconsideration for the nature of life, the future world as well as the destiny of mankind in that world known for us.References Ni, Z (2002). Memoirs from the Beijing Film Academy The Genesis of China's Fifth Generation. translated by Chris Berry. Durham, NC Duke University Press.Red Sorghum (1988) Yimou Zhang "},{"Title":"Bizarre on all levels","Date":"27 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" According to other reviewers Red Sorghum is a cinematic wonder, a masterpiece, exquisite and many similar gushing adjectives. I wish I could agree but I cannot. Apparently this movie was based on a famous, prize winning novel. I have no idea if that novel has a point but this movie does not. The movie opens to a bride being carried in a sedan chair to the site of her arranged marriage. The groom must have been born under a bad sign, for apparently not only has he a big head but also leprosy. To cap it off he is murdered before we even get to see him, so that at least was a saving on casting. For reasons that are not clear the girl has with her a pair of scissors. Maybe she was going to adjust her hem on the way but who knows. The sedan chair carriers burst lustily into voice with a song reminiscent of Bold Sir Robin in Monty Python and the Holy Grail. It was actually pretty funny and I thought maybe the movie would reveal itself to be a laugh out loud comedy. But regrettably not, any humour is simply because each scene is more ridiculous and illogical than the last. This movie could have been a love story. But it wasn't. It could have been a character story. But it wasn't - the characters are all cartoons of people I could not care less about. It could have been a drama. But it wasn't, the only drama is contrived. It could have been a history lesson. But it wasn't, we get a one line reference to communism and a random and out of context cameo appearance by the Japanese Imperial Army. 1940's China is one of the richest, most complex, heart breaking stories in the History of the World, but do we see any of it? No dice. I could go on and dissect every scene for its stupidity and irrelevance, but I would exceed the 1000 word limit and test the reader's patience. According to other viewers Gong Li is the next best thing to Venus on Earth. Perhaps she is in other movies, but not in this one. She is portrayed as one of 500 million dirt poor peasants eking out a subsistence living out in the backblocks of China. To the credit of the film makers she is portrayed this way, not unattractive but certainly not attractive, either physically or as a person. Other reviewers praise the cinematography, possibly because it is the only redeeming feature of this movie. Sure, it has lots of sorghum leaves blowing in the wind, silhouettes of a totally out of place arch against the moon in all its phases, and lots of red tinting. But I'm sorry, pretty as it is, attempting to make a film arty by using all the usual suspects of Arthouse Film 101 is a poor substitute for a real movie. If I can compare this movie to a meal it is heavy on garnish but has no meat and potatoes. It leaves you unsatisfied. "},{"Title":"red dawn","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" It's 1930s China. Jiu'er (Li Gong) is sent by her father to marry the leper winery owner Li Datou. On the way there, there are fields of red sorghum growing wild. She goes home to deliver the mule from Li Datou. She is taken out into the fields by Luohan where they have sex. Li Datou is killed by an unknown assailant and the winery is left to Jiu'er. Luohan returns drunk and making demands on her. He is thrown out. After he sobers up, he urinates into the wine and picks her up like in the field into her home. Surprisingly, the urine wine turns out to be the best ever. That night Luohan leaves and Jiu'er has a child. Nine years later, Luohan returns and the Japanese arrive.It starts off as a funny quirky film. It has moments of originality. When the Japanese come, the movie goes to another gear and another level. It's jarring and compelling. The red color infiltrates everything like the film itself is bleeding. Li Gong makes a terrific debut. The final orgy of violence is shocking. "},{"Title":"The Zhang Yimou quintuplet","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is a very brief review of Red Sorghum (1987), Ju Dou (1990), Raise the Red Lantern (1991), The Story of Qiu Ju (1992) and To Live (1994), five films by Zhang Yimou. Each film stars actress Gong Li, each works as a companion-piece to the other, and each deals almost exclusively with the oppression of women within early 20th century China.Zhang's debut, Red Sorghum stars Gong Li as Young Nine, a peasant who is sold to a wealthy leper. Things only get worse for Nine, who must fend off a series of rapists, mean men and the Japanese Army itself, all the while running a successful winery. Throughout the film, Zhang uses boxes, deep reds and tight squares to amplify Nine's sexist surroundings. Indeed, the film opens with Nine literally forced into a box, a social reality which she spends the film attempting to break free of or even transform. For Zhang, China wasn't disrupted by the Japanese invasion, it was hell long before. Like most of Zhang's films during this period, Sorghum sketches the cultural and socioeconomic conditions which spurred China, with hopeful arms, toward Maoism.Zhang's next film, Ju Dou, covers similar material. Here Gong Li plays Ju Dou, a woman sold to a violent oaf (When I buy an animal I treat it as I wish!) who owns a fabric dying establishment. After her husband is crippled, Ju Dou forges a relationship with Yang Jinshan, a relative. When Ju Dou and Jinshan have a child together, the kid grows up into a mean brute. Like Sorghum, Ju Duo is a tragedy obsessed with rich reds, boxes and patriarchal violence. Whilst its plot superficially echoes Zhang's own adulterous, then-scandalous affair with Gong Li, Zhang seems more interested in the way Ju Dou and Jinshan hide their illicit affair from other villagers. For Zhang, the duo's tacit submission to social mores merely validates the notion that their love is scandalous and so merely validates the symbolic power of the crippled patriarch, a power which Ju Dou's son must &#x96; as per his mother's very own actions &#x96; thereby respect and avenge.The arbitrary nature of power, and how this power is always symbolic and always unconsciously maintained (via ritual, personal belief and shared delusions), is itself the obsession of Zhang's Raise the Red Lantern. Here Gong Li again plays a woman sold to a wealthy man. This man has several other wives, all of whom begin to violently fight one another in an attempt to win the patriarch's adoration. Is it the fate of women to become concubines? a character asks, pointing to the film's deft critique of feudal relations. Zhang's first masterpiece, Lantern is again obsessed with reds, boxes and sequestered women, though here Zhang replaces the voluptuous colours, camera work and widescreen Cinemascopes of his previous films with something more restrained. Because of this, Zhang's conveying of claustrophobia and oppression, of mind and spirit pushed to madness, feels all the more powerful.Next came Zhang's The Story of Qiu Ju. A near masterpiece, it stars Gong Li as Qui Ju, a peasant farmer who embarks on a quest to avenge her husband, who's had his crotch kicked in by a village leader. More emasculated by this attack than her own husband, Qui Ju's quest takes her all across China, dealing with a Chinese bureaucracy which seems quite helpful, polite and even rational. And yet still this bureaucracy does not please Qiu Ju. It thinks in terms of commodities, monetary recompense and punishment, whilst Qiu Ju (like Zhang Yimou himself, whose previous films were banned, without explanation, by Chinese authorities) seems more interested in acquiring a shuafa, a simple explanation and apology. By the film's end, both the primitive justice of rural China and the civilized justice of modern China are simultaneously mocked, praised and shown to be thoroughly incompatible. Zhang's first neo-realist film, Qiu Ju was shot with hidden cameras, amateur actors, and so is filled with subtle observations, cruel ironies and beautiful sketches of peasant life.One of Zhang's finest films, To Live followed. It stars Gong Li as Jiazhen, the wife of a wealthy man (Ge You) who is addicted to gambling. When this gambling results in the family losing its mansions, riches and status, Jiazhen and her husband are forced onto the streets. Ironically, this set-back saves the family; the Cultural Revolution arrives, and with China's shift to nascent communism, all wealthy land owners are demonised, attacked and killed.Unlike most films which tackle life under Mao's Great Leap Forward, To Live carefully juggles the good and bad of what was essentially a nation shirking off feudalism, monarchs, uniting and then trying, clumsily, to cook up some form of egalitarian society. This quest results in all manners of contradictions and socio-political paradoxes community, solidarity and a simple life save our heroes, but their world is one of paranoia, danger, and in which everyone and everything is accused of being reactionary. The film ends with Jiazhen's daughter dying, a death which is the result of both unchecked consumption (a doctor dies gobbling food) and communist reorganisation (all competent doctors have been killed/jailed for being counter-revolutionary). This jab at communism got the film banned in China (further highlighting the insecurity of the regime). Ironically, Maoism saw massive positive health care reformations, and saw an improvement in mortality rates which at times surpassed even then contemporary Britain and parts of America (life expectancy doubled from 32 years in the 1940s to 65 years in the 1970s). But such things don't concern Zhang. Spanning decades, To Live is mostly a broad account of life, love, loss and growth (the personal and political), all unfolding upon a canvas that is devastatingly cruel. Significantly, the film's title is both adjectival and a command; this is what life is, but one must nevertheless always push on. Gong Li and Ge You in particular are excellent.7.9/10 - See Yellow Earth (1984). "},{"Title":"Evocative and un-PC","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" RED SORGHUM, the first film made by famed Chinese director Zhang Yimou, is an adaptation of a Mo Yan novel that sees a beautiful young woman - played by Yimou's muse, Gong Li - travelling to a remote winery to marry the leprous owner. What follows is a film that's visually striking, beautifully made and distinctly non-PC.Feminists or fans of gender equality made have a few issues with this film and in particular its depiction of the power struggles between a pair of lovers. Let's just say the character of the grandfather is very, er, backward, in his treatment of women, and yet the script never seeks to chastise or make him see the error of his ways; even worse, the female character appears to condone his behaviour. This kind of stuff sat oddly with me, even if it is a true depiction of the era.Still, there's plenty of stuff to like here, particularly the last couple of reels in which things get a lot darker, including one set-piece which is cringeworthy indeed. The ending is abrupt and the characterisation is fairly limited, but Yimou's film has so many visual flourishes and is so vibrant to look at that it's hard to dislike. "},{"Title":"Red, red wine","Date":"16 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is the first film from Zhang Yimou and Gong Li, the launch pad for a series of superb films which introduced many in the West to modern Chinese cinema. It is the story of a young woman who marries a dying man and then inherits his winery (actually a distillery) famed for its Baiju (red sorghum spirit). The story is simple, with little dialogue, helped along by a near continuous voice-over of a storyteller. Normally this would be an intrusive device, but somehow it works for such a visual film which aspires to an almost epic scale. I can't help thinking Zhang may have been influenced by Terrence Malick films like Badlands and Days of Heaven. But it is certainly an original and striking debut, if not quite as good as his later masterpieces, Ju Dou and Raise the Red Lantern. Of course, what all three of those films share is a near obsession with primary colours, but for visual effect and symbolism.Gong Li of course is charismatic and luminous, it can never have been a doubt from this film onward that she would be a star. But the real star here is the lush, erotic photography. It is a bit of a pity that the final third of the film loses its focus somewhat and becomes a more conventional melodrama. But that is forgivable for a film made in the circumstances. It still holds up very much as a film worth watching. "},{"Title":"The most original memory of film","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is the first film of Zhang Yimou as a director and it wins a number of prestigious prizes in international film festivals.I remember watching this film with my parents in a local theater when I was very little, so little that I could not understand the simple story told by the film. Back then, the only thing I could remember was full screen of blood-like red colors, the vast and boundless sorghum as well as the sonorous and high-pitch northwest folk songs.The storyline is quite simple a pretty young lady who is forced to marry a rich and leprous winery owner but who falls in love with one of the workers. After the old man dies, they live together and manage the winery. But then it comes the Japanese invasion and the family is destroyed.Zhang Yimou starts his career in film industry as a cinematographer and the control of colors and scenery is master level. Unlimited stretch of sorghum waving in the wind, dazzling red colors that nearly disable you from opening your eyes and the loud folk songs abundant in indigenous flavor all symbolize a strong sense of life and impress the audience with vitality and passion. This is also the first film that I have watched and personally it has formed a definition of a film in my mind. It is not the best yet the most cherished memory of film for me. "},{"Title":"Gong Li is revealed as a major talent in her film debut, but it's Yimou's spellbinding visual poetry which will long preserve the director's family epic.","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" There is a strength in the simplicity of the film's story, in the almost fairy-tale quality of the images and the shocking suddenness of its violence that Hollywood, in its sophistication, has lost. In Red Sorghum a Chinese man recounts a love story from his grand parents' era that was blighted by the invasion of Japanese forces.Director Zhang Yimou's strong, colourful debut swiftly propelled him into the pantheon of world cinema; Red Sorghum is a story of epic proportions, boldly photographed, with a full spectrum of emotional involvement and an underlying tribute to Chinese resilience. Upon its release, Red Sorghum garnered international acclaim, most notably winning the coveted Golden Bear at the 1988 Berlin International Film Festival. "},{"Title":"The Debut from the Chinese Danny Boyle","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I refer to, of course, 2008's Olympic opening ceremony in Beijing being designed and choreographed by the visionary director of this, his first film - China's own Yimou Zhang.And here is where it all started - though previously he had been a cinematographer - and it shows - Red Sorghum is beautiful, visually but with that extra edge of human darkness; lust, greed, violence, death, murderous invaders, all set within or close to the wavering seas of sorghum grasses, grown for making a blood-red wine.Both blood and wine flows copiously at times as this tale gets handed down through the generations; a story that starts simply but which builds into a brazen attack on the senses, the superb use of colour mixing with excellent dramatic acting, slow-moving and evocative long takes and occasional bursts of action - and some comedy, good natural comedy that's actually a joy and which breaks down any boundaries concerned with race, or time.I quite like the narration that occasionally ables us and the songs, more like spiritual war-dances than pretty ditties.If you prefer your Chinese/Hong Kong movies more action-based with high- kicking martial arts or big-scaled epic battles, then this might leave you disappointed - this is more Art-house, something to ponder and savour than having your eyeballs filled with non-stop thrills. "},{"Title":"2/3 Great Film and 1/3 Terrible...","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Red Sorghum is the first film by Zhang Yimou and is the first collaboration with Gong Li. I have seen only his more mainstream films - Hero, Curse of the Golden Flower, House of the Flying Daggers and Flowers of War. I was surprisingly invested in it up until the last third when Japanese subplot appeared.World War II themes in Chinese films are a big turn off for me. Why? Because they can't handle that subject matter properly. Why does a plot less film about young woman and her winery needs a dark and violent ending? The last third felt tacked on and completely out of place and just killed the rest of the film for me.But I should mention the things that I liked. I'm a huge fanboy of Gong Li and she does a good job in her first feature film. She has this enjoyable screen presence that is hard to explain. I just really like her in films even if they aren't any good like Miami Vice. The rest of the cast left no impression on me. They were fine but hardly managed to leave an impression.The real strength of Red Sorghum is the plot less narrative and the absolutely gorgeous cinematography. It's beautifully shot and uses it's fairly monotone setting exceptionally, showing that you don't need that much locations to bring beauty on screen. You just need Gong Li and a really good cinematographer.It's a real shame they felt the need to go for the terrible World War II stuff near the end. Because this was a really good film up until that point. It's worth seeing nonetheless, since some people might not be bothered by that element as much I was. Shooting Gong Li with a machine gun by the evil Japanese is not the way how to make good films... "}{"Title":"Red Sorghum","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I had no idea about the meaning of the title, I found out while watching it that sorghum is a cereal grass, like corn or barley, with a tall stem bearing grain in a cluster, anyway, I watched it because it featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, the debut film from director Yimou Zhang (Hero, House of Flying Daggers). Basically, set in 1930's in China, a young woman called Jiu'er has been bought by a leper who owns a winery and is to marry, but he dies before the ceremony can take place. Also not long before the death and the ceremony she met and fell for one of his servants, known only as Nine - My Grandma (Li Gong), and together they take over the winery. They seem also to form a peaceful mostly female community with Jiu'er as head of the isolated business, which obviously makes wine using the crop of sorghum. The area is invaded though by Japanese intruders who try to rule and make way for a road, meaning that they will cut down all sorghum in the fields, but the villagers rise up and go against them to save their treasured crop that is set to grow. Also starring Wen Jiang as Yu - My Grandpa, Rujun Ten as Uncle Liu Luohan, Liu Jia as My Father, Qian Ming as Nine's Father, Ji Chunhua as Bandit Sanpao and Zhai Chunhua as Hu Er. I will be honest and say that the majority of the first half of the film with the wedding preparations I understood pretty well, the other half I admit I did not pay close attention and lost track of a little, but the costumes and landscapes are filled with great bright colour, and there are some long takes as well, so it certainly looks a fabulous film, it is an interesting and watchable drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"Not Quite Ready for Prime Time","Date":"20 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Well, I admit that I am a fan of Zhang Yimou's movies, but this film seems to me inept, ill-paced, tedious, poorly edited, and somewhat propagandizing in overall feel. Yes, some of the imagery and cinematography is stunning, yes, Li Gong is fabulous, but altogether, it doesn't seem to add up to much. There are long stretches of film with literally no movement at all, no narration, no sound (usually the last thing about which I complain!), and nothing happening. The lack of continuity or explanation of events makes for a disjointed story. It isn't helped by the extremely inept English subtitles which accompany the copy I viewed from my local library. I hope someone will release a version with a decent set of subtitles. Honestly, most of the international students I know, including those from China, could do a better job of translating the subtitles.All in all, this film seems promising but extremely amateurish, a quality which seems to endear it to those buffs of art films. "},{"Title":"Excruciatingly Boring","Date":"29 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This movie felt like someone set up a camera to film some random boring village-folk in 1930's China. I found nothing redeeming about this film, except for the fact that it takes place during world war two (sort of...) which is a setting I am greatly interested in.The battle scenes (if you could call them that) are like something from a bad YouTube video. Whatever quality it may have had upon original release is just lost to me here, and there is no point spending 2 hours on this movie, when there are hundreds of other great movies out there to find.I am a huge fan of world war two movies, foreign movies and especially Asian war movies, but this one was terribly boring, with little to hold the viewers attention... any more than an old photo album might anyway.As far as movies go, this one should be passed. "}]