[{"Title":"A terrific film about the importance of family and realizing your dreams.","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"34 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  La Bamba which stars Lou Diamond Phillips as tragic 50's rocker Ritchie Valens(real name Richard Valenzuela) is my favorite rock bio film.  The film covers the Mexican American Valens' rise from poverty in California to becoming a rock n roll superstar at the young age of 17 only to lose it all within 8 months on the Day the Music Died. In addition to focusing on Valens' music career, writer/director Luis Valdez spends time showing the tense relationship between Ritchie and his older brother Bob who is played excellently by Esai Morales.  As Ritchie becomes famous Bob begins to resent him and that provides the film with some of its most powerful and heartbreaking scenes.The film's other effective moments come between Ritchie and his girlfriend Donna.  During their scenes together I felt that Valdez did a good job in showing what teenage romances must've been like back in the more innocent 1950's and how parents prejudices could interfere.Last but not least is the film's great soundtrack.  Ritchie Valens songs were redone for the film by the group Los Lobos.  All of the instrumental music was provided by Carlos Santana and Miles Goodman.  Also included are many other classic songs from the 50's.The only small criticism I have of the film is that Valdez spends too much time in foreshadowing Valens' fate through dream sequences and references to his fear of flying.  While it is documented that Ritchie did have a fear of flying I would imagine that he didn't talk about it as frequently as he does in the film.Overall I think that La Bamba is a film about sticking to your dreams and the importance of family.  I give this film a pretty strong recommendation. You don't even necessarily have to be a fan of 50's music to enjoy it.  This is for those who enjoy small films that deal with the triumphs and struggles of everyday people. "},{"Title":"Oh,what could have been","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"29 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Ritchie Valens was a young,vibrant rock and roll star.At 17,he could already write songs,sing,and was an absolute wizard with a guitar.I'm too young to remember the real Valens,but when I think of him,as well as other stars who died tragically young,I can't help but wonder what might have been.This young man was only getting started in his stardom when he was cut down all too soon in the same plane crash that claimed the lives of Buddy Holly and The Big Bopper.This film did a great job of bringing the legend of Valens back to life if only for a couple of hours.Lou Diamond Phillips gave the performance of his career here,as Valens,even though he didn't really look much like the real man in my opinion.Being the role he is best known for,I'm sure it is also one he has tried to escape from in the 15 years since its' release.As far as historical accuracy,I have heard discrepancies as to how the story really went,but you know Hollywood,things always have to be spiced up just a little.Overall,this movie is great fun,especially for old rock and roll enthusiasts such as myself.Thumbs up! "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"36 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  One Summer afternoon back in 1996 i was 17 years old, I had a guitar but never played as much as i should have.With nothing to do i was watching TV, and La Bamba came on and for whatever reason i decided to watch it.I have heard of Ritchie Valens but knew nothing of him, i knew a few of his hit songs but never knew that was him singing till i watched the movie.That summer day i watched La Bamba changed my life. The movie just reached out and touched something in my soul. I am a Rocker and love all kinds of Rock music. And that's one of the things i loved about La Bamba the great music.I watched La Bamba everyday it would come on cable even bought the movie, even after that i would still watch it when ever it came on.Every time i see it i fall in-love with the movie all over again.And because of this film i play my guitar, and because of this film i have a dream of working in film as a Writer/Director.The story is all about Ritchie Valens who is 17 years old and dreams of being a rock star. But there is so much more to it then that.It's a story about family as well, and young love.Lou Diamond Phillips who is a Fav actor of mine is amazing in La Bamba he shows how talented he is.Esai Morales plays Ritchie's older brother Bob.Esai Morales plays the troubled Bob with perfection.The Casting is great Rosanna Desoto plays Connie Ritchie's Mother, Elizabeth Pena as Rosie Bob's wife.Danielle Von Zerneck as Donna Ritchie's Girlfriend and the great Joe Pantoliano as Bob Keene who discovers Ritchie Valens and is his Producer/Manager.Like i said there is more to the story then just Ritchie's dreams,What La Bamba comes down to is a story about Brothers.In some ways i relate to Ritchie but at the same time i know how Bob feels being second best.Writer/Director Luis Valdez does an amazing job. Thank you Mr.Valdez for the wonderful job.Los Lobos perform most of the sound-track and perform all of Ritchie Valens songs.Lou Diamond Phillips is amazing but Esai Morales is the stand-out with his performance.I just wanna thank the cast and crew for the inspiration they have given me.And of course the man himself Ritchie Valens R.I.PLa Bamba shows you that Dreams can in fact come true.I give La Bamba 10/10 "},{"Title":"A movie very dear to me","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I must say I am very disappointed in the people slamming this movie.  While they are certainly entitled to their opinion, I think if they watched the movie again without an open mind, they would come to love it as I have.I can't even begin to describe the pure quality of this movie.  Absorbing story, believable, sympathetic characters, pathos, bathos, all the makings of a thought-provoking movie.   Personally, there are two quintessential rock and roll movies  The Doors, and La Bamba.For a good cry and a good time, check out this movie.  You don't even have to be a fan of Valens or a fan of 50's music to fall in love with it. "},{"Title":"Bio of young 50's rocker Ritchie Valens","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Under-rated melodrama with excellent music by Los Lobos and others.  Young Lou Diamond Phillips gives an excellent energetic performance and Esi Morles is at his very best as the sometimes neglected hoodlum brother.  A great cast from top to bottom saves what could have been an all too sudsy script.   "},{"Title":"A Fairy Tale With a Tragic End","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ritchie Valens (Lou Diamond Phillips) is a very poor Mexican-American living with his family in a slum in Paicoma, California. When he is sixteen years old, his half-brother Bob Morales (Esai Morales) is released from the jail and comes back home, bringing money enough for the family to move from the slums to a humble house in a better place. Ritchie goes to the nearby high-school, where he falls in love for Donna (Danielle von Zerneck). Donna, together with his mother Connie Valenzuela (Rosanna DeSoto), his family and his guitar, are the passions of Ritchie. Bob Keene (Joe Pantoliano), president of Del-Fi Records in Hollywood, invites Ritchie to record a single and offers him a recording contract. His first single (`Come On Let's Go') is a great success, and Bob Keene becomes Ritchie's manager. The next songs (`Donna' and `La Bamba') are also very successful and Ritchie Valens becomes famous, earning lots of money. While traveling making shows along USA, he decides to accept an invitation of Buddy Holly to fly back home. A tragic plane crash on 03 Feb 1959 ends the life of this promising seventeen years old singer, along with Buddy Holly and the Big Bopper. The dramatization of Ritchie Valens' life is presented like a soap-opera, full of beautiful songs, and it is very pleasant to watch this film. Lou Diamond Phillips has (maybe) his best performance as actor, but Esai Morales is wonderful as his big brother. The touching story looks like a fairy tale, having a tragic end. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) `La Bamba'  "},{"Title":"Great biopic of a musical legend","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The life and times of Richie Valens, and  well made to say the least. Lou Diamond  Phillips really showed a lot of promise in this  film, but poor choices later in his career hurt  his rep in Hollywood. Nonetheless, this film  is quite an achievement in regards to portraying  a rock idol (which was far better than the dull  Buddy Holly Story). What really made this film  was the relationship between Phillips and Esai  Morales. Never has a brotherly dynamic been  portrayed so fluidly, displaying the sweet and  sour sides of the two growing up. With the help  of a great soundtrack, I really felt this film has  a spirit which isn't displayed in biographies  anymore. Nowadays, most films try too hard  to show the downside, which is what this tried  not to do. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"La Bamba is an excellent star vehicle for revealing late Ritchie Valens' musical genius","Date":"8 January 2009","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" In the history of Hollywood cinema,musicals have always played an important role.La Bamba is one of those rare,well made musicals which depict the cause of the rising popularity of Latino music.All credit for this film's success must go to its creators such as director Luis Valdez,famous musicians Carlos Santana and Los Lobos and amazing actors Esai Morales and Lou Diamond Philips who plays once in a lifetime role of a talented rock musician named Ritchie Valens who left for heavenly abode at a young age.This film provides for an interesting viewing experience as we get mesmerized by its diverse themes which range from family drama,gentle romance,sibling rivalry and soothing music.La Bamba has enough material in the form of social message too.We learn from this film that true brothers are always made for each other as they understand each other's joys and pains.It is said that talent never goes undetected.This is shown candidly as young Ritchie Valens succeeds only due to his natural ability to perform beautiful songs.La Bamba is a film for all those admirers of good cinema who would like to see a musical film. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  La Bamba is one of the movies that makes you feel good,cry and think about how life really is short. Lou Diamond Phillps was in top form as Richie Valens who never got the chance to show us what he could do. I'm not really a Rock & Roll fan but this is a good movie and one hat brings a tear every time I watch it. "},{"Title":"Esai Morales steals the show","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Esai Morales gives the best performance of his career in this 1987 movie about Hall of Fame rock and roller Ritchie Valens, who was tragically killed in a plane crash at the age of 17 with the big bopper and Buddy Holly on February 3, 1959. Morales plays Bob Morales, the half brother of Ritchie. Bob is a drunk who feels as if he is in the shadow of Ritchie due to Ritchie's musical talent and success. In fact if I didn't know better you might think the movie is about Bob. He was in the movie a ton. Lou Diamond Phillips does a good job of portraying Ritchie. I would definitely suggest that you watch this movie. It has a ton of great music and like I said before Morales is awesome in this movie. "}{"Title":"If Heaven exists, then this movie will upset Ritchie Valens","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I saw this movie in 1987, I thought everything in this movie about Ritchie Valens was 100% true.  But a couple of years ago I bought a book and a CD that talked about Ritchie Valens's life.  It is a complete lie that he and his family worked picking peaches, that his producer Bob Keane was nervous about Ritchie singing La Bamba, or that he constantly obsessed about the nightmares associated about a friend of his getting killed by a falling airplane. He did have a friend that got killed by a falling airplane, but he didn't obsess about it all the time.  Contrary to popular belief ganied from this movie, Ritchie had many girlfriends, not just Donna. If you don't believe me then buy a CD called, The Ritchie Valens Story.  In it will contain pictures of Ritchie' childhood and various girls he met on tours. I think it's stupid how the movie acts as if Ritchie Valens knew he was going to die for sure in a plane crash.  I lost somebody in my family due to an accident, and trust me neither anyone in my family, his friends or even himself knew he would die young.  The movie called, The Buddy Holly Story with Gary Busey is a little far fetched like La Bamba, but at least that movie didn't have scenes with obsessions of Buddy dying young! I honestly think someone needs to make another biography movie  about Ritchie Valens.  Even a TV special would be good!  While you're at it, pick ACCURATE facts about Buddy Holly and make another biography movie on him. "},{"Title":"a great movie for rock & roll fans","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is a must see if you are a rock and roll fan.  There is great acting and great music.  If you grew up with early rock & roll, this movie will give you memories.  If not, it will help you learn about one of the most influential rock stars ever.  This is a must see as it is a lot more accurate than The Buddy Holly Story although not 100% accurate.  "},{"Title":"Heartfelt biopic","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" A heartfelt biopic of Ritchie Valens, the '50s rock and roll singer whose career was cut tragically short when he was killed in a plane crash just after reaching the heights of fame.The film itself follows a traditional format, showing Valens's humble working background and the gradual successes before he hits the big time. Along the way, many scenes are given over to Ritchie's relationship with his brother Bob, a tempestuous character who adds plenty of drama to the proceedings, and there's also time for romance.Although Lou Diamond Phillips didn't do the actual singing, I think he makes a good fist of portraying Valens. He certainly brings a youthful energy to the part. Inevitably, the music scenes are the highlight of the film and a good job is done of making them as accurate as possible. The inevitable outcome adds a tragic twist to the film as a whole, which is really a celebratory outing of one man's outstanding talent. "},{"Title":"competent but not much else","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" At his untimely death in a plane crash at age 17 singer Richie Valens left little behind to musical posterity besides three hit songs and a sadly unfulfilled promise of more to come. With so short a life it's no surprise that his screen biography should concentrate more on the enduring fantasy of teenage rock 'n' roll stardom, in essence becoming the ultimate daydream of every young boy who fancies himself a guitar hero. The film captures some of the spirit of rock music's embryonic years, taking much of its energy from the dynamic performance of the title song by the group Los Lobos. But the screenplay stumbles somewhat during the sentimental domestic scenes, all too often settling for soap opera triteness (&#x85;someday I'm going to buy that house for you, Mama&#x85;) or romantic flights of fancy (&#x85;my dreams are pure rock and roll&#x85;). Nostalgia value alone helps make it a pleasant if unsurprising diversion. "},{"Title":"Also my favorite movie.","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" La Bamba is a great movie, basically my favorite movie all times. i first started watching la Bamba when i was about 5 years old on my birthday june 2nd. the movie was playing on TV. One year later on my birthday again la Bamba was on TV again on the same channel. I watched again and I loved it. one more year later on my birthday again 7th birthday the movie was playing again but in a different channel, and i am not making this up. I even told my mom about and she was amazed with that too. so after that i watched la Bamba every time when was on TV. years later when DVD players came out, I bought my first and favorite movie called; la Bamba. "},{"Title":"A movie which needed making","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The story of Ritchie Valens who died a few months before his 18th birthday is one of rock'n'roll's greatest tragedies especially when Buddy Holly and the Big Bopper perished in the same plane crash. Its a much better film than the fictionalised account of Holly in that virtually everything happened as it was portrayed. Valens had a pretty low profile in the UK and suffered from cover versions and a terrible Welsh singer who more or less took his name in 1960. His music was mainly high school pop but when he tapped into the Mexican folk song which gives its name to the movie he could be seen as the catalyst for Twist & Shout. This film is thus the only real development in the story of Ritchie Valens.As he was basically a Chicano musician his legacy led through the years to Chan Romero,Chris Montez,the Sir Douglas Quintet,Sam the Sham & the Pharoahs and finally Freddy Fender who began his career at the same time as Valens but who had to wait over 25 years before his first hit single. Its the story of a brother and half brother and a family who lived in a settlement in conditions close to poverty.The half brother was a wastrel who took drugs and drank heavily-Ritchie was the opposite and had ambition. Its as much about the times than anything-Eddie Cochran was seen played by a Stray Cat and within a year he too would have been killed in a car crash. The film goes a long way to show just how precarious the music business is.In real life Valens had a hit single followed by a couple of flops before hitting paydirt with a double sider in 1959 just at the time of his death.Barely in the music business long enough to make an album there nevertheless was one,issued posthumously and since then his name has been kept alive by no more than this album,one of demos and another recorded more by accident on a tape recorder at his school "},{"Title":"The Way I Play It, It's Rock And Roll","Date":"22 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" When I was 12 years old news came over the morning radio about the deaths of three young rock and roll performers in a plane crash in a desolate stretch of Iowa. One of them was only 17 years old, five years older than me.La Bamba, the title of his biggest hit in his all too brief career tells the life story of Ritchie Valens, shortened from Valenzuela so he could appeal to a wider audience. Today that would never happen, he'd tell them to get it on the theater marquee somehow. It sticks pretty close to the facts.I saw a picture of Ritchie Valens when I actually bought a vinyl record when La Bamba came out. It contained all the known recordings for Ritchie Valens, including a few instrumental tracks he hadn't time to do the vocals for. A lot of those songs are heard in this film.The real Ritchie Valens looked more like a high school football player than a musician. He was a big bull of a kid and Lou Diamond Phillips doesn't look a bit like him. Yet Lou captures the spirit of a kid who lived for his music and his family in reverse order.The key to this film is the triangular relationship between Phillips, his mother Roseanne DeSoto, and his older half brother Esai Morales. There were two younger sisters, but no doubt Roseanne favored the younger son. Morales is an outlaw biker rebel who later does find salvation and a good career as an illustrator and we do see the beginning of that. But he's supporting the family with a few illegal activities so Ritchie the good kid can work on his music. In my family, not my immediate family, we had a situation where the mother favored the younger over the older son. It was a sad situation because I knew both and the older man was a nice man and a good citizen. I could really understand where Morales was coming from.La Bamba is a good look at Chicano culture in America during the Eisenhower years before Cesar Chavez organized the farm workers. That's where Ritchie Valens came from, but it was some drug money that got Roseanne DeSoto out of the migrant worker camps and into a house. Money that Morales got.Ritchie's three hits in his all too brief career Come On Let's Go, Donna, and the title song are all included and performed by Los Lobos. La Bamba is a Mexican folk song that Ritchie adapted and made a rock and roll hit, a reconnection to his roots for the world to see.Everyone in this wonderful film is perfectly cast and makes you feel like you are inside the heart and soul of the Ricardo Valenzuela, 1942-1959. "},{"Title":"Oh Ritchie, Oh Ritchie.........","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I probably saw this film for the first time when I was about 6. I remember the Los Lobos soundtrack to the film being played quite a bit at my house. The film has always stuck with me. It tells Ritchie Valens life story in an entertaining and moving way. Focusing on the relationship of Valens and his brother(both played with amazing tenderness and intensity by Lou Diamond Phillips and Esai Morales) is what makes the film so memorable. Probably the most affecting sequence is towards the end of the film, when Ritchie's Mother is hanging wet clothes on a laundry line to dry; it's just a normal day, the sun shines bright. She's listening to the radio when the news comes of her son being killed in a plane crash. I have not seen many films that can strike such a chord without being exploitive.If you are at the video store and are in the mood for some real fun and emotion check La Bama out.  "},{"Title":"I was surprised by the generation gap in the audience.","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was a Junior in High School the day the music died so I knew how this movie would end going in.  I saw the movie in theatrical release in 1987. In the row in front of me was a group of 14-year-old girls.  It was apparent that they did not begin to guess the ending until the Beechcraft was rolling down the runway at Mason City.There may have been some Hollywood to this version of Valen's life, but overall it was a very well done Bio.  Lou Daimond Phillips is actually better looking than Valens, but he was convincing in the role.  Joe Pantoliano is often overlooked, but I think his Bob Keene was also strong.  "},{"Title":"Interesting subject, but execution is often quite flat or hammy","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Interesting subject, but execution is often quite flat or hammy.The story of Ritchie Valens, the teenager who rose to fame in the late-1950s with hits like Donna, Come On, Let's Go and La Bamba. Interesting subject, as Valens was one of the pioneers of rock 'n roll. His story is also a tragic one, and well-known as such, due to the plane crash that took the lives of him, Buddy Holly (surely one of rock 'n roll's greatest losses) and The Big Bopper. The day the music died... (to quote Don McLean).The musical side largely lives up to expectations - good tracks, well-performed and with some great nostalgic moments.However, the personal side is quite uneven. Particularly bad is the brother angle. This seems overblown and over-dramatic, and is certainly not helped by an over-the-top, hammy performance from Esai Morales.Too many scenes which are dull or cringingly hammy.Overall worth watching from a music history perspective, but you'll have to get through some dull/hammy scenes and acting to get to the end. "}{"Title":"A very well written and acted biopic","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a very well written and acted biopic of Ritchie Valens, the 17-year-old rock n' roll star who, after a career of only eight months and three singles, was killed in the same plane crash that killed Buddy Holly and the Big Bopper on February 3, 1959 in what came to be known as the Day the Music Died in American Pie.Perhaps because of the brevity of his career and the fact that his even earlier death meant that he didn't make the same impact as Holly on the musical scene, the film is more about Richard Valenzuela the person rather than Ritchie Valens the star. Lou Diamond Phillips is excellent as Ritchie. He was 25 at the time and looked it but he still played the role of an intelligent, well-meaning and extremely enthusiastic teenage boy very well.I loved the exploration of his very close relationship with his loving mother Connie, played by Rosanna DeSoto, and his more tempestuous relationship with his half-brother Bob Morales, played by Esai Morales. The real Connie Valenzuela has a brief cameo in the film and she certainly resembled her son. She died only three months after the film was released. Elizabeth Peña, who sadly died six weeks ago, is also very good as Bob's girlfriend Rosie. "},{"Title":"Nice story about the short career of Richie Valens","Date":"9 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Richie Valens was one of many Mexican American pop stars of his era. Many were not known because they were members of bands and not solo artists like Valens. I thought Rosanna DeSoto gave an excellent performance as Valens' mother. She is one of my favorite actresses and can perform comedic roles equally as well as dramatic roles. She's a very versatile actress. In this movie, she was the only authentic Mexican American actor to be cast. The others were Cuban or something else. I would have preferred the role of Valens had gone to a Mexican American actor as Valens was of Mexican heritage and there are few roles about Mexican Americans that actually go to Mexican American actors. Aside from that, I enjoyed this movie. "},{"Title":"Too young to die, but not to rock 'n' roll","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" La Bamba is a really good rags-to-almost-riches story about Ritchie Valens who was three months shy of 18 years-old the day the music died on February 3, 1959. Ritchie is played by Lou Diamond Phillips, his brother Bob by Esai Morales, his mother by Rosanna DeSoto and their friend, Rosie, by Elizabeth Peña. Other than Ritchie's unlikely quick rise to fame, the story focuses on his troubled brother, who both supports Ritchie and resents his success, as well as Ritchie's youthful infatuation with a blond gringo who inspired the hit Donna (Danielle von Zerneck). Donna's Dad, of course, is a bigot and doesn't want her seeing a lowly Hispanic. Ritchie needed a connection to stardom and that was smalltime record producer Bob Keane (Joe Pantoliano) who witnesses Ritchie's magic at a Saturday matinée show at a movie theater.La Bamba is just an all-around entertaining movie. It's got a good (true) story, great music from that era, authentic California locations and quality actors. Morales stands out as Ritchie's brother who's essentially a dark Fonz character. I also like how Keane is shown to be a do-it-yourself visionary who's studio is in his basement. Keane had a make-a-way-where-there-is-no-way ethic, an eye for talent and a willingness to look for treasure in nobodies; and that's why he was successful and is remembered to this day. This is just one example of the gems that can be gleaned from the proceedings.The film runs 108 minutes.GRADE B+ or A- "},{"Title":"Rock solid movie","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" It's a biopic of the young rock & roll singer Ritchie Valens (Lou Diamond Phillips) and his legendary life. It starts in 1957 with Ritchie and his mother Connie Valenzuela (Rosanna DeSoto) working as farm laborers. His brother Bob Morales (Esai Morales) comes with his ill gotten gains to move the family to Southern California. Bob's girlfriend Rosie (Elizabeth Peña) comes along eventually getting married. However Bob gets more abusive and turns into a drunk. Ritchie plays in a garage band, falling for Donna Ludwig (Danielle von Zerneck), and catching the eye of record producer Bob Keane (Joe Pantoliano).Written and directed by Luis Valdez, this is a fairly straight forward biography. The style is simple. The music is rocking good. It's one of the best performance of the early Lou Diamond Phillips. Rosanna DeSoto and Esai Morales also put in good performances. The character Donna needed a better actress, but overall the performances were good. It's a rock solid movie. "},{"Title":"This is one movie I can still watch over and over again after seeing it at least 15 times.","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I had only been familiar with Ritchie Valens' Donna from an old 8-track compilation my parents had titled Cruisin' 1959 and I actually knew that he died in that fateful plane crash also in 1959 prior to seeing La Bamba for the first time in 1987 when I was only 14.I wanted to see it ever since I had seen the ads for it as well as the video for La Bamba on Video Hits,which aired daily here in Canada.Casting was great and I like the fact that the entire movie script wasn't actually all centered around Ritchie and his all too brief music career as well as life.It focused as well on his troubled relationship with his alcoholic half-brother Bob and his insecurities about Ritchie being his Mom's favorite,his relationship with girlfriend Donna Ludwig and the usual trials of teenage love,& naturally,his mother and family.Even with some historical inaccuracies and all,this movie deserves a 10. "},{"Title":"Such a fun and good movie","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Never get tired of this movie. As the song says, the day the music died in lots of ways. Ritchie, Buddy and the Big Bopper. The first two? What might have been...As many other folks have said, I'm a true fan of Rock-n-Roll, and I simply don't get tired of watching this movie. LD Phillips is excellent, as are Esai Morales, PLUS Joe Pantoliona, who's just great! Brian Setzer was a perfect choice to play Eddie Cochran, as was Marshall Crenshaw for dear Buddy Holly. And of course we can't disregard the super soundtrack by Los Lobos.If you like this movie, you really need to get a hold of The Real Buddy Holly Story, maybe from Netflix. Paul McCartney introduces sections, and it really takes you to the Lubbock area. As a native Texan, I cannot imagine a worse place to grow up! But it gave us Buddy, as well as Joe Ely. Plus my state have us Willy and Waylon. Whole different kind musicians, but really good. But I digress - back to La Bamba.This is simply a wonderful movie, capturing the early days of rock(minus Chuck Berry) and much more simple times. Was anybody worried about air pollution?? Watch the film and enjoy! I got sucked into it last night on AMC, could not stop watching it, even though I'd seen many times before, and stayed up much later than intended.So, come on, let's do it again and again and again. "},{"Title":"Great Music and Great Acting!","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Sure it may not be accurate and sure it may Lou Diamond Philips does not look anything at all like Ritchie Valens. Philips was only 24-25 as Ritchie was 17 when he perished along with the Big Bopper and Buddy Holly in the Day the Music Died back on February 3, 1959.Still you will enjoy his performance as Ritchie only had eight months of fame and recognition before his tragic accident. As he had to deal with his ex-con volatile brother, Bob played greatly by Easi Morales.As also his poor family began to also enjoy the riches along with what Ritchie was experiencing. Along with his taboo romance with Donna. Which was that back then.There was a lot of jealousy between his brother over his fame. But in the end, they try to smooth things over. Sadly we all know what happened at the end.But still it makes for an enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"A favorite","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I flat out love this movie. The cast is solid and great. Lou Diamond Phillips did an impeccable job portraying the late Ritchie Valens and all his potential. You can't go wrong with this film and I recommend that everyone should watch it at least once to learn about the 1950's sensation who was unfortunately a part of the Day the Music Died. The dialogue is strong. Esai Morales and Phillips capture the often contentious and ultimately loving brother-brother relationship quite well. Morales nailed the heart-wrenching final scene of the movie and conveyed the vices and struggles of Bob. The supporting cast do an excellent job in playing Ritchie's mother, his girlfriend Donna, and the music producer Keane. La Bamba is an important film because it exposes the audience to a sad and true rags-to-riches story that ends abruptly and tragically. The music is amazing and well done, much like the original songs, which is a crucial component of why La Bamba is a classic among biopics, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Terrific film!  Highly recommended!","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Mostly, I don't like rock n' roll. I don't remember Richie Valens, and wouldn't have liked his music if I had.But this is a damned good movie that deserves a far higher rating than it has gotten. I rarely give an 8, but I will this time.And what makes it so good? First two powerhouse performances by relative newcomers. Lou Diamond Phillips is remarkable here as Richie Valens. Unfortunately, he hasn't had a role this good since. And Esai Morales...what a powerful performance! Rarely do performances in any film come up to this level.Second, there's a sentimental side to this film, and it has to do with the bonds in Latino families. I've seen it in person in my work, and it's portrayed well in this film.Third, even though we know how the film will turn out, it's nevertheless an upbeat film with hope for the future...even if it wasn't realized by Richie Valens.Supporting actors do a nice job here, too. Special mention should go to Rosanna DeSoto as Ritchie's mother.I've watched this film half a dozen times, and really it's not my kind of film...but it hooks me every time! Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Ritchie Valens Immortalized In This Film","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" La Bamba is a biographical film that follows the life and career of Chicano rock 'n' roll star Ritchie Valens. The film stars Lou Diamond Phillips in the title role together with Esai Morales, Rosanna DeSoto, Elizabeth Peña, Danielle von Zerneck, and Joe Pantoliano. The film also covers the effect that Valens' career had on the lives of his half- brother Bob Morales, his girlfriend Donna Ludwig and the rest of his family.It was written and directed by Luis Valdez. Legendary 1950s rocker Ritchie Valens,who was born Ricardo Valenzuela, is known for his radio and concert success with hits like La Bamba, C'mon Let's Go, and Donna.He was a 15-year-old migrant worker who worked with his mother Connie. His half-brother Bob Morales is a vitriolic ex-con who roars into the migrant camp on his Harley after his release from jail. Valens' musical talents are encouraged by his family and he soon earns an audition with legendary record producer and former Artie Shaw clarinet player Bob Keane. He soon appears in an Alan Freed rock n' roll teen exploitation film, lip-synching his blistering recorded version of Ooh, My Head. When a romance with Donna Ludwig is forbidden by her conservative father, he pens the famous ballad that bears her name. Tours follow his chart success until the fatal plane crash that claimed the lives of Valens, The Big Bopper and Buddy Holly on February 3,1959. This is the film that definitely immortalized Ritchie Valens to present generations.Credit the performance of Lou Diamond Phillips for he leaves a haunting impression as the late 1950s pop idol that made the Latino influence in rock & roll conspicuous through his hit songs. The directors also created a nimble, exciting, and sympathetic portrait of the boy driven to rise above obstacles of race and family legacy.The movie is also characterized by a great musical extravaganza from the hit songs of Valens played by Los Lobos as well as Valens' contemporaries like Valdez Eddie Cochrane and Buddy Holly.Overall,this was a solid and entertaining biopic. "}{"Title":"rock and roll biopic","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Ritchie Valens died at seventeen alongside Buddy Holly in a plane crash, but not before leaving several records including the one which gives this film its title, 'La Bamba'.A straight biopic covering 1957-1959, the last two years of Valens' life, this showcases his music, his family, and his personality. In the lead Lou Diamond Phillips does perhaps his best work, although the rest of the cast are in strong support.I just didn't get a feeling that this film had much of a heart - yes, there is the jealous brother, and the girlfriend whose parents don't approve, but it is all a bit hollow. So the film is only a bit of a diversion, nothing special. "},{"Title":"Fine","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I don't know anything about the real person this is about apart from what this tells. I can't claim to be particularly interested in this film(and to put it about as nicely as possible, bio-pic is *not* my genre), or the real person, so please chalk it up to that if this review bears marks of that. The music is definitely good(that's probably always been my reason for watching this), if 50's rock is your thing, I could see there being worse things to sit through to listen to such, but I can't say for sure that I've watched any others of these(Elvis films don't count, right?). The plot isn't bad and develops OK. The pacing is reasonable. The acting certainly has bright spots... Pantoliano is a pretty positive addition as usual, and Pena, who I've seen since earlier viewings of this in both NCIS and WaT and performed well in both(particularly the latter) is great. Never been a fan of Phillips, this doesn't really alter that one way or the other. Cinematography and editing are nothing special. I couldn't tell you if the people look(or sound, in the case of the singers) their parts, or if this follows the actual story(at all), I'm afraid. I recommend this to fans of the musicians and their work. 7/10 "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I don't know why any one would not like this movie. I'm 18 years old and i've been watching this movie sense i was 6 years old. Me and my cousins all grew up with this movie. We probably watched it so much because my grandfather only had about 5 movies to chose from and the rest where black and white so we watch this one and can't stop now. Yeah its not our style of music but when we watch it we all sing along. If anyone does not like this movie i cant see why. It's a great love story and a great story about a legend. I love this movie. I know every word to it. This is my favorite movie ever i wish everyone in the world could watch this movie. Ihis is a great movie that everyone should watch. So give it a try. "},{"Title":"The music is great, atmosphere realistic. Dialogue is a bit stilted at times.","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" If you like the music, you'll like the movie.Great music performances by Los Lobos, Brian Setzer and Howard Huntsberry (absolutely loved Huntsberry's cover of Jackie Wilson). Would have been nice if the DVD contained the Valens' versions of some songs to compare with Los Lobos. Even better would have been some original footage of Valens. Luis Valdez (writer/director) worked closely with Valens' family and it shows in the realistic atmosphere of several scenes. That said, the dialog has some real fingernails-on-chalkboard momentsBob You're such a dreamer. Ritchie My dreams are pure rock and roll.Ritchie to Donna I'm going to be a star. Stars don't fall from the sky, do they? (alluding to Ritchie's fear of flying and his tragic death).I agree with many others that Esai Morales shines as Ritchie's brother Bob. The movie would be sorely lacking without Bob's story. "},{"Title":"Classic Americana","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am a sixteen year old fan of Ritchie Valens. I think the movie was great. It made me want to pick up a guitar and learn how to play some of the classic songs that were sung on the movie. Which I did and now I know how to play the song La Bamba and Come on Lets Ago. The acting was excellent. The movie gave me lot's of information on Ritchie Valens that I did not know. "},{"Title":"The Life of Ritchie Valens","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Moving and emotional film which deals with the last few months of Ritchie Valens' life.  Lou Diamond Phillips is super as the doomed youth who became a national super-star at the age of 17 because of his rock music.  However, his life was cut short as he died in a plane crash along with Buddy Holly and the Big Bopper in the late-1950s.  The direction is strong and the screenplay is smart and insightful.  Joe Pantoliano is good in a supporting role.  Esai Morales is excellent as Phillips' older brother.  4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Great Hit","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites.  The acting was great.  They knew how to act and was very good.  The movie was dramatic, too.  It made me cry once are twice.  It was a great show to watch and I really enjoyed it. Phillips was the best actor, but the person that played Bob was pretty good to.  It taught me a lot of stuff that I didn't realise.  It was very educational.  I'm sure glad you don't have to find out that your son died on the radio.  I recommend this show for anyone.  It's a great show to watch with your kids (if you have any).  This show is worth the money to rent or own. "},{"Title":"A propaganda movie in the war against the aliens","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" An elaborate, yet unmemorable piece of propaganda. The problem has its roots in trying to touch all interesting issue of that era. From the first half hour there is the dark skinned no good guy who moves drugs. There is a cute scene ready for the white fundamentalist in which two bad guys with dark skin are doing drugs. Actually hemp. In a small trailer. It suits them, after all they don't have a steady job, right? And in that small space the girlfriends (the bad guy doesn't obey the holy matrimony, right?) are not affected. To make things more obvious, one becomes angry and aggressive like in Reefer Madness. And his girlfriend gives him a nice discourse fit for a white middle class protestant girl. Cliché poverty, cliché romantic scene, and the children popping on and off to suit the artistic desires of the director and writer. And it keeps going like that for almost two hours. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I think the movie does a superb job of portraying the story and issues without preaching to the viewer. I waited years to see this movie. Now that I've seen it and read the other reviews, I wonder if I watched the same movie. A film that knocks you out just after watching it. This cast interacts with absolute precision, whether walking around a room or interrupting each others' wisecracks. Certainly the characterizations are shallow and quickly changeable, often for little or no reason.As social commentary I give it an eight; for story and acting a five. It's worth seeing for some inventive uses of sound and the actors. It's amazing to me that this movie received such poor reviews. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Before I watched this movie I had no idea who Ritchie Valens was. I had heard the song La Bamba and had heard about The Day the Music Died but didn't know that he had anything to do with them. This movie is an excellent tribute to him, his music and his tragically short life.I only watched this movie in 2012. The movie was released two years before i was born. It was released in 1987. I thought that it would be dated but I was wrong. Apart from some of the cinematic techniques and cinematography this movie is still fresh and can appeal to today's audience just as much as it did 24 years ago.It is not overly sentimental but manages to strike the right balance in order to convey the correct emotions. There are no flashy sets or a convoluted story lines. no added frills. Just good honest, straight story telling that adds to the realness of the movie and the characters. Not a single moment is contrived or pretentious.The performances where great especially Lou Diamond Phillips and Esai Morales.Music was brilliant. Los Labos performed each track to perfection.The ending is a real tear-jerker.One of the best movies ever made. I can watch it over and over again without tiring of it and still cry at the end each time.Kudos to Luis Valdez and his entire team for making such a great piece of cinema. You have truly inspired me and shown what great cinema is about. Showing the truth. "}{"Title":"Chicano rock rules!","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" La Bamba film tells the true story of the musician Ritchie Valens, a Mexican guitarist and singer known for being one of the pioneers of the Chicano rock movement. He unfortunately died in an airplane crash with Buddy Holly and The Big Bopper at an early stage of his successful career at the age of 17, becoming a legend of 50s rock and roll.The movie goes through the relationship of Ricardo Valenzuela with his family and his girlfriend from school Donna, for whom he wrote a song which was the a-side of his second and last single. The film focuses on the tense relationship that Ritchie Valens has with his step brother Bob and with his mother who favored him (the younger brother) over Bob.Bob, who sees the upcoming success of his brother, keeps drinking and trying to find a way in his life, which includes taking care of his wife and little baby. The film also reflects the start of Bob's future career as a cartoonist. What a talented family!! The main character is played very well by Lou Diamond Phillips, who does a really good act playing the guitar. Another highlight to his brother Bob who captures very well his frustration.One of my favorite moments in the film is when Ricardo Valenzuela goes to Del-Fi record studios with his manager Bob Keane, and sings Come on, let's go sixty times, until Bob Keane considers he has the perfect recordings for mixing it. Bob Keane suggested he change his name to one more commercial, turning it into Ritchie Valens.Another remarkable moment is the concert in a theater, where there are performances of Eddie Cochran, Jackie Wilson and Ritchie Valens, who in this concert plays La Bamba. Eddie Cochran is played very well by Brian Setzer, who is the front man and guitarist of the rockabilly group The Stray Cats. I think the scenes of the audience could be done better, the audience is strangely overacting when the musicians show up and play.Ritchie Valens songs were recorded for the film by Los Lobos. The soundtrack also includes other songs from the 50s.It's a very nice and enjoyable biopic! "},{"Title":"stars never fall from the sky","Date":"19 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" La Bamba masterfully tells the story of rock 'n' roll singer Ritchie Valens, who tragically died in a plane crash with Buddy Holly and The Big Bopper. It's the sort of movie that's seriously a thrill to watch, seeing Valens's humble beginnings and rise to super-stardom through the use of his musical talent. Maybe the movie sort of overplayed the tension between Valens (Lou Diamond Phillips) and his irresponsible half-brother Bob Morales (Esai Morales), but that doesn't weaken the movie. More important is that the movie makes clear that Valens came from a very loving family, with a mother (Rosanna DeSoto) who worked very hard so that he could have a good life.All in all, it just goes to show why rock music is never going to die (The Day the Music Died notwithstanding) and the Britney Spears model doesn't mean jack. This is one movie that you gotta love! Also starring Elizabeth Peña, Danielle Von Zerneck and Joe Pantoliano (Cypher in The Matrix). "},{"Title":"La Bamba-The Sky Was the Limit for Ritchie Valens ****","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Terrific biography of the late Ritchie Valens. Terrified of flying, he rocketed to fame with his hits La Bamba and Donna. In his short life, he observed a brother who wasn't exactly the apple of his mother's eye. A girlfriend who loved him, but had to live under the roof of a bigoted father and a society that welcomed him.Living in poverty with his guitar, Ritchie's mother believed in him dearly. He had at last succeeded in the American dream when tragedy struck.As the alcohol addicted brother, Isai Morales gave a phenomenal performance that should have been acknowledged with a best supporting Oscar nomination.Lou Diamond Philips rose to the occasion and gave a strong performance as well. "},{"Title":"Nifty bio of the promising young rocker","Date":"7 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" LA BAMBA is example of a simple, nuts and bolts, entertaining biopic. Not a lot of depth or complexity, but entertaining still the same. It moves fast, is well-acted, and has a lot of great music. About young rock 'n roll icon Ritchie Valens (who sadly died in a 1959 plane crash that also took the life of another rock legend Buddy Holly), LA BAMBA is highly energetic and upbeat, given its sad, downbeat ending. It focuses on the positives, not negatives. The racial stuff is kind of glossed over a bit, as I'm sure that racism against Hispanics was much deeper than portrayed in the film. In particular, Donna (Ritchie's girlfriend) had a father that obviously was a bigot, but the way it is treated is very soft, but this is the tone of the film.Lou Diamond Phillips plays Valens and sadly, his career peaked with this terrific performance. You would have thought Phillips would have graduated to much greater things after this. Also terrific is Esai Morales (who was great as Sean Penn's nemesis from the film BAD BOYS from 1980) as Ritchie's troubled brother Bob. Morales really is the only character with any real depth in the flick. Bob and Ritchie's relationship is by turns touching and volatile. Could have been much better if they'd went deeper with this Cain-Abel relationship.The women in this film are beautiful Rosana DeSoto as Valens' mother, Elisabeth Pena as Bob's wife (and Ritchie's former girlfriend) and Danielle von Zerneck as Ritchie's high school love Donna (one of Ritchie's songs was inspired by and named for her). Also in the flick is the always reliable Joe Pantoliano (one of those actors who seems to be in everything when you go back and review Hollywood films of the 80s!).The great music is what really keeps the film moving and flowing. It is brilliantly intercut with the slender storytelling, but helps drive it along. The songs LA BAMBA and DONNA are definite keepers! All in all, an inspirational look at a talented young man who perished way too soon. "},{"Title":"One of the best rock biopics","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Considering the calibre of the songs he wrote, and the standard of his guitar playing by the age of 17, it is amazing that Ritchie Valens is not talked about more. When you think that Buddy Holly was five years older than Valens at the time of their deaths, it is intriguing to think what Valens might have accomplished given a similar amount of time - just as it is to think what Holly could have accomplished had he lived. But the fact is that Holly was much more the established star in 1959, and because of that he is the more remembered.The same is true of La Bamba as is true of Valens - the film is not as well remembered as The Buddy Holly Story, which is a shame because it is almost as good. Some of the performances are truly excellent, and, more importantly, the spirit of the music is captured perfectly.The film deals predominantly with Valens' family relationships - he was close to his mother as he was at odds with his brother Bob - and his sharp rise to fame. There are a few flaws Lou Diamond Phillips, in the lead role, looks almost nothing like the real Valens although his performance is suitably intense and lively; and much of Valens' early attempts at performing are ignored (he was turned down by several record companies who felt the 16-year-old Valens looked too old for the teenage market). But the balance the film finds between each sub-plot (his family, Bob's relationship with Valens's sweetheart Rosie, his difficulties with girlfriend Donna's family etc.) is a real winning formula, and the music tops things off well.The music is pretty much spot-on throughout the whole film. Supplied by Los Lobos (whose front man does an excellent Valens impersonation), it shows what can be achieved if the lip-syncing rock biopic is done properly. Similar attempts have failed (notably in 'Great Balls of Fire', the Jerry Lee Lewis biopic), whereas the ground-breaking live performances in The Buddy Holly Story set a new standard for music in this type of film. Also, some of the incidental acts are truly superb - Eddie Cochran, Jackie Wilson and a sensational Marshall Crenshaw as Buddy Holly are real winners and help the film no end.The fact that we still care so much about a 17-year-old Mexican pop act fifty years on is a real indicator of the immense talent Valens had and just what a defining event the plane crash itself was. Two of the most talented musicians ever in any genre (Holly was compared to the great composers more than once) were taken at a young age, and it is hard to imagine a similar event happening today that would have such a far-reaching impact.It is important that films on the two are made as well as this as we need to remember the men for what they were, because unlike rock biopics, no more of them will be made. "},{"Title":"Well put together film...","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" 1st watched 11/18/2008 -(Dir-Luis Valdez) Well put together film about musician Ritchie Valens's rise to stardom and quick departure from this world. Lou Diamond Phillips plays Valens admirably in his movie debut and Esai Morales plays his brother in a pivotal role that makes this movie different than others in it's genre. The movie is not just about the star, but also about his family and their reactions to his rise to fame. The love story between Ritchie and Donna is a little lame but makes a good bridge to the song that he writes and performs and is one of his few hits. When this movie was released, there were very few movies about the hispanic-American experience so this was very unique for it's time. The songs are fun and the relationship between Ritchie and his brother Bob helps the movie be a little meatier. This is a small classic that I hope will not be forgotten. "},{"Title":"Ritchie Valens a lost genius","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" La Bamba is a movie which serves as a biography of a legendary and promising singer, a brilliant artist who unfortunately died at the age of 17 in a plane accident Ritchie Valens.This movie shows us how Ritchie Valens was born to poverty, destined for stardom and lived the American Dream, although the ending is tragic.La Bamba is mostly a simple movie which can be watched without bad surprises, but it is nothing extraordinary. This isn't an Oscar winner, but I don't think that the movie had intentions to be. Better for the movie, because the Oscars subject is usually unfair.This film doesn't concentrate only on Ritchie Valens it also focuses on his family, especially his alcoholic and troublesome older brother Bob Morales.Lou Diamond Phillips is awesome in this role. This is probably his best performance ever, although he doesn't really look at all like the real Ritchie Valens.Esai Morales is great as Bob Morales and Danielle von Zerneck is pretty good as Ritchie's girlfriend Donna (she was his inspiration to create the song Donna).La Bamba is more than just a biographical story. It is also a musical and an epitome of the 1950's generation and lifestyle.The soundtrack is brilliant, with famous Ritchie Valens's classics such as La Bamba, Donna, Come On, Let's Go and We Belong Together. However, here these songs are wonderfully performed by Lou Diamond Phillips and his band Los Lobos. These magical and nostalgic songs are the best thing about this movie.Overall, La Bamba is a reasonable movie but not one of those to watch over and over without getting tired of it because, although it has its good moments, it has also its weak moments, which aren't so little like that. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's Lou Diamond Phillips Superstar.","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" La Bamba (1987) was a bio-pic about a seventeen year old Chicano rock star named Ritchie Valens. His life and music career was cut short because of a plane crash he was involved with two other pop stars (Buddy Holly and J.P. Richardson). But the star of this movie was Lou Diamons Phillips as Ritchie Valens. Even though he bore little resemblance to the real deal, he talked his role with earnest and zeal. Esai Morales (with a deep tan) co-stars as Bob his half brother. Rosanna De Soto co-stars as well as the boys mom, Brian Setzer makes a brief appearance as Eddie Cochran and Joey Pants plays Bob Keene (Ritchie's Svengali/handler/manager).The movie plays with the facts very loosely and Los Lobos performs the music and appears in the film as a Tijuana club band. We learn about Ritchie's love for a girl named Donna, his fear of flying, his love for his mom and brother. But we also learn somethings about this movie that I don't even want to know more about. Ritchie and Momma V. playing touchy face with each other. The looks and the way Ritchie picked up his mother and buried his face in ...well judge for yourself. There seemed to be a bizarre love triangle between Bob, Ritchie and the mother. They should re-edit the movie or something. The more I see those scenes the more I am disturbed by it. Oh well something to think about the next time you watch it.Overall this is a good movie. Watchable fun for people who want to know about the short but brilliant life of Ritchie Valens and his love and family life. This film launched Lou Diamond Phillips career, a all too brief career that came crashing down when the eighties ended. I wish a more accurate film was made about Ritchie Valens. But until then this will do!Recommended. "},{"Title":"Rock'n'roll nostalgia","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I expected less, I got more. Luis Valdez does a good job of putting to screen the brief life of rock'n'roll star Ritchie Valens. Great soundtrack. The chemistry is good between Ritchie and Donna. I remember when the movie came out, I was about 13 and I fell in love with Donna! Danielle von Zemeck brings a certain innocence to the role that is refreshing. Lou Diamon Phillips is good but Esai Morales steals the show. In fact, you could almost say the movie is about his life just as it his of Ritchie.Seen at home, in Toronto, on January 21st, 2005.78/100 (**½) "},{"Title":"The first movie that touched me so deeply.","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was a little boy when I saw 'La Bamba' for the first time. That picture touched me so deeply that I couldn't even sleep that night. It's the story of a poor American boy who becomes 50s rock'n'roll pioneer - Ritchie Valens. Great music and lots of tears.   "}{"Title":"made me love music again","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  La Bamba is a heartwrenching story about dreams, love and loss.  It made me love music again.  The acting is superb by the entire cast, and Ritchie Valens's music is done justice by Los Lobos.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone interested in 50's lifestyle, music of any kind, and fans of love stories. "},{"Title":"The tragedy of a young rock 'n' roller.","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Lou Diamond Phillips is superb as Ritchie Valens. From Pacoima, California to rock 'n' roll heaven. The young Mexican-American was determined to break free of the Chicano section of the San Fernando Valley. His music was to be his ticket. A smash hit record at the age of sixteen; a few more to follow and then the tragic plane crash. Valens was dead at age 17. He perished in the now-famous accident that also took the lives of two other entertainers, Buddy Holly and the Big Bopper. Los Lobos provided the Valens tunes for this bio-pic. The story is quite touching, even though the writer took liberties with reality and fantasy.Phillips had very good support acting from Esai Morales and Elizabeth Pena. Look for Rick Dees, Marshall Crenshaw and Brian Setzer. Very enjoyable, especially if you like rock 'n' roll in its infancy. "},{"Title":"Classic Americana","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was too young to know much about Ritchie Valens.  So this was actually educational, in addition to being entertaining.  Excellent music and acting.  "},{"Title":"Broken talismans, fateful coin tosses and the mustiest of biopic cliches","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Moments of La Bamba seem so exact and are mounted so well, they produce goosebumps of nostalgic remembrance and heightened expectations. Those moments, like goosebumps, don't last long, and La Bamba is eventually weighed down by hoary old B-movie cliches(maybe Ritchie did dream of dying in a plane crash, but does he have to tell everybody about it--including his manager ON a plane flight?). This is all just to get our tear ducts going for the final unfair twist(which is slackly handled). General over-acting and over-eager direction are other hurdles in a film that is eventually too slick for anybody's good. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Not a bad biopic of Ritchie","Date":"27 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Parts of this movie were done very well. They did a great job with the characters especially, and making them feel real and relatable. They built some real, solid, drama in this film, and some scenes were done terrifically. The main downfall is the script. The foreshadowing was handled horribly. It isn't subtle at all, it's just in-your-face, and doesn't really work to the effect it was hoping for...not to mention there's way too much. Another big problem with the movie is I feel like it was almost too focused on Ritchie's death. The very first scene opens with a plane exploding, if that tells you anything. It isn't very historically accurate, and certainly romanticizes the story a lot, too. At certain times the dialogue was really good and emotional, but at other times it was horribly cheesy. For what it is, the film put in a solid effort, and it is certainly an enjoyable film. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The movie La Bamba was shown in my eighth grade music class earlier this week. For its time, I thought it was exceptionally good! Most of my class thought the ending to this movie was really sad, especially when Ritchie's family heard on the radio that he had been tragically killed in a plane crash after his good luck charm was broken. Although I wasn't familiar with most of the actors, I thought they all did a great job! Definitely not my favourite, but overall a pretty good movie! It kept my attention from beginning to end and from what I can remember there were very few boring scenes. La Bamba proves that dreams really can come true if you try your best to make them happen. I especially liked how even though Ritchie became wealthy and famous from his music, he didn't forget about his family. Instead, he bought his mother a new house like she'd always wanted. Ritchie also never gave up on his stubborn and drunken brother Bob. He continued trying to reason with him, even when Bob was constantly screaming and cursing at him and his family. If you like Rock and Roll, then you should definitely see this movie! I would give it a 10. "},{"Title":"Fake","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I totally agree with Anonymous 10 April 99.I saw this movie for the first time today, I was born in the fifties, but this does not matter.  We all know Ritchie is going to die in an air crash, but from second one we are confronted with planes flying over the school yard.I was told this is a pretty accurate biography but I truly can't believe it. It's like a bible story, the good and the bad son. Ritchie could not have been that good and his brother couldn't have been that bad.What I miss in this film, and I'm sure that was true, that the family hung together. Too much melodrama, sorry no tears, and I even weep when the Wheel Of Fortune does not strike right. "},{"Title":"Ritchie the singer","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie in my Spanish class today and I thought it was okay.  It was about a young Hispanic Californian named Ritchie Valens who was into rock music and quickly became a rock singer.  His brother was a drunk and would often come home and swear his head off at his wife.  The ending was quite sad when the broadcaster on the radio announced that three people were killed in an airplane crash.  One of these people was Ritchie Valens. Overall, I don't think this is a movie that I would want to watch over and over again.     "},{"Title":"Solid Biography of a Tragically Short Life","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  La Bamba tells the story of a singer who happens to be Mexican, who happens to be talented, and who happens to have a fear of planes.  Very solid moviemaking does not stray from its roots, i.e., every biography ever done about a deceased singer.  There is nothing really wrong with that, because it suits this movie just fine.  Ritchie was a pretty uncomplicated guy and he was only in high school, so its not like there were years and years of his life to pick from in telling his story.  Lou Diamond Phillips is perfect as Ritchie.  I don't know if he did his own singing or not, but its surprising he didn't get a Golden Globe nomination, at the very least.  Esai Morales as his troubled brother Bob also makes an impression, and not always in the best light.  Bob is jealous, self-centered, ignored, defeated - in many ways you learn a lot more about Bob than anyone else in the movie.Very worthwhile, no complaints.  Not a masterpiece but nothing outstandingly wrong with it either.  7/10.   "},{"Title":"Love It!","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Well, I really loved this movie.  I have never gotten bored of this movie since the first time I saw it.  I think that Lou Diamond Philips did a very good job portraying Ritchie Valenz.  I give it a 10! "}{"Title":"Esai Morales should have won an Academy Award !","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  i like Lou Diamond Phillips but Esai Morales is a great actor who everyone should know about... he did a spectacular job as bob .. and he was very funny as well... I love watching his appearances in the movie....This movie is great and i wish more people would like it... It is a true gem that is excellent. "},{"Title":"It's great. Lou Diamond Phillips shoulda been huge.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" .......I think this flick is about as accurate as Hollywood allows, too, so some of you, stop yer whining. The music, the performances, the feeling for the era, the relationship between him and his brother, all nicely done. I remember that this was sposedly going to kick off a 'Hispanic film/TV' wave in Hollywood, as it was a big hit-but that just never panned out.*** outta ****.  "},{"Title":"Are all you people serious?","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I remember when I saw this movie for the first time. I was 11 or 12. At that age, you think anything on TV is good. The crazy thing was, I didn't! I remember thinking about how awful La Bamba was! As the years passed and it could be seen on any channel, any time of year, I for some reason sat and watched it several times, and every time, I noticed something else about it that was just embarrassing.This might be one of the most poorly acted movies of all time. Lou Diamond Phillips, who is a can't miss cornball in every movie, nauseates me with his facial expressions and attempts to look serious. When things get rocky with Donna, who is pretty ugly, he completely parts with anything that could be considered acting. Everything is right up front, obvious, and totally surface level, and all the while, here's this complete goof who carries his electric guitar around school.When news hits of the crash, and everyone at school is sitting around sobbing, I felt like I was right there with them, because I had wasted the last two hours of my life for this piece of garbage that some call a film. I do have to admit, that if I want to laugh, this movie's great for it because it's not supposed to be funny. "}]