[{"Title":"Very underrated film","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is nearly 20 years old, but still rates as one of the best movies I've ever seen.Following the title sequence which sets the violent scene of car crime which forms the backdrop for this film, Peter Werner opens the film with a fairly protracted scene featuring the central character (22-year-old rookie cop, Benjy) in his home environment. This marks the start of some brilliant characterisation which underpins the whole film, causing the viewer not to perceive that there is a villain of the piece. As an enviable friendship between Bengy and the police target, suspected ringleader and businessman, Ted Varrick (Charlie Sheen) develops, the viewer yearns to be in ether's shoes, as Ted welcomes Bengy to his world of the rich and aimless. This envy is part based on the complex hedonistic and idealistic relationships between all the characters that evolves, but ultimately everything relies for its roots on Bengy and Teds crime sprees, something that ultimately must end.The deterioration is palpable, and when ultimately the reckoning comes, it does so in series of twists that drive the two friends together (something very much cunningly engineered by Ted himself). The end represents a self fulfilling prophesy that left me craving for more, yet knowing there could be no sequel.The contrast between the pair is very much a focal point, the only commonality being their devotion to their own goals - goals which for Bengy at least become very blurred, as Ted gives him the Porsche and the lifestyle that form the focus of his own existence. The domestic opening scene is a stark contrast for the remote, empty but undeniabley plush and palacial house that Ted visits rather than truly lives in, with its stunning view from the hills over the city. The film is bolstered by some spectacular car chase sequences that are plausible in a way that modern sequences rarely are. They all involve Porsche 911's and if there is ever any incredulity it comes from these sequences only. Could an Oldsmobile ever keep pace with a works Porsche? How could an Iroc Z ever hope to keep up, and if it did, and crashed into the lightweight Porsche, how on earth does it fail to leave a scratch?Romantic interest is enticingly present as Ted encourages the relationship between Bengy and his own sister Anne (Lara Harris) but it never manages to rival, nor is intended to rival the strength of the bond between Ted and Bengy. Utterly brilliant for the most part, I've now watched this film 8 times.Thoroughly recommended. "},{"Title":"Porsches","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In a way, having a Porsche in a city like Los Angeles is a clear invitation for car thieves to take them, as demonstrated in No Man's Land, the 1987 film that has a look of a movie made for television. It's no wonder since its director and writer, Peter Werner and Dick Wolf, are veterans of the medium. Ron Howard is listed as a producer.No Man's Land is worth a look because in spite of its flaws, because it shows an interesting aspect of the complex relationship between a police undercover cop and the young man who is the master mind in the car stealing robberies plaguing the city. The interaction between these two opposites is well played by the two leading actors, B. D. Sweeney, and Charlie Sheen.Charlie Sheen, gives a restrained performance here. In fact, this actor tends to go for intensity without the proper guidance of a good director. As the slick Ted Varrick, Mr. Sheen shows a subtle side that we don't see too often. B.D. Sweeney is also effective as the undercover man who falls for Ann, who happens to be Ted's sister. Mr. Sweeney has that clean look about him that makes him perfectly suited for the good natured Bill, the mechanic he pretends to be.Others faces in the film includes Lara Harris who plays Ann, the woman in love with the man hunting her own brother. Randy Quaid is seen briefly as Lt. Bracey, who is responsible for getting one of his men infiltrate the car stealing ring.No Man's Land has the ubiquitous car chases and visual effects of pictures of this genre. The cinematography of Hiro Narita shows us a lot of Los Angeles shopping malls and high priced stores where the car thieves love to steal the Porsches. "},{"Title":"Sleek and stylish eighties action flick...before Fast and The Furious there was....THIS","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The eighties might be considered a fairly relaxed era for movies. So many classic films come out of the eighties and they are ripe with sex, materialistic lust, violence, bad language, and the ultimate in cool. No Man's Land, despite a rather dull title, is exactly what the eighties genre is all about. Sleek cars (the Porsche) fast women, cool guys, guns, suits, and basically chock full of testosterone. This film is exactly what Fast and The Furious or Gone In Sixty Seconds was years later. Although No Man's Land has a fairly stereotypical storyline, the cop goes undercover to bust a car thieving ring and becomes entranced with the sweet lifestyle, something makes this different. It might be the cast who all work really well together without really giving any truly outstanding performances, it's a fast paced action film with an incredible car chase scene right at the climax and it's just a good time. It's not that will rake in the Oscars but at the same time you'll just feel pumped up watching it.Charlie Sheen...king of The Brat Pack, some might say. He was at the top of his game going into No Man's Land following Platoon and shortly thereafter Wall Street and Young Guns, and Major League. The guy was big in his day. In this film he plays bad guy, smooth talking businessman Ted Varrick. Varrick is so cool that you barely notice his illegal activities. Sheen is slick and easy to watch and commands a screen presence for his young age. And he's actually playing a grown up which is always a good move for a young actor trying to break into adult roles. He is very good as Varrick. D.B. Sweeney plays undercover rookie cop Benjy Taylor. Now Sweeney has done a bit of character acting although he was fairly new out of the gate when he filmed this one but I didn't think he was quite as good as someone stronger could have been in the role but he does alright. He tries to come across as the bad boy and never quite gets there. He's too soft but still he's likable and you can relate to him as the hero who gets too deep in with Varrick. Sheen and Sweeney do share some decent chemistry on screen together, which makes for some truly likable scenes and a killer ending. Lara Harris is Sweeney's love interest and Varrick's younger sister. She does a decent job although a little quiet for her role and her and Sheen seem to have too much sexual chemistry to be brother and sister which comes across as creepy at times but she also has decent chemistry with Sweeney although again he's not much of a bad boy like they try to portray him. Randy Quaid plays a small role as Sweeney's boss who sends him undercover. Quaid plays a tough as nails Lieutenant who seems to only yell and scream most of the time which is unfortunate because Quaid could have added a lot to the cast.As I mentioned before one of the absolute highlights of the film is the car chase scenes, one in particular at the height of the film. Sweeney behind the wheel, Sheen in the car with him and rival mobsters on their heels but there is plenty of action surrounding that chase. Gun fights, violent beatings and an intriguing underworld look at the parties, the women, the drugs and the stealing of the cars. I can't believe this film doesn't get more credit for being a classic eighties film because it truly is very entertaining and I only happened to come across it in my local video store and I thought it looked a little like a buddy cop film so I went for it and at times it does have that feel despite being on the other side of the law. Sheen and Sweeney hold their own and hold your attention and a decent story to go along with it. Moonlighting director Peter Werner establishes a deep friendship between them making the climax all the more thrilling. This one is a sure fire eighties hit!! 8/10 "},{"Title":"L.A. 80s Cool At Its' Best","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I hate to praise Charlie Sheen, but I must.He played this role so perfectly, that I forgot I was watching a movie. I know that's a cliché by now, but it applies.You know the plot from the other reviews. Boyish undercover cop infiltrates a mechanic shop and befriends the owner, whom he is assigned to tail. That's because he is a suspected car thief and murderer.Think Point Break here, only 4 years earlier. A charismatic bad boy, sucks a peer into his criminal world, and the peer is actually in law enforcement.If you love 80s movies set amidst the glitz of 80s L.A., with fancy cars and classic obscure 80s dance tunes thrown in, you will love this one.I couldn't help envying the adventure that the D.B. Sweeney character was having. Nothing exciting ever happens to me. He gets introduced to the world of the rich and aimless, gets a brother-like best friend who gives him money and lavish gifts, and he falls in love with a beautiful rich girl.There were a couple of authenticity problems I have to mention. The Sweeney character was supposed to be a 22 year old rookie, yet he was working undercover. Wouldn't that be a bit advanced for him? He was not a detective. But I guess they had to use him, because of his mechanical acumen with Porsches.Also, in order to get hired as a Porsche mechanic, wouldn't he have to show that he passed certification classes? Having just worked on some old cars in his driveway, would he really be skilled enough to work with professional foreign car mechanics, without taking any courses?The Randy Quaid character was a little comic-bookie, or over-the-top angry, but I guess they had to establish the tension between him and the rookie.The final showdown will again remind you of Point Break. Enjoy it. This is definitely a guy's movie. "},{"Title":"Hugely Underrated but highly enjoyable 80's gem","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Charlie Sheen and Little known actor DB Sweeney star in this excellent thriller about a cop who is sent undercover at a chop shop to find out who murdered another undercover officer.DB Sweeney is not bad as the cop who ends up blurring the line and whose loyalties become divided. Benjy (DB Sweeney) gets in way over his head when he falls for the prime suspects sister(Lara Harris), and becomes buddy's with the suspect.Charlie Sheen is at his super smooth and sleek best as the extremely affable but ultimately very cunning Ted Varrick. A well respected guy who has cops on the payroll, steals Porsche's and still has time for lavish party's at his home. As Sheen tell's Sweeney Welcome to the lifestyles of the rich and aimless ! There is a lot to like about this film. The performances range from excellent (Charlie Sheen & Randy Quaid as Sweeney's boss) to good (DB Sweeney) to not so good (Lara Harris). The Car Chases are well filmed and exciting as well as pretty believable as is the storyline and the actions of the characters. The Tension between Sweeney & Sheen and the ending are well handled and leaves you satisfied at the end.I was surprised that Character actor George Dzundza was uncredited as Benjy's Uncle Mike and he is not even listed on IMDb (I have sent a cast update to IMDb).I highly recommend this film and would rate it 7/10 "},{"Title":"Citizen Kane for Porschephiles","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I will preface this by saying I am an '88 Porsche 930 Turbo owner here. That's the silver car in the chase scene with the Camaro. Biased opinion I'll admit. I think this movie pretty much holds it's own as far as the story line goes. I love it, being a Porsche fanatic.D.B. Sweeney is perfect in this role. Outside of Platoon, I think this is the best Charlie Sheen. But, let's face it. The star of this movie is the drop dead sexy Porsche 911! The Fast And The Furious completely stole from this movie. They substituted hopped up Hondas and Mazdas for the Porsches.If you are looking for my opinion, watch this movie. If you want a good story line, great driving scenes, this is your movie.If you are a Porsche fan, you probably have already watched this 100 times like me! "},{"Title":"Action loaded extraveganza (minor spoilers within).","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In No Man's Land, Charlie Sheen returns for another action flick about high-stakes car theives, having previously co-starred in Clint Eastwood's high action thriller, 'The Rookie.' But, whereas before he was a cop, here he plays one the primary villain, a wealthy Porsche thief who proves to go too far to protect his interests. A young D.B. Sweeny is Billy Isle, a rookie cop hired by a Lieutenant (Randy Quaid) to work undercover at a suspected chop shop that deals exclusively in Porsches. His assignement is to track Ted Varrick (Sheen), the wealthy hot shot behind the business, who the Lieutenant suspects is guilty of murdering a cop. However, Billy, after befirending Varrick and often forgetting he is a cop as he embraces the fast times of Porsche stealing and wealthy parties and carefree lifestyle Varrick introduces him to, clouding his judgment of Varrick, who he claims could not possibly be responsible for the cop's death, let alone anyone else's. But Billy begans to realize Varrick places no limits on how far he's willing to go to protect himself when the undercover operation is jeopardized, exposing high-level police corruption. And after Varrick gets wind of it, the body count starts mounting. Billy's trust of Varrick is tested when he becomes Varrick's next target. Billy's just got to wake up and get real when it comes to Ted.   It is a pretty good story, though initially slow moving. That is, until the Ted Varrick character enters the scene. D.B. Sweeny does a good job with the lead as the impressionable young cop, and Sheen plays his usually monotonous toned hot shot. Often, it is the lengthy big-action car chase scenes that propels through the repetition. Good stuff highly recommended for 80s action fans.  "},{"Title":"One of the great unknown gems of the 80's","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Once again I've got to say thank you to my Netflix 'recommended' queue, because thus far it's let me to several great movies that I never knew existed, including this one. This was a truly good movie, with a fantastic storyline, great acting and a lot of style. Charlie Sheen turns in a terrific, understated performance, which makes you sadly recall that at one time he was a gifted young actor with a promising future ahead of him, and not an out of control bipolar freak of nature. This movie actually fell right in the middle of his golden period; shortly after 'Platoon' and just before 'Wall Street' and 'Young Guns'. He was pretty clearly at the top of his game. The rest of the cast did wonderfully as well, especially D.B. Sweeney who handled the lead role admirably, and the incredibly beautiful and talented Lara Harris, who deserves far more work in Hollywood than she's gotten. The only character who seemed out of place was Randy Quaid as the no-nonsense lieutenant, but that's only because I've become so used to seeing him in goofball roles that it's now a bit jarring when he's serious.I definitely enjoyed this film, and any fan of the police/thriller genre will surely enjoy it as well, as will fans of the time period in general. I'm glad I didn't pass this one over. "},{"Title":"Character-based action-suspense drama set in glitter 80's Hollywood","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I agree with most of the positive comments on this film. I also waited ages to see this. My wife was an extra in one of the mall parking lot scenes and I was with her on the shoot (She was also in Less than Zero, ah those were the days). I never bought the video as I was waiting for a widescreen version which never came out. Then I happened to catch in on MGM HD on directTV recently. It surely has stood the test of time. It's like a well stored vintage wine, more tasty for having been locked away. Sheen as a Dean-like forerunner of his over the top real life and TV sitcom persona, is excellent. Sweeney is like Duchovny, brilliant in his understatedness. Even the listless sister adds to the increasing and uneasy chemistry that develops between the 3. I bought it.Needless to say, the action is tight and gripping. I've cruised Mulholland in a Porsche, and take out of town relatives there to sightsee so I may be biased, heheh... The HD transfer was luminous and film-like perfection. A plus was the 80's soundtrack featuring a live appearance by The Untouchables, an early Ska local band! What more can I say? Yes the movie does has Law and Order written all over it,but ah, what a episode! If you enjoy the slower paced movies of the golden era, this one won't disappoint. "},{"Title":"Everyone should have a friend like Charlie Sheen.","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As I watched No Man's Land, I couldn't help but get envious of D. B. Sweeney's character. Charlie Sheen gave Sweeney a job, took him shopping, let him crash at his mansion, offered up his hot sister for sex, and gave him a freaking Porche!All this considered, I think I could overlook the fact that Sheen is a multiple murderer! I would so quit the police force and join the ranks of the criminal underworld!Seriously though, this was a really entertaining action movie. It pushed the right buttons by putting the audience squarely in shoes of Sweeney's character, allowing you to discover right alongside him the dangers and temptations of a criminal lifestyle.The same formula was later repeated (successfully) in Point Break and Sheen's later film Beyond The Law. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly bland","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Despite starring Charlie Sheen, who has been hot for the past several years from starring in a top-rated sitcom, No Man's Land seems to have been all but forgotten. In fact, I have NEVER seen this movie broadcast on television - I had to rent this over the Internet to see it.Before seeing it, I thought that maybe since the movie was rated R, that's why I had never seen it on television. But to my surprise, the R rating for this movie seems a bit harsh. There's no nudity, no (onscreen) sex, there are only a few utterances of the harshest swear words (which could easily be overdubbed), and the limited violence on display could easily be shown on a television drama. The movie feels more like a PG-13.The above is a big clue as to why I felt this movie didn't work. It's lacking grit - it feels bland and without passion. At times it feels like it was made for television. It's not only with the direction, but with the performances as well - none of the actors here seem to be very enthusiastic, and the only thing colorful about them is Randy Quaid's weird hairstyle.One positive thing I can say about the movie is that unlike other '80s movies, this one hasn't dated that much. But that is not enough to save the movie.P.S. - MGM's DVD of the movie is pretty bad. Not only is the movie presented full-frame, and using what seems to be an older print not made especially for this DVD, the colors frequently seem off somewhat. "},{"Title":"Passable 80s action drama.","Date":"6 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 'Law and Order' creator Dick Wolf is the writer and co-producer of this reasonably entertaining movie that gets by thanks to good performances and well done action scenes. At its core is the relationship between a cop and his target, as the former goes undercover in the latter's garage to try to obtain any sort of proof that his new buddy is responsible for the murder of a detective. The trouble, Benjy Taylor (D.B. Sweeney), the cop, realizes that he *enjoys* stealing cars and likes his target, Ted Varrick (Charlie Sheen) just a little too much. What's more, he finds himself falling for the friends' sister (Lara Harris).The age of the protagonist (22) does add an interesting wrinkle into the plot not really that mature, Benjy is young enough that he allows his focus to be blurred, and has to be reminded by an angry supervisor, Vincent Bracey (Randy Quaid) what his mission is supposed to be. Also, what worked best for this viewer was the fact that Benjy and Ted become good enough friends, that, even faced with knowledge about the other, they don't want to believe the worst.Wolf and director Peter Werner take their time telling this story, but viewers should still take delight in the pulse pounding action scenes and the cars on display (Ted and his crew are especially fond of Porsches.) The two stars do fine work. Sweeney has the right amount of likability and naivety in his role, and Sheen does nice understated work as a guy whom the audience themselves may like enough to have doubts as to Ted being a killer. Quaid delivers an intense performance as the hard driving Bracey. An excellent supporting cast helps matters a lot, although the movie makes an awful waste of M. Emmet Walsh, who only turns up towards the end. (Jenny Gago, too, barely appears despite her prominent billing.) But Bill Duke is good, as is Arlen Dean Snyder as a crooked detective and R.D. Call as a thuggish competitor. Other familiar faces that appear include Linda Shayne, Claude Earl Jones, Florence Schauffler, Guy Boyd, Henry G. Sanders, and Gary Riley. Appearing uncredited are George Dzundza as Uncle Mike and a young Brad Pitt, in one of his earliest films, as a waiter.Overall, a slick, pleasant diversion.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Quaint little '80s thriller that never really takes off","Date":"27 June 2012","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I guess the best way to describe No Man's Land is to say it's an '80s The Fast and the Furious (only easier to stomach). Charlie Sheen is the big bad purveyor of stolen Porsches. D.B. Sweeney is the rookie cop tasked with infiltrating the organization and nailing Sheen. Sweeney's an off-hours mechanic, so he fits right in at the chop shop, even cozying up to Sheen's sister. Both actors are fresh0faced, though Sheen has the swagger to pull off the bored rich kid who steals cars act. Sweeney, on the other hand, is so baby-faced that he looks more like the starting high school quarterback than any police officer. What's peculiar about Sheen's side of the story is that Sweeney is almost welcomed into his family with open arms. In no time, they're great friends, going clothes shopping, and Sheen practically gives his sister away to this grease monkey he didn't know three weeks ago. I dunno, maybe I've seen too many cop-who-cagily-burrows-into-the-enemy's- camp, but this just seemed deceptively easy. There are a couple decent car chases that keep things moving, although the proceedings are sluggish, overall. Penned by Law & Order impresario Dick Wolf, the movie has that look and feel of an episode of Miami Vice, but doesn't measure up to most of the better ones.5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Charlie Sheen makes mediocre movie watchable","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This story is far from being original. We've seen many elements of it before. That, however, would not necessarily have brought it down.The movie has two terrific car crash stunts worth seeing. It has a fine performance by Charlie Sheen. I always like his portrayals. This is no exception. It has good support from Randy Quaid, another fine actor. The female lead, Lara Harris, also does a good job with an underwritten part.D.B. Sweeney plays an undercover cop trying to get the goods on Sheen for his boss Quaid. His portrayal lacked the depth and grit needed to bring the movie up, since its plot was quite prosaic.The overall impact of the story is muted. The conflict between Sheen and another car thief nemesis of his is treated too sketchily to be really effective. This, in fact, is the problem all through the movie. The conflicts that are possible to bring out within this story are skipped over or not brought out enough. I fault the script and the direction for this. The result is a feeling of blandness at times and haste at other times. At other times, the story drags. Scenes that should be very tense are not. A big burden fell on Sheen to gloss over these faults and make the movie work, and I think he almost carried it off. "},{"Title":"Sheen is really god","Date":"26 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of Ron Howard's first movies as a director, if not the first. There is little wonder why he has become so popular.I have watched No Man's Land in excess of 20 times. It is still one of my favorites. It has a solid cast, an excellent script, and great car chase scenes (with Porsches) that make this movie a winner.Do yourself a favor and watch it. The cars and music are dated but, like watching Bullitt with Steve McQueen, the movie is well put together so you just get absorbed in along with the characters.Charlie Sheen is charismatic and exiting. Brad Pitt apparently is in the movie as a waiter, but I have yet to notice him. Maybe I'll throw it in again and see if i can spot him. "},{"Title":"The guy stealing Ricks car......","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Benjy Taylor is a rookie cop who goes undercover to nab a gang of car thieves led by Ted Varrick.Taylor becomes too involved and starts to enjoy the thrill and lifestyle of the car thieves, and falls in love with Varrick's sister Ann....It's the same old story isn't it? you get approached in a bar by Randy quaid with a mullet, and the next thing, you're working for Mac from Predator, who asks you to pick up Topper Harley!! Surely....you must be 'winning'....It's one of those films that were made in the late eighties, that was all style and no substance, and the story is as old as the hills.Cop goes undercover, becomes best friends with the main guy, falls in love with someone close to the main guy, lets his new life take over him.......hold on....Doesn't that sound like Point Break?? it does sound a lot like the Swayze classic, but believe me, this is far inferior than that movie.Sheen looks like he cannot be bothered to mess up his hair, and Sweeney looks like he is fighting a losing battle, he knows in every scene he is being overshadowed by Sheen.It leads to nowhere, there isn't going on in the films narrative, and the final third is as predictable as Saturday going into Sunday.Mundane at best. "},{"Title":"Charlie is great","Date":"14 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a fun film with Charlie Sheen playing a guy who likes to steal cars. He gets involved with a guy he doesn't know is an undercover cop. There are some cool scenes in this film and the music is great.I had some fun with this film and it reminds you of how great some shoot out scenes can beI recommend this film for fans of CharlieGreat fun and direction. I watched this on MGM last night and enjoyed itCharlie was great in these roles at this age for example Platoon and Wall StHe is a better dramatic actor than people give him credit for "},{"Title":"Middle of the Road with no direction","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" D.B. Sweeney stars as Benjy Taylor in this late eighties film about an under-cover cop trying to infiltrate and break up a ring of thieves who are stealing cars. He befriends young Ted Varrick (Charlie Sheen) and begins to slide into the world of fast cars and high-speed thrills. Lara Harris plays Ted's sister Ann who begins to cloud Benjy's judgment when his feelings for her get in the way. No Man's Land also stars Randy Quaid as Lieutenant Vincent Bracey.Whether or not director Peter Werner wanted to make a moral dilemma film, he ended up in a dilemma himself by turning a good idea into an average film, with OK performances from all. The film either needed a more serious approach or more work on characterisation.Friday, March 8, 1991 - Video "},{"Title":"One of ORIONS low budget hits....dated but good.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film was a vehicle for the talented CHARLIE SHEEN and D B SWEENY before the did 8 MEN OUT with JOHN SAYLES.The filmis a commentary on action adventure gun play and car theft in the age of me the 1980's. This one was released hot on the heels of PLATOON to capitalize off CHARLIE SHHENS performance in that and WALL STREET. Sheen gives a convincing performance as a villian inthis movie similar to STEFF In PRETTY IN PINK played by JAMES SPADER...except CHARLIE SHEEN uses a gun and AH HA is not on the soundtrack.A great movie for genre audiences, not oscar worthy but watchable and fun. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of Ron Howard's first movies as a director, if not the first. There is little wonder why he has become so popular.I have watched No Man's Land in excess of 20 times. It is still one of my favorites. It has a solid cast, an excellent script, and great car chase scenes (with Porsches) that make this movie a winner.Do yourself a favor and watch it. The cars and music are dated but, like watching Bullitt with Steve McQueen, the movie is well put together so you just get absorbed in along with the characters.Charlie Sheen is charismatic and exiting. Brad Pitt apparently is in the movie as a waiter, but I have yet to notice him. Maybe I'll throw it in again and see if i can spot him. "}{"Title":"Ordinary Hollywood action/drama","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  No Man's Land tells of a rookie cop (Sweeney) who goes under cover by getting a job in a chop shop run by a slick yuppie-type small time crook (Sheen) with a beautiful sister (Harris). The film becomes somewhat interesting as friendship blossoms between Sweeney and Sheen and love between Sweeney and Harris testing Sweeney's allegiance to law and order. NML is a lukewarm production which soft-peddles its ordinary car chases, car crashes, and shootouts in deference to trying to build a more human story about the three principles with questionable success. Not a sleeper, this is a very ordinary wide-awake flick which is barely worth the time. "},{"Title":"Being a Charlie Sheen Fan...","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...I was impressed by his performance here. I like his usual one-note roles. He puts a lot of energy into them. His character just wants to drive cars and avoid The Man. D.B. Sweeney co-stars plays a man who idolizes Sheen. Randy Quaid co-stars as a cop who wants to bring Sheen down. It is 80's excess at its best\worst depending how you look at it. For example, some of the themes included in the movie are fast cars, wall street, over-privileged kids. Bad Influence (1990) has a similar plot, utilizing an actor (in that case Rob Lowe)who normally plays the nice guy, but wants to change his image and be bad. For more insanity, please visit comeuppancereviews.com "},{"Title":"Great concept","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This guy is before his time.  The Russian mob must of seen this movie. Charlie Sheen is the scum bag in this movie.  He does a great role.  If you like cars then you will like this movie as it has a lot of different cars in it.  This guy knew how to make money, but it catches up to him.  6/10  "},{"Title":"Typical 80's Action Silliness","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A good friend of mine is a big fan of this movie, so I got curious and watched one night... it basically plays like a cheesy 1980's action TV show, stretched to 90 minutes.It's not incredibly cinematic, and the writing is so/so, the problem coming more from a director who was inexperienced with film, than the actors, I think.However, the reason it's worth checking out-- and my friend will agree-- is the accuracy of car information shown in the film.  Primarily, Sheen's character is a big fan of Porsche and this film points out, quite accurately, intimate details of the Porsche design, and it's superiority over American cars.If you find yourself disagreeing with that statement, you should probably check out this movie.  The scene with the Camaro chasing the Porsche pretty much sums it up.Oh, and the ending is a total cop-out.  Horrible.  The rest of the movie is worth a look, though, if you're into either cars or Charlie Sheen.6/10 "},{"Title":"Does crime really pay?","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Forgotten orion release back in late 87, about a young rookie cop (d.b. sweeney) who is assigned by a driven police captain (randy quaid) to infiltrate a car thief ring run by a young cocky rich kid (charlie sheen). The reason behind this is that the other cop working the case was killed, belived to be sheen. Once the young cop gets in with sheen, their relationship is unseparable. He even starts to date the guys sister. There is also a car ring that is out to put sheen out of business for good. Its mainly a question of right or wrong, good and bad. Quaid is good as the worried cop. We come to find out later that he really likes the young cop after all. Sheens performance is weak here. He comes on too strong, and gets to involved with the cop that suppossed to nail him.. All in all no mans land is o.k. if anything.. very late 80's looking now. But does pull out a few questions about morals we all have..   **1/2.  "},{"Title":"It's an 80's flick, who could resist!!","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yes its from the 80s, half of the movies were just as bad during the decade, especially cheesy teen flicks and horror but this movie's not so bad to look at. If the plot happens to be a bomb then I guess the hot Porsches make up for it, they are definitely not to be missed. Some of the chase scenes are downright silly, I mean be real, an old 70's American iron (unless a muscle car) would not keep up with a Porsche, no sir! Anyways, pretty okay 80s flick, slow at times but got to love them Porsches. 6 out 10.  "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Awesome movie that I waited for years to see again. The best thing about it is the cars and chase scenes. The idea of doing what they got away with is fun, too. What better choice than to steal 911's right? My favorite scene, by far, is the one that has the Camaro (a piece) running after the Porsche (a real car). They come to a point where they have to turn right, and merge into traffic. The Porsche gets sideways, and slides right into a gap without skipping a beat. This shows the handling capabilities of that car, and the angle filmed is great. Needless to say, the Camaro takes a spill trying to do this behind him. I look past any lame typical parts, but I HATE the way we're always preached to with the bad guy ALWAYS LOSING IN THE END.(This isn't so in 'The Usual Suspects'). "}]