[{"Title":"First hand knowledge of this super movie.","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":"  My oldest son spent 8 years in the Old Guard Delta Company from 1984-1992. He was fortunate to be ask to play the part of the guidon bearer  ( the black Delta Company Flag ) in the movie, and also to help instruct the actors in how to dress, stand, march ect.  The movie was a masterpiece that covers just how it was for troops state side while the war was raging in Asia .  My son said  Coppola did a superb  job of following military protocol  to make the film as real as possible   The story line is so right on. Coppola has another winner in my books. I thought the movie was very moving, lacking in nothing .It was  tragic that Coppola's son was killed in a boating accident while out with Ryan Oneal's son during  the making of this excellent movie.As you can tell I'm not a professional writer,  but I just had to say something  about how good this film is  "},{"Title":"Coppola's Other Vietnam movie","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" This is a great movie and it makes a very interesting pairing with Apocalypse Now to achieve Coppola's complete take on the Vietnam war. While Apocalypse Now was a surrealistic view of the front lines and insanity of war, Gardens of Stone is pulls no punches with a realistic portrayal of the home front, which presented its own type of warfare during Vietnam. As the other reviewers said, the acting is top notch throughout. Caan and Jones are perfect, but I disagree with the comments about Masterson and Huston. Theirs are key supporting roles and critical to the success of the movie. Huston is especially good in her scenes with Caan to bring the story full circle. This is an overlooked gem and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A terrific , touching , well acted film .","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" Being a former drill instructor , I can testify to the fine portrayal of the lead character by Mr. Caan . The entire film is an excellent depiction of the dedicated military man , without the usual condemnation of the military in general , so often found in films made since the Viet Nam conflict . The acting , in general , is superb , making the characters believable and the story touching . It is certainly one of Mr. Caan's finest roles and he is accompanied by a terrific cast who contribute magnificently to the overall effectiveness of the story telling . I have seen this film a number of times and will continue to do so on a periodic basis , because of the subject matter and the acting in it. It is highly recommended !!! "},{"Title":"Introspective","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" Strangely quiet, gentle movie considering the subject matter. Not much action, but quite a bit of discussion of the ramifications and consequences of war.Portrays the contrasts between p*ss-and-vinegar young soldiers, and the old-hand leadership of Sergeant Hazard and the Sergeant Major.The death of Jackie Willow is stunning, and the scenes afterward are sensitively done, and very sad. There is much to consider in the prices we all pay for being so ready to get into combat. Sergeant Hazard understands the costs, and wants to get back into the action, if only to ensure no more young men enthusiastically stumble into death.Very well done, and very well acted. "},{"Title":"A forgotten gem","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":"  This movie is little-watched compared to Coppola's other Viet Nam movie, Apocalypse Now, which is unfortunate, because it's a gem. Taking a device straight out of Aeschylus' masterpiece The Persians, the war itself is almost entirely an off-screen presence (except for a few atmospheric news-reel clips, which serve to separate acts, as it were). Instead, like The Persians, it considers the war through its effects on those at home, and does a generally excellent job.It is particularly good at showing the view from inside the military family, both of that life in general, and the effects of Viet Nam in particular. James Caan and James Earl Jones (the latter especially) turn in fine performances as veteran non-coms (the backbone of any army). One reviewer condemned D.B. Sweeney's portrayal of the young gung-ho recruit Willow because he sounded as if he were reading his line from cue cards - which rather misses the point, which is that because the green Willow doesn't know what it's really like, the slogans he repeats inevitably sound tinny and false.Despite a few flaws (e.g. Mary Stuart Masterton's character is rather under-developed, and a few scenes are clangers), overall this is one of the greatest of all Viet Nam movies.  "},{"Title":"Military Life and the Prize of the War","Date":"11 May 2013","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" In the late 60s, during the Vietnam War, the idealistic soldier Jackie Willow (D.B. Sweeney) arrives at Fort Meyer expecting to go to the Academy and then to the Vietnam War. Jackie is the son of a veteran sergeant and soon he becomes the protégé of the former friends of his father, Sergeant Clell Hazard (James Caan) and Sergeant Major 'Goody' Nelson (James Earl Jones).Jackie is promoted and gets married with his childhood friend Rachel Feld (Mary Stuart Masterson) and Hazard and Goody convince their superior, Captain Homer Thomas (Dean Stockwell), to recommend Jackie to the Academy. He is promoted to lieutenant and asks to go to the Vietnam, returning to the Arlington National Cemetery.Gardens of Stone is another movie by Francis Coppola (without Ford) about the military life and the prize of the Vietnam War, after one of his masterpieces, Apocalypse Now. The cinematography is magnificent and the cast is top-notch, and it is so good to see the actors, like James Caan, James Earl Jones and Dean Stockwell still young and actresses, like Anjelica Huston and Mary Stuart Masterson, charming and beautiful. The dramatic story has a theme certainly important for Americans and for fans of movies about military life. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Jardins de Pedra (Gardens of Stone) "},{"Title":"forgotten film","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" This is a very underrated movie and belongs up there with some of Francis Ford Coppola's best movies. The movie has a great cast that includes James Caan, Anjelica Huston, James Earl Jones, Dean Stockwell and several more people. Caan plays a solider who fought in Korea and Vietnam but is now in charge of Arlington national Cemetery and wants to train young soldiers going into Vietnam but is turned down. Huston is Caan's girlfriend and Jones is his friend who fought with him in Vietnam and now serves with him. Stockwell is the man in charge and D.B. Sweeney is a young soldier who can't wait to get to Vietnam. It's a really great movie that is one of Coppola's best films. "},{"Title":"A fine film with a different perspective on Vietnam","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie on video, soon after its original release, while attending college on a NROTC scholarship.  It is a fine work, with a unique perspective on the Vietnam War.  It was especially poignant, as I was preparing for military service during the Reagan/Bush years.  This was not a film about the soldiers in the rice paddies; or protesters in Washington.  This is the story of the men who had to bury the dead and honor their memories.  These were soldiers who might be going to Vietnam, and those who had come back from there.  It's about the senseless loss of life that war brings and the hubris of youth.Spoilers-James Caan gives an outstanding performance.  He has seen Vietnam and would rather be over there or in a training position, where he feels he could help bring some of these boys back alive, rather than burying them.  He is torn up by the knowledge that he can't help.  He meets and falls in love with Anjelica Huston, a reporter who opposes the war, but is attracted to Caan.  Caan tries to make her see his point, that he doesn't love the war, but has the knowledge hat could save some of the men who have to fight it.DB Sweeny has some fine moments as the young soldier who is itching to be in the middle of the war.  He is the face of so many who did their duty and paid a horrible price.There are many fine performances in this film, but it doesn't always come together.  Still, it is greater than its faults.I didn't notice this in the goofs; but, in the original video release, you could clearly see the boom mic in frame during the restaurant conversation between Sweeny and his girl.  My friends and I used to laugh hysterically during this scene, as the mic would swivel between actors as they said their lines.  When I later bought a copy, the mic was missing.  I assume it was erased when it was remastered for laser and dvd.   "},{"Title":"Excellent Coppola Film","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":"  An excellent film.  The subject matter is not one that I thought would hold my attention....but I was wrong.  The characters in this movie will involve you in their lives, so be prepared to stay awhile.  The writing is first-rate.  But I was most impressed with the directorial abilities of Coppola....and here's the reason why  he reined in the actors so that they gave marvelous, realistic performances (James Caan and Dean Stockwell are not always the most subtle of performers - but here, they are perfect).   There is one exception - Coppola allows Angelica Huston to shine, and brings her out to full advantage (what is the opposite of 'reining in?').   For all the actors to turn in such great portrayals says something about the director, I think.       "},{"Title":"Very good, but not as good as The Deer Hunter","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" I thought I knew a lot of war movies or movies who's subject has something to do with war. When I think of Vietnam movies, I immediately think of Apocalypse Now, Platoon, Full Metal Jacket, Hamburger Hill, The Deer Hunter, Casualties of War... But Gardens of Stone was completely new to me.When I have to compare it to one of the movies above, than I would compare it to The Deer Hunter. Both movies show the Vietnam war, without actually showing a lot of action. It's more about the families and friends that are left behind and about the soldiers that once served in Vietnam and came back as a completely different person.While The Deer Hunter is one of my all time favorites, I can't say the same about Gardens of Stone. It's a very good movie, but it never is as touching and impressive as The Deer Hunter is. That doesn't mean that this movie isn't any good. It is, but in a different way...It's about a young soldier who is serving in the Honor Guard, responsible for the burial ceremonies of all the soldiers who came back from Vietnam in a body bag. He doesn't want to do that job, he wants to go where the real action is, he wants to be in Vietnam harvesting honor and medals, which eventually will really happen to him, but at a certain cost.Although I expected more from this movie, I have to say that I liked it. Thanks to the real action footage incorporated in the movie, the good acting by all the actors and the interesting story, this movie was certainly worth a watch. Too bad that it was a bit predictable. From the beginning on everyone who pays a little attention will know what will happen at the end of the movie. Nevertheless I still reward it with an 8/10 "}{"Title":"Waiting for Godot - II","Date":"18 March 2011","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" I saw Coppola's film twice, once because of his reputation, and the second time to see if I was missing anything. It was a very long two hours to discover that I hadn't.The film is beautifully shot, the script looks like it is going somewhere, and we wait for something to happen. And we wait.The film feels exactly like Waiting for Godot. In both the play and the film, nothing happens. Two major differences between them is that in the play, the author (and the audience) knows nothing is going to happen, and the film doesn't know this. The other huge difference is that nothing happens in the play in a fun and entertaining way, while the film...doesn't.James Caan tries very hard playing a military man, but he looks and sounds like James Caan wearing a uniform. I never got the sense that I was looking at an actual soldier. His character is quiet and distant, and we are supposed to relate to him on an emotional level, as he is the core of the film.POSSIBLE SPOILERS Unfortunately, we can't, despite the fact that the film tries to build a relationship between him and a peace activist (we know how many soldier/peace activist relationships there were then), Angelica Huston, who seems as convincing an activist as Caan is a soldier. So what are we left with? That is the question that haunted me throughout the film.There is the obligatory confrontation between the stereotypical long-haired unappreciative liberal and James Caan at a party. The liberal attacks Caan verbally, then lays his hands on him (peaceniks are like that). Caan responds by punching him several times in the throat, then while the hippie liberal is lying face down in the dirt gasping, grinds his face into the dirt with his shoe in the back of the guy's head, as if he is putting out a cigarette. Someone has to pull him off the guy.This scene was carefully set up as a central moment in the film. What was the point of it? I guess (and I found myself guessing at a lot of the deeper meaning of some of the dialogue and scenes), it is to show that Caan is a soldier who has seen too much war, is in a place he doesn't want to be in (burying young dead soldier's whose sacrifice is scorned) when he would rather be fighting, and is surrounded a nation hostile to the war and the soldiers who fight it.However, if Coppola wanted to present that, he should have presented it differently than this. The effect of the scene is to make us either want to call a cop and have him taken away, or to get the hell away from him to avoid brushing into him accidentally and having the same thing happen to us.In the end, Caan tells his peace activist girlfriend that he has decided to sign on for another tour of duty as an errand of mercy to try to save more young lives from being senselessly wasted.The movie ends shortly thereafter, with Caan saluting a dead soldier's coffin at a funeral.But let's back up here for a moment to the poignant moment when Caan tells Huston he is going back to 'Nam, to save young men's lives.Caan knows this is a losing war. He is at a critical juncture in his life; he can do something truly difficult and brave at this point, and at a personal cost much higher than going back to war he could, as a soldier, publicly speak out against the war and its senselessness, and the horrors he has seen; the deaths of his soldiers, and the slaughter of Vietnamese citizens by troops. He would be seen as a traitor to the military of course, but he would be speaking his mind, truthfully, (as he has privately to his girlfriend and his friend James Earl Jones), could testify before Congress, and could join the cause to end the war. If his efforts helped to shorten the war by even a few days, that would have saved hundreds of lives, more than the few he hopes to save.His offering to return to Vietnam sounds very noble, but is comparable to a Southern officer in the Civil War offering to return to the front lines; to what point? To die along with the rest of the men in a losing war? There is no flavor, let alone poignancy, to this statement by Caan. And at the end, that is reflected in his salute to the dead soldier's coffin, whom he may be joining soon; and just as senselessly.Not a good or profound statement by Mr. Coppola, if he was trying to make one. "},{"Title":"Conflict, at home and abroad","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":"  Francis Ford Coppola captures the sentiments of the time in this grossly underrated movie. The turmoil of the times are captured within the lives of 6 primary characters. James Caan, the cynical platoon Sargent. Angelica Houston, a corespondent and anti-war activist. James Earl Jones, a not so cynical Sargent-major, with a fun loving side. His wife, played by Lonette McKee, a senate aid. D.B. Sweeney as a budding young soldier, that sees his duty and tries to do it. Mary Stuart Masterson as the beautiful and vulnerable wife.The interaction of the characters, shows the divisions that occurred within America at the time. also the loyalty of our soldiers to our country, and their comrades.There is subtle lesson to be had from the movie, brought to us by the characters' interactions. We can agree to disagree and still love and support each other. "},{"Title":"An alternative Vietnam film showing only emotional combat.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":"  After 'Apocalypse Now', it's hard to believe that this film was directed by Francis Ford Coppola with such sensitivity.  Truly a testament that in many ways demonstrates that Coppola is one of film's greatest directors.This film shows the lives of many different people and their backgrounds in opposing the Vietnam war.  James Caan is a military officer working as a home guard at Arlington National Cemetery during the casualties of America's most tragic conflict.  It shows his relationship with Anjelica Huston and James Earl Jones as his closest friends.  D.B. Sweeney and Mary Stuart Masterson are great as the younger and more naive observers of the times.Part documentary style, part sentiment and all inclusive drama showcase its impact in a more sedated manner than most other films dealing with its subject but worth a look as an alternative.  "},{"Title":"One of the best military movies ever.","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":"  I spent 6 years in the military.  And while I never saw combat,  I can say, that this was a well made movie. It dealt with the issues of a war, that nobody liked.  And it did so, from a different point of view.  It was that point of view that made Gardens of Stone on of my personal favorites. Ever detail of this movie was authentic.  From the spit shine of the boots to the characters that both James Caan and James Earl Jones played.   It was truly, on of the most realistic military movies ever made.  Brilliant.   Truly brilliant. Francis Ford made a movie, that was true to life, A movie that didn't choose a side on one of America's darkest moments. Ever character in this movie was well thought out, right down to the last detail of each actor.  I joined a movie rental store,solely because they had a copy of this movie. "},{"Title":"Gardens of Over Acting","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" I wanted to like this film and some parts of it, I did. However, over all I found the movie a major disappointment. The film was filled with stereotype characters; the dedicated lifer who needs to train his boys so they can survive the war in Viet-Nam the soldier with two left hands who ends up winning the medal of honor the journalist who is a hippie jack-ass and the hero who is hated by his father-in-law, yet marries his daughter, but gets killed in Viet-Nam. As is typical in almost every Hollywood movie about the military, 99% of it is pure bull. James Caan was his typical angry, hot headed, over emotional character that he played in most of his movies. After awhile, his yelling gives you a headache. I am sorry, but Gardens of Stone is a badly acted and greatly disappointing movie. "},{"Title":"Underrated and Forgotten!","Date":"27 December 2014","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" Gardens of Stone is the second film Francis Ford Coppola has made about the Vietnam War, after 1979's Apocalypse Now. This movie is unfairly compared to Apocalypse Now, but the films are totally different. This film focuses more on the home front and the feelings Americans felt about the war. In that regard, the film hits a powerful chord. The film is also a romance film and I liked the main romance between the sergeant and the reporter, but the romance played between the two kids seem a tad underdeveloped.Coppola's film is about a battle-hardened sergeant who is an opponent of the Vietnam War and is desired to save the lives of soldiers sent abroad, but is continuously denied doing so. He decides to help the son of an old war friend while beginning a romance with a reporter who is in clear opposition from the war.The acting is admittedly great. James Caan is a solid actor who established a nice career and he was excellent here and gave some emotional speeches. He shared nice chemistry with Anjelica Huston, who played the reporter. James Earl Jones is as always excellent as Caan's best friend. D.B Sweeney was solid in his role, but I felt Mary Stuart Masteron's character could have been a little more developed.Overall, Gardens of Stone is a solid movie about the Vietnam War and the conflict it brought to the home front. Was the romance necessary for the film? Probably not, but it was a good addition to the story. In short, there was lots of opposition to the war as many soldiers paid with their lives for no apparent reason. This movie should not be compared with Apocalypse Now because they are two completely different movies. This is a good film with some powerful scenes, but it does not quite reach it's full potential. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Very nice music !","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" Yes, I know, you are saying what the hey, nobody ever talks about the music in movies, including me, usually, but I just had to mention it on this one. I spent ten years in the Kings Own Calgary Regiment band and played a lot of parades, mess dinners, ceremonies, concerts, and many more occasions. Fortunately at the time I was in there were no current wars so we played no funerals or flag ceremonies. In the band I had the good fortune to play with an number of fine musicians who made their living for many years in Military and civilian bands and one of those was Petrus Peter Joosen, the most musical Euponium player I have ever known. When I heard the band playing at the funeral at the beginning with the beautiful counter-melodies played by the Euphonium, it grabbed my 'ear' I had just had to comment. This movie's score, written by Carmine Coppola (Francis Ford's father) and is beautiful, lyrical, understated and very unusual for a military themed film. I found the music is right in character for the type of instrumentation used in military bands (except pipe bands) which always use brass, woodwinds, percussion and no strings. These bands were made for marching and concert work both and chosen for practicality as well as the more rousing sound that can inspire patriotism and use in recruiting. The band who performed this score was amazing; they sounded more British than American in style and so very mellow and harmonious. I hope to find other music written by Carmine Coppola and would also love to know what band was playing the score here if anybody knows. It would also be great if IMDb would pay more attention to the musicians, recordings, songs etc in movies as I have often felt that this is an often overlooked but very important aspect of the industry.Oh yes, I enjoyed the movie too thought the script, acting and story line to be excellent. "},{"Title":"Not anywhere near Coppola's best, but not bad","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" Not anywhere near Coppola's best, but not bad. Mostly a movie on how war affects those at home, especially during times of tragedy, and the relationships involved. Quite moving, especially towards the end.However, not flawless, not by any measure. Francis Ford Coppola, who gave us three of the greatest movies in history - Apocalypse Now, The Godfather and The Godfather II - plus the excellent The Conversation, is not in his best form here. (In fact, the only time he was in form was in the 70s...). The plot drifts, whole scenes are there for no reason other than padding, there are continuity issues, and the point seems a bit murky at times. Also, the first scene spoils the movie, to an extent, in that it gives away the ending. Remove the first scene and the movie would have been more impactful.Mixed performances. DB Sweeney is a bit weak and unconvincing in the lead role. Best performances come from the old hands - James Caan and James Earl Jones - who give the movie gravitas and feeling.Anjelica Huston is unconvincing and touch irritating in her role.Interesting to see that real-life father and daughter Peter Masterson and Mary Stuart Masterson play father and daughter in the movie.Worth watching for Francis Ford Coppola fans but not a must-see otherwise. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece.","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":"  For must Americans, the Vietnam War was something that happened IN America, and TO America. Those who fought in Vietnam had a very different experience.As a 66-year old history teacher, and an infantryman in the 1950's and a protestor in the 1960's, I feel this superb movie captures the true trauma of that war for America as a whole better than any other movie on the war which I have seen. (My father was military, too, in World War II. That may influence me.) It is not a comfortable movie to see, or to talk about, and I think most critics have been afraid of it. James Caan's best role - and perhaps James Earl Jones'.This movie captures the honor, and the tragedy, and the pain, of the professional soldier. "},{"Title":"Not a war movie, but a movie about war","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":"  A movie about Vietnam, (almost) without jungle and bullets.War is seen from the perspective of those who stay at home two officers, young soldiers, left-wing journalists. Many of those people disagree with war for various reasons, depending on their inclination, ranging from the tactical, ethical, to sentimental.The unfortunate bottom line is that every one of those minds and reasons is eventually forced to cope with the same one epilogue, that is having to prematurely bury their beloved ones.  "}{"Title":"An exceptional expose of the reality of war.","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" It's Dec. 4, 2005 and I've just watched Gardens of Stone on T.V. The importance of this movie is impossible to rate as it specifically addresses the absolutely critical and horribly unfortunate issue of our collective ability to forget. In this case, forgetting how completely morally indefensible and reprehensible is the nature of war. We don't remember. Remembering would make it too difficult to aggress against each other. So while we couch our forgetting by using beautiful words like honor and character we continue to wage war for what we believe are the noblest of reasons. This film, while not being preaching like me, calls into remembrance the reality that is war....body bags...orphaned children...blown off limbs...sheer chaos...destroyed lives and land. This film makes us remember that nobody wins in war. I expect excellence from Coppola and, par usual, he delivers as do some unforgettable performances by a stellar cast. There is no such thing as a good war or a bad peace. "},{"Title":"Exemplification of the phrase We're Only Human","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"18 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" War in general, and particularly the Vietnam War, is an issue which required socially conscious and intellectual rumination...This was a story about the home front, and how the overzealous, and wet behind the ears soldier wanted to get involved...Hovering around the travesty of the TET Offensive, oblivion to what was actually happening on the other side of the ocean, made acts such as combat, and grenades carried by four year old Vietnamese girls, just a little more glamorous!! Military bases in the United States were desperately seeking some form of amelioration, and they wanted to be vindicated, as well as be spoon fed justification for their actions...This film explores all the diverse elements of patriotism,and makes the actions of the military just and rational!! This film allows the moviegoer to look at things through the eyes of the entire military rank and file involved in the Vietnam War!! Point of order!!, only a soldier knows what being a soldier is all about!! Much more inherently so than someone with a profession, particularly a man who is a soldier by nature..There are those who join, or those who were conscripted, but after sifting through all of them, there are men who possess a rudimentary element to their constitution whereby they are nothing but soldiers!!!...If their country made a mistake, they did not make a mistake for following orders..What their initial agenda was intended for was to uphold and defend the principles and policies of the United States of America!! The bulk of this film focuses on the development of a soldier, the anxious fortitude he possessed to serve his nation...While protesters balked at what they believed our government was doing was wrong, the military men and women were doing what they thought was right...THUS THEY SHOULD BE COMMENDED FOR IT!! If a soldier loses his life in combat, he is cast away in Arlington National Cemetery to THE GARDENS OF STONE...Bear in mind that a soldier has a different perspective as to whether or not a soldier's life was lost for no reason whatsoever!! The catastrophic outcome of the Vietnam War allows provision for several different conundrums to prevail Do we engage in war with a blind patriotic demeanor?...Do we engage in war for National Cause? Or, do we engage in war for political agreement?...Suddenly devastation has a depraved dinner bell awakening, and, more and more Americans became affected, emotionally, physically, and psychologically!!! What shatters the mental stability of Americans touched by war is that they are hit by facts that are not complicated, but, very simple..We got involved in a war, we lost...Americans disagree.. There's turmoil...A young men wants to serve his country...he gets killed!!!...Underneath it all, all of the characters in the movie are hit with the bittersweet reality that they are only human and they make mistakes..Their patriotism to the cause of War by way of contributing to the military was something they thought was in the best interest of their nation!! Right and wrong are not black and white issues, and platitudes such as these should not be taken with a jaundice eye!! There are many Americans who believe a nation is always justified in declaring and/or fighting in a war!! There are other Americans who even believe that we should get involved in a war merely for purposes of strengthening our national resolve...Gardens of Stone is a film which brilliantly delegates tragedy, and appropriates anger..When a young soldier is killed in Vietnam in the line of duty, the reactions of the characters in the movie are not derivative, nor is there just an obligatory deference, rather, there is a heart felt empathy and sorrow for the loss of a picture book example of a soldier as well as a man!! This individual had a moral imperative to expedite national allegiance...If a soldier and a soldier's mother and father can have a grass roots recognition of the purpose for losing a productive life, then so too should the mainstream American public recognize it as well!!! The issue that the Vietnam War was a miserable tragic error, and the issue that the Military must execute their duties to defend the honor and integrity of her nation, are dichotomous!!! By no means is this an anti-war speech!! Tremendous acting performances make Gardens of Stone a movie worth watching...Especially if you are in the mood to just be a human being!! This documentary style movie is poignant, compelling, and articulates the pride with which this nation should have for her military branches!!...A definite winner!! It appears as though everything Francis Ford Coppola touches turns to solid gold!! "},{"Title":"Which is the greater travesty - this movie, or the war?","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" Right-wing, hackneyed, stereotyped. It's been 24 years since I first heard of this movie, so I have wanted to see it for a quarter century. Unfortunately it turned out to be an un-involving mess. And the absolute worst part is the jarring, atonal jazz-like musical score that yanks you out of every scene it infects. The next worst thing is the script, with you've heard it before dialogue like a film from the 1930's. Even the top-notch acting performances of Sweeney, Jones and Caan cannot overcome this stilted narrative. Fishburne gets one short scene, early, as the sadistic black Barracks Leader. Gardens of Stone is one of those train-wreck viewing experiences, that one wishes one had been warned about beforehand. The IMDb rating is currently 6.5, but a 2.5 would be more accurate. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" This Book and subsequent Movie was a Powerhouse of writing and movie making. The author nailed the story line with powerful emotions. Mr. Coppela has always had a gift with turning the written word into movie magic. The Cast could not have been picked better. At the time this book came out I was in the National Guard and I was blown Away and wanted to be an Honor Guard but transporters cannot be a part of that Time Honored tradition. If you did not feel anything when you watched this movie...watch it again! Honor,Integrity,Selfless Service are only a few of the traits that are portrayed here. I had a tremendous feeling of Pride when I read the Book. I have an old VHS tape I recorded Gardens of Stone from TV and it is about worn out. I do not know how many times I have seen it but each time I do I am instilled with Pride and Honor for my fellow soldiers. Heavy TruckSSG Pitts "},{"Title":"could have been so much better","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" The garden is Arlington National Cemetery, where soldiers fallen in combat are interred under the watchful eyes of the Old Home Guard, a spit and polish regiment of self-styled Toy Soldiers organized for one purpose to honor the dead, with pomp and circumstance. It's hard to imagine a better setting for a home front reflection on the horror of Vietnam, half a world away, but any war film so far removed from the battleground runs a risk of being too remote and detached, which is exactly what happens here. What could have been a stateside companion piece to 'Apocalypse Now is', instead, a strangely inert melodrama insulated from any genuine feeling for the era. The notable cast is let down by a sometimes overwrought screenplay (step forward, Ron Bass) with little to offer except a surrogate father/son relationship torn apart by the distant war. All that remains are some tantalizing hints of what the film could have achieved, as seen in the contrast between the formal precision of military ceremony and the illogical slaughter in Southeast Asia. "},{"Title":"Inspiring","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":"  DB Sweeney and Mary Stuart Masterson are a masterful combination which display both sides of the vietnam war. The movie itself is a brilliant overview of naivety of war versus the reality, powerful performances so deep and moving and having the real life parents of Mary Stuart makes all the difference in the reality of the movie "},{"Title":"A good idea gone wrong...","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":"  It started off well...a stellar cast in a film that examined the side of the army not off in the wilds of Vietnam, and the battles their close friends and families go through. Then it got preachy and devolved into a melodramatic and predictable schlock-fest that made me grit my teeth and try to convince myself that I'm not really American (my birth certificate still says Bloomington, IA so obviously it's not working...)The ending was the biggest problem. Aside from the fact that the opening scene basically told me exactly what was going to happen (and not in a mysterious or interesting way. More of a blunt and pointless way), the ending was WAY too long and sob-filled. (Continuity check in the beginning a bagpiper plays at the funeral, in the end suddenly the piper is a bugler playing Taps. How cheezy is *that*???) Also, the editing was shoddy, especially the war clips which were overly detached and didn't at all give a sense of the war as anything more than a news clip. The personal and emotional side of it is lost, and that's the side that's supposed to be explored. So caught up in the glory and demoralization, the film loses the family aspect (example Mary Stuart Masterson plays a cardboard and generic character. She should have a *much* larger role in the film, as the suffering army wife/child but instead is involved purely in the gut-wrench scenes and little else. Angelica Huston's character hints at the conflict between pride for one's country and disgust at the uselessness of it all. Her love for Hazard vs her hatred for what he represents is never really played out properly and she ends up coming off as cheezy and melodramatic).Also, the I wish I was Charlie Sheen in Platoon act that D.B. Sweeney was aiming for just didn't work. He was often too abrasive and half the time he sounded as if he was reading his lines from cue cards. He shouted lines consistently and his elocution and poise were awkward. And those letters were horrid, they didn't have the effect that the Platoon letters (Taylor to Grandma) had as the effect was lost. Just words with no sense of where they were coming from. This whole movie felt much too detached...in the same way that Apocalypse Now was detached, but in this film there was nothing to back it up...unlike Apocalypse Now, this film isn't *supposed* to be detached. Perhaps detached from the *war* but not from the *soldiers*.James Caan and James Earl Jones saved this film from utter disrepair. The only characters that really had *oomph* to them. They were the only characters that had character (Jones especially). And save for the couple of scenes that were utterly pointless (like the maneuvers scene) the scenes with them in them were the ones that stole the show. They made this film a hell of a lot better than it deserves to be (kind of like what Charles Dutton did to Alien 3...or what Morgan Freeman did for Kiss the Girls...) And James Earl Jones is especially good, because, as always, he plays a character that is *very* different from what would be expected from him. He's truly one of the few diverse character actors around ('To the guys like us...Damn few left!!')Look for an unfortunately small role by Laurence Fishburne (reminiscent of Apocalypse Now...) and a *very* young Elias Koteas, and even *younger* Casey Siemazsko.Overall The potential was there, but, as always, Coppola is a very up and down director, and this is not one of his better efforts. Enjoy Jones and Caan, though, they're worth watching if nothing else. Just try not to yawn too loudly through the mandatory proud American army propaganda sob-scenes...5/10. "},{"Title":"Near Miss from Coppola still provides fine performances from cast...","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":"  Certainly the film is worth viewing. James Caan turns in yet another first rate performance proving once again that you don't have to be a Hoffman/Pacino 'ARTIST' to deliver honest, moving performances. Anjelica Huston in a rather controlled, understated role is also interesting as Caan's love interest and anti-war reporter. Lonette McKee who was so good in Coppola's Cottin Club is wasted in this flick as James Earl Jones wife though Jones uses his famous voice particularly well in this movie. D.B. Sweeny is effective as the gung ho army brat who wants desperately to get to Vietnam while Mary Stuart Masterston is wasted in a tiny role as Sweeny's girlfriend. Watch the movie for the performances if not for the cinematic virtuosity.  "},{"Title":"Viet Nam viewed from Washington, DC","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":"  There are 3 real movies about viet nam.  This one is different because the whole movie takes place in America.  Lose the plastic coated fantasies, and watch these three movies if you want to know how it was, man.Gardens of Stone, Go Tell the Spartans, Assault on Firebase Gloria "},{"Title":"Was this film made for TV?","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":"  I caught this film on TV laaaate at night recently.  I was intrigued by the fact that it was directed by Francis Ford Coppola...so I decided to check it out.  Uhhhh...is there a more horribly shot film in the history of films directed by great (well...that might be an overstatement...Coppola is kind of a one-trick pony in my opinion...) directors??  It has the look and feel of a made for TV movie; really boring cinematography, some silly dialogue, and truly unremarkable direction.  I don't know...maybe it had a really great story, and it DID have a great cast...perhaps I was just too distracted by the creepy, cheap-looking presentation to get into it.  "}{"Title":"Make a hole, make it wide!","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" It's strange how Hollywood still feels the constant need to pursue its glorification of the military when every other nation's film industry has pretty much moved on from the war film genre. Of course, America is a nation that has been engaged in more conflicts than most other nations in the past half-century and, while that isn't intended as a criticism, it does perhaps provide the key to America's seemingly endless fascination with the arena of war in all its guises.Coppola's return to the theme of the Vietnam war is as different from its predecessor as any two films with the same backdrop can be. The story of Gardens of Stone takes place in America, amongst the soldiers detailed to bury the bodies that are shipped back to Arlington National Cemetery from the scene of the conflict with monotonous and terrifying regularity. It is a relatively meditative and introspective study, weakened by a thinly drawn pivotal character (Jackie Willow, played by D. B. Sweeney) who is incredibly one-dimensional for a film that is attempting to offer an insight into the mentality of the soldier away from the battlefield at a time of war. James Caan, in his first movie role for five years, makes good use of a much stronger role as Sgt. Clell Hazard, the experienced soldier frustrated by the impotence of his position, who believes he should be fighting in the field or at least training youngsters on how to stay alive out there instead of burying them when they come back. Both he and James Earl Jones in another good part, display a healthily jaundiced view of the war. Angelica Huston also has an important (if slightly ineffectual) role as the individual caught in the middle who opposes the war but understands Hazard's reasons for wanting to fight. Jordan Cronenweth's camera-work is worthy of praise here, softening Huston's angular features and making it possible for her to convincingly play a gentler and softer character than she normally does. All other characters are strictly genre stereotypes.Unfortunately, any good work by the principle members of the cast is spoiled by a weak and unconvincing storyline that fails to involve the viewer &#150; the 'tragic' ending is particularly unmoving, although it may have a greater impact on American audiences whose families were more closely involved with the conflict. At a time when Vietnam films were all the rage, Coppola is to be applauded for choosing a different &#150; but no less relevant &#150; perspective, but any message he may have wished to deliver is hopelessly weakened by a mediocre script and uninvolving storyline. "},{"Title":"Gardens of Stone","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War, Romance","Review":" I don't know why Francis Ford Coppola thought he had to make another film about Vietnam after he had made the best possible with Apocalypse Now, but with this film he definitely destroys a part of his reputation as being critical about the United States' role in the war. The problem of Gardens of Stone is that it is not uncritical, but seemingly critical. It all seems as if Coppola would use the dead soldiers' bodies or Anjelica Huston's role as an excuse for saying Hey, I know that maybe not everything was alright, but you have to do what your country asks you to. This movie is so obsessed with the military and tries so hard not to decide whether it's for or against the war, that it doesn't even notice, that it already has decided with its blind patriotism and denunciation of the peace movement. Rarely have I seen such a laughable characterization as it is done here with Anjelica Huston's peace activist. Not one of the highlights of Coppola's career. "}]