[{"Title":"B-Movie Classic","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Before you watch this flick, don't expect much from it. It's a sequel to Ghoulies, which should, respectively to the series, lower your standards of what to expect. It's unrealistic. It's cheesy. But it's damn ENTERTAINING! What you get is some rubber puppets, who take over a ghost house in a carnival, attracting visitors who think they're part of the attraction. It starts off with some lovable characters, namely Nigel the dwarf. Anyway, the ghoulies start killing some people who go in there. Then, near the end, they come out and there's a carnival massacre. Some mean killings here, such as death by being run-over by a bumper car. That's about it. This flick, the only Ghoulies movie I currently own, rests easy in my collection. Overall 9/10GORE BONUS You wouldn't expect this, but there was actually some gore in this movie, which was edited for both the US PG-13 rating and the UK '15s' rating. The two scenes were, when the girl who is leaving the carnival goes in to the ghost house, she is tied to the floor and the ghoulies stab her before pulling the ropes. And, when the left over teenager gets lost in the ghost house, and the axe is lowered, it shows his stomach being opened and (fake looking) blood spurting out for a while. In the cut version, you just see the axe being lowered. 0m55s was cut from the original UK video release, but the TV version is completely uncut.Rated 15s for horror violence and mild gore, and some language  "},{"Title":"What a surprise! This is actually better than the first one","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" They say when you find something that works you stick with it. Apparently a lot of people in the movie business feel this way, otherwise we wouldn't have so many sequels and remakes. There are a lot of films that didn't need a sequel, though sometimes the sequel(s) turned out not too bad. There are also a lot of films that didn't deserve a sequel, and the 1985 surprise hit 'Ghoulies' is one of them. Now I admit it's one of my guilty pleasures and I know I'm not alone, but it's only a minor one. But since it was a $1,000,000 movie that made around $35,000,000 in the US alone a sequel had to be around the corner. Thank goodness that sequel turned out to be even better than it's predecessor and an even more fun 80s B Horror movie.Pros The carnival makes a great new setting. The effects are a major improvement over the ones in the original. Performances are decent. The whole thing has a certain campy charm to it and unlike the first movie doesn't take itself too seriously. Pace just moves right along. A simple, but good score. Some creative kills. Though still not very good, the writing seems to be stronger and more focused this time making the film easier to enjoy.Cons Plot is thin. Totally lacking is scares and suspense. There's zero chemistry between the two leads. The kills are inventive, but unfortunately most are off screen. Very dated.Final thoughts This sequel could have easily been a total piece of garbage, but it's actually a lot of fun. Sure it's not smart or scary, but it accomplished what it set out to do and that has to count for something. It's also the best of the series.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Funny and Cheesy Silliness","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Larry (Damon Martin) and Uncle Ned (Royal Dano) are driving a truck to an amusement park with their attraction Satan's Den. They have to stop in a repair shop and four demons sneak and hide in the truck. They arrive at the carnival and hide inside the Satan's Den. The arrogant owner of the carnival P. Hardin (J. Downing) threatens to fire the employees if their attractions are not profitable and assigns the dwarf Sir Nigel Penneyweight (Phil Fondacaro) to work with Larry and Ned in the Satan's Den. He also hits on Larry's girlfriend Nicole (Kerry Remsen). When the audience sees the demons in the Satan's Den, they believe that they are part of the attractions and the entertainment becomes a sensation. But when people are attacked by the demons, there is panic in the carnival. Now Larry, Nigel and Nicole try to use an incantation to get rid of the creatures.Ghoulies II is a funny and cheesy franchise similar to Critters and other evil toys in the late 80's and early 90's. The plot is silly with one dimensional characters and gruesome scenes, but entertains and is cult. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Not Available "},{"Title":"Damn good.","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  *** stars out of ****.I don't care what other people think of this film, i thought it rocked,It had good acting (for this sorta film), a good plot, cool 80's score, and a variety of monsters. It also features some creepy moments and good suspense. as well as some pretty interesting-looking monster. any one who loves the equally great original should rent this, nice DVD by MGM. What are you waiting for? See it, see it now! "},{"Title":"Passable PG-13 cheese horror.","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Those hostile little beasts are at it again in this adequately entertaining sequel. It takes quite a while for it to really get started, but the final half hour is worth waiting for. It's actually played fairly straight for a while, with comedy elements getting introduced more and more as the movie goes on. The Ghoulies themselves are definitely cute in an ugly sort of way, and are a genuinely amusing bunch. Fortunately, some of the human characters manage to be almost as interesting.After an attempt to kill the Ghoulies fails, they hitch a ride with a truck carrying the contents of Satans' Den, a house of horrors for a travelling carnival. They hide out inside Satans' Den for a while, intermittently killing people, until the big finale when they finally break out. The place has been hurting financially, but when patrons get a look at the Ghoulies and assume them to be part of the act, business starts booming.I have to be partial to any movie featuring the following elements an appearance by old Hollywood pro Royal Dano, who's in fine form as drunken old Uncle Ned, a song by the metal band W.A.S.P. (Scream Until You Like It), old school effects (puppeteering, stop motion animation, etc.), a role for Italian exploitation veteran Romano Puppo (2019 After the Fall of New York), and a carnival atmosphere (even if done on a budget). Production design, by Giovanni Natalucci, and cinematography, by Sergio Salvati, are both well done.The enjoyable cast features familiar faces from other horror films Kerry Remsen (Pumpkinhead), Sasha Jenson (Halloween 4), Starr Andreeff (Dance of the Damned), William Butler (Leatherface Texas Chainsaw Massacre III), and Donnie Jeffcoat (Night of the Demons '88). Damon Martin (Pee-wee's Big Adventure) is our likable young lead, Phil Fondacaro (who played the title role in Troll) the engaging Sir Nigel Penneyweight, and J. Downing the appropriately odious money man Mr. Hardin.Overall, agreeable entertainment for genre fans; produced and directed by Albert Band, veteran director and father of Charles Band of Empire Pictures and Full Moon fame.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"Fun sequel! **1/2 out of 5","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This time the focus is much more on the ghoulies themselves. And they're all ready to have some fun at the carnival!There's lots of fun to be had here. You get to see ghoulies eat off a clowns arm (hoorah!)and my favorite scene features a ghoulie running over a man with a bumper car. Priceless.Oh yeah, one of the more subtle moments I had to rewind a couple of times was when the mummy pops up and the kid kicks it back and you can hear the mummy say 'ow!' Sure these films can be laughed at, but I have a feeling the movies are laughing with you. It's all very tongue in cheek and not to be taken too seriously. The only moment I think that was to be taken seriously was the terrible moment where the girl is talking about an incident that happened when she was younger; ala Pheobe Cates in Gremlins.Still, that moment passes quickly and is completely forgettable.I find these 'Ghoulies' films to be completely charming. If you're into Gremlins and Critters and Munchies and the like, check'em out. "},{"Title":"Better Than the First Ghoulies","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is the rare case where a sequel is actually better than the original. Considering that original is the cheap and nasty Ghoulies, it's really not much of an accomplishment. Anyway the plot here is that the Ghoulies make their way to a carnival where business is poor. Their presence manages to help business pick up but of course they do what Ghoulies are meant to do and start killing people.What makes this a better movie than the first? Well for starters the carnival setting is more interesting. The special effects for the Ghoulies is improved over the first. The cast is better, helped in large part by veteran Royal Dano and little person Phil Fondacaro. But ultimately it's the camp humor that this movie has that elevates it above the previous movie.All this being said about how it's an improvement over the first Ghoulies, it's still not a very good movie. It's watchable enough for a movie of its kind. But let's not get carried away and say it's anything better than that. So, better than the first Ghoulies but still not very good. "},{"Title":"Twice as good as the first, a rating of 2 out of 10","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" One thing they did right in this sequel was base the movie around the actual ghoulies themselves to a certain degree rather then keep them out of most of the first. And unlike the first, we actual feel for a couple of the characters (dwarth & uncle). An added bonus is early killings. However the ghoulies are still situated in one place, the first being a house this being an amusement park, the third I think is college? I would have liked to see them take over a town or city. They tried to make the series a horror comedy, but I believe to do that you need to have teens/young adults rather then adults who were the victims in the first, while the third must be college kids which I hope means the got it right third time around. This worked better having a younger cast, tunes dude should get a couple of chuckles. Another lame showdown ending(perhaps the villain in this was recreated by kevin smith in dogma?). This is Watchable, but only just. "},{"Title":"Cheesy creature feature","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Working at their friends' carnival, two friends Spookhouse Show act is found to be successful when diminutive, rat-like creatures invade the carnival forcing them to use the only weapon at their disposal to combat the creatures.There's a lot to like about this as it turned out to be a superior sequel. What really works well in this one is the increase of screen- time here for the creatures, which is a fixed problem from the first one. Starting with the chase through the forest and arriving at the auto-yard stalking in here, there's plenty to like here as other action scenes here make this one so much fun. There's an incredibly fun introductory scene of the creatures here at the carnival where they appear in the attraction to the bewilderment of the guests on the ride causing all sorts of havoc with the true ride which is quite cheesy fun throughout here which follows up the scenes around the carnival. Seeing the creatures going around the different booths, attractions and meeting up with the patrons here while staying incognito is a lot of fun seeing how this one manages to interject the goofy fun of the creatures against the atmosphere of the carnival which is a healthy contrast. This is carried over into the film's highlight scenes where the massive version of the creature runs wild at the carnival and begins attacking both the concession stands as well as other patrons and forcing the group to fight off the beast using a variety of impressive and enjoyable tactics, generating a lot of action and a nice bit of cheese here with how the finale plays out. Along with the overall impressive look of the creatures, the fact that there's a rather healthy body count here that does lead into the film's few small problems here. This is the fact that there's not a great deal of blood or gore here in the kills, as despite the large body count there's a severely lacking amount here beyond a few scratches which would've helped this one quite a bit. As well, there's also the thread here about how good the business at the carnival is suddenly doing is confusingly dropped here, as the financial problems were so strongly hinted at in the first half that to drop it out of the film when that very problem is finally fixed makes no sense, nor does not following through on what is causing that specific incident despite how word-of-mouth is telling the authorities in charge. While the cheese might be something that turns off a few aren't into it, what really lowers this one is the rather bland and lifeless scenes here of this one really doing nothing while having fun at the carnival, as these are just boring, drawn-out and really not all that interesting showing the group not really doing anything in this section. All it does is make the film last longer than the original, and it's not that interesting due to that. Otherwise, this one was quite enjoyable.Rated R Violence and Language. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" A paper-thin plot Ghoulies II picks up a short time after the first movie, a few of the little nasties stow away on an amusement park ride and bring big bucks to a dying fair. The creatures are mad after an attempt to kill them, so the creatures go on a rampage through the fairgrounds, ultimately leading to an explosive conclusion.Sounds corny? No matter what anyone says, this is utterly fantastic. I refuse to totally dismiss this, because I find it quite engaging, in a guilty pleasure sense. I have to say it blew me away! This might all sound corny, like a bad B-movie, but that is not the case. My rating 7/10. "}{"Title":"much better than Ghoulies 1","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This really is better than the first Ghoulies. Here's why 1. None of the annoying side characters from the first film are in this one. 2. The plot flows a little better(but not great, still very disjointed) And 3. The Ghoulies them selves look much better than in the first film. they move better, have better design, and this time around stop-motion was used in a few scenes. Plus the ending with the giant Ghoulie monster is hilarious. The Ghoulies get more screen time in this one, and all together the film feels shorter which is an improvement from the first's bloated plot. The humor in Ghoulies II is also entertaining (unintentional and otherwise) and it helps keep some of the more boring plot stuff. In all Ghoulies II is a disjointed but entertaining film. recommended to fans of the first or Gremlins. "},{"Title":"Cheesy Fun","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Ghoulies II is a typical 80's film. Its cheesy and fun. The monsters are so poorly made its actually laughable, and the acting is almost as bad. This time the pesky little bastards have gone to an amusement park like place, where all hell breaks lose. As usual they target the teenagers having sex during the rides and kill them in amusing ways ( one scene in particular gave me a good laugh where a rat like Ghoulie spits some goo at some unsuspecting teenage lovers, and their mouths get stuck together). The movie is not to be taken seriously, and some people do which is one of the many reasons its on the fast track towards the IMDb bottom # 100. Just a few more votes and it'll be there.I'll be generous and give it 4 out of 10, purely for all the laughs (most of them unintentional) "},{"Title":"better than the 1st,,  but thats not saying much.","Date":"24 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Believe it or not, this is actually an improvement over the original 'Ghoulies', offering likable and sympathetic characters and a coherent plot-line, not to mention some PG-13 thrills and gore. Folks at the Hardin Family Carnival are risking termination of their acts due to bottom-line business unless they improve the line-up. The ghoulies from the 1st gig crash the party, and things start picking up, at least until they start making the show a little too scary by murdering the patrons.By now you know what to expect from producer, Charles Band's inept series, featuring a little stop-motion animation to liven up the otherwise hokey puppets and a dash of characterization, such as Royal Dano as the town drunk and Phil Fondacaro in his usual bit. It's still laughable and contrived, but it still stands the test of time for fans of typically campy 1980s cheesiness. "},{"Title":"One Of My Favorite Horror Films Out There!","Date":"29 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I never liked Ghoulies 1 & 4 and the third Ghoulies film was pretty good. The 2nd Ghoulies film however to me is like the 1st installment of Ghoulies. What The 2nd one does is it doesn't mess around and it's not cheesy like people say it is. Ghoulies II is more than a fun Horror film which goes down into the deep dark roots of the horror genre really being serious.It is one of my favorite horror films as I had watched this dark, sinister, (a little bit) suspenseful and scary film as a kid many times. It has many memorable scenes, excellent effects, decent acting and awesome kills which makes this film work. I'm going to go through as to why I liked this film so much.Acting 9/10 The acting is not that bad at all. It's quite decent to be honest and the actors who played as Nigel and Larry really do a really good job at their roles. The guy who played Nigel doesn't only bring feel to his character but he has that Shakesperen style that makes his character laughable and memorable to watch in action as he quotes and lectures from Shakespere. The guy who played as Larry does a very simple job and that's what I like about his acting, he didn't have to dramatize everything, he just went into it and did it. The other actors center around them quite well.Special Effects 9/10 Special effects with the Ghoulies are done very well in each scene when we see them moving around the screen, walking, running or killing.Puppertry 9.5/10 The puppetry of the ghoulish creatures is done quite well and like Chucky in Child's Play or Fats in Magic, the special effects people from the 80's can truly make these mysterious, scary, ugly and nasty beings come to life. To bad they can't make creatures come to life like they used to.Scenes 9/10 Most of the scenes are planned well throughout. It's good how we have the Ghoulies causing chaos in the Den attraction and then we see them rampaging across the carnival to feast on food, ride bumper cars, shoot some 'ducks' game and pretty much kill more innocent people! I loved most of the scenes with the Ghoulies as every scene protracts on them, making all five of them stand out really well. When the Ghoulies weren't in scenes and we see Larry, Nigel etc, most of those scene were pure goodness too.Music/Soundtrack 9/10 The music is really enjoyable to listen to as it differs from creepiness and alternative type music. There is also a bit of depression and tension within the music which sets the mood for the film's scenes.I know a lot of people won't agree with my review here but then again, this is my opinion and I definitely respect yours if you don't like this film. I've seen it 7 times and I still really love it a lot.9.7/10 "},{"Title":"They'll Get You In The End Once Again!","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Ghoulies II is a great sequel to the original Ghoulies. You've got sweet special effects, cool looking ghoulies and a great story line. The Ghoulies escape and go to a carnival and cause chaos. It's got some pretty gory parts too. It's not really scary, but hilarious. It's like a dark horror comedy. Then you've got the hilarious part with a ghoulie that gets a guy when he's on the toilet. This is probably my favorite movie in the Ghoulies series. I highly recommend you check this one out. It's one of those great B movies from the 80's and so much fun to watch. You can get it on DVD with Ghoulies part one for only $10 at most places. Definitely worth the price for such a cool movie. This movie has one ending I never expected too. All around great horror film! As you can see by my username I really like the Ghoulies series.I give Ghoulies II a 10/10 "},{"Title":"superb !","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is an example to all those who want to make a good low budget horror movie.It is easy to see that the effects arnt great well there pretty bad actually.But it is pulled of and pulled of well by its other quality's.the ghoulies them self's wouldn't you like to have one maybe as a pet set it loose on your mother in law.plus the humour much funnier than the first film which i thought was a little boring .Then the inventive ways people die the ghoulies using the carnival as weapon so to speak.There is many bits that are unbelievable which usually i would have to pick holes in but to be honest with this film i didn't care. like the bit where the ghoulies are trying to murder two young boys and the crowd is egging them on RATS RATS RATS absolutely fantastic.Not to mention the bumper car death great! and the toilet scene. I remember when i watched this film when i was young maybe 7 year old i was scared to go to the toilet for weeks. much the same when i seen nightmare on elm street i didn't want to sleep.Now nearly 17 years later i still give it the thumbs up the acting could be worse to i have seen it. watch and have a laugh! "},{"Title":"Groovy Ghoulies !","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I was very young when I saw this the first time and it really gave me the creeps then. Now a few years later I saw it again and I think it´s cool. The little monsters are pretty funny and scary actually. I especially like the toilette scene. Ghoulies II is a 5/10 "},{"Title":"Much better than part 1","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Ghoulies 2 is by far better than the first part. You can't judge it compared to masterpieces like Apocalypse now, but for a crappy little 80's monster movie, it's a lot of fun. Great laugh's especially when they are hanging out in the haunting house causing trouble. The first part tried to take itself a little too seriously with the occult store background and was fairly irritating to watch. This one is a brain dead monster attacks type movie, and I love it for that.It's much more fun than the Critters franchise, albeit, Ghoulies part 1 is far worse than any of the first 3 Critters movies.I have never seen Ghoulies 3 or 4, or number two is definitely worth a rent from your local video store. "},{"Title":"Mutant muppets terrorize traveling carnival.","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Royal Dano (Go back to the hell that spawned you!) is Uncle Ned, a sweaty old drunk who operates a spook house called Satan's Den at a traveling carnival with his teen grandson Larry (Damon Martin) and dwarf sidekick Sir Nigel (Phil Fondacaro). When an @$$hole businessman takes over and threatens to close them down, Ned uses a satanic book of magic to call up five little mutant monsters (gator, cat, rat, fish, bat) to help with business. They do, but naturally being the demons they are, can't help themselves in the killing department as characters bite it with a pendulum, switchblade, carnival ride, electric wires, bumper cars and other toned-down PG-13 silliness. A giant monster that looks like a rejected extra from HUMANOIDS FROM THE DEEP shows up at the end to burp and explode.Dennis Poali's script attempts to create sympathetic characters, but there's too much juvenile humor and other than some brief stop-motion, the creature FX are cheap rubbery puppets. If you recognize names like Mickey Knox, Romano Puppo and Anthony Dawson, it's because this was, surprisingly enough, filmed in Rome.Grade 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I'll kick your ass fuzzball!","Date":"8 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I used to watch this tons as a kid, and for me it's this and Puppet Master 2 that tie as my favourite 'killer little creatures' flicks. It's still hugely enjoyable and charming to me and I love it a whole lot to this day. It doesn't take itself too seriously, the deaths range from ridiculous to downright chilling, it's scary and funny when it's trying to be, and even poignant once or twice. I love the music score which somehow brings a little added depth all on its own, surprising that it wasn't done by Richard Band. I enjoy all the classic grotesquerie of a good old-fashioned spookhouse that's rendered deadly for real in some way, that's always a very welcome theme to me. And when the little terrors finally do escape into the carnival at large and briefly cause some real havoc it's just the grisly icing on the cake! When the tilt-a-whirl goes flying off its axis into fiery destruction, that's such a childhood amusement park nightmare come to life! Some of the characters are interesting enough, I like the little drama of alcoholic old Uncle Ned, very well played by the late Royal Dano as a burned-out old fool who mistakingly believes to his cost that it was he who summoned up the Ghoulies. And I absolutely love Phil Fondacaro, it may be an old line, but he had such a big presence for such a small person, and he more than held his own despite putting up with indignities like being picked up and made to wear a stupid gorilla costume. And while I'm sure a lot of films like this back in the day arguably took their basic elements of the idea from Gremlins, so what? I think as far as this sequel goes at least, the Ghoulies are way more frightening than the Gremlins, their particular brand of hijinx are downright vicious! All I'm saying is, if you're gonna take your inspiration from somewhere, at least take it from somewhere worthwhile, and I think there's more than enough different stuff in this movie for it to respectfully distance itself and be much more than just a worthless copy. This does get such an undue amount of criticism dumped on it, it is far from ideal but it's no flaming garbage can like Troll 2 either - good bad picture though that is! And I personally don't think the creature models are bad either. The faces of at least two of them are amazingly expressive. I have a theory that at least some of the people that hate this movie have only ever seen the inferior MGM DVD cut, which until very recently, had been the only version widely available, so I decided to include this list of everything that's included on the UK VHS.. 1 The scene of Patty's death is a bit of a complicated one as both the VHS and DVD have seconds that the other doesn't, but they always leave out when she has a bite taken out of her face and when the cat Ghoulie slashes her. 2 Now this is an odd one. Apparently at the time in Britain, all film scenes involving ninja paraphernalia no matter how mild, had to be removed completely by the thrice-cursed BBFC!! Thus, although it's present on the DVD, Ghoulies 2's rather strange shuriken scene is sadly absent from the VHS cut. 3 During Merle's death it shows slightly more of the buildup to his pendulum slicing, but it still omits the juiciest part. I love the character of Merle because it was like the adorable William Butler purposefully played the guy to be a lot more campy and goofy than everyone else in the movie! Everything about him just screams out monsters, get me and kill me slowly and horribly! 4 When Ned gets electrocuted it shows him fall to the ground and there's a closeup of the pentagram that he scrawled out in his own blood. 5 In the largest scene to be cut out, Kerry Remsen's character gives this really long- winded and embarrassingly melodramatic speech about how her brother died in a high-wire act. I guess it explains how she so deftly climbs the big wheel at the end, but it adds nothing and is a terrible scene all around. 6 In the DVD when the poor clown falls into the dunk tank and has his arm bitten off it cuts to this really s****y model of the aquatic Ghoulie that looks completely out of place, but in the true version it shows the little devil with its mouth full of blood and the mangled arm close by - damn scary scene! 7 And finally when P.Hardin takes his faithful trip to the can, before it cuts to his echoing scream, we get to hear a few more choice ripping sounds as the last remaining Ghoulie chomps down on god knows what! Those cuts are mostly mere seconds long, but the absence of the much needed bloodshed really does take the edge off and makes the movie a lot more weaker than it was originally meant to be. Regardless, to me this was always a very Magic moon indeed. Cheers. To Merle! x "}{"Title":"Interesting entry in GHOULIES series","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Some people here may think No one on this Earth would spend the 16 quid to buy this on DVD. They're partly right. No one but people like me, that is. I have been interested in John Carl Buechler's campy makeup FX since I was first introduced to the notorious Troll (1986). I love how all his creatures seem related, be they Trolls, Ghoulies, every creature in TARZAN The Epic adventures or more recently Watchers Reborn.I enjoy reminiscing about the good old days when stop-motion was king and it took the mastery of a Ray Harryhausen to impress an audience.Stop motion has seen its day. In 1925 grown, mature adults screamed in awe at the screening of The Lost World, with Willis O'Brien's fantastic dinosaurs. Nowadays a 6 year old cousin of mine will watch the classic Land of the lost with its Gene Warren dinosaurs and Krofft productions rubber-suited Sleestaks and say Everything looks like it's pretend, except the people. (Maybe they shouldn't have mixed 16mm stop motion with live footage shot on 1videotape).But even in the pre-Jurassic Park days of 1987 which is when this entry in the Ghoulies series was shot the effects looked cheap, the rubber suited monster looked like a man in a rubber suit and the overall effect was pure camp. Bad? I don't know. The movie wasn't trying to be Jaws or an innovator on any level.Although it's the kind of movie that makes some people ask, who the hell financed this silliness and why?, movies like Ghoulies 2 have a certain charm to them, a naive charm (even if no muscle).The plot is your traditional Let's put on a show to save this place, but with Ghoulies instead of Rooney and Garland.  The movie has a strangely familiar beginning. A man running away from hooded cult members. Wasn't this how Halloween 6 started? We are introduced to carny wannabe Damon Martin and his washed out drunken ex-magician uncle (How does that go again? Every kid has an uncle who's a magician). They run a haunted house named Satan's Den in a travelling Carnival. A very unprofitable haunted house since Uncley can't stay sober enough to run the business properly, and the public finds the attraction silly rather than scary.This is an ironic angle. In some way the Haunted House represents movies like this one. The public isn't really scared to go into this horror attraction. The rudimentary animatronics, decapitations, electrocutions inside are banal to even a very young public weaned on the very best of horror gore effects in movies and the horrors shown on reality tv all the time. Two very young kids enter the Den by themselves and aren't taken by anything at all they see until they spot the Ghoulies, who decided to inhabit the joint.A typical 1987 yuppie announces that his company now owns the carnival and that unless the Den shows profit it will be replaced by a mud-wrestling show. The Den however becomes a sensation because the eager public flocks to see the rats, er, Ghoulies. But everything is threatened again once the ghoulies start killing people.There is also a insipid romantic subplot, but I don't want to spoil anything. Anyway, this movie stars Mr. Torok the Troll himself, Phil Fondacaro. One of the best small actors of his time, Phil here stars as a Shakespeare-obsessed carny. There is a scene in the first quarter of the movie which I will not spoil for anyone, but it involves Phil and a monster suit. I just really, REALLY wish they had taken this scene a lot further than they did.We all know it's supposed to be a Gremlins ripoff. The makers knew that too, but I find this entry at least comparable to Gremlins 2.Ghoulies 3, though, was a lot better. "},{"Title":"Ghoulies II","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Ghoulies II is miles ahead of the first one! Watching it, I couldn't believe how much more fun and enjoyable this one was compared to the first. This time the little creatures attack Satan's Den, a house of horrors at a deserted amusement park. Every time a customer enters the funhouse, the little ghoulies pop out to scare and sometimes kill them. There are many lighthearted moments like when the Ghoulies goo the couple making out so that when they come out, they are stuck together. Eventually, the ghoulies make out of the funhouse and terrorize the people at the carnival leading up to an explosive conclusion.This is such a big step up from the first Ghoulies, it's unbelievable. The pace is better, the comedy is apparent, and the movie is better for it. The gag with the Ghoulies playing some of the side games at the carnival is classic comedy. The Ghoulies themselves have more of a humorous personality, just like the Critters in that series. There is also a cringe worthy scene in a washroom when the owner of the amusement park sits down on the seat not knowing a Ghoulie is waiting in the bowl. There are some very good scenes in the house of horrors as well. They use many of the scares in the place to showcase the little creatures. It is very reminiscent of the 1981 horror flick The Funhouse.Ghoulies II is much better than the first one. I say skip that one and watch this one. Best in the series by far.7/10 "},{"Title":"It's Popcorn & Chuckles","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" When I read all the convoluted reviews for low budget horror movies that analyze everything from the producer's logo to wind noise in the microphone, I wonder if some of those posting believe they will be discovered by The Washington Post entertainment editor. For one, you cannot compare bottom budget movies with no name stars to major studio releases with e.g. Mel Gibson's famous Jesus grunts. Of course the demon puppets are rubbery, this isn't Disney Studios. That said, let's analyze who watches Mr. Brand's Ghoulies series....people who want to grab bags of popcorn, sit with dates or friends and have fun. Not do a heady analysis of why the camera shot the stars in the sky a certain way. The movie fulfills it's audiences reason for watching. Silly fun, like Porky's. Lighten up. The Hollywood Insider is probably not hiring. "},{"Title":"* out of 4","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" At the outset of this one, the title creatures — rubbery puppets originally conceived as cut-rate Gremlins lookalikes — are shanghaied by a priest who intends to exterminate them, but they manage to escape to a low-rent carnival. There they take up residence in Satan's Den, a foundering, old-fashioned haunted house attraction run by Royal Dano, who fears he may lose ownership of the show due to sagging attendance. The presence of the ghoulies at first gives business a much-needed boost ... until the slimy little buggers start dining on the patrons. Business is dying, but when the ghoulies show up business is booming. However, the ghoulies resort back to their murderous ways.Despite some enhancements in the lackluster monster effects and clever stop-motion animation by David Allen, this film is just as pointless as its predecessor.Cheaply made & boring sequel features poor effects and a ridiculous finale.Rated PG-13 for Violence & Profanity. "},{"Title":"This movie is bad.","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" You don't have to see this movie. Unless you have been convicted of a violent crime. Then you should probably be forced to watch this movie.I remembered liking this movie. So I bought it and the first one together on DVD. I watched them, both of them, and they were both bad. I must have been thinking of some other movie. Anyway, I put the time in so you don't have to go through what I did.This movie is a lot like The Garbage Pail Kids movie but without any of the redeeming qualities. There is no humor to be found here. This movie is a lot like gremlins, except that I'm sure Gremlins was supposed to emulate and parody bad movies like this. This movie emulates and parodies Ghoulies, the first one I mean.Seriously though don't waste your time with this movie. I mean, you could be dead tomorrow then how you feel about that wasted time. Also I felt kinda sick after watching this movie. It may have given me a rectal cyst. You don't want that. "},{"Title":"Good sequel to Ghoulies","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Ghoulies II is good since it does show more of the Ghoulies as they are the main creatures in this one causing havoc at a house of horrors and the local fun fair. The Ghoulie effects are good and are humours characters and the acting is fine, the Big Ghoulie was something different to the film when it's roaming around eating the little Ghoulies. If you liked the Ghoulies films or a fan of creature flicks like Gremlins and Criiters then check Ghoulies II out. Also look out for Phil Fondacaro who played in Troll that was directed by John Carl Buechler who did the Ghoulie effects for Ghoulies, Ghoulies II and Ghoulies III which he also directed. "},{"Title":"Poorly Done Fun!!","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  It is the fact that this movie is so bad that makes it so great. The bad acting and horrible directing is key. Just watching the trailer of this movie makes me laugh hysterically. I recommend watching this movie with a bunch of friends and pizza and beer. It will be a great time had by all. You will laugh all night long! "},{"Title":"Crap-o-matic","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!STUPID IDIOTS!!!  they actually made a crappy sequel to the crappiest movie on earth. This time those fat, ugly lookin' plastered puppets hit the carnival. They cause as much problems as this movie did back in 1987..... the only cool part is at the end where the big ghoulie blows up!! HAHA!! DIE!!PG-13 for violence as usuall.JJOONNAATTHHAANN LLEE YYAATTEESS 1 out of 10.       "},{"Title":"Film not as bad as people think","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The movie Ghoulies II is trash, simply put.  But it is fun trash.  The Ghoulies, while evil, are also mischievous and kind of funny with the deadly stunts they pull.  My personal favorite Ghoulie is the green one which comes out of the toilet.  There is one thing that I disliked about the film, but I also like it, if that makes any sense.  There is a character named Patty in the film (played by Ames Morton) who is killed by the Ghoulies.  I think that she is the most beautiful girl in the film and therefore deserves to live, and the Ghoulies deserve to go to hell for killing her.  But, on the plus side, I enjoyed watching the scenes that she was in, even the ones where she was being killed with a razor blade by that cat/rat Ghoulie.  That midget in the film was a pretty good actor also.  So, if you like cheap low budget horror with hot babes being killed and a little humor, this movie isn't as bad as other people think it is. "},{"Title":"Cheap horror with rubber puppets","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  No matter how I look at this movie it will always be bad. It doesn't leave off where the first one did, instead it shows an almost pointless scene which we could all live without. I thought this movie would become watchable, but it only got worse. Of course along with the bad acting, bad effects and bad music, you'll find how poorly its been directed and how dumb the stupid rubber monsters are. I'm still having trouble figuring out how one monster the size of a blender can tackle somebody over. This is just another cheap horror flick made to make money, avoid at all cost. "}{"Title":"Better Than the First Film","Date":"21 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" GHOULIES II (1988) ** (out of 4) The circus attraction Satan's Den is given notice that if their latest stop doesn't make money then their doors are going to be closed. Uncle Ned (Royal Dano) and his nephew Larry (Damon Martin) gotta kind a new attraction to liven things up and they find it in some ghoulies that found their way in. Soon they both realize that these disgusting creatures aren't worth the extra money.GHOULIES II is actually an improvement over the original film but then again that's really not saying too much considering the original was pretty bad and a poor mile behind films like GREMLINS and CRITTERS. This sequel has a few funny things in it and the special effects by John Carl Buechler are much better and they're the saving grace. This sequel also manages to have a fairly fun setting and when you put all of this together you've got a mildly entertaining film.I think the best thing this film has going for it are the special effects. I thought all of the ghoulie effects were quite good and certainly miles better than what was seen in the previous film as well as other low-budget movies like this. I thought the creatures looked very realistic and I liked how much personality each of them had. There are some gore effects as well but the majority of them were cut so that the film could get a PG-13 rating and be more kid friendly, although the recent Blu-ray release has the uncut footage. It's strange that they'd aim this film at kids yet the F word is said three times.Another thing I liked was the circus setting, which added some fun to the movie. With that said, there's still nothing ground-breaking here. There's some pretty bad performances scattered throughout and I'd question the film running 89-minutes as that's about ten minutes too long. Another problem is that there are some pretty slow moments throughout the first hour but things really pick up during the final third when the ghoulies break free and cause havoc. "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable sequel, but for dedicated fans of the series only.","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" In GHOULIES II, a money losing carnival attraction called Satan's Den, is just a mere step away from shutting down, if it's profits soon don't start picking up by the time the weekend is over. However the attraction soon gets some unknown help, when one evening, the nasty tempered miniature demons are abducted by a priest with plans on making away with them, however he is killed before he can do so. The six creatures then hitch a ride on the back of an open truck, that stops by for gas, when the alcoholic uncle of the truck's driver, fails to lock the back door. Arriving at a carnival attraction, the creatures inhabit Satan's Den & immediately become a sensation for the public, who assume they are mechanical puppets & part of the show. Soon the profits soar like never before, but so does the body count, especially when the creatures are accidentally set free from the den, where they wreck havoc on the public & when the hero's of the story find a solution to stopping the creatures, they find out much to their dismay, that the solution is much more worse than dealing with the creatures themselves.It's clear right from the get go that the film-makers of this highly entertaining sequel, clearly had a bit more money to spend on this one. The Ghoulies creations, once again handled by JOHN CARL BUECHLLER & his staff of M.M.I. are much better here than they were in the first film, their shown in close up & are better lit on camera than the original film, which bathed them in slime & kept them mostly in the shadows. Writer DENNIS PAOLI clearly had a ball writing the script, since the film has many laugh out loud moments, mainly involving the creatures themselves, which unlike the first, are featured quiet extensively through the films 90 minute running time. In fact, the creatures are the main threat & bad guys here & not an undead sorcerer out to sacrifice his son's friends like the plot of the original was really all about. The Ghoulies were mere window dressing in that film, to what the films real plot was all about. In fact as a result of the Ghoulies taking centre stage, many fans have come to prefer this one not only over the first, but the next two films that follow. Personally I'm more for the first film & thought it was better, I liked the zombie sorcerer, who was creepy, scary & MICHAEL DES BARRES made for a truly scary horror movie villain, since he played the role really well, plus as already mentioned, that film featured plenty of atmosphere & many suspenseful moments & great characters & had a more mystical bent to it. GHOULIES II doesn't have any scary villains to speak of, minus the creatures themselves & a giant Ghoulie monster that pops up at the end & despite all the talk of magic & magician's, discards the mystical quality of the first, with wizards & mystical elves. Although in my personal opinion GHOULIES II is almost as good. The late David Allen brings us some pretty good stop motion animation, as we see the creatures prowl the yard of the carnival & looking to wreck havoc. True to the first film, the films box art not only shows creatures hanging out in a toilet (two on the box art this time) but also features a sequence where the stuck up son of the Carnival's owner, meets a grisly end when he sits down to use the toilet, completely unaware that one of the creatures is hiding in there & as a result, he winds up suffering what is arguably the series most painful death! The acting for the most part is decent in area's, but sadly lacking in others. J. DOWNING makes for a fun villain, but I would have had a better time excepting the fact that he was the stuck up/wealthy son of the Carnival's real owner, if he didn't spend two nights straight wearing the same suit (He's a rich guy, rich guys never wear the same suit two nights in a row!). The late ALBERT BAND (Father of B movie producer CHARLES BAND) does fairly well behind the camera & manages to capture the carnage at all the right angles, particularly during the climax, when the Ghoulies get out of Satan's Den & begin wrecking havoc on the customers & attractions. The only downside to all of this, is simply the fact that the late Band doesn't add any suspense or tension, much less any atmosphere to the proceedings, like the original film did. The kills also disappoint, since the vast majority of them take place off screen & the ones that don't are watered down & disappointing & really not with mentioning. Weather or not the film intended this in the script or it was watered down in order to once again nab a PG-13 rating is not known & the film rarely at times makes sense in area's, like in the beginning of the movie What would a vat of hazardous Toxic Chemical Waste be doing in a garage? what would it be used for? I also could have done without Phil Fondacaro's Shakesphere quoting midget, his quotes got my nerve at times. Fans of the genre will also recognize some familiar B movie faces, such as actress STAR ANDREEF, PUMPKINHEAD star KERRY REMSEN, HOUSE II star ROYAL DANO, TROLL actor PHIL FONDACARO, SASHA JENSEN (HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS) WILLIAM BUTLER (Friday The 13th Part VII The New Blood/NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD 90'/Leatherface Texas Chainsaw Massacre III) & the pre-teen bratty brother of the lead heroine in NIGHT OF THE DEMONS also shows up playing (yet again) a bratty pre- teen. Great score as well. Followed by GHOULIES III GHOULIES GO TO COLLEGE***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Stink-bomb","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The first Ghoulies is a masterpiece compared to this garbage. The title demons are about as menacing as a troupe of sock-monkeys.The Ghoulies hitch a ride with a traveling circus and quickly start killing people. This film is completely aimless. One moment these ugly muppets are killing people, and the next there high-fiving one another putting on a show for patrons. Avoid this film!! Even you Phil Fondacaro fans out there, I know you're there, because I'm one also.What's that sound? The sound of a video cassette striking the bottom of a dumpster "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" After wasting 90+ minutes of my life watching this movie, I'm now going to waste about 10 more minutes to try and persuade you not to make the same mistake I did. I bought Ghoulies II on VHS at a flea market for $1.00 and in hindsight I kind of wish I'd have invested my money more wisely. The movie is about a circus act called Satan's Den that is in serious financial peril unless something can turn the show around and make it profitable once again. This is where the Ghoulies come into play. They stowaway on the tour bus and wreck havoc inside Satan's den much to the amusement of the customers. Thinking that the murderous antics of the Ghoulies are all part of the show, the customers return in droves to see what the little demons are going to do next. Much to my chagrin, what they did next was bore the hell out of me for the duration of the film. No scares, no gore and no laughs. This movie is the polar opposite of Gremlins, which it poorly tried to copy. OK, I'm tired and want to go eat. 1/10. "},{"Title":"Somewhat of an improvement over part one","Date":"12 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I didn't like the first Ghoulies movies. I thought it was really cheap, really boring, and really lame. But apparently the movie struck a nerve during its theatrical release and subsequent video-cassette release, because a few years later we got this sequel (though it was released direct to video because of the bankruptcy of Empire Pictures). I was expecting the worst for this movie, but to my surprise I thought it was somewhat of an improvement over part one. While it is painfully obvious at times that this set-in-America movie was NOT filmed in America (it was filmed in Italy), otherwise this movie looks a lot better than the first one. It looks like more money was invested, which gives us things like better sets and better creature effects (including some stop-motion animation.) Also, the protagonists in this sequel are a lot more likable than the ones in the first film. While this sequel is an improvement, there are two big problems that hold this back from cheesy fun status. First, the pacing - I though the limited plot unfolded very slowly. The second problem is that with the PG-13 rating, the movie holds back on R-rated goodies like gore and sexual material, which might have really livened things up. Still, I'll admit I've seen plenty of horror movies that are much worse than this one. "},{"Title":"Harmless, sorta gory pass time","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I just can't hate this movie. Seriously. It's a stupid, fun movie that's perfect for that moment when you're kinda bored and maybe a little stoned and have time to kill. It's a sequel to a not so great movie. The Ghoulies are back and in a carnival fun house. I was amused by the way other people thought the ghoulies were part of the attraction while witnessing actual killing and death. It does sort of show how society can become desensitized to violence. Kind of a lofty thought for this type of movie. The plot is rather simple and kind of lame, but still loads of fun IF you watch it in the right frame of mind. You have to know what to expect. This isn't an award winning movie, folks. You shouldn't really expect more than the movie offers. It is lots of fun and has some interesting deaths in it. I laughed at several parts. I especially liked the way it ended. I found it funny as hell. I wouldn't pay to see it, but if you can catch it on cable, give it a try. "},{"Title":"Good addition to the Imp genre","Date":"18 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I watched Ghoulies 1 a long time ago, and felt ripped off - I like the first Gremlins, loved the PUPPETS in G2 (not the flick) and really enjoy Critters 1 & 2. So when I saw the first Ghoulies, I expected a movie about imp creatures causing trouble. Instead I got a movie about stupid wizards with the Ghoulies in there as a subplot.So, I never bothered with this one. However, lately I've been on this Imp flick kick, and just watched Ghoulies 2.I must say, I was happily surprised. Let me say, this isn't a good movie in the sense of good story, acting, sfx, etc. However, it does justice to the little creature style, this one focuses on the monsters.Basically, these little guys hitch a ride on a traveling carnival, and they hang out in the haunted house trailer. That's really all you need to know, it has some great quotes for sampling, Dude....you tunes! plus it has the rat Ghoulie squirting green snot at people, and this couple making out get...stuck together...yes, this movie is not for everybody.*********SPOILERS************ My only complaint is the ending, when the large Demon is summoned, it looks like the monster suit the guy is wearing is so heavy, it moves too slowly, and it would have been nice to have grosser deaths with the Ghoulies themselves. I mean the big demon swallows them whole, but it doesn't really show it. It would have been nice if they would have exploded in it's mouth, or maybe they do get swallowed whole, then spit out with nothing left but a slimy skeleton.Plus, the toilet death was cool, but it would've been nice if the guy had gotten partially pulled in and it showed it.I guess my other complaint is the same with Gremlins and Critters, it would've worked better as an R rated film - tits, ass, graphic violence, more F-words, staples of the 80's! Hopefully the Imp Genre will return in due time, with puppets please. "},{"Title":"Can't live without seeing this one!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The only flaw in the origanal Ghoulies is that it didn't really show the Ghoulies in action well.Here you can see more of what they can do,and how to kill them.This is the only one where Ghoulies die,so you should see this if you wanna know how to kill them.None of the original characters are here,but hey,sequels can be like that.May not be as good as the first,but deffinetly a must see! "},{"Title":"It's not Johnny Depp! Honest!!","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  And the joke was that Johnny Depp should sue Skeet Ulrich?! I charge that Damon Martin is worthy of an indictment or two. The film takes a good 15 minutes before giving you a close-up of Martin that reveals it *isn't* the Deppster. But during that first 15 minutes you'll seriously have your doubts!Anyway, the ghoulies themselves are hilarious! Say what you want about these so-called cheap rubber puppets, but they have a lot of personality. Try not to laugh when, while receiving applause from a clueless bunch of carnival customers, they actually take a few bows!The mix of comedy and horror tends more toward the latter at the end, but overall, it's a funny, bloody mess.FYI References to Tod Browning's Freaks abound, as the film's set in a traveling carnival.  "},{"Title":"Much better than what is said about it","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Maybe it is a bit of a Gremlins rip-off, maybe some the effects are laughable, and maybe the movie isn't scary, but in my opinion it is a hell of a lot of fun. The first film is also decent and I also enjoy 4(3 is garbage and doesn't really need to be talked about), so overall this is a pretty good low-budget series.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!! After their adventures in the first film, the Ghoulies hop aboard a truck that is carrying a haunted house for a carnival opening over the weekend. The next day the carnival is set up and ready for buisness, but the employees and customers don't know what they're in for. Right away the Ghoulies kill off some annoying customers and entertain others until they are discovered by the good guys and the battle begins.Good story, great acting, and o.k. effects. ***1/2 out of *****. Skip the next sequel and see Ghoulies IV. "}{"Title":"zounds","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  wow. what a great movie, the acting isnt great, the ghoulies do look kinda cheap, but who cares, the ghoulies are at a carnival and well they start killing people, it doesnt get really good till the last 10 minutes where they summion the big ghoulie and he starts kicking the bleep out of the ghoulies, so just rent the bleeping movie-clawx- movie watcher "},{"Title":"Hilarious sequal to 1985 Bomb","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The first one was an absolute bomb, but this time they have gone one better.This time, the Ghoulies join a small time carnival sideshow called Satan's Den. With the Ghoulies help, Satan' Den draws quite a crowd. But some of the people who enter Satan's Den won't ever come out! Not bad effects created by Friday the 13th part 7 directer John Carl Buelcher, who creates the cute little Ghoulies who terrorize Satan's Den. Join the Ghoulies as they bring their own brand of special effects to Satan's Den! "},{"Title":"Could Be Worse","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" a few of the little nasties stow away on an amusement park ride and bring big bucks to a dying fair. The creatures are mad after an attempt to kill them, so the creatures go on a rampage through the fairgrounds.We have director Albert Band (with son Charlie producing) working under the Empire Studios banner, an era when good films were produced. And one of the best writers at the time -- working again here -- was Dennis Paoli. Through in horror veteran Bill Butler and Band favorite Phil Fondacaro, and you have a film.Maybe not a great film, mind you. This is one of those countless puppet films the band family made (and continues to make). Oddly enough, the best parts of this film are when there are no ghoulies on screen -- the direction and acting are quite decent and the puppets just sort of bring the mood down. "},{"Title":"Why has this movie got 2.4?????","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Ghoulies 2 (1987) is a fun little monster movie, it's much better than the 1st movie, and also far better than parts 3 and 4.It's got a good plot, and a very good setting, i really like the funfair setting, the ghoulies looked really good in this movie, they had more personality, there was also some really funny scenes where the ghoulies were killing off people in a variety of hysterical ways all around the funfair!!! I also think the cast were really good, Phil Fondacaro and Royal Dano were especially good.If you're a fan of Gremlins, then you should definitely check this out, it's a fun, fast paced movie with lots of entertaining moments, and it also has a classic 80's feel to it, which is another bonus.The rating of 2.4 is so in-accurate so don't pay attention to that, this film deserves 8/10. "},{"Title":"Better Than The First (But That Ain't Much)","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Ghoulies II is a typical 80's film. Its cheesy and fun. The monsters are so poorly made its actually laughable, and the acting is almost as bad. This time the pesky little bastards have gone to an amusement park like place, where all hell breaks lose. As usual they target the teenagers having sex during the rides and kill them in amusing ways ( one scene in particular gave me a good laugh where a rat like Ghoulie spits some goo at some unsuspecting teenage lovers, and their mouths get stuck together). The movie is not to be taken seriously, and some people do which is one of the many reasons its on the fast track towards the IMDb bottom # 100. Just a few more votes and it'll be there.I'll be generous and give it 4 out of 10, purely for all the laughs (most of them unintentional) "},{"Title":"Entertaining little monster movie from the 80's","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Ghoulies 2 (1987) is a good fun little monster movie, this sequel is a lot more fun then the original featuring more varied ghoulies! The movie has a good setting........ a funfair, and one of the attractions is suffering badly in the business stakes SATANS DEN, but when the ghoulies set up home in the satans den business booms! But the ghoulies cause havoc and run amok in the funfair, there's great fun to be had here as the ghoulies cause deaths on such rides as the big wheel and bumper cars!!! The movie stars familiar actors, especially the dwarf actor Phil Fondacaro who is good fun as Sir Nigel.Overall i give this film 8/10, good 80's comedy horror that is always entertaining, the best of the ghoulies series by far. "},{"Title":"Good old fashioned cheesy 80's Fun","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is by no means a good film. It will never be mistaken for the modern age Citizen Kane. What you will get watching this film, however, is some good old fashioned cheesy 80's fun. If you love the 80's... if you find yourself watching I Love the 80's on VH1, if you listen to music like Ratt and Dokken, if your idea of a good time is watching movies like Open House and Zombie Nightmare, you will love Ghoulies II!!! It has it all little monsters going on a killing spree at a carnival, hot girls, 80's heavy metal music, and little kids with throwing stars! The acting is horrible, but if you like these kinds of movies, you won't be complaining. There is a midget named Sir Nigel that works for the funhouse where the Ghoulies have taken up residence. He gives a hilarious performance as a pint-sized Shakespearean actor who has had to resort to dressing up as a gorilla for cash. Royal Dano plays Uncle Ned, the owner of the funhouse who has a serious drinking problem. It's absolutely a gas when the Ghoulies bust loose and start killing people with assorted carnival gear (props to the bumper car scene). Definitely worth a look if you are into the obscure 80's horror films. "},{"Title":"fun to watch.","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is another cheap FULL MOON PICTURES release. But this one is fun to watch. It has pesky little critters that invade a carnival. The acting and the script are acceptable. Worth a look, if you like the little monsters on the loose type of movie. Entertaining and enjoyable flick. "},{"Title":"Watch It If You've Got Nothing Else To Do","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Ghoulies II was below average. The original Ghoulies movie was reasonable but this film isn't too memorable.There are worse films than Ghoulies II but overall it's a rather unspectacular movie. The Ghoulies make an appearance at a carnival and cause havoc. The film does have a few moments but not too many.I can't think of much to say about this film because it was rather bland. Check it out if you can't find anything else in the video store, otherwise forget it. "},{"Title":"A kick in the ghoulies","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is an 80's cheese-fest. It lies somewhere between Gremlins and Hobgoblins &#150; not as good as the former, not as bad as the latter. It, nevertheless, is as limited as you would expect.The story basically involves a handful of small nasty creatures &#150; the Ghoulies &#150; that escape the clutches of a man with a moustache and set up home in a circus. Or, more specifically, the ghost house; which is a sort of ghost train without the train. This place, which is owned by a young chap with a mullet and his uncle, is in danger of being closed down by a man called Mr Hardin (I kid you not). So they, together with their friend, a dwarf called Sir Nigel, have to contend with both Mr Hardin and the evil Ghoulies, who are on a murderous rampage.The good guys are essentially quite annoying. Especially Sir Nigel, who seems to be portrayed by John Oates of Hall and Oates fame. Oates is a frustrated Shakespearean actor who has settled for the next best thing &#150; dressing up in a gorilla suit. The uncle, nephew and Oates make a somewhat irritating group of good guys. You will be cheering on the Ghoulies from the word go. The Ghoulies themselves are quite amusing, especially the ratty looking one. They are slightly rubbish but they can be quite funny.The closing music is performed by W.A.S.P. The fact that they contributed a song to the movie Ghoulies II just proves what a bunch of poodle-permed bampots they were. I don't know if they provided the heavy metal music that accompanied the idiots with the ghetto blaster who served themselves up as Ghoulie-fodder earlier in the movie but the music was suitably dreadful.I can't recommend this film. But it will kill 90 minutes. You will, however, never get this 90 minutes of your life back, so think carefully before settling down to this movie. What do I recommend about it? I'm not sure but it is nice to see John Oates perform in something without Daryl Hall. "}{"Title":"Time To Play With The Ghoulies...Again","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I had a fun time seeing this movie,this was a worthwhile movie to see actually the best time of seeing this.And if there are people that are saying this was a bad movie don't listen to that dumdum because he doesn't know that this was better than the other parts of the Ghoulies. This was a perfect B-average movie that I have seen that should have more than 2.9,it should have 5.2 and more.It was an improvement from part one,that one is in the bottom but this is not.They had good actors that played good roles and was funny,right now I want to see it at this moment now.And if you say I'm lying than see the movie and than write to me and I know you are going to put a good comment. "},{"Title":"Terrible movie, but a major improvement on the first.","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I have no idea why any film company would greenlight a sequel to one of least scary, most boring films of all time, but they did. And this was a major improvement, which isn't saying much. In this outing, the ghoulies take over a carnival run by clichéd characters Larry and Uncle Ned. They kill guests and the carnival audience thinks it's fake, while the real audience thinks it's stupid. A couple things made this better than the first Ghoulies. The first is the atmosphere. The carnival setting was more interesting and funner to watch than the dull gray mansion of the first film. The second is the ghoulies. They seemed to have a more intricate part in the plot, where in the first they played second to the midgets and the red eyed fellow. The hardest thing to believe about this film was that these little creatures could do any damage. The people are unbelievably stupid to fall into the traps of creatures no larger than a small cat. The people sit still long enough for the creatures to bite through an electrical chord, or find a switch blade and open it, and this really falls under comedy instead of horror. The only other positive is actor Phil Fondacaro (From Troll, Bordello of Blood, Land of the Dead, Tales from the Crypt, Tales from the Darkside). Though his acting wasn't great, he has a screen presence that makes him great. Overall this was a silly, stupid movie, but it was a great improvement over the first.My rating * out of ****. "},{"Title":"Ghoulies 2 rocks","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I've got to say this is way better then the first one. The Ghoulies actually kill people and cause mayhem. And instead of the Ghoulies goofing around they kill people, good for ghoulies 2. Anyway Ghoulies 2 is about two people who are driving a truck called 'Satan's den' as the Ghoulies get stowed away. Later the Ghoulies turn up at a carnival place as they start killing people in Satan's den. Soon a guy summons a giant ghoulie to kill all the other Ghoulies. In the end there was one Ghoulie left as Ghoulies 3 come three years later. I think this movie is pretty good because its better then the first, they thought through this movie really well and they kill people. So I give Ghoulies 2 ***out of ***** "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Empire Pictures had drafted the BEASTIES idea long before GREMLINS came out. This ultimately became GHOULIES, which was thought by everyone as a rip-off of GREMLINS. Interesting piece of info ain't it.GHOULIES II is fun from start to finish. Beuchler effects are neat, though cheap. The ending was kinda lame but Phil Fondacaro is so much fun to watch. I sorta wish he had gotten to play the part of Mini-Me. "},{"Title":"This place is better than Epcot Center!","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Ghoulies II is better than the original, but still corny as all hell, and a far cry from a great horror movie.  It's the carnies versus the ghoulies this time.  The storyline is more creative and people actually die, but I have only one question  What's a gas station doing with volatile chemicals?  Like I said, there's a flaws abound, but entertainment comes first.  And Ghoulies II is entertaining indeed.  The cast is full of familiar horror faces  William Butler (Night of the Living Dead '90), Phil Fondacaro (Bordello of Blood), Kerry Remsen (Pumpkinhead), Sasha Jenson (Halloween 4), and Royal Dano (Killer Klowns From Outer Space), who always plays the guy you can't help but feel sorry for.  There are some great carnival gags in the movie.  The dunking booth scene, the spookhouse torture chamber, the bumper cars, and the Tilt-a-Whirl falling apart in midair (it's my ultimate carnival nightmare) make the movie.  It doesn't get any better than when the ghoulies are rockin' out to eighties hair metal.  That scene alone makes this the best in the trilogy (part IV doesn't count as a Ghoulies movie, seeing as how the ghoulies weren't in it).  And remember, they'll get you in the end. "},{"Title":"Ghoulies II","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The killer demon puppet ghoulies return to wreak havoc in a circus whose once popular live attraction, Satan's Den, has been losing money for months. Larry and Uncle Ed(Damon Martin & Royal Dano)have to make some profit in days or else face being closed down by stuff-shirted suit, Phil Hardin(J Downing), who wishes to turn the exhibit into ladies' mud wrestling. Their assistant is Nigel(great character actor Phil Fondacaro), a dwarf who loves quoting Shakespeare. Nicole(Kerry Remsen)is Larry's love interest, a young woman who participates in a dancing girls act(..she once walked the wire in another circus event, but grew afraid of heights after the unfortunate death of her brother).The ghoulies this time have stop-motion scenes where we actually see them walk, but mostly they're confined to popping from the corners of screens where we can not see the arms of puppeteers guiding them. They exit the Satan's den towards the end and let loose a violent frenzy on innocent paying customers. There are some cheesy melodramatic moments between Larry and Nicole accompanied by soft music. Hardin is merely a villain here..a one-dimensional carciature simply in the film as a business-type menace consumed by greed. Royal Dano pretty much plays his Uncle Ned a pathetic, alcoholic failure.Terrible, but not as agonizingly painful(well, it is rather painful, but not as much..)as the first film which doesn't exactly make this a glowing review. There's this monsterously huge demon they conjure that loves to eat the little ghoulies thanks to a demon spells conjuring book in Uncle Ned's possession. "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A few of the ghoulies from the previous movie hitch a ride on an amusement park attraction. Business is dying, but when the ghoulies show up business is booming. However, the ghoulies resort back to their murderous ways. Cheaply made & boring sequel features poor effects and a ridiculous finale. Rated PG-13; Violence & Profanity. "},{"Title":"It was fun!","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Well, at least this movie was better than the first. This is because of the simple reason that this movie is so entertaining to watch. It doesn't try to impress but it just brings some simple and good B-movie horror fun! It must be also due to the movie its settings that this movie is such a fun one to watch. The entire movie is set at an amusement park.The Ghoulies are more like Gremlins in this movie. In the first movie they were only walking around without serving a real purpose. In this movie they are the heart and soul of the entire picture. They are causing some mayhem and each and every Ghoulie has a distinctive character of its own.It's a good thing the movie doesn't take itself too serious. It gives the movie a good campy feel and look over it. The movie is often being plain silly and it doesn't try to make sense or create a believable story. Something that the first Ghoulies movie didn't do. So really, this movie is surprisingly better and much more watchable than its predecessor.Perhaps the movie is being a bit too silly and not serious enough at times. This really goes at the expense of the movie its horror. I feel that as if this movie would had been more effective with its horror as well, this movie would had been an even better one to watch. The movie doesn't really have any scares or gore in it.Of course nothing of this movie really impresses. The acting and story-line are all weak and kept thin. Perhaps you have to be really into the genre to appreciate and enjoy this movie simply for what it is; some simple, fun entertainment!5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"More of the Same.","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Equally sorry sequel to the original from 1985 has the titled creatures causing chaos at an amusement park. Once again everything is cheap looking and the plot was left out completely. The creatures themselves look poorly developed and sophomoric. A complete waste of a movie that had no business ever being made. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"About in the same caliber as the original.","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Nothing great here a sequel to the rather bad, but rather successful Gremlin clone has a better setting than the original and it does not have that stupid satanic guy at the end showing up and trying to upstage the reason people actually flocked to see the first one the Ghoulies. This movie has the main setting as a carnival and that adds a bit to this one that was not present in the rather drab first movie. Still, the movie is not good and it is still a very inferior Gremlin clone. I rate Critters higher than this one as far as copycat franchises and Munchies and that Hobgoblins are worse than even this one. This movie and its predecessor could have been a bit better, but both have the problem of not seeming to know what movie they would like to be, a comedy type movie or a dark satanic set of horror movies. Trying to be both makes it fail rather badly at both genres making them both really bad movies. This one did not have the success of the first film at the theater as the first one took in thirty-five million which is rather staggering considering how bad it was. This one must have had limited success on VHS as it would spawn yet another sequel which I thankfully did not see. "}]