[{"Title":"moving, excellent","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"35 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm probably in the minority here but i find this to be one of Allen's top ten masterpieces. Every scene works and the more you watch it, the more searing it becomes. No doubt you need to be in the right frame of mind to see it, but it's like a great night watching a play unfold. So many deep secrets, betrayals and unspoken feelings, finally, all coming to a head by the time the power comes back on after that thunderstorm. It feels way too real and may be why it makes most audience members uncomfortable. I liked this the first time I saw it and continue to hold it in high esteem years and almost 2 decades later. To preserve the great Elaine Stritch on film forever is enough to recommend it but the acting is painfully truthful to the point of awe. Woody's 3 dramas this and Interiors and Another Woman form a great triangle. They should be looked at and admired now for the fine ensemble casting and the pinpoint writing. Whether they rip off Bergman or not, is rather pointless to argue. Each of them stand up as potent films on their own. Waterston and Wiest re-united on TV's Law And Order, and Stritch as well went on to win an Emmy on Law, so it shows how intuitive Allen was when it came to choosing great actors for his scripts. I found Farrow's character to be highly moving. Then again, I liked everything she and Allen did together. You became almost spoiled by the high quality. As a lifelong Allen viewer, I still think this is fine stuff and will stick by my high opinion every time I re-see it. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Between his serio-comic reminiscence Radio Days and the searing adult drama Another Woman, Woody Allen made September, a reflective, introspective chamber-piece on his favourite themes of childhood, adultery, love and loss. One imagines that the chilly critical and public response will shift to one of admiration and wonder as the years shift, such is the haunting power of this masterpiece.Mia Farrow plays Lane, an unsuccessful photographer recovering from a breakdown in her autumnal apartment, the golds and rusts of the season chiming with the forlorn tone of the story. She falls in love with a visiting writer (Waterston), who appears to be drifting away from her, since he is besotted with Lane's sister Stephanie (Wiest). Barely taking an interest is the sisters' self-absorbed mother (Stritch) and her insecure third husband (Warden). Denholm Elliot rounds out the principal cast as a kind family friend, his love for Lane unspoken.There are many great moments in this complex, brilliant film, but two in particular remain long in the mind. First is the love scene between Waterston and Wiest. Wiest says - torn - that to begin an affair would be impossible and exits. Then, slowly, she turns and walks back into the room, shutting the door. Wiest has never been better than in this film, than in this moment. A startling, beautifully realised epiphany, boiled down to a look, a bow and a smile. The second great sequence comes with the shattering denouement, which I shan't spoil for you here.Allen's straight dramas certainly aren't for all tastes, but for those who can take them the rewards are vast. There has never been a screenwriter with a better ear for dialogue and in his serious films, Allen creates fascinating, utterly believable characters. The performances are pitch-perfect throughout, with Wiest, Farrow and Stritch all on career-best form. As always Allen's use of lighting and music is spot-on; here he showcases Art Tatum and Bernie Leighton, providing an evocative soundtrack to an unforgettable film.Simply brilliant. "},{"Title":"Hypnotic","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wasn't in the mood to watch a film last night, but couldnt remember seeing Denholm Elliot in a Woody Allen movie before, so realised this was one I hadnt seen before.Can't say as I was 'entertained' - but I was gripped and rooted to the sofa for the duration, which could say something about my sofa of course, but was really down to this film.  The dialogue and acting were both utterly convincing - and there were many moments of intense honesty.  Just for once, relationships don't resolve, nor are we rescued from darkness by gratuitous humour.  It's a stark, depressing beautifully acted piece of claustrophobic drama.  More your Webern 'five pieces', rather than your Strauss, 'Der RosenKavalier'.If nothing else - it's nice to be reminded that not all scripts are written by a gang of 12 year olds.... "},{"Title":"Not as bad as most people pretend","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First i must say that i'm an inconditional Woody Allen fan so i can take a lot from him without judgement. I watch September for the first time yesterday and i must say that it was good. I've read many bad comments on that one throughout the years so i was ready for the end of the world! Having read Woody's comment on the film in the DVD booklet i was surprised to find out that Woody had intended September to be a filmed play. So with this in mind i was more opened to the extremely hermetic ambiance of the film. Ok,it is emotionly heavy at times in this who-love-who plot but it is rewarded with great performance from Diane Wiest and Mia Farrow. I would recommend this to anyone who want to see another side of Woody with an opened mind. I really enjoyed that one... "},{"Title":"Not Allen's best, but not his worst either","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Let's face it  It's hard to be entertained by a story where everybody's in love with someone who's in love with someone else.  Chekhov can make it compelling (watch Vanya on 42nd Street for recent proof of this), but Allen obviously had other things in mind with this film.  I guess it was his antidote to Hannah and Her Sisters, where similar love triangles (and other polygons) played out, but the end result was much happier.  Allen usually doesn't like to give us such neat endings, so a year later we get September, in which little is resolved and most of the characters end up back where they started.  It's a fascinating film in its own way, but it doesn't bear repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"A somber meditation","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Basically, if you liked Interiors you will probably also enjoy this moody piece which features some fine performances and a lot of angst-filled speeches.  On the other hand, if you didn't like Interiors you probably won't like this film either.  Although it isn't as good as Allen's more famous melodrama, it comes close to being of equal quality, in terms of the acting; the script, however, leaves something to be desired.  I'd recommend it if someone asked me, but I wouldn't go out of my way to try to get people to see it. "},{"Title":"Elaine Stritch Is Superb","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sombre story from Woody Allen details (with much angst) a disastrous weekend in Vermont with 6 people seemingly all at loose ends. Mia Farrow lost her husband and has fallen for lugubrious writer Sam Waterston, but he's fallen for Dianne Wiest. A neighbor, Denholm Elliott, secretly loves Mia. Mia's mother and husband have also arrived (Elaine Stritch and Jack Warden). Story has echoes of Ibsen and Bergman. Waterson and Farrow are a bit hard to take, but the acting is solid all round. The Vermont house is a set on a sound stage but looks great. Wiest is always good, and Warden is good but has little to do. The intruders--a realtor and two clients--are annoying boors (played by Rosemary Murphy, Ira Wheeler, and Jane Cecil). Stritch steals the show as the one-time playgirl/actress with a Lana Turner past. Had this film been a hit, Stritch would have garnered an Oscar nomination. She's a total dynamo even if her character is unsympathetic. Maureen O'Sullivan began shooting as the mother but was replaced by Stritch. Not for all tastes, not as good as Interiors, but even mediocre Woody Allen is better than most. "},{"Title":"The main emotion of the adult American who has had all the advantages of wealth, education, and culture is disappointment.","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Made by Woody Allen in his serious mode, the drama September is not as impressive and fine as Another Woman but it is still an interesting movie. Chekhov said once about the characters in his plays, People sit at the table, drink tea, talk politics, and at the same time their hearts get broken. In this regard, Allen's September' is a very Chekhovian movie (Uncle Vanya comes to mind first). The film takes place inside a country house in Vermont where several characters, friends and relatives of Lane (Mia Farrow), a fragile and troubled young woman recovering from a nervous breakdown, get together for a rainy weekend in the end of the Summer. The weekend will be filled with the drinks, conversations, tender and delicate music. Six characters will fell in and out of love; the friendships will be betrayed, the hearts will be broken, a hidden family secret will come out. Along with the characters, we will reflect on love, mother-daughter complicated relationship, family secrets, aging, loneliness, longing, emotional crises, and self doubt as six cultured and intelligent individuals will try to find the meaning and the purpose in their lives. The film brings to mind John Cheever's observation The main emotion of the adult American who has had all the advantages of wealth, education, and culture is disappointment. There are a lot of disappointments, regrets and unhappiness in the characters of September but the weekend will be over, the rain will stop. There will be the possibility of hope in the future. The sun always comes after the rain. "},{"Title":"Stagy Woody","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Woody Allen tried to duplicate the success of Interiors with this movie, which is just as downbeat but well acted, especially by Mia Farrow.  It didn't win him any new fans and was a somber follow-up to two of his more popular '80s films (Hannah & her Sisters and Radio Days).  The blackout in the middle of the movie is what most people (myself included) seem to remember most, but Farrow's character really does get to you.  What she goes through, and puts up with, in this movie will make you want to stick your head in the oven.  Not a pleasant experience (any movie with a suicidal main character is not going to be), with most of the action taking place in a large farm house (which makes the film a little more stagy than most of Allen's works).  Many of Woody Allen's stock actors from his late '80s and '90s films show up, and Elaine Stritch is wonderful.  But the film is a thoroughly sad one and does not lend itself well to repeat viewings, unlike his other somber dramas (Interiors and Another Woman). "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of Woody Allen's most maligned films, this is nevertheless not as poor as what one might expect, and there are a number of good things about the production. Aside from the interesting philosophies that one expects from a serious Allen film, the film is also quite well shot, coupled with an interesting yellow art direction scheme. The weather sound effects work quite well, but the best aspect is however the performances by Mia Farrow and Dianne Wiest. It is not the best work in the career of either actress, but they both flesh out their characters quite well. It is a pretty mournful film in Ingmar Bergman style, lacking in any wit from Allen, and it is a talkative and abrupt watch at times. It is not one of Woody Allen's best films, but it has too many good things about it to be regarded as his worst. "}{"Title":"Dramatic trysts, romantic entanglements, emotional confusion...","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mia Farrow plays suicidal Lane, a child-like woman hoping to sell off the family cottage in Vermont so she can start life anew in New York City; she's surrounded for the weekend by her married friend (Dianne Wiest), a charming, struggling writer (Sam Waterston), an elderly neighbor who harbors a crush on Lane (Denholm Elliott), and Lane's demonstrative mama (Elaine Stritch) and her latest husband (Jack Warden). Seems mother and daughter were once the subjects of a scandalous murder-trial from years ago (shades of Lana Turner and daughter Cheryl), and Lane's emotional showdown with her mother provides an intense acting moment between Farrow and Stritch. Unfortunately, this claustrophobic Woody Allen drama about the dangers of repression doesn't learn from itself--the handling is repressed as well--and not one of these characters seems improved by the finale. Allen's narrative comes to a dead stop during an electrical storm, wherein the group light candles, fill their glasses and listen to Wiest playing a medley of big band hits at the piano! For such a short film (85 minutes), September doesn't utilize its time wisely, despite several interesting performances. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Heavy Allen......","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  September (1987) Heavy Sturm and Durang  here with a great  performance by theater  legend Elaine Stritch.  Basically, family hanging  out in a beach house in  the off-season, tearing  into each other. Drama  on the Greek scale.  I liked it but you  really gotta be in  the mood. "},{"Title":"What about the music?","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed the film.  As one previous comment mentions, it is reminiscent of Bergman's Autumn Sonata.  Probably intentional on Allen's part, and his homage to Bergman.  The characters are played over the top, as in any good melodrama, and like most Allen characters in all his films.  The film is presented as a stage play being filmed.I am surprised that none of the previous comments mention the wonderful music of Art Tatum, Ben Webster et al.  For Allen I suspect that the music is a central character of the film, and the film is an opportunity for Allen to present this music to his filmgoing audience. "},{"Title":"Chekhov without the jokes","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Denholm Elliott has the hots for Mia Farrow, who has the hots for Sam Waterston, who has the hots for Dianne Wiest. Mia's ex-film-star mother and her physicist husband descend on them, insult everyone and then go away again. All this is set in a house in New England during a storm and power-cut.Some critics see this as Allen in Bergman mode again but to me its claustrophobic country-house atmosphere is more reminiscent of Chekhov &#150; with one important exception Chekhov has jokes. This is tedious stuff. No wonder Soon-Yi (in Wild Man Blues) says that she walked out of it.Fact and fiction got confused in my mind when Mia Farrow's character started talking about shooting her mother's gangster lover when she was a teenager. This may be an allusion to the real-life shooting of Johnny Stompanato by Lana Turner's daughter. Elaine Strich, playing the mother, is reminiscent of Farrow's real mother Maureen O'Sullivan in Hannah And Her Sisters.  "},{"Title":"Allen and Chekhov ensemble on holiday","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No matter if it's a comedy or drama,Allen tackles them both well,and as much as his characters are funny in the absurdity they live in,they are believable and lovable and deserve sympathy in their dramatic stand.He manages to create an atmosphere and situation so akin to Chekhov and yet not repeating or imitating him but paying tribute to him by his shrewd observation that human nature is more or less the same and the problems we face are of our own time and yet eternal in their essence.A marvelous script unfolds near the pool table,in the balcony,at the threshold,in front of the wigi board.Woody Allen cuts off the electricity and makes them dream a while,confess to each other and to themselves all the vanity of life and love and then when the sun is up packs their bags and sets them off to go through the September. "},{"Title":"very underrated","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this film twice many many years ago.  Most reviewers tend to think it's Allen's worst film to date, but I beg to differ. Although I can't remember any details concerning the plot, I am, after all these years, left with the strong impression that September is a forgotten gem.  I would like to see it again. "},{"Title":"September is in the Autumn (Sonata!)","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Out of all Woody's film's I still find this the most difficult to watch,and after seeing Bergmans's 'Autumn sonata' I noticed some striking similarities.For example,this may only be coincidence but the way that Mia Farrow's character looks (Her glasses,her hair) bears a striking resemblence to the daughter in 'Autumn sonata' played by Liv ullmann.In both films we have a dominant mother who the daughter hates for something that she had done in the past.I think when you know that Woody took two attempts to film this there was definitely something wrong somewhere. "},{"Title":"I like walking around in the pitch black.","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" September is what I call a real estate movie, because what happens isn't nearly as interesting as where it all happens. In this case, the real estate is a cozy country cottage in Vermont, a warm and cheerfully decorated little place far from the city. The shades are always closed, but warm, golden, late summer sunlight filters through, suggesting that it would be a wonderful place to either visit or, better still, to grow old in. It looks so real and richly detailed that it is hard to believe that it is a set, built for the movie in some New York film studio. The creepy thing about Woody Allen's September is that this totally make-believe house is more realistic than the characters who gather inside.September is another of Woody's beautifully detailed, sensitively written, lovingly acted and utterly annoying serious films. There is a smattering of not-particularly-funny bits of humor, designed to suggest that the characters are clever people, but once again the main traits shared by all are indecisiveness, depression and a gift for long-winded bouts of self pity. The six main characters who spend the weekend in this country home spend a lot of time talking about their feelings, though one has a hard time believing that any of them actually have real feelings. Instead everyone seems to be doing psychotherapy exercises designed to help them self-consciously get in touch with themselves. The end result of this achingly insincere sincerity is an intense desire by the viewer to want to give each and every cast member a sincere slap across the face.During their years together, Allen gave to his partner Mia Farrow some of the best roles of her career -- as well as some of her worst. This may be the worst; certainly it allows her to indulge in her unfortunate tendency to whine and blubber in despair. The most intriguing aspect of September is that it is inspired by a bit of Hollywood legend, the death of Lana Turner's gangster boyfriend at the hands of her teenage daughter. Allen takes that infamous scandal and uses it as the seed for this film's drama. Farrow plays Lane, who is still living down the notoriety of having killed her celebrity mother's abusive boyfriend and who is now recuperating from her most recent suicide attempt. The feelings of guilt, shame, animosity, bitterness and envy shared between Lane and her mother, Diane (played by Elaine Stritch), would seem to be sufficient to sustain an interesting drama. But Allen uses the dirty little secret behind the old scandal as a minor plot twist, and instead focuses most of the film on a trite four-sided love triangle, in which passion is secondary to unrelenting discussions about each characters' unrequited passions.Howard (Denholm Elliott) loves Lane, who loves Peter (Sam Waterston), who has a thing for Stephanie (Diane Wiest), who is married but returns Peter's feelings even though she knows that she is betraying Lane, blah, blah, blah. It all seems so high school, especially since they all talk about this, but are paralyzed to act on those feelings. Meanwhile Diane loves only Diane, even though she is partnered with Lloyd (Jack Warden), a melancholy physicist who is depressed over how utterly meaningless existence is.The problem isn't so much the trite plotting as it is the overall and overwhelming tone of the drama. Woody walked this path before (six characters in a country house) in A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S SEX COMEDY, but did so with a sense of whimsy and an unexpected show of hopeful romance. In September, the characters all talk with that hushed, sterile, halting formality that Allen apes from pretentious European art films. Everyone seems dubbed, disconnected from both their feelings and their dialogue. They might as well be discussing their income tax returns, though that would probably inspire much more enthusiasm. Such pregnant disconnection from emotion all but guarantees audience indifference and certainly is wrong for a story delving into the life of an emotionally disturbed woman.As for the house itself, the set design, the lighting and the cinematography conspire to make this make-believe slice of rural eden so invitingly charming that it all but betrays the notion that the little house is meant to represent a prison -- or an asylum, if you prefer. It comes to represent the past Lane wants to shed and the past Diane wants to recapture. It is a battlefield to reclaim the honesty of their shared past. To the audience, no matter how flimsy the walls, it is the single thing in the entire film that offers warmth, comfort and promise. And it is an illusion. Which may have been Allen's point from the start. "},{"Title":"No movie of the month.","Date":"17 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Woody Allen churns out yet another movie and this time he's back in serious mode for the tale of a family spending some time together in a summer house until cracks begin to show and a crevasse threatens to appear.Mia Farrow is the daughter, a fragile figure who has had her life overshadowed by a childhood trauma we discover more about as the movie unfolds. Elaine Stritch is her blasé mother, with her latest husband in two (played by Jack Warden). Dianne Wiest is a friend and Sam Waterston is the writer who stays nearby and who is much liked by Farrow but who actually likes Wiest himself. But Denholm Elliot plays someone who likes Farrow.Take the individual elements here and what you have is some terrible teen soap opera. Look at it from this simplistic perspective Oh, I hate my mother while she tries to stay cool and hip and then I love this guy but I think he loves someone else while I don't like the guy who likes me and nobody knows what I'm going through.A little unfair but also a little true. September is full of good acting (though nothing great) but has very little substance to it. The characters are, for the most part, irritating while the script is tiresome in it's exploration and dissection of emotional matters. One twist near the end shifts things and makes quite an impression but it's just not enough for so much time watching so much triviality.Once again both written and directed by Allen, this is not one of his better movies. "},{"Title":"Woody's Filmed Play, a Rather Straightforward Psychological Drama","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you could take several scenarios of requited and unrequited love from assorted times in your life and merge them all for an interior weekend in the country, it would be in the same vein as Woody Allen's very subtle chamber drama. There are six main characters, each one of them yearning to be loved and cared for. And they all love somebody, but generally not the one who loves them. The weekend comes down to a succession of quiet histrionic waltzes, during which each character moves anxiously from room to room, quietly struggling to be alone with the one they desperately love, and away from the person who eats, sleeps and breathes them.The only demonstrative person in the summer house is the aging but still lively celebrity playgirl. Played by Elaine Stritch, she is a woman who has had a full and exhilarating life and become what Sam Waterston refers to as a survivor. At one point she says, Jesus! Look at my hands. Now really, I am too young for liver spots. Maybe I can merge them into a tan. She has been married several times, presently to Jack Warden, an industrialist who latches onto this woman who was once a sex symbol.Stritch has come out to accompany her daughter, Mia Farrow, who has been living there for some time, coming around from a suicide attempt. For several months, Farrow's devoted friend has been Denholm Elliott, a timid, reserved neighbor. Farrow has let Elliott feel close to her, but she feels love just for Waterston, a writer who has moved nearby for the summer. Waterston has somewhat led her on. But this weekend, Farrow has her best friend Dianne Wiest over, her closest friend. And now Waterston has developed immense feelings for Wiest. At the same time, there is a bizarre family secret crouching under the incongruous dialogue of the mother and the daughter, a skeleton that will spout from the closet later in an instant of vexation.Woody doesn't seem so heady with Ingmar or Fellini on this serious bout, but what is he up to? His narrative is all too shipshape to make a chaotic, cerebrally entangled modern movie. In the tidy coupling of the ensemble, Allen nearly appears as if to be fashioning a Renaissance farce. And that may be his design. Allen's intention of September was to be like a play on film, an odd intention, but encloses everyone's environment and thus encloses their perceptions. When we fall in love, we are so enraptured in the infinite oneness of ourselves and the object of our love that we cannot see how the common constellations reproduce themselves.Allen shot the film twice. It first had Sam Shepard in Sam Waterston's role, Maureen O'Sullivan in Elaine Stritch's, and Charles Durning in Denholm Elliott's. During editing, he decided to re-write it, re-cast it, and re-shoot it, which may sound excessive but after finally seeing the movie, I understand why such painstaking nuances were so important to him. Most of the essential exploits transpire in the economy and inflection of remarks and phrases. Through the particular words that the actors use and don't, his characters suggest precisely how much of what they say is honest, and how much is diplomatic. When Farrow softly responds to Elliott, anyone but Elliott would know quickly that she does not and never will love him, as when Waterston talks to Farrow.How is it that the Farrow character is intuitive enough to know what to say to Elliott, but not discerning enough to read the same words when they are being said to her, or confident enough to say the words she wants to say to certain people? That is the fundamental conundrum of Woody's rather straightforward psychological drama. We can distinctly peg the people we are not in love with, but when we view the people we love, we can see merely what we want so badly to see, or hear just what we can bear to hear, thus the play being shot in long takes with very few close-ups. "}{"Title":"A Quiet Classic of a Film!","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Woody Allen directed this film which is more character driven with six leading roles starring his then-partner in life, Mia Farrow, Oscar winner Dianne Wiest, Jack Warden, Emmy Winner Elaine Stritch, before Law & Order Sam Waterson and the late Denholm Elliott CBE. Amazingly, Allen doesn't have to go far to film this movie about a summer home in Vermont. It was all filmed at the Kaufman-Astoria Studios in Queens, New York. Regardless, the film is entirely believable and the setting is quite quaint in nature. It really looks like an authentic country home. It begins with Weist and Elliott conversing in French in Lane's living room played by Farrow. Weist's character is a married mother and an unhappy housewife from Philadelphia but Lane's best friend. Lane falls in love with Peter (Waterson) but he's in love with Weist's character, Stephanie. Lane is also upset by her mother, Diane Frazer's visit with her current husband played by Warden. Stritch is dynamic as Lane's mom in an unforgettable role. Elliott's character, a friend and neighbor of Lane, is in love with her but she is not in love with him. Except for the real estate agent played by Rosemary Murphy and a city couple who want to purchase the home, the cast is relatively balanced like that in a good theatrical production. There are some surprises but we always knew that Stritch is brilliant in anything that she does. "},{"Title":"underrated romance drama about the loss and disconnectedness of love","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I wouldn't ever say Woody Allen's September is the best dramatic effort written or directed by the man, but for what it was worth for its 82 minutes it gave all that I would've hoped for. Ironically, hope is one of the rarest commodities with the characters in the film, who either have no real way of connecting with one another- or if they do connect not really with the one they would want &/or should be with- or have already gone past the times of ill-planned romantic interests and have settled into old age. The latter is personified by Elaine Strich's character, Diane, who is up at the house she and her (first) ex-husband used to dwell in, and who now has a new husband, Lloyd (Jack Warden), after numerous marriages. One of them ended in an extraordinarily painful memory for her daughter, Lane (Mia Farrow), who had to horrifically witness/take part first hand what happened with Diane married to a violent gangster. Lane, meanwhile, has fallen for a Peter (Sam Waterston), a writer with his share of self-neuroses, during the summer. But what she doesn't know is that he's really pining for the married-with-kids-at-home Stephanie (Dianne Wiest), who is conflicted about this to a high degree, but perhaps is also not totally disregarding her feelings for him either. And all the while Howard (Denham Elliot) has no one to love, aside possibly for Lane, in perhaps more of a fatherly way.And so on and so forth this all goes. What's fascinating and what kept me talking about this with those I watched the picture with once it ended, is how you really feel for these characters with all their flaws and wants and desires screwed up. Like in Allen's Interiors, they're articulate and actually quite gifted and smart, but can't seem to really find love correctly, or in the boundaries that wont get those close to them hurt. While this time around its more about the personal relationships as opposed to more-so with the mother character in Interiors, in September Allen paints a very well drawn out character with Diane, who has probably screwed up her daughter's own emotions in a certain way, and though she feels love and feels responsibility she can't control. There's one scene that actually didn't quite work for me, where Diane is talking to herself- err, to her dead husband via wedgie board- and its not really needed to show this other side to her. What's most compelling is seeing the human tensions and apprehensions and desires between the main players, and how it all comes to a head as Lane tries to sell the house to some prospective buyers, cutting herself off from the past. It's one of Allen's towering achievements with everything boiled down to the the horrible truths with characters such as these.But it only works as such an achievement because of the cast formed around such a simple-yet-complex kind of 'chamber drama'. Stritch, whom I usually associate with comic roles, is wonderful here as the crotchety old mother who has quite a number of stories- perhaps enough for Peter to write a sensationalized memoir- but is also headstrong and very self-involved in her own right. It's played with just the right sense of balance of character, never playing her too broadly (otherwise it could become comic, and like Interiors, September is set up so there's not a laugh in sight). Waterston and Wiest meanwhile take these seemingly well mannered and friendly characters and make them believably, sympathetically fractured human beings- their scenes together are very moving, particularly in the moody lighting set-ups. And Farrow has rarely been better here, having to go sometimes through emotional tidal-waves (not to sound pretentious about it but you'll see what I mean), and makes Lane such a tragic character where the amount of loss and romantic disconnectedness (and with her mother to be sure) that comes along for her ends up giving her the most horrible of headaches. It might actually be the best I've seen her deliver in a movie by Allen. Character actor pros like Warden and Elliott don't stand too idly on the sidelines either, even if Warden's character is given the least to do emotionally.September, which had its cast changed around a couple of times, and filming stopped and re-started and so forth, and coming in probably a lot over-budget, is all the better for what ends up coming out. It's not an easy film, but what's taken away from it by somehow willing to connect with these people, one can find that it is one of Allen's most bitingly truthful works, if not one of his very best. It's a small film that provides a lot of insight into the a topic that probably gets more ground than need be covered, the discord in the human condition; and if nothing else, Allen does justice to his hero, Ingmar Bergman, with a work like this. "},{"Title":"Come September","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For all of those Woody Allen critics, September will likely be another film to add to your arsenal. But for those of us that enjoy that rare film that focuses on the human emotions, the stains that we carry with us on a daily basis, then this film is for you. Set in Vermont, the New Yorkers that leave Manhattan for a Labor Day getaway get more than what they bargained for. You will enjoy some great jazz references, the notorious allusions to times in Paris (typical woody, of course), and the memorable performances by a handful of actors that continue the thespian tradition that is so rare in today's films about missions impossible and physical violence. Possible Spoiler - Stop now to avoid The most memorable line comes from Mia Farrow when her character states that her problem is that she always wanted to live. "},{"Title":"Unjustly overlooked; a gem of a woody allen movie","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" We all make mistakes. so says Diane, the character played by Elaine Stritch. And many people thought this applied to Woody Allen himself, when he made this film. Allen has made 3 full dramas (not counting the recent Matchpoint) in Interiors, September and Another Woman. Of course, the 'Crimes' story in Crimes and Misdemeanors is often justifiably claimed to be Allen best drama, with Interiors and September being put down as mere attempts to match Ingmar Bergman.But September is no poor cousin to any of Bergman's films. Like Interiors, September is set in a large upstate house and centres around a group of people, all of whom are troubled in some way or the other. Interiors was a bleakly depressing film but September is realistic in its portrayal of hidden secrets and desires.Both films are anchored by strong mother characters - the magnificent Geraldine Page in Interiors and Elaine Stritch in this one. Stritch plays Diane Frazer, a one time movie star who now descends on her daughter Lane's (Mia Farrow) house, with baggage in the form of Lloyd (Jack Warden), a new husband, in tow. Diane is terribly shallow and too often drunk, something that induces a certain disgust in Lane, who finds herself passed over or simply ignored. This is made worse by Lane's own history of depression and debt and the obvious fact that neither mother nor daughter really care for each other any more comes to the fore very soon.Also present are Howard (Denholm Elliot), a neighbour who's in love with Lane, Peter (Sam Waterston in the best role I've seen him in), a would-be author who's staying in the guest house and is the object of Lane's affection and Steffie, Lane's best friend, played with great vulnerability by Dianne Wiest, who had just won her first Oscar for Hannah and her Sisters. Howard loves Lane who's attracted to Peter as a way out of her trouble. Peter falls for Steffie, while Steffie simply doesn't understand what to do. The stage is set very well (indeed this has the atmosphere of a well-acted play) and the tension builds slowly, especially between Lane and her mother until it reaches a climax and a horrifying revelation.This film works because Woody's dialogue is unbeatable as usual and because the atmosphere is just perfect for the film to play out. The lack of background music is very reminiscent of Interiors but September is a better film, managing to deal with the fractured emotions of its characters better than Interiors. This film plays out slowly, peeling off layers from the facade of the characters and revealing them to be bruised and battered souls, each in their own way. Where Interiors left me cold, disillusioned and unable to relate to the characters, September was much more realistic in its exploration of human beings and how they react to other human beings. I give it an 8/10. "},{"Title":"A Bergmanesque Masterpiece","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Woody Allen in this movie brings to us the story of a group of people all staying at a summer home in the country. It's a very dark and claustrophobic place. And at this place we learn so much about the characters. This is a very deep character study and I think it's the best Allen bergmanesque film he's made. It has been highly underrated by people and critics. I feel it does not get any of the recognition it should. And Mia Farrow's and Sam Waterston's performances are magnificent. "},{"Title":"Is It Worth Getting Right","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Looking at September I think Woody Allen might have been interested in doing his own version of Long Day's Journey Into Night with this production. The problem is that the characters here are not even half as interesting as O'Neill's autobiographical Tyrone family.Try as I might I just could not get into this story. Apparently neither could Woody, I see he refilmed the entire story with three different players from those he started with. And he was ready to do it again. Who did Woody Allen think he was, Erich Von Stroheim?Mia Farrow who was married to Allen at the time is recovering from a nervous breakdown and she's in Vermont at the old family homestead to sell the place. Her famous actress mom, Elaine Stritch is up there as well with stepfather Jack Warden and Stritch has different plans for the place than Farrow does. Also up there are Stritch's prospective biographer Sam Waterston and other friends Denholm Elliott and Dianne Weist. Who could know that Weist would windup as Waterston's boss on Law and Order and that he'd eventually be the boss as well.Stritch's role is not to terribly disguised as Lana Turner with Mia as Cheryl Crane. I'm surprised that Lana didn't sue Woody Allen. I would have.Stritch and Warden come off the best, they are at least mildly interesting. The rest you don't really care about as we hear about this one loves that one, but that one loves the other, who loves still another. Except for Stritch who thinks the world revolves around her.Woody should stick to comedy. "},{"Title":"An excellent exploration of unrequited love, survival and damaged lives","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Essentially a filmed play in style even though it was written specifically for the screen, this is an excellent exploration of unrequited love, survival and damaged lives. It has a very strong, sensitively written script by Woody Allen and there are many beautiful shots throughout the film. However, when it comes to the writing, there are a few instances here and there where I would have preferred if a more subtle approach had been taken and things had not been spelled out quite so clearly, not least because I had realised certain things already through the very effective use of implication. Not, however, the film's most significant revelation which is a wonderful, unexpected moment. The title presumably refers to the fact that September is the beginning of Autumn, which is typically associated with advancing years. While some of the characters are far too young to be considered in the autumn of their lives, there is certainly a sense of lost, unrealised potential. At times, the film has an almost elegiac tone. The version of September that was released in the cinema was actually the second one that Allen shot as he was dissatisfied with some of the casting in the original version. Like the Eric Stoltz Back to the Future footage (bar a few short, silent clips), I'm not expecting the original September to be released any time soon.The film stars Mia Farrow in a wonderful performance as Lane, a kind and sweet but deeply troubled woman who is in the process of recovering from a suicide attempt. Many of her problems stem from her very poor relationship with her brassy, insensitive mother Diane Fraser, a famous former Hollywood starlet whose numerous relationships were once a regular feature of the tabloids and society magazines. The inimitable Elaine Stritch is absolutely phenomenal as Diane, completely stealing the show. In the original version, she was played by Farrow's actual mother Maureen O'Sullivan and I can see why she was cast in the role as Diane is reminiscent of her character Norma from Hannah and Her Sisters. At one point in that film, Hannah comments that neither Norma nor her father Evan really knew how to be good parents and that goes double for Diane. I think that casting Stritch in the second version was the right decision as she has a firebrand quality that is appropriate to the character that Maureen O'Sullivan never really had. While Diane is definitely a bad mother and the sort of person who should never have become a parent in the first place, she is not an entirely unsympathetic character as she does love her daughter and eventually admits that she should have done things differently. That said, wishing does not do Lane, who quite simply hates her mother, much good at this stage. The biggest difference between Lane and Diane is that the latter can survive anything that life throws at her more or less unscathed.Diane is based to a certain extent on practically every Hollywood starlet of yesteryear but the most significant and obvious comparison can be drawn with Lana Turner, who dated an incredibly violent and abusive gangster named Johnny Stompanato. In 1958, her 14-year-old daughter Cheryl Crane stabbed Stompanato to death to prevent him from further beating Turner and this was ruled a justifiable homicide. This incident provided the basis for the shooting death of Diane's abusive gangster boyfriend when Lane was 14. Since I was already familiar with the case, it popped into my head the second that it was mentioned that the former film star Diane had dated a gangster, though my recollection was a little off as I believed that Stompanato had likewise been shot. The shooting unsurprisingly had an extremely negative impact on Lane's life as she has never been able to recover from it or perhaps even come to terms with it.The small ensemble cast also features Sam Waterston in an excellent performance as an aspiring novelist named Peter who is staying with Lane at her beautiful country house in Vermont, the film's only setting. Over the course of the summer, Lane has fallen madly in love with Peter and dreams of starting a life with him once she returns to New York. However, Peter has fallen madly in love with Lane's best friend Stephanie, played in a beautifully understated fashion by Dianne Wiest. Stephanie is a deeply romantic soul who longs to return to Paris, where she had a fairytale romance with a young Frenchman named Paul many years earlier. Her marriage to the unseen Ken is deteriorating but, in several extremely poignant scenes, she desperately tries to resist the temptation to start a relationship with Peter out of her loyalty to Lane. There is an incredibly moving scene in which Peter admits to Lane that he does not have feelings for her and apologises if he has given her the wrong idea. Lane obviously wishes that her feelings had been requited but she doesn't hate Peter as he is a good, kind, decent man who handled the situation about as sensitively and respectfully as anyone could under the circumstances. The situation is further complicated by the fact that Lane's close friend and neighbour Howard, played very well by Denholm Elliott, is in love with her and pours his heart out to her at one point in another extremely moving moment. The sixth member of the film's ensemble cast is Jack Warden, who is very good as Diane's introspective physicist husband Lloyd. Diane and Lloyd have the most normal, straightforward romantic relationship of any two characters in the film and, as such, provide a worthy contrast to the numerous instances of unrequited love.Overall, this is an extremely sensitive and moving film which very effectively deals with its numerous heavy issues in spite of its short running time. "},{"Title":"Not an easy film to watch but still a pretty good one","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Judging from not liking it very much on first viewing(not been used to how the characters were written and being exhausted after a hard week being the biggest reasons) and that there are people who judge it as one of Woody Allen's worst, re-watching it could have gone either way. In debating if September is one of Allen's worst or his worst, on first viewing I would have said yes but re-watching it while nowhere near one of his best it is not that bad. It's not perfect, it does drag a bit with some dialogue that rambles and the ending is very abrupt. And two performances personally didn't quite come off well, Mia Farrow is very shrill here(even for a character as tormented as she was) and it did grate and Sam Waterson is unusually wooden. However, the rest of the acting is great, especially from Elaine Stritch who gives a poignant performance that did have me weeping. Jack Warden has one of the more interesting subsidiary characters and has fun with it, Denholm Elliot is at his most subtle and sympathetic and Dianne Wiest while not as good as she was in Hannah and Her Sisters(which is one of the greatest performances in a Woody Allen film) is fine as well. Allen directs as adroitly as ever, despite being relatively different thematically dialogue, characters and influences wise Allen's style is still unmistakable. The dialogue has some rambling moments but much of it is incredibly intelligent and thought-provoking as well as truthful in a way that is painful as it is heart-breaking. The characters are not easy to like and are purposefully neurotic but the compellingly realistic way they're written and the situations they go through makes you identify with them too and you feel as if you're there and part of the drama. You will be emotionally exhausted by the story afterwards too, and the story itself draws you in with its themes and its characters and rarely lets go. The Bergman and Chekhov influences are very clear but not blatant. September benefits also from being wonderfully shot, it looks beautiful and stylish and reflects Autumn very well, and from having an evocatively orchestrated and beautifully written music score(one of my personal favourites from a Woody Allen film actually). To conclude, imperfect but a pretty good film, and I take back what I said about it at the end of my The Curse of the Jade Scorpion review, in all fairness it was acknowledged that things could change on re-watch. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"One of Woody Allen's most underrated movies","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A small, intimate, low-key drama from Woody Allen; though not as obviously experimental as, say, Stardust Memories or Zelig, it is still a departure for him in the sense that the action is limited inside one house, and there aren't even any exterior shots. But the topics it deals with are pure Allen love without response, family problems, aging, creative block, guilt, missed life opportunities, etc. Despite the talkiness and the extensive soul-searching in September, it's not a particularly heavy or inaccessible movie; the characters are recognizable and human, and brought to life by a fine ensemble. After choosing an extremely pessimistic ending for The Purple Rose Of Cairo and an extremely optimistic one for Hannah And Her Sisters, Allen takes the middle path this time he concludes that life must go on, and people must try to find meaning and happiness, and maybe they will, or maybe they won't. If you're in the mood for it, September is a very involving film. *** out of 4. "},{"Title":"On the compatibility of 'ageing' with love, success and desire ... September is the kind of movies Woody Allen should be making today ...","Date":"30 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Howard (Denholm Elliott) loves Lane (Mia Farrow), Lane loves Peter (Sam Waterston) and Peter loves Steffie (Dianne Wiest).All the people in 'September - so true-to-life I wouldn't call them characters - vehicle a certain idea of love, as a living form that grows or diminishes with time, as a desire to be loved and love to be desired. Steffie is Lane's closest friend, to break up with her marital routine, she joins her in a summer house in Vermont; she then meets Peter, a struggling write who got very close to Lane. Steffie knowingly flirts with him as a way to test her own appeal, and she succeeds too much Peter is devoured by passion.Lane inspires the same emotions in Howard, the self-effaced and well-meaning neighbor. A widower, Howard knows he can provide Lane all the love, the time, and more practically, all the money she needs. But Lane is not interested. As Roger Ebert stated how can't she understand Sam's feelings while she has identical ones toward Howard? This is the very essence of September narrative, the film is about mixed and ambiguous emotions, all guided by and to love. We all need to love someone, but love can mislead us, as even the most exciting conquest are followed by the dullest aftermaths, for desire can never be totally fulfilled.There are two other major players in September, a married and faithful couple Diane (Elaine Stritch) and Lloyd (Jack Warden). Diane is the brassy somewhat offensive mother of Lane, she used to be a sex-symbol in her prime and after many martial failures, she finally chose Lloyd, a physicist, as her rest of life's partner. Maybe the secret of their couple is precisely due to the fact that she was a star once, and Lloyd can reassure himself by thinking he's with a woman who used to be one of the most desirable. And she has an excuse to still take her desirability for granted, if she doesn't spend too much time contemplating the decline of her youthful beauty in the mirror.Diane has passion; she's the house's living force and her exuberant nature easily contrasts with the other characters, more restrained in their emotions. One of the recurring themes of September is survival, the capability of people to keep strong. Peter wants to write a novel about his father, who exemplified the notion of survival, but after hearing Diane's exciting stories about her past, including a sordid assassination case that left an indelible trauma in Lane, he wants to write about her. To Lane's much displeasure, for again, her mother steals her thunder, but this is not a mother-against-daughter drama, not a generation gap, but a conflict of attitudes. Diane is a survivor because she remains true to herself, Lane is, despite herself.Ironically, Lane is also a survivor, she went through a traumatic childhood, living in her mother's shadow and even tried to commit suicide. The reason of her failing is that she just wants to live, she has her mother's strength beating in her heart, she wants to be as strong as her, but needs a vehicle to her emotions, someone who'd share the same feelings, the same passions &#x85; she finds that in Peter, only to be disappointed. But, she doesn't mourn the end of a romance, but another struck of misfortune. She can't stand the idea not to have what she wants &#x85; again, and again.The film ventures through human emotions during one last weekend of summer, after a stormy night when lights are turned off, candles provide a romantic setting. Alcohol helping, people start behaving more closely to their personality, and we understand it's a matter of time before true feelings can be declared, before true emotions can outburst. The directing, the dialog are so calm, in a realistic and mature way that we're waiting for more demonstrations, for people facing their own responsibilities. But like in many serious dramas, sometimes, the aftermath, no matter how delivering it is, matters less than the beginning.It's what people feel, what they truly expect, their motives, fears and fantasies that remind us of our own condition, our own attitude to life. We wouldn't react like all the characters, but each one represents a part of our personality, some can take it, some can't, some abandon, some fight &#x85; we all try to survive in a way or another. In another melancholy-driven scene, Lloyd complains about his job and the disillusioned aspect of science where even the most beautiful things have explanations, it's even more depressing because they all concur to the idea of meaninglessness, futility and randomness.This randomness is like the movements that regulate people's hearts. Haven't we ever wondered what if we didn't meet our love-life? Well, other hazardous circumstances would have lead us to another person, and we would never have thought about another eventuality, should we feel guilty for that? Life is tricky indeed, and just because we meet someone, we're still transported by hazard. Basically, September is a film about hearts swinging back and forth, guided by the random and no less exciting ballad of life, and like the stars, just because their randomness doesn't deprive them for their beauty.September is Woody Allen's second drama after Interiors, another movie where people meet and share different views on life together, in a house, isolated from the rest of the world, as if only isolation could provide enough perspective from the world to let us contemplate our inner condition. And I guess that after the great streak of the 80's, maybe Woody Allen needed to question again his his status as a serious author through dramatic themes like ageing and its problematic compatibility with success, love and passion.The more I revisit his serious films, the more I concur to the idea suggested by an IMDb user this is the kind of movies Woody Allen should be making today. "}{"Title":"Very good, serious Woody Allen film","Date":"1 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" September is a 1987 film from Woody Allen, which he intended as a filmed play. In that, it succeeds; in fact, one might assume that it was a play. It certainly could be performed on stage.The story concerns an unsuccessful photographer from New York, Lane (Mia Farrow) who is spending the summer in the family summer home trying to heal from a breakdown. There, visiting for the weekend at the summer's end are Lane's mother Diane (Elaine Strich), her husband Lloyd (Jack Warden), Lane's best friend Stephanie (Dianne Wiest), a man who lives in the guest cottage, Peter (Sam Waterston), who has spent the summer trying to write a book; and a friend of Lane's, Howard (Denholm Elliot). During the weekend, feelings come to the surface and secrets are revealed. Peter is in love with Stephanie, who is married; Lane is in love with Peter; Howard is in Love with Lane; and Lane and Diane have unresolved issues, which have caused Lane a great deal of anger and pain.This is a derivative story that draws on elements of Autumn Sonata, though it is nowhere near as searing, and any number of ensemble pieces. The story of Lane and her mother is based on the Lana Turner-Johnny Stompanato scandal.The acting is terrific. Elaine Stritch is magnificent as a self-centered former (probably society) beauty whose selfishness has hurt her daughter; Sam Waterson's Peter exhibits a quiet disappointment in himself, and his desperate love for Stephanie is palpable; Dianne Wiest is brilliant as Stephanie, who is unhappily married, and her reluctance to betray Lane and move forward with her life is very poignant. Farrow is childlike and fragile with underlying rage erupting in small ways, and then finally exploding. Under Allen's direction, Farrow proved to be a wonderful actress. Elliot as the devastated Howard and Warden as Lane's stepfather, who adores his wife and stays in the background, give solid performances in smaller roles.This is a short film, something like an hour and 22 minutes, yet there are some repetitive scenes and dialogue. Nevertheless, it's all worth it not only for the acting but the confrontation toward the end between Farrow and Stritch. It's not Bergman and Ullman, but it's still powerful.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Bleak, but occasionally rather moving.","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" September seems to be a love-it-or-hate-it work within the Allen filmography, one that seems synonymous with that period in the late 80's when he was trying to take on weightier issues that drew stylistically on the films of Ingmar Bergman (see Another Woman, Husbands and Wives, Crimes and Misdemeanours and elements of Hannah and Her Sisters for more), and one that has the famous back-story of Allen shooting the film once, assembling a rough-cut, deciding he hated it, re-writing the script, re-casting the film and eventually re-shooting the same story on a sound-stage in upstate New York. His intention... to create an isolated and claustrophobic atmosphere in which he could develop a modern-day chamber-piece that would stand more as a filmed play as opposed to a major motion picture!! Still, it showed that he was taking risks rather than playing it safe, something that he would end up doing during the latter half of the 90's and the first half of the new millennium.The basic story of the film concerns six main protagonists who are gathered together at an idyllic summer house in Vermont. The house belongs to Lane (Farrow), who is recuperating from a nervous breakdown, a failed relationship and years of guilt and speculation involving the murder of her abusive step-father. Amongst the group is Peter (Sam Waterston), a struggling writer who is lodging with Lane and who Lane has a crush on. Peter however, is in love with Lane's friend Stephanie (Diane Wiest), who is staying at the summer house to escape the tedium of her husband while her children are away at camp. Stephanie seems close to Howard (Denholm Eliot) who has hidden feelings from Lane, whilst between the four of them there is Lane's vibrant and gregarious mother Diane (Elaine Stritch) and her new lover Lloyd (Jack Warden). The set-up seems ripe for the kind of comedic misunderstandings usually found in the greatest of French farce (or even Bergman's Smiles of a Summer Night!!), but instead, Allen uses the notion of couples in love with someone, in love with someone else to mine deeper questions involving the need for love, understanding and acceptance in the face of loneliness and isolation.Throughout the film we never stray from the stifling claustrophobia of the summer house, with Allen carefully cutting backwards and forwards between the main characters and their escalating interactions that can only lead to a scene of devastating emotional fall out!! As a result, September is a purposely stagy film that relies heavily on scenes of dialog punctuated by moments of piercing silence. If this doesn't sound like your cup of tea, then the film most certainly isn't for you, with Allen and long-term cinematographer Carlo Di Palma shooting much of the film in long, unbroken takes, with very few close-ups (the obvious exception being the closing scenes of dysfunction), and generally allowing scenes to play out in semi-darkened rooms lit by candle-light or very low sepia bulbs. The feeling that this creates is one of mystery and desperation, offering many secluded areas for the group to break away and take solace in their secrets, whilst also going to some lengths to visualise the deep-seated animosity that lies at the heart of the film's central characters.The film could easily be seen as the middle-part of Allen's dramatic trilogy, which began with the very bleak Interiors in 1978 and climaxed with the very bleak but wholly more interesting Another Woman from 1987. On the whole, September is a more enjoyable film than Interiors (if it is possible to enjoy such a bleak and miserable film), though for me lacked the depth of further interpretation that was so central to Another Woman. The story can at times be a little slow, despite the film clocking in at just under an hour and twenty-minutes, but it is worth sticking with as far as I'm concerned, particularly for the great performances and that jaw-dropping moment towards the end of the film, in which the root of Lane's problems and the deep-seated animosity towards her mother is finally revealed.The performances are fine throughout, though it is Farrow (in possibly her best performance ever... alongside The Purple Rose of Cairo) and Wiest who really stand out as something spectacular. It's a film that I particularly enjoy (though I'm someone who can overlook the flaws in Shadows and Fog and The Curse of the Jade Scorpion to see the great work lurking beneath), and I feel it shows Allen's deft understanding of character, atmosphere, design and direction in pulling off such a dour and depressing piece of work. Although it could be argued that the subsequent Crimes and Misdemeanours and Husbands and Wives were also fairly dark and dramatic films, they were undercut by Allen's verbal wit and enough moments of lighter comedy. Interiors, September and Another Woman are films without laughs and devoid of the usual Allen wit... with the director instead choosing to ask deeper questions about life, love and loneliness. The characters here are forced to dig through the secrets of the past (and the present), whilst at the same time, staring life full in the face, in order to get to the root of their various problems and complications, but ultimately find a (slim) glimmer of hope drifting far on the horizon.As with 90% of Allen's work, September is a perfectly made film with an interesting story, strong characters and an impeccable design. Though it perhaps tries too hard to develop its overtly serious tone, it should be commended for trying to do something stylistically different, whilst simultaneously offering us a film for adults about adults, that isn't afraid to present the darker aspects of life. It may fall somewhat outside the top-ten of Allen-related masterworks, but regardless, it is well made, impeccably acted and occasionally quite moving, and deserves to find an audience that is willing to invest some time in it. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Preciosity","Date":"15 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Woody Allen's dramas aren't the cup of tea of most audiences but the ones who have the patience and understanding of what this genius is trying to do are certainly rewarded. Flowing like a play, September takes place in a summer house in Vermont where three couples are vacationing in a relative tranquility that is about to be disturbed a little when some of them fully realizes they married the wrong partner and they want to live the right one.So, we have Lane and Peter (Mia Farrow and Sam Waterston), Stephanie and Howard (Dianne Wiest and Denholm Elliott) and the veterans Diane and Lloyd (Elaine Stritch and Jack Warden) and here's how things turn between part of them Howard loves Lane and she seems connected with him but she can't leave her husband, who is deeply in love by Stephanie, who is trying to resist his attempts for her. While these four are clinging to their own feelings, remembering the past and all, the older couple (Lane's mother and her step dad) seems to be having a good time and making some plans for the future that might upset the eternally depressed Lane.With this crossed couples and their broken hearts, Allen touches us by saying that we shouldn't be attached to anything. We shouldn't be so attached to other people (because they disappoint you no matter the relations you had with them); we shouldn't be attached to things (as later is shown when Lane's mother wants to sell Lane's house and we have this huge argument about the good connection, the memories they had with the place); and most of all we shouldn't be so attached to our memories (perhaps the most dangerous of the ties). But, we're human beings and this sense of being connected with something or somebody is what makes us different from other creatures, so how do we end with? How do we make things in the way of not suffering? What does this character will make with their lives? Us and them are going to still be living in the same old contradiction of all, doing the things we don't want to, maybe one day, get the things we really want. And it all happened in that crazy month of August (if you pay attention the story takes place in August, not September). How's things going to be in September, the future? Who can tell?It's a minor work by Woody, who seemed to be looking for perfection with such fine material that he filmed one version with different actors (Sam Shepard, Charles Durning and Maureen O'Sullivan replaced by Waterston, Elliott and Stritch) to later make this final version cause he saw things weren't working the way he wanted with that cast. I don't know why such demands (it cost a lot in his budget and the movie failed at box-office, and now it's one of his more obscure works, his least known); the script is well written, Allen at its best with dialogs and inspired dramatic moments (exchanges between Stritch and Farrow are amazing, the whole cast is brilliant). If you found it must be watched because of its great cast and the compelling plot Allen creates with these characters. I dare to say September is one of his finest works. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Feels As Long As The Titular Month","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the film that Woody Allen notoriously shot and then scrapped, re-wrote, re-cast and re-shot, and was reportedly keen to do it a third time. But to be honest, I really wish he'd just left it scrapped. Don't get me wrong, I'm a huge Allen fan, and would sit down to watch anything by him, comedy or drama, and on top of that, I'm also a fan of Ingmar Bergman, whom Allen admires greatly and has obviously taken huge inspiration from for September, most notably his film Autumn Sonata. I also have great respect for Woody's constant desire to do his own thing, his desire to never get caught up in the demands of mainstream, money-making Hollywood, and his determination to always be different. But in this case, his desire to be different hinders September totally, and what could have been a thoughtful and original psychological drama ends up being a desperate attempt by Allen to be as bleak and different as possible, and is unnecessarily tedious and condescending.The story is simple. A group of six people, (in my opinion some of the most boring characters ever assembled), gather together one summer at a country house. From there on in, there is lifeless and at times pointless drama between the characters as they all deal with love and evaluating their lives, each one more annoying than the last, completely lacking any power or conviction.The concept of the film is fascinating, and suits a filmmaker like Allen, who focuses primarily on characters and their thoughts and feelings above all else, particularly in his dramas, down to the ground. The film is a chamber piece, that is, it focuses on a very small number of characters in the one setting from start to finish. Also, Allen's main idea is to film in the style of a play as much as possible, using long, un-broken shots and keeping any unnecessary camera movements like close-ups to a minimum. The fusion of these two mediums is an extremely interesting idea, and is appropriate for the material. So far, so interesting. But unfortunately, that still leaves the rest of the film to look at.Pretension is the word of the day in September, and as interesting as its premise is, everything else about it feels forcedly unglamorous and so unnecessarily bland, almost as if Allen was curious as to just how independent and how anti-Hollywood he could make a film. But as great an idea as that sounds, there's a huge difference between making a film that's genuinely different and non-mainstream, and making a film that's just trying to be different for the sake of being different and rubbing it in the faces of mainstream films and film-watchers everywhere, and to me that's all September is. Nothing feels natural about this film, and it doesn't feel like it was made to be good, it just seems like Allen's attempt to be as different and as indie as possible, with no effort at actually making it good.What doesn't help is that an experienced and talented cast turn in drab and lifeless performances, though one of the main reasons for this is that they all find themselves stuck with boring, one-dimensional and frankly whiny characters that spend the entire film upset or sad about their lives, but lacking any real emotional depth or personality, instead just doing it because Allen wants the film to be as bleak and dramatic as possible. Taking the lead role, Mia Farrow as Lane begins as probably the most human of all the characters, and the one that seems most real, but by the end has become the most boring and whiny of them all, with a pretty lacklustre performance. Sam Waterston as Peter is diabolical, delivering a totally flat and ridiculously wooden performance, almost like an acting student performing in front of his peers for the first time. On a par with Waterston's awful performance is that of Dianne Wiest as Stephanie who is about as interesting and emotionally engaging as a doorknob, and whose story of her failing marriage is as short on depth and insightfulness as her head is of hair.Luckily there are a few worthwhile performances, notably Denholm Elliott who gives a very interesting and subtle performance as Howard, the man in love with Lane, who is one of the only characters with any real appeal or feeling in the whole film, but who unfortunately is barely used. Another god performance comes from Elaine Stritch as Lane's mother Diane, who although gives a convincing and at times genuinely emotionally engrossing performance, is also saddled with an uninteresting and unengaging character. Strong support comes also from Jack Warner as Lane's stepfather Lloyd, an enjoyable and interesting character with intelligent and intriguing insights into life.As regards the poor performances, it would be unfair to say that it's totally the actors' fault, as they were dealing with a director who was after nothing more than ponderous melodrama and banal story-telling, and although conceived an unusual and interesting idea, was incapable of avoiding pretentiousness and one-dimension. Woody Allen has been responsible for many intelligent, engaging and extremely moving films. Go and watch those instead, as this is not one of them. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's perfect set piece","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  September is Woody Allen's perfect set piece. Each character is well-defined and often painfully three dimensional. The actors are each so perfectly cast they wear their characters like an old shoe. Each and every relationship is crafted with care and precision--even when one of the people is not in the film. Emotions run rampant. I can think of not one scene or dialogue that could be changed without diminishing the whole.I've made these comments after reading the mostly negative comments of others. I can only wish them to have another look, but this time with more patience, and with a willingness to be drawn into that poignancy that Woody Allen can, occasionally, succeed in sharing with us.Jim Duppenthaler "},{"Title":"Like a really sh*tty Chekhov play","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I cannot imagine Woody Allen creating a film worse than September. Never has a film been more stagy - Allen must have intended that feeling, but only God knows why. The direction is poor in every way. The dialogue is God awful, often laughable, and the acting is just as bad. Mia Farrow and Dianne Wiest turn in what must be their worst performances. Sam Waterston is ineffective. The two parents (whose names I cannot even recall) seem like their in a different movie - a Woody Allen film. Their delivery is wry and often good, at least it would be if it belonged here. None of the characters ever ring true - never.What's really sad is that there is a good story underneath this terrible train wreck of a film. Lane's situation and her relationship with the other characters could have been fascinating. Unfortunately, the events of the past are introduced is such a poor way, the same way a really bad play would do it, that they never really seem important. Allen wanted desperately to make a Bergmaesque chamber piece, but Bergman is smart enough to have the outside world exist in his similar films, Persona, for instance.If you are an Allen fan, then this one is worth seeing - an artist's bad work is nearly as important as his great work. Just be prepared for something utterly awful - at least it's only 82 minutes long. 4/10 "},{"Title":"even geniuses can screw up.....","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SEPTEMBER is living proof that even a genius can screw up. I'm a real fan of Woody Allen's, and I even thought that Interiors, which the critics carved up, wasn't so bad. But 'September' is a real dog, a genuine bow-wow. I came across it in the video store (I forget which category I found it under, but it should have been 'Horror'); I hadn't heard of it but was attracted by the cast - Mia Farrow, Sam Waterston, Denholm Elliot and Jack Warden among others.We are dumped abruptly into a summer house in Vermont where four neurotic, repressed, and emotionally constipated people are discussing with each other how miserable they are. This interminable whining is interrupted by the arrival of the parents of Lane (Mia Farrow). This provides a change of character - instead of neurotic we get wimpy (the father) and obnoxiously self-centered (the mother). The rest of the movie deals with the emotional entanglements of these six boring folks, with more whining and some inane philosophizing thrown in. The dialogue is leaden enough to sink the Lusitania, the pacing is slower than grain delivery in the former USSR, and action is non-existent (nothing HAPPENS). The movie ends as abruptly as it began, leaving the viewer (assuming he got that far), with two thoughts - 1) thank God, and, 2) what the Hell was the point?Forget it. See Love and Death or Sleeper again.  "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's Greatest Financial Failure","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At a summer house in Vermont, neighbor Howard (Denholm Elliott) falls in love with Lane (Mia Farrow), who is in a relationship with Peter (Sam Waterston), who is falling for Stephanie (Dianne Wiest), who is married with children.This film was Woody Allen's biggest financial failure, bringing in less than $500,000. It is also often compared with his earlier film, Interiors. These two things, while seemingly unrelated, are probably very closely related.As the plot above suggests, this is material just ready for a good comedy featuring a love triangle (or whatever shape this is). Instead, Allen made it completely serious and rather depressing, and it makes even his intellectual references (e.g. Kurasawa) fall rather flat, because these are not characters we are ready to open our hearts to. "},{"Title":"Woody's Muscadet of the Mia vintage","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A golden honeyed set piece of repressed longings, misfired egos, simmering tempers, exhausted resignation - as put on by privileged white folks - in a wooden-blinds-drawn Vermont piece of paradise. A recent rekindling of Stritch interest brought me back to take another look at Elaine in this Americanization of Bergman - more an evocation now in retrospect than what I handedly dismissed as a rip-off then at its original release. Mia's wounded whimpering Cocker turn still provokes cringes while Denholm Elliott and Sam Waterston gallantly escort the wondrous Dianne Wiest gracefully away with the picture. "},{"Title":"Allen lays a touch of Bergman on September.","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  September is a very sad time of year. Its a time of year when all the leaves begin to fall and every thing is all gloomy and orange. Its almost like a person they have all this outer layering and all these secrets built up in side. When we let theses secrets out its kinda like the leaves falling, we get to see what's hiding under all those leaves. And that's why I think Woody Allen named this film. It would make perfect sense and would fit with the story just right. The movie is about a group of friends who get together and talk and share old times and find out more than they knew about each other. They all are stuck inside due to a thunder storm. And while they are inside their lives begin to unreal. The film was shot in a orangeish tint which goes along perfectly for the title and for the season. It wasn't Allen's best, but if your a fan of Allen it's a must see. "}{"Title":"Sextet","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There seems to be a misunderstanding between people and critics who have seen Woody Allen's September. It's as if they were expecting something and that something didn't deliver, or if it did, they either didn't catch up on it or it did so in an unsatisfying manner. I personally love this movie because of the situation it presents by putting together six people inside a summer home, filling them with the ghost of unrequited love and a secret that seems to be about to burst forth at any given time. Mia Farrow plays Lane, a mousy woman who is spending some time alone to nurse some inner hurts, has been harbouring a love towards Peter (Sam Waterston) who is considering writing a book based on her mother Diane (Elaine Stritch) who has come to visit with her husband Lloyd (Jack Warden). Peter at the same time is finding himself falling for Lane's friend Stephanie (Dianne Weist), while Lane is at the focus of a friend's attention (Denholm Elliott).September has this way of looking like a comedy of manners without the laughs and with a deadline to meet. The thing is, when you place so many people and so much angst together under one roof, it's only time before something unspeakable comes forth -- and in this case, it's the unresolved issues between Diane and Lane who have some truly awful baggage together. Due to the fact that Diane, even when she says she's moved on, is rather insensitive to her daughter, and her daughter is much too sensitive and incapable of moving forward, they seem poised for some serious explosion. It's all very modern-day Shakespearean and while the movie is devoid of any humor (except some witty dialog that only those keen in ear will catch), this could be, in a lighter tone, resemble the sitcom it's about to turn into. Even so, this is quiet affair, quintessential Woody, with a sextet of actors very much a part of his rotating troupe and a satisfying watch. "},{"Title":"a good film that would be a great theatre performance","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a good film, and would make a truly GREAT theatrical performance.The low IMDb rating is attributable to the moments when the film slipped a little, and Woody Allen's effort, instead of his genius, comes through.But this film is made by Lane's slowly crumbling edifice and her mother's brash incompetence. The plot regarding their tragic past is captivating, and makes the romantic plots appear frivolous. The 'climax' scene is excellent, complete with a truly GREAT twist.This film is a much better movie than the 6.1 IMDb rating gave it credit for. I got really drawn into this movie. I found myself quite dumbstruck. And Lane's anguish was so real.For fans of Woody Allen's more somber works, must-see. And I guarantee it's better than Match Point. "},{"Title":"who's Sam?","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" September is OK if you're in the right mood for watching several characters walking around a house, doing lots of earnest talking, generally feeling sorry for themselves. I guess such moods don't come too often, but I just watched it to its very end and I didn't feel disappointed. The only disappointment comes with reading the booklet (for the German edition of the DVD) which obviously has been written by someone who did not even bother to watch the movie. According to this bizarre piece of writing, the fragile Lane (Mia Farrow) recovers from a nervous breakdown in Vermont, where she gets to know and love her neighbour Sam (!) (Sam Waterston). Their understanding relationship finally gives her the strength for a new beginning. But her high spirits do not last for long because Sam's feelings, err actually Peter's, inexplicably cool down and her mother has shocking news for her. Lane suddenly finds herself entangled in a web of passion, betrayal and manipulation, which is threatening to destroy her emotionally ... well, simply put and if one gets the names right, the film is about Howard who loves Lane, who loves Peter, who loves Stephanie. Their misplaced feelings are accompanied by Lane's mother who loves herself. "},{"Title":"Slow but far from mellow","Date":"21 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The plot of Racine's Andromaque has been described as A loves B, who loves C, who loves D, who loves E, who is dead. I wondered if this was an influence on the plot of September, which features a scarcely less complicated string of unrequited love interests. Howard is in love with Lane, who is in love with Peter, who is in love with Stephanie, who is not sure whether she is in love with Peter or not. Lane is the owner of the New England country house in which the action takes place (obviously enough during the month of September). Howard, a teacher, and Peter, a struggling writer, are neighbours. Stephanie is Lane's best friend. To add to the confusion, Stephanie is married, although her husband does not appear. Two other important characters are Lane's mother Diane and her stepfather Lloyd.September may have been written and directed by Woody Allen, but it is not what we have come to think of as a Woody Allen film. For a start it is not a comedy, or even a tragi-comedy like Melinda and Melinda or Crimes and Misdemeanours, both of which combine a serious story with a humorous one. It is quite deliberately made as a deeply serious film, unrelieved by humour. As in a number of Allen's films from this period, such as Crimes and Misdemeanours or Alice, the predominant colours- browns, greys and dull yellows and oranges- are dark or sombre ones. The best way I can describe it is a play written by a would-be Chekhov adapted for the screen by a would-be Ingmar Bergman.Indeed, Allen described it as a play on film, and it certainly comes across like a piece of filmed theatre, set entirely indoors with a great number of long takes and few close-ups. Unfortunately, it shows just how dull and boring this style of film-making can be at its worst. There is no action, no sense of movement or character development, just a group of unsympathetic individuals interminably talking over their emotional problems. It might only last for eighty minutes; it felt more like eight hundred.Mia Farrow gave some wonderful performances during her association with Woody, but here she as Lane and Dianne Wiest as Stephanie seem to be competing as to which of them can seem more whiny and miserable. Nobody seems to have told Elaine Stritch that this was supposed to be a serious drama rather than a comedy, as she plays Diane as an over-the-top comic caricature. The male half of the cast are rather better, but none of them are outstanding and Sam Waterston as Peter is nowhere near as good as he was to be in Crimes and Misdemeanours. Allen actually shot the film twice, replacing several cast members for the second version. Diane was originally played Maureen O'Sullivan (Farrow's real-life mother), Howard by Charles Durning and Waterston was only the third choice for Peter after Christopher Walken and Sam Shepard. I wonder what was so bad about the original version.During the course of the film, we learn that Diane was once a well-known actress, and that many years ago Lane, then a teenager, was supposed to have shot dead Diane's abusive boyfriend. I found myself wondering why Allen did not base his film around this incident, which would surely have made for a more dramatic film that the one he actually made. The reason is presumably that this detail was plagiarised from the life of Lana Turner, whose boyfriend Johnny Stompanato was indeed killed by her daughter Cheryl in self defence, and as Lana was still alive in 1987 too much attention to the incident could have resulted in a writ from her lawyers. As Diane is a hard, brassy, self-centred individual, I also wondered if the use of this particular Christian name was a spiteful dig at Diane Keaton, Farrow's predecessor as Woody's muse.What makes the film even more disappointing is that it came out during a period, the late eighties, which also saw three of Woody's best films, The Purple Rose of Cairo, Hannah and Her Sisters and Crimes and Misdemeanours. If one judges solely on the basis of a lack of jokes, September is more serious than any of these films, which all contain a good deal of humour. On the basis of intellectual depth, however, it is the least serious of the four. The other three films all broach weighty philosophical topics, but do so with intelligence, wit and style to produce something of far more interest than the emotional angst and lovesickness which lie at the heart of September. The nearest it gets to intellectual depth is Lloyd's attempt to use the laws of physics to prove that life is pointless. Woody should do what he does best, not try to be Chekhov or Bergman. And certainly not Einstein.When I reviewed Melinda and Melinda I wrote that none of Woody Allen's films are entirely without interest. I had obviously forgotten September. But then it is an entirely forgettable movie. The song exhorts us to Try to remember the kind of September when life was slow and oh so mellow. This September may be slow but it is far from mellow. The kind not worth remembering. 4/10 "},{"Title":"A Deadening Woody Allen Film in the Style of Ingmar Bergman","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Woody Allen's cringe-inducing September comes across as something a film student would make if he were given the assignment of making a movie in the style of Ingmar Bergman. It's oppressive, claustrophobic and intolerably whiny, filled with unpleasant people complaining about their boring problems. Though the film is filled with good actors, like Mia Farrow, Elaine Stritch, Dianne Wiest and Denholm Elliott, none of them gel as a cast, and the pacing is repetitive. The film is a huge misfire from Allen, and thankfully it's one of the last times he dabbled in this kind of hackneyed experiment.Grade D "},{"Title":"Slow drama of longing within family - not terribly moving","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although the movie at times asks to be taken in a more broadly philosophical way, this is in essence, about four people in an isolated setting A is the recipient of unreciprocated love from B who is the recipient of unreciprocated love from C, who is the recipient of unreciprocated love from D - and C's mother and stepfather are happily and obnoxiously married and loudly visiting. That's it - except A, B, C and D all have various problems - like most people - about which they speak more than they ought. Thus, this movie is primarily about the bad luck that happens to us all at different times with unrequited love - but we know that within a few years at most, the characters' luck will change and this awkwardness will have become merely a bad memory. It's thus not a terribly moving problem. I was also not very moved because C (played very well by Mia Farrow) as the central character is grossly unappealing - a monstrously self-absorbed whining character, wholly indifferent to the unhappiness of D (Denholm Elliott), hating her life, moaning about suicide, etc. Her cloying looks and treacly observations when around B are extremely  irritating and one can well understand why B's attentions are devoted to A. There are nice moments in the movie - I like the camera showing us rooms before people enter (as if at a play), and the acting is first rate throughout - by everyone but particularly Elaine Strich and Jack Warden who are both wonderfully restrained (not always true of Strich!). The downside of the movie is that it is the subsidiary characters of Strich and Warden who are most lively and interesting - and the problems of the other characters simply don't seem that novel, interesting, or enveloping.Overall, I'd slightly recommend this for its acting and realistically written dialogue - but it's probably in the bottom half of Woody Allen's movies. (E.g., I vastly prefer Interiors and Another Woman - to compare the two other most pessimistic and grave of his movies).  "},{"Title":"Usual troubled relationship Woody Allen movie.","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Review I really found it hard to get into this movie. I found it pretty boring and the concept wasn't that great. Like many other Woody Allen movies, this film is based around troubled relationships and couples falling in and out of love with each other. The 2 best friends who fall in love with the writer who has writers block and the mother and daughter who find it hard to get along, we're uninteresting after a while and they seemed to become a bit annoying because of there constant moaning. I'm also not the biggest fan of Mia Farrow who I find to be quite talentless and miserable in all of her roles, and I got fed up with her constant whining. Anyway, my expectations for this movie wasn't that high so I wasn't surprised with the outcome. I was hoping for something a bit different from Woody Allen, but he just seems to be adamant about telling the same type of stories in most of his movies, Disappointing!Round-Up OK, I have watched quite a few of Woody Allen movies and I'm slowly finding his films to be about the same thing. I still have quite a few more to watch and I have found a few gems so far but that is mostly from his earlier work or the movies that he doesn't star in. I prefer the movies with Diane Keaton to his work with Mia Farrow and his latter work with some big named stars are pretty impressive, although he does tend to stick to the same concept. I honestly don't think that he will be getting taken seriously until he has decided to stop making films, but I have to admit, the movies that he has made recently have been making quite a lot of money which is why I decided to begin this journey. Budget N/A Domestic Gross $487,000 (Terrible!)I recommend his movie to people who are into there Woody Allen movies about a group of friends who are in troubled relationships and question there love for each other. 3/10 "},{"Title":"I wonder if Woody","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" will give me back the 79 minutes and 11 seconds I just wasted watching this? A previous poster called this Chekhov without the jokes. Also without the story. Denholm Elliott, particularly, appears bemused, perhaps by the waste of his huge talent.I'm a great fan of Woody's early work. Why is it, I wonder, that so many of his recent films consist, as this one does, of an hour and a half of whingeing? The rot started with Annie Hall which, although in many respects a fine film (unlike September), found him starting to take himself far, far too seriously, a trait which he since seems to have developed into high art. "},{"Title":"It stinks on hot ice.","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Woody Allen has impeccable taste in music. And good thing, because otherwise there would be nothing redeeming about September.This film was as limp and lifeless as they come. I can recall few films in which I was so conscious I was watching actors reciting dialogue--and bad dialogue, and bored actors. This film felt like a rehearsal. It felt like the FIRST rehearsal, the cast assembled together for the very first time, maybe at like 5AM on a Monday morning, and everybody was tired and cranky and didn't really want to be there, and they knew the script sucked anyway so there was no point in even trying. Certainly, these were the worst performances I've ever seen by Mia Farrow and Dianne Wiest. The script felt like a rough first draft--of an artless hack. I can't believe September was a Woody. Too bad he didn't have a real-life Cheech to help him out with this one.And, worst of all, the film was staged entirely within one house, with curtains drawn against the world. Cinematographer Carlo Di Palma did his best to make the house look interesting, but that yellow and orange lighting scheme became oppressive after a while, and I was longing to step outside and see some daylight. I probably should have--in real life--and turned this piece of garbage off. Unfortunately, I have an obsessive-compulsive sickness that forces me to finish any movie I've started. Mercifully, September ran only 82 minutes, but they were hard, mind-numbing minutes.The worst Woody Allen film. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Sam, Sam, Sam!","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  OK.  Let's just cut to the chase.  The best thing about this film is sexy Sam Waterston.  So much shiny black hair, so neatly combed, all of it real!  Wouldn't you just love to mess it up and inhale its smell?  And Waterston shows a nice chest beneath the T-shirts he wears in a few scenes.  Allen was nice enough to photograph Waterston from the rear several times showing that Waterston's nice butt fills his pants enticingly.  One scene begins with a close-up of Waterston's well-muscled and veined hands playing with two cue balls.  The camera pulls back a bit, and we see Waterston pressing his crotch into the side of the pool table right behind his hands and those balls.  If this is Allen's idea of symbolism, it is a high camp moment in this film.  Couldn't Woody have contrived a way to show Waterston without his shirt on or in a pair of Jockey shorts?Oh, the character Waterston's playing is the usual Waterston movie role here it's a wimpy writer.  But who cares?And that's the problem with the entire move.  None of the characters shown here is worth caring about.  Everyone spends most of the movie analyzing himself and others, discussing his and others' motives, whining and complaining.  When a thunderstorm puts out the lights, I don't know why the characters didn't call it a night and go to bed.  We would have been spared this film.In this film, one must take his pleasures where he can, and for me, that was Sam Waterston. "}{"Title":"A Woody Allen Film That Seems Like a Copycat","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" September (1987) ** (out of 4) Six people gather in a Vermont summer home where they talk about love, their failures in life and what things might possibly make life better. It turns out that Peter (Sam Waterson) and his wife Lane (Mia Farrow) are going through some problems, which means that Peter is falling for another married woman (Dianne Wiest). It turns out that Lane is loved by the much older Howard (Denholm Elliott) and some of her problems might go back to her famous mother (Elaine Stritch) who is at the house with her new love Lloyd (Jack Warden). It turns out that Allen wanted to make a film in one location with a limited number of actors but the result is certainly less than entertaining and in the end September turns out to be one of the director's weakest efforts. I've read that Allen shot this film two and possibly three times and replaced various cast members throughout the production because he was never happen with the end result and one wonders what he feels about this finished product. From the opening sequence all the way to the ending I really felt as if I was watching a movie by someone trying to copy an Allen film. I found the entire film to be rather dry of any sort of humor or drama and what really killed the movie for me were the characters because they're so unlikeable. The Waterson and Farrow characters are completely boring and not for a second does the viewer ever care about them or worry about their happiness. I found the Farrow character to be extremely underwritten as if Allen wasn't really sure what he wanted to do with her. The Wiest character isn't much better and it's never clear why Waterson would be so attracted to her. The Elliott character isn't all that well written either but at least the actor does a good job in the part. The same could be said for Warden and his character and one really wishes that Allen had written the film around the two elderly actors instead of the women. Stritch is also fairly good in her part but her character just isn't that interesting either. It's clear that Allen wanted this film to be about the various paths one life could have gone through and how everyone wants to be wanted by someone. I'm sure in his mind there were other reasons behind these characters but none of them transfer to the screen. "}]