[{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've forced this film on all my friends and there isn't one who regrets seeing it. A couple haven't been that enthusiastic at first; thought it was all right but didn't understand the fuss I make about it, but the next day they'll want to watch it again.I find it pretty embarrassing when someone quotes the inevitable Austin Powers, but for months after seeing this film I just couldn't help it - probably the reason I had to get everyone I know to watch it.Some films have great scenes and some are just good films; this is both. Genuinely funny with real heart.Say it with me now WINKY DINKY DOGGG. "},{"Title":"Dead-on parody of Hollywood","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie.  It is absolutely hilarious, and it easily represents R. Townshend's best work.  In fact, it's far, far better than anything else he's ever done, which is remarkable considering the film's tiny budget.The humor is biting and relevant.  The movie is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A Hilarious look at the black stereotypes in Hollywood.","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hollywood Shuffle (1987) was the directorial debut of Actor/ Director Robert Townshend. His self financed film Hollywood SHUFFLE pokes fun at the struggles many black actors face whilst looking for an acting career in Hollywood. It's sad as well because many of these stereotypes are still true to this day. While progress has been made in the American Movie Industry, they still need to make more progress. This film showed people how the Movie making business handles the majority of young black actors who're trying to make it in the movies.The story is about a young, talented and aspiring actor who wants to make it in Hollywood as a director. But when he tries out for roles, he meets a lot of stumbling blocks. Many of these are about his racial background (i.e. he's not black enough, he's too black, doesn't act black, etc. etc.). Eventually he's offered a role but will he throw away his dignity to accept it? Can young Robert make it in Hollywood without selling out? Will his peer drag him down? To find out you'll just have to watch Hollywood SHUFFLE.Highly recommended film. "},{"Title":"Impressive Independent Film - Real and Funny","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Interesting and impressive, Hollywood Shuffle allows the characters to make the point that Townsend is making, without being too harsh or lecture-like. The film incorporates some great parody scenes such as the Siskel and Ebert inspired Speed and Tyrone where the reviewers sneak into movies.Most impressive is the background to the film, which makes the finished product all the more impressive.  Townsend's freshmen effort is a true success, and goes where few first timers are normally able to go.8/10 "},{"Title":"A clever, underappreciated satire","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Robert Townsend's independent debut is a light-hearted farce that explores the struggles of black actors of Hollywood.  But the issues that the film could be applied to talented folks in any field who are prevented from reaching their full potential because of stereotypes.Many of the cast were unknowns at the time but they did an excellent job in the various skits.  My favorite is the parody of Siskel and Ebert's TV show, where two street hoods sneak into the movies to give their own rather unique reviews. Amadeus is slammed by the amateur critics because the movie's title is too hard to pronounce while a movie about Zombie Street Pimps is given the thumbs up, because of the attention to detail. This is typical of the kind of humor employed throughout the movie - Townsend takes a racial stereotype and turns it outside out, making us think and laugh out loud at the same time.I wish more directors, black or not, would follow Townsend's personal, self-effacing approach to movie-making but I guess it's easier to produce yet another violent shoot-em up or special effects showcase.  Oh well. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Satire.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a black man and a longtime movie fan, it angered and frustrated me as to how blacks were stereotyped and exploited in Hollywood over the years. This was especially true during the first half of the 80's when I saw talented actor like Larry Fishburne play a hoodlum in DEATH WISH 2, Wesley Snipe play a hoodlum in WILDCATS and Mario Van Peebles play a hoodlum in EXTERMINATOR 2. Of course they've gone on to bigger, and totally unexpected, better things. That's why this satire hit a nerve with me. The one scene that sticks in my mind are the audition scenes where blacks audition for demeaning roles casted by clueless white producers and directors trying to tell blacks to act the way they think blacks should act (ain't that a blip!) and looking for an Eddie Murphy type. The script, co-written by Townsend and co-star Keenen Ivory Wayans is accurate and on the money. While Wayans has sone on to better things (IN LIVING COLOR, I'M GONNA GIT YOU SUCKA and SCARY MOVIE), Townsend has not been so fortunate (The uneven THE FIVE HEARTBEATS, The lame TV sit-com THE PARENT 'HOOD and the godawful B.A.P.S.). The film also features Helen Martin, Damon Wayans, Anne-Marie Johnson and John Witherspoon. If you a fan of on-target satires, I strongly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"It's quite a story . . .","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" . . . just the idea of having the audacity to finance a major movie using one's credit cards.  And while it's unclear what those card companies thought of the project, the movie-going public are the recipients.Robert Townsend, infant terrible of the late 80s makes a splashy, dynamic debut in Hollywood Shuffle.  There's no doubting Townsend's unbridled energy, imagination, and punch.  Here's a man who has something to say, and uses comedy, parody and satire to make his points. How the film will appeal depends on individual tastes.  However, Townsend has assembled a good looking cast, which throws itself into the proceedings with enthusiasm and verve.  More power, Mr. Townsend.   "},{"Title":"Blaxploitation and indie-film unite!","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" by Dane Youssef Movies in general are so formulaic that even most independent films are pretty routine and by-the-numbers.Maybe that's why Hollywood Shuffle feels so refreshing, like a much-needed change of pace. Most indies are made almost entirely by hand---one man writing, directing, producing (hey, they need every single spare cent they can get their grubby hands on) and this one is no exception.Townsend wears all the indie hats here&#x85; and he wears them proudly.This is the film that introduced the world to Robert Townsend. Well, that was it's whole purpose. Like The Brother McMullen, this star-vehicle was written and directed by Townsend about his dream to make it as a professional actor, trying to break into Hollywood, while at the same time, trying to over-come the cruel limitations mainstream Hollywood has set up for black people who want to act... and actors, in general.Whereas the '70's was the birth decade of the blaxploitation, so many of them were just cheap, cheesy, corny knock-offs of popular white films. Blaxploitation got more blacks into films, but the films themselves weren't really about anything. Hollywood Shuffle is a Blaxploitation film that really has something to say... that has an agenda.There is so much burning talent, so many struggling entertainers wanting to make something of themselves, that Hollywood can afford to treat the auditioning talent the same way a really strong cleanser treats germs.Townsend's efforts to make this movie are inspiring--he borrowed every dollar he could, asked for movie footage that was left on the cutting-room floor, called in every favor he could, threw everything he had and more to get this one made.To tell his story, get his foot in the door... and at the same time, tell a story about what this kind of life is like. For those with talent who dare to dream big.Greats Keenan Ivory Wayans and John Witherspoon have bit players as people who work at a hog stand in the neighborhood who don't ask for much out of life... and don't get it. They're the kind of cynics who believe, You're a fool for following your dreams. When you near the end of your journey in this world, you really fully understand the meaning of the old phrase, Nothing ventured, nothing gained. Townsend interlocks a variety of skits with this all-too autobiographical tale, all of which are pretty funny and inspiring. You have to admire the way that Townsend wants to put out some legitimate roles for black actors to play and black actors to idolize. But most of his skits go on too long after the point has been made and there are quite a few moments that feel like someone (Townsend obviously) should have punched up. Townsend is a far better actor than he is a writer/director.Perhaps because he is only a filmmaker by necessity for this one. He's more interested in using this to make up of all those dream roles he never got to play and showing his chops as an actor than really making a great movie.There's a scene where he takes-off Siskel & Ebert--before everyone started doing it. Almost all the skits (where Townsend is fantasizing his dream roles as an actor) go on way too long, probably because Townsend is far less concerned with how funny the skits/movie is and more interested in using this movie to play all the dream roles he never got to before.Every actor is perfectly cast, especially Townsend himself. It's great to see him playing all these roles you know he's always dreamed of doing (he plays them while his character actually IS day-dreaming).The movie captures the struggle of the out-of-work actor just right. We see lines and lines of actors warming-up, rehearsing their roles, going into the audition... all to hear, Thank you, next! But some blessed, precious few are picked.But those that are black are given racially-biased drivel to perform. Ethnic caricatures that shame and set back their race. Brothers and sisters who talk like stock characters from the slave era, wearing redneck farm clothes, picking cotton, eating chicken and getting stinking drunk. Townsend tirades many black archetypes, most of which went out of style around the same time as black-face. Lil' Bobby obviously wants to say something about the way the brothers and sisters are treated in the biz. There are some moments here you'll roar with laughter at, as well as put a lump in your throat and a strange feeling of hope and pride. Like many other breakthrough films, especially independents, Hollywood Shuffle was another arrival of a fresh new talent. It happens as often as the rise and setting of the suns, but here is a film where it feels a little more special&#x85; because Townsend was really about something. You can see it here, not only in some of his satirist scenes, but some of the quieter moments where real drama in brewing and dreams are at stake.We see where Townsend is asking himself if he's good enough, if he face the whole world (which is how it is when you're struggling to make it as an entertainer&#x85; or in life) and when life-long happiness is at stake. It almost hurts. And at the end of it all, when we wonder for Townsend's character, Bobby's sake&#x85; what will become of him? And then we realize we already know. We just found out.It's like looking in the sky at the stars like you always do&#x85; and then there's a brand-new star shining in the night sky, standing out just a little bit bigger than the others. Haven't seen that one before. Hey, is that a new one? Couldn't be, could it? I don't remember&#x85; there are so many. Another star is born.Or made.--Love (or Like), Dane Youssef "},{"Title":"Get lost in this shuffle","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hollywood Shuffle is one of the best black comedies of all-time. It served as a big f--- you to Hollywood for its sickening portrayal of black people. Robert Townsend used comedy for a great purpose(to convey a truth) and it worked out splendidly.Premise Bobby(played by Robert Townsend) has dreams of making it big in Hollywood. He works for a crummy hot dog stand called Rinky-Dinky Dog(no, really) with idiotic co-workers as well as an idiotic boss. The only problem Bobby faces is the negative roles that Follywood tends to offer black people. He soon has to make a decision if he wants to go with the BS roles of the movie industry or to go a different route.Opinion This movie hits the nail on the head with the types of roles that Follywood has destined for us to play. Its funny as well as sharp in its delivery. The Black Acting School skit has to be the funniest sketch in the movie. The black detective is the second funniest thing. Sure most people might say that the acting is over-the-top but these actors who play in the types of movies that Hollywood Shuffle parodies are always over the top with their performance so what are you talking about? I respect Hollywood Shuffle for using humor to address a serious subject instead of stooping to the brainless comic dung that you get from these Chittlin Circuit movies that are produced nowadays. And the sad thing is that people are trouncing gems like Hollywood Shuffle while embracing minstrel rubbish like Soul Plane, Norbit, Code Name The Cleaner, Juwanna Mann etc. A sad state of affairs. In closing I would say support comedies like Hollywood Shuffle any chance you get. They're the only bright light you get in the dark tunnel of comedy in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Frustratingly Uneven","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When this film first came out, I saw it and loved it. For years, I've quoted (and, as it turns out, misquoted) a few of its lines--some of the funniest I've ever heard. I recently watched the DVD version with my wife, who'd never seen it. She wasn't impressed, and I can't say that I blame her. I was surprised how tedious and un-funny some stretches of the film are, and how disconnected the various skits were. The funny parts are still riotously funny (Nearly every second of Sneakin' In The Movies with Tyrone and Speed is laugh-out-loud funny), but other parts are boring and flat. The film-noir parody is especially poor, with unfocused, stale gags delivered slowly and without zest. A final note those easily offended by four-letter words should skip this film. In keeping with its urban street vibe, rough language is pervasive--especially in the funniest scenes. "}{"Title":"Very funny, with important lessons","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bobby Taylor wants to be a respected actor, but he has to settle for stereotypical roles in the white-dominated world of cinema. It is clear, as he rehearses in the movie's opening scenes, that the role he is auditioning for is not exactly what he has in mind. When the movie is actually filmed, it gives the term 'Blaxploitation' a whole new meaning.Bobby lives with his brother Stevie and his grandmother, and he is often told he could work at the post office. He does have a job at Winky Dinky Dog, a hot dog place where Donald and Tiny are his co-workers, though his auditions interfere with his ability to be on the job when needed. The most popular sitcom on TV stars a comical bat/man who isn't exactly Cliff Huxtable.As Bobby agonizes over this role, he has fantasies about what could happen. The fantasies are the best part of the movie.In one scene, slaves are escaping, and the one guy who worked in the house makes Stepin Fetchit look like Sidney Poitier. The same actor later turns quite sophisticated in a commercial for Black Acting School, which is taught by white instructors, where aspiring actors only learn stereotypes. Light-skinned blacks need not apply.In another fantasy, Bobby imagines that, since Siskel and Ebert are white guys who don't know what they are talking about, his people are represented by a couple of brothers in 'Sneakin' In The Movies'. Among the characters lampooned in this fantasy are Amadeus, Indiana Jones and Dirty Harry. And there is a movie about pimps and hookers that is ten times worse than anything real.Probably the best fantasy of all happens while Bobby and his grandmother are watching 'Sam Ace', a Humphrey Bogart type movie. The film 'Death of a Breakdancer', done in black and white with the film noir style (including jazz music) stars Bobby as a black Sam Ace. While the film shows positive images, stereotypes can still be found--Jerry Curl is one of the suspects and very funny.Rambo becomes Rambro in another scene.Should we be enjoying all these offensive portrayals of African-Americans? Of course. Robert Townsend is black, and he produced, directed and co-wrote this movie and did a fine job of acting as well. His purpose was obviously to make fun of stereotypes. And Bobby shows that he has pride, and doesn't have to accept disrespect.As a white person, I was not bothered by the fact that the majority of white people in this movie are portrayed in an over-the-top manner, especially the people responsible for the movie for which Bobby is auditioning. We're not like that, and I know it.This movie was made on a budget, but one reason was the use of the same actors in many different roles. For the most part, it doesn't seem low-budget.One of the better moments in the 'real' world takes place in the barbershop run by Bobby's Uncle Ray. David McKnight does an admirable job in a dramatic scene.I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Promising, but ultimately a letdown","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don't get me wrong- I wanted to like this movie. Robert Townsend is thoroughly believable and sympathetic in the role, and I liked him quite a bit. He plays a hopeful, charismatic, good-natured man who's trying to land a role in a film and earn some self-respect.The problem is, he has a very active fantasy life.  What this means is that often, mid-scene, Townsend's character will think about something like a movie being discussed, or something he sees on TV. The movie then goes into his fantasy and enacts it for us, usually with him playing one of the characters in it.  This wouldn't be so bad except for three main issues  The fantasies occur pretty often, usually about every ten or 15 minutes. They are usually silly and cliched, taking away from the more interesting and serious main storyline.  The third and worst aspect of the fantasy gimmick is that they are just plain long. When Townsend overhears a conversation about black movie critics, for example, he thinks about it and we see a visualization of his thoughts, two black critics in a theater. You'd expect this to have a joke or two, then get back to Townsend. Instead, we watch a pretty unfunny scene that lasts more than five minutes as the two guys review fictitious movies such as an Amadeus ripoff and a pimp zombie film. It's pretty unfunny, lasts way too long and milks the scenes for cheap laughs that fall flat.This happens way too much, and makes the movie seem awkward, as if there wasn't enough confidence in the basic premise and instead tried to pad the film with waste. It could just be my personal opinion, but I really didn't like any of the fantasies (especially a private detective one, which drags on for something like ten or 15 minutes).  There was one exception, the first fantasy of the movie, where a fake school for black film stereotypes is advertised. This was the only dream sequence that was any good, because it takes very harsh jabs at black stereotypes.  I got to play 5 muggers, and a rapist! Says one black hopeful.  Another one is being taught how to walk black by a white instructor.  Call 1-800-555-Coon! the ad flashes. It's good satire, and being a white man, I wasn't offended but instead laughed at how accurate this parody was of some people's attitudes towards black characters. Unfortunately, the rest of the movie falls pretty flat, due to the fact that none of the other fantasies had the wit of the first, or told it in such a sharp way. As a result we're left with a storyline that isn't focused on when it should be at least 90% of the film.I liked Robert Townsend, and I felt for his plight. He wants badly to be an actor, make it in the business, and fulfill his dream. The problem is that the role he's hoping for is unfortunately quite racist in its portrayal of blacks as sniveling, cowardly, primitively speaking brutes who are engaged in a weapon fight. He must decide whether his dreams are worth sacrificing his dignity, whether this chance at stardom is worth the hard first stepping stone.And had the movie spent more time on this, and much less on the wandering fantasies, it would have been much better. Townsend's character was charming and I would have preferred to see him just be himself instead of the fantasy characters, but since that's the case only about half the time, I rate this movie a 5- promising but disappointing. "},{"Title":"A Super Classic!","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There seems to be a real mix of reviews for this movie.  It seems either people really like it or really hate it.  There doesn't seem to be any middle ground on this one.  For me, it has been one of my all-time favourites.  I am amazed that Robert Townsend made this '80s classic on a shoestring budget & with credit cards to boot!  In all the comedy, there is a serious message of how blacks are perceived in Hollywood & the roles that they would receive during the '80s.  Even though things have changed a little bit, this movie is still a fun parody & demonstrates to me the skills Robert Townsend has to pull off a movie with what he had at the time, and make it look like it has a decent budget.  This is another movie that I am glad to see available on DVD, for it's a movie you can watch over & over again. "},{"Title":"An outstanding, if uneven satire","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ** MILD SPOILERS **An outstanding, if uneven, satire on racial prejudice and stereotyping in Hollywood.  Robert Townsend nails this picture in several different daydream sequences (a la Walter Mitty).  Townsend is likeable and a little goofy when playing himself, which makes his stand for integrity more powerful.  In the daydream sequences, he cuts loose and is obviously having a good time.The supporting cast is really good.  You'll see Keenan Ivory Wayans and Damon Wayans in here, Vondie Curtis-Hall, Anne-Marie Johnson, Dom Irrera, and Franklin Ajaye.  There are some unforgettable bits here, like the Black Acting School, At the Movies, and the Health Clinic.  You won't see another exploitave Hollywood product without thinking about this movie.  Kudos to Townsend for believing in it enough  to get it made.My only gripe (a small one!) is that the flow is a little uneven and bogs down from time to time.  But, so did Monty Python and the Holy Grail, and that's a classic!  So is Hollywood Shuffle.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"civil rights satire nails some easy targets","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When Robert Townsend learned that the only screen jobs available to himself and other black actors were more or less the same, stereotypical assortment of pimp, prostitute and criminal character roles, he didn't get mad, he got even, channeling his frustration into a homemade satire of Hollywood discrimination (financed, according to PR legend, almost entirely by credit cards). The episodic plot stars Townsend himself as an aspiring actor forced to endure a series of absurd auditions and interviews, at one point being blatantly judged by his ability to imitate Eddie Murphy. The often broad and obvious humor works well during the sometimes hilarious fantasy digressions a Siskel and Ebert parody by two ghetto critics; a mock film noir scenario; and an irreverent commercial ad for The School of Black Acting. The more straightforward dramatic scenes make less of an impression, but at least illustrate the point that racial typecasting is a ridiculous practice. In all it's a valuable lesson from a natural comic talent, and a humorous insider's guide to an industry where equal opportunity hasn't evolved much since the days of D.W. Griffith. "},{"Title":"A great movie!","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Robert Townsend has made a great movie about the stereotyping of blacks in Hollywood.  The movie mocks both the people who created the stereotypes, and the stereotypes themselves.  A lot of great little sketches are spliced in among the main plotline, and they all are....I can't think of a better word than wacky.  They're all wacky.  The movie also has Keenan Ivory Wayans, and Damon Wayans (if you look closely). A great movie, especially for the miniscule $100,000.00 budget. "},{"Title":"Kickaxe Movie Baby","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Robert Townsend burst onto the Hollywood scene with this great indie film and it's been downhill ever since.  But this is a great satire of show bizniz.  Robert does a fine job as writer and director and star.  A lot of people said this film was going to make Rob the next Woody Allen but he has yet to live up to those expectations.  Maybe someday he'll make another film as great as this one... "},{"Title":"A one joke film","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Robert Townsend plays a black actor who is trying to find an acting job in California...but all he finds are stereotypical roles. It seems the only acting jobs for blacks are as gangsters, hookers and such.Likable and ambitious but VERY uneven comedy. It shows parodies of TV shows, movies and commercials all making fun of how blacks are treated in Hollywood. It makes its point early on and just keeps making it again and again and again. It gets repetitious pretty quickly. Some of it is funny but other bits (especially a Siskel/Ebert bit and an Eddie Murphy gag) are pretty dated. This was a sizable hit when it came out but I never found it that funny. The whole cast is good (some are excellent) but the material just keeps repeating itself. Townsend did much better with his next film The Five Heartbeats.Sadly this movie had no effect on Hollywood. From what I hear it's still difficult for black actors to get good jobs and just three years after this New Jack City was released--a very violent movie about black gangsters that was a monster hit. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites...","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great film.  It just has an energy and a voice that is real and unqiue and powerful.  You follow Bobby's ups and downs and root for him, and the comedic vignettes give it the relief from the very funny story. Townsend is great, along with Keenen Wayans, and many great little performances, by the likes of Lisa Mende, Craigus JOhnson, Dom Irerra, and others.  It doesn't have all the classic comedy elements, but it has a strong voice, and that's what counts. "},{"Title":"There ain't nothing to it but to do it.","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Was this a comedy or was it a drama? I begin this review by asking this question because the film that I just witnessed, Hollywood Shuffle, was neither funny or rather dramatic. While it tried so hard to make a point, because of this lack of definition (comedy or drama), the clever themes and pointed remarks were lost. While I am a strong believer that there is too much racial profiling happening in Hollywood, even today, I do not believe that Townsend's directorial debut did much to stop it. Instead, I feel it only added more fuel to the fire. Townsend's comic timing in this film was disastrous due to the fact that the elements he was supposed to be making fun of, he was instead promoting and vice versa. The parts that were supposed to be serious were somehow destroyed by the poor lack of funny comedy. Townsend had a decent concept with this film, but sadly the execution is what ultimately hurt this film. If you watch the preview before the film (which I constantly do), you will immediately get the wrong impression of what you are going to see. The preview gives the impression of a very intelligent, comic film that prides itself on the intelligence of the viewers, but the actually film could not be further from the truth.The main problem with Hollywood Shuffle is not story itself (because it is lacking in elaboration); it is Townsend's direction. He had a wonderful concept with this film. Exploit the Hollywood that exploits our race. Decent idea, but why couldn't he execute it very well? The first reason is that his ideas are too random and sporadic. The structure of this film was like watching a heart attack on a monitor at the hospital, we are literally everywhere without any warning or map. It was obvious that Townsend had quite a bit to say, but only a short amount of time to do it in. So, instead of defining his characters, developing his themes, and actually creating a smart film, he just throws it all together and prays that it works. Sadly, it doesn't. Instead of a smart comedy, we have a hodgepodge of so many ideas, comedic skits, and underused actors that this film goes from decent to nearly unwatchable. What hurts Townsend the most are his brief, attempt to be funny, interruptions throughout the film. From battling a villain known as Jerry Curl to parodying Siskel & Ebert, Townsend's attempt to poke fun while speak a message about the film industry falters. This is because these small intermittent skits actually distract from the central focus of the film and actually destroy internally. While Townsend seems to be trying to make a joke about life in Hollywood, he actually is simply connecting to every stereotype and cliché in the book. What could have been beautiful satire transforms into simply generic humor that never quite stands apart from the rest.So, if you find yourself not laughing at the humor of this story, perhaps there is some comfort in knowing that some of the Wayans brothers are around to help spice up this dull story. WRONG! The Wayans are in this film, but Townsend demonstrates that he has the ability to even bring the worst out even in this entertaining family. Definitely in their pre-In Living Color moments, we see that comedy was something that all needed to constantly improve upon. Perhaps it was Townsend's direction, or just maybe this atrocious story, but these typically funny comedians were obviously underused and ignored when it came to critics of this film. I just thought that with the talent pool that Townsend had to pull from that Hollywood Shuffle would have been funny, bright, and a true stab at this obvious Hollywood dilemma. Sadly, it was none of the above.Finally, I would like to say that this was a workable film. There were some moments (while they were few and way far between) that had a smile on my face, the final product just didn't settle well with me. Townsend can be funny, but in this film it just felt like he was playing against himself, instead of through his personal experiences and troubles. I realize that he was probably speaking the truth, but it never came through as that. Instead, we are threaded through a weak story, which supports itself with idiotic flash clips that may have worked for a sitcom, but surely didn't work for this film. Even for those that comment that this was his directorial debut and that he was learning from this film, I would have to disagree. If you are starting fresh, either have a tight script or defined themes. Townsend had neither of these, and combined with the inability to control his actors, he just failed in a ball of flames.Overall, this was rather disappointing to watch. It reminded me of a grade school Spelling Bee where it is finally your child's time to spell. The word is tough, but as the first two to three letters come out, you think that it is going to work perfectly, but then there is that random P and silent R that forces your excitement to come tumbling down. That is how I felt with Hollywood Shuffle. At first, I saw the potential, I saw the theme and the motive behind the picture, but through fuzzy and inexperienced technique and after the first couple of scenes, I experienced that deep fall feeling. Townsend sank his own ship on this one, and I don't think Hollywood Shuffle will ever re-submerge as a pivotal moment of Hollywood cinema.Grade * out of ***** "}{"Title":"There's Always Work At The Post Office","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A movie my mother felt it was important for me to see at a young age. Funny enough too, though a tad dated times. Still a fine, and refreshing moment from both the world of independent film(financed by Townsend's own credit cards) and comedy in general, especially black comedies and I don't mean those by Todd Solondz.It's the most absurd moments which stick with me, like John Witherspoon muttering to himself about ho-cakes and the film noir spoof featuring Jerry Curl (the greatest and greasiest of all villains). So aside from episodes of The Boondocks on Cartoon Network, and the occasional Chapel Show re-run, there's still few intelligent, black comic voices, especially those critical of not just external finger pointing the ways the white media portrays African American's, but the ways and reasons which African Americans take on these roles and stereotypes in black media as well.Two Boondocks episodes this past year, critical of BET, were banned from the air, and only available to view on DVD, while Tyler Perry (famous for playing yet another cross dressing Mammy in a fat suit), makes films and TV shows every thirty five seconds...well at least there's always work at the Post-Office "},{"Title":"Simply flawless","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the best movies I've ever seen. This a movie that makes you think. First you laugh, then you think about why you're laughing and if you should be laughing or crying. There isn't a wasted scene in this movie, each one is relevant and true. I have known about the virtues of this movie since its release, my siblings and I call each other 'hocake' and no one knows what we're talking about. I was amazed that there aren't even photos of the stars and director (Robert Townsend and others) on the cast page of this movie. This is such an under-rated flick, the only movie I can think of offhand that is this poignant and clever is 'A day without a Mexican', another great movie. If you are a simpleton who likes movies to watch things blow up this isn't for you. If you are the cerebral type who actually uses their brain this movie is right up your alley. You'll think about this movie for a while. "},{"Title":"Warning Townsend Softspot Fan","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you're looking for a review that makes you laugh out loud with its eviscerating witticisms and memorable one-line slams, then skip to another review now. I don't write many of these things, but love this movie enough to take the time to add my 2 cents here. Hollywood Shuffle is one of my Xmas presents to myself this year (its 20 year anniversary...and thank goodness for Amazon's overseas deliveries!) and I just finished watching it with my daughter. Townsend's sentimentality and gentle sense of humor are old friends and I'm looking forward to sharing this movie with as many people as I can. Living overseas as a high school teacher since '99 has been interesting, especially in terms of the view of African Americans. It's funny, but teens overseas tend to think of actors like Will Smith, singers like Beyonce' or 50 Cent, and sports stars like&#133;well, insert-familiar-name-here, whenever they think of blacks in the states. Hollywood Shuffle, with its sentimental depiction of a fatherless working class family and a young man pursuing his dream, speaks to teens of all ethnicities, and touches on the timeless themes of self-respect, the importance of family and coming of age. There's more here than just a running gag of ethnic stereotyping in Hollywood (easy enough to do, and particularly relevant a decade on from the Roots frenzy), and part of this depth is Townsend's ability to play with irony. In his dreams of breaking free of the choke-hold of ethnic stereotypes, Bobby dreams of passing beyond the white velvet rope into the land of superhero, macho and international stereotypes. Why can't he fight for truth & justice while wearing tights? Bed a woman on his desk? Or be a classically trained thespian with a Queen's English accent? And part of the humor in his stand-up shtick was Townend's contrast between what we saw and what we heard, particularly with the proper English accent. I've turned a class of 8th graders on to Undercover Brother, and now I think it's going to be interesting to have that same class of Chinese, Korean, Indian and British boys watch this film. I think it will move them, touch their hearts AND provide them with laughs. Like it's done me. "},{"Title":"An extremely charming and funny indie comedy gem","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Director/co-writer Robert Townsend gives a wonderfully engaging performance as eager and affable aspiring actor Bobby Taylor, who's having trouble getting that one major role that will launch his career. While waiting for his big break Bobby daydreams about being a movie star. Townsend delivers a pointed, incisive and often uproarious comic critique of racial stereotypes in mainstream Hollywood fare with a series of spot-on and frequently sidesplitting parodies. Sneakin' in the Movies, a hilariously rude spoof of TV review shows, rates as the definite gut-busting highlight two hip homeboys from the hood give their profane opinions on recent theatrical releases (they both give one flick they totally hate the finger!). Other amusing skits are Black Acting School (one of the courses is Jive Talk 101), the blaxploitation send-up Jivetime Jimmy's Revenge, and the tongue-in-cheek private eye romp Death of A Breakdancer. Townsend effortlessly carries the picture with his supremely amiable presence. Excellent supporting turns by Helen Martin as Bobby's loving grandmother, Anne-Marie Johnson as Bobby's loyal girlfriend Lydia, Starletta Dupois as Bobby's sweet mother, Craigus R. Johnson as Bobby's adorable younger brother Stevie, David McNight as Bobby's sad failure Uncle Ray, Keenan Ivory Wayans and Ludie Washington as a couple of shiftless hot dog stand workers, and Dom Irrera as a low-rent schlock movie screenwriter. Moreover, there's a palpable feeling of genuine heart and warmth in this film which in turn adds immensely to its considerable charm. A real delight. "},{"Title":"Had its moments","Date":"19 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The send-up of black stereotypes really stood out in one moment in the movie, where there's a TV commercial for the Robert Taylor Black Acting School where all the instructors are white and they teach African- American actors how to act black. Very sharp and so true.I know there's freedom of speech and so on, but seriously, the gratuitous swearing in Hollywood Shuffle turned me off. I know that people will say that swearing is part of life and movies need to reflect life, but really, I never heard anyone say after a movie I wish the movie had more swearing!! Really, when you think about it, the Batman trilogy didn't need to have swearing on every second line, but it became a mega-success. "},{"Title":"The Coon Repertory Theatre of America","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Non-white actors and actresses have faced an uphill battle since the earliest days of cinema. Even today, other than a privileged few superstars, many minority actors struggle to find roles. When they do get cast, it's often in a very limited breadth of stereotypical roles - whether it be the Asian nerd, the Middle Eastern terrorist, or the black gangster/thug. Actors often have to weigh their ethical qualms at playing a role they find tactless (or even out-and-out racist) against the practical demands of paying the bills.In Hollywood Shuffle, Robert Townsend shows the African-American side of these difficulties in the story of aspiring actor Bobby Taylor in late-80s LA. Bobby's story is interspersed with fantasy sequences that address and parody various popular films and genres.For an indie film, the visual look of Hollywood Shuffle is quite good. Apart from some actors playing multiple roles, you wouldn't think this had a budget barely over five figures. I certainly respect anyone who would self-fund a movie the way Townsend did, especially to draw attention to an important social issue such as this. However, the movie suffers from several problems. The balance of comedy and seriousness seems skewed, and the writing often seems very ham-handed and uneven. Many of the fantasy sequences are too long and drawn-out, and Bobby's story seems to suffer for it, feeling too simple and rushed. It feels like Townsend couldn't decide between two types of movie - one a silly comedic satire lampooning Hollywood from a black perspective, and the other a more serious story with a more wry sense of humour derived from his real experiences as a struggling actor - and so he just tried to make both (but succeeded at neither).Much of the movie seems like it would have been dated even at the time it was released. It feels like it would have been more at place if released five to ten years earlier, with references to Superman, Rambo, Dirty Harry, Roots and the jive-talking' blaxploitation genre that was so popular in the 70s (but, as far as I know, was long-dead by 1987). Perhaps this dated feeling is because of the big shift that was about to took place in the late 80s and early. Hip hop was growing and maturing into a real mainstream force, TV shows like In Living Color and The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air were soon to become huge hits, and more nuanced portrayals of urban black life like Do the Right Thing and Boyz n the Hood were in the pipeline. Now that's not to say that these new portrayals and perceptions of black characters and life weren't without their own particular problems - just that much of what Hollywood Shuffle presented feels like it would have been irrelevant by then.Overall, I agree with some of the other reviewers in the use of the word uneven. I'd like to give it more credit for its ambition and guts, but it seems like it didn't really have much effect on things.Final summary 4/10 | C- "},{"Title":"Townsend at his Best","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It was '92 or '93, I was home channel surfing and I saw Robert Townsend. I thought, I'll give this movie a shot, I like Robert Townsend. I caught the movie in the middle but I watched it to completion. This movie was such a riot that I went out and rented it so that I could see it from beginning to end. Robert Townsend had me in stitches.The movie is a comedy about the stereotyping that goes on in Hollywood. It follows a young aspiring actor named Bobby Taylor (Robert Townsend) and his arduous road to becoming a Hollywood star. It's done in almost skit style as Bobby Taylor lapses into a series of daydreams that puts him in different roles. Each daydream is just a ball of laughs. Townsend approaches a delicate subject in an hysterical manner but still drives home a good message.Absolutely my favorite Townsend performance. "},{"Title":"You will laugh and be enlightened!","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just had the pleasure of seeing this movie again but this time through the lens of an adult. I'm amazed at how smart and funny this movie is. The film is a humorous and yet sad satire on how blacks are betrayed in film and television. The film focuses on Bobby Taylor (Robert Townsend) as he attempts to become a successful actor. It features over the top white Hollywood casting agents, producers, and directors who provide feedback to black actors (in some cases classically trained) on how to act more black or be like Eddie Murphy. The film is set-up as a series of vignettes which are all good but I had two favorites. One is a vignette that involves a television show called Sneakin' in the Movies which is a parody of Siskel and Ebert reviews, involving two ghetto teenagers. They review four movies Amadeus meets Salieri, Chicago Jones and the Temple of Doom, Dirty Larry, and Attack of the Street Pimps. They're assessments, especially on what would really happen to Dirty Larry (a parody on the movie Dirty Harry) involve so many funny quotable lines that I dare you to not find yourself repeating one of them. The other vignette features Keenen Ivory Wayans as Jheri Curl. Now this second vignette might be hard to get unless you grew up in the 80s.Despite the topic, the film is not mean spirited but uses humor to educate us on the stereotypes we frequently see (even today) when it comes to blacks in film and TV and it's not hard to see how this enlightenment we have obtained would expand to other minorities and diverse groups like Hispanics, Asians, or gays. It's good to learn and laugh at the same time &#x96; Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Funny, Thought-Provoking, Intelligently Made Comedy Of Racial Prejudice In The Movie World","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bobby Taylor is an aspiring black actor in Hollywood who catches a big break as the lead in a movie called Jivetime Jimmy's Revenge. However, as he considers the negative and stereotyped portrayal of black people in films, he starts to have serious doubts about his dreams of stardom.Produced and directed on a shoestring by thirty-year-old Townsend, Hollywood Shuffle is both a terrific and sobering drama about prejudice in Tinseltown and a hilariously funny series of vignettes from Bobby's point of view, almost like some weird love child of Imitation Of Life and Monty Python. Townsend wisely keeps switching between the two at opportune moments, which reinforces the message, keeps us smiling and makes the drama all the more potent. All Bobby wants to do is live his dream - he didn't bargain on having to cope with the weight of his community's moral and social responsibility, and this of course is the dilemma anybody with a conscience in the public eye has to face. It's important to remember that at the time this movie was made there were virtually no mainstream African-American stars in Hollywood (hence the many references to Eddie Murphy). There may still be a long way to go (particularly for women), but things are better - Morgan Freeman, Laurence Fishburne, Denzel Washington, Will Smith and Samuel L. Jackson are household names now, and if nothing else Hollywood Shuffle may have changed some hearts and minds. The talented cast are great fun to watch, especially Woodard (Tyrone) and Johnson (Lydia, Willie Mae in the Mandingo bit, and the hooker at the end of Attack Of The Street Pimps), and all of the comedy is laugh-out-loud funny, particularly the Sneakin' In The Movies Siskel & Ebert spoof and the black-and-white private-eye flick, Death Of A Breakdancer. A great independent comedy bursting with talent and insight, and a wicked expose of stereotyping. For an even funnier (but not so socially redeeming) companion piece to this, don't miss co-writer Keenen Ivory Wayans' hilarious I'm Gonna Git You Sucka, made a year later. Respectfully dedicated to Adolph Caesar, who co-starred with Townsend in the 1984 adaptation of A Soldier's Story. "},{"Title":"ok debut for Townsend","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Robert Townsend directed wrote and produced this comedy with autobiographical moments as a black actor struggling to find work besides the usual stereotypical roles..Good insight into the racism that still exists today in the movies done in an uneven way but some comic gems are in here along with some other clever funny moments..on a scale of one to ten..5 "}{"Title":"Misses","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Much has been made of Hollywood Shuffle, Robert Townsend's debut film made at a very minimal cost.  Unfortunately, the material just isn't very funny. Townsend and his cast try hard, but this comedy is strictly hit or miss, and most of it misses.Vote 4 "}]