[{"Title":"Unable to understand vast dislike","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"78 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am aware of much of the criticism this movie received. Basically that it was awful and not worth seeing. To all those who have said such words I just have to ask, what movie were you watching? In my opinion Ishtar was a wonderful movie. It's about two grown men, whose only dream is to become great musicians but are so horrible that no one will have them but the tourist industry in Morocco. All the songs that these two, Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman, sing are written by Elaine May and I found them to be simply hysterical. Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman make a great team, with humor vaguely reminiscent of Woody Allen. This is one of the only movies in which you get to see Warren act in such a way. I would defiantly recommend it to anyone despite its poor reviews.  "},{"Title":"The Truth About Ishtar!","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"57 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is actually a brilliant comedy that utilizes the subtle jab to the funny bone rather than the thundering blow. Unfortunately, this type of humor died out sometime in the middle of the television show NEWHART's run. Why? Read The Wasteland! I don't know! Ishtar works in the same vein as Billy Wilder and Preston Sturges. No, the jokes do not come out and slap you in the face... You have to look for them to find them. Needless to say, do not rent this if you want a cathartic, mindless jolt. However, do not slam this movie just because it isn't slaptick or screwball. (Which are the only kind of comedies made anymore!) Elaine May comes from the comedy team of Nichols and May (Yes, Mike Nichols! In fact one could argue that the comedy in The Graduate is bad for the same reasons as the comedy in Ishtar is supposedly bad.). This duo practically perfected the witty, acerbic brand of humor which is now completely missed and misunderstood but was used masterfully in this film. In the age of Saturday Night Live and Ace Ventura, a comedy of this sort most assuredly would bomb and continue bombing. Nevertheless, if you are sick and tired of being force-fed ridiculously bad, hackneyed comedy then I suggest renting Ishtar (then buying some Nichols and May albums and watching the Bob Newhart reruns on Nick at Nite). Oh... Carter was President when I was born by the way...  This is not nostalgia! "},{"Title":"A truly under-rated film.","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"66 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have never understood the seemingly universal disapproval of this fine film.  Is it Reds?...No.  Is it Rain Man?...No.  Was it intended to be?...Of course not.Ishtar is a comedy of the first measure.  Start with two struggling musicians trying to make it big, who find themselves trapped in a circle of espionage and intrigue in a far away land.  Include some of the funniest text ever written for the big screen.  Add two of the greatest actors of our day, Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty, (both of whom are playing characters that could not be farther from the traditional roles that these actors have played, which was, I'm sure, a challenge in and of itself) and throw in a blind camel for good measure, and you have the recipe for a cinema classic. If this film had managed to avoid the negative press that it received early on, it would have gone done in history as one of the great comedies of the 1980's.  Now, everyone wants to be on the I hate Ishtar bandwagon.  It is truly unfortunate that this film has not received the credit that it deserves.Ishtar is not the most under-rated film ever, but it may be close. "},{"Title":"Nothing Great, But Often Very Funny","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"54 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If ISHTAR had starred Steve Martin and Chevy Chase, been directed by John Landis and shot for $10 million on a Hollywood sound stage, I think people would have enjoyed it for what it is, a sophomoric, silly road movie.However, it stars Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman, and was directed by Elaine May, a trio of actors and filmmakers who were known for comedy classics as HEAVEN CAN WAIT, THE HEARTBREAK KID and TOOTSIE. Therefore, people expecting to see the most brilliant American comedy of all time were shocked and appalled when, instead, they got a glorified Cheech and Chong movie.Is this fair? Yes and no. ISHTAR definitely falls flat at times. There are some curiously lifeless moments and awkward scenes that reek of last minute re-editing. The movie is far from perfect. But it is often very funny, and features two terrific, underrated performances from Beatty and Hoffman.Watching Beatty play such a well meaning dim-wit is a real treat. And Hoffman is just as good playing an equally dense, overly self-assured jerk. Elaine May and Paul William's intentionally awful songs are hilarious as well. People who criticize the quality of the songs or Beatty and Hoffman's vocal talent are obviously missing the joke, as both are SUPPOSED to be bad.A pre-obnoxiously conservative Charles Grodin adds plenty of laughs as a CIA agent, while Isabelle Adjani does well in a deceptively complex role, which requires her to play it totally straight while engaged in completely ludicrous scenes with Beatty and Hoffman.Beatty and Hoffman's interaction while trapped in the desert is classic. One of the movie's funniest moments involves the wind kicking up after they have been told by Adjani that there is no wind in the desert. Hoffman asks, Is the wind blowing? Beatty answers, This must be one of those once in a lifetime things, like the glaciers melting. If you don't find that funny, you'll hate this movie.But if dry, silly humor is your cup of tea, and you can view a movie without being overly distracted by it's star power, then you just might enjoy ISHTAR. It doesn't always work, but I found it to be pretty funny, with a fair amount of really great laughs. Considering the barrage of moronic, unfunny Hollywood comedies that have come and gone in it's wake, ISHTAR should be considered a triumph. "},{"Title":"Call me crazy, but...","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"39 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ishtar was great, I think defiantly every time by some off chance someone I come in contact with who has actually seen it cites it was the worst movie ever. I suppose it's part of cinematic pop culture to hold that opinion as a safeguard against being called a fool.The most charming quality of Ishtar is its consistently dry, tongue-and-cheek disposition. It offers brilliant insight to the types of people in the world that, despite the fact that to everyone else their talent is cheesy at best, continue to try and try.  Rogers and Clarke are the Every Men for that entire segment of the population with their songwriting musical act.Their third-rate, leisure-suit-wearing manager does his job by getting them a few gigs; the biggest gig of all is in Ishtar, a politically unstable Middle Eastern country. Which, of course, is unbeknownst to Rogers and Clarke, who are just reveling in their love of playing music. Their naivete (and sometimes outright stupidity) is a character unto itself, and plays brilliantly throughout the ridiculous adventure that they experience.I've seen Hoffman and Beatty in interviews joking about how they knew the movie was so bad that, instead of quitting, they simply got into the spirit by over-acting at parts. But, whether they know it or not, they were very REAL people, and THAT was the best part of all. "},{"Title":"Often misunderstood and truly funny...","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I am just old enough to remember the two movies of the same approximate era (1980s, anyway) that became synonymous with big-budget box office bombs Ishtar and Heaven's Gate. At the time, Ishtar was considered so bad as to be unwatchable. It was skewered and vilified so strongly that the critics rapidly drove it out of the theaters. Few--including me--ever had the nerve to rent the movie.It wasn't until roughly 10 years after its release that my in-laws introduced me to the comedic greatness that is Ishtar. To this day when I tell friends and family that I love Ishtar, it is somewhat like saying, enthusiastically, Hey, I just contracted leprosy! Such is the stigma that still lingers with this film.To the credit of critics, this is by no means a work of pure comedic genius.The movie has essentially one theme that works--the effortless cluelessness of Lyle and Chuck as the world's worst songwriters--and this is exhausted almost completely within the first 30 minutes. Still, it is a totally knee-slapping hilarious 30 minutes. The meandering remaining plot that takes them to Morocco for a singing gig and leads them to become CIA agents is what cemented the bad taste in the mouth of critics for time immemorial. This theme by the end of the movie is rather re-treaded and worn-out. We kind of want Warren and Dustin to just shut up by then.This second act suffers from a kind of Hope-Crosby wannabee syndrome, and the writing isn't up to the slapstick pedigree the movie had begun revealing quite hilariously in the first act. Considering this film came from the pen of Elaine May--of Nichols and May comedy duet fame--I would have expected more, but perhaps this movie spiraled out of her hands because of the oft-misunderstood first act. I could easily see studio test audiences handily rejecting it and thus twisting the movie's priorities out of whack.Still, Ishtar shouldn't be brushed aside as a mere footnote in movie history. It is worth watching for its true hilarity and the performances of both Hoffman and Beatty. "},{"Title":"my favourite movie as fun","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"35 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I know it's not the best. Arsenic and Old Lace is the top comedy of all time. Citizen Kane the greatest film. Gone with the Wind the greatest epic.Wizard of Oz the finest fantasy. And L.O.T.R. 1,2,3 trilogy is the ultimate film legend.But for me, Ishtar is pure fun. I saw it when it came out. Bought the video. Watch it twice a year and have my daughter hooked on it too.It's the Vinyl Cafe /Dave and Morley type of humour that gets me. I can't hold a tune with a forklift and I find the singing style and lyrics of Rogers and Clark inspirational.I feel for these guys. The Warren Beatty line to Dustin Hoffman  You'd rather have nothing, than settle for less.  reminds me of my own ( self-deprecating ) personal credo, 'Lower your standards and achieve! These innocents are taken on a journey of discovery through Ishtar and back home to the struggle against 'lives of quiet desperation.'  "},{"Title":"Its bad rep is undeserved","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For the most part, films that bomb badly usually deserve to, but Ishtar is a curious exception. For the life of me, I cannot understand the critical drubbing it took upon its initial release. Admittedly, it did go way over budget, and none of that opulence is visible on screen (the film has a murky and washed out look to it, and its sets and locales are not particularly impressive) but this is a comedy after all, and so lives or dies based on the quality of its jokes and situations, not its production design. And on that level Ishtar not only gets by but succeeds wonderfully.Beatty and Hoffman play two dim bulbs who fancy themselves songwriters and pair up in an attempt to become the next Simon and Garfunkel. The tortured lyrics these guys come up with must be heard to be believed, and the scenes showing them working on their songs or presenting their act to audiences are some of the most screamingly funny ever committed to film. If for no other reason than to see these scenes, you should rent the movie.Perhaps the film might have been funnier (and better accepted by critics) if it had focused exclusively on the show business dreams of its stars. However, early on the two get a booking to play an extended gig in Morocco (that alone should tell you how bad they are); they get waylaid in the fictional Middle Eastern country of Ishtar where they become inadvertently roped into a shady CIA dominated plot having something to do with rebellions, arm shipments and military coups. It's all rather hokey and confusing - but deliberately so, in the best screwball sense. And through it all Hoffman and Beatty truly shine the bafflement on their faces and in their gestures as they are shepherded from place to place as dupes in a plot they don't understand is just priceless. Who would have thought that two such intelligent actors could play stupid so convincingly (either one of them, for example, would have made a preferable sidekick to Jim Carrey than Jeff Daniels was in Dumb and Dumber - his performance showed all the strain of a bright guy trying to force himself into a pose of ineptitude). Even more, who would have imagined that two such prima donnas could put their egos aside to work off each other so well and become a truly great comedy TEAM? No matter how crazy the plot may get, Hoffman and Beatty are never less than a delight as they hold down the center of the film.Oh yeah, and if that weren't enough, there's also the treat of the wonderfully droll and deadpan Charles Grodin as the CIA operative in Ishtar. He's the villain of the piece, but his beautifully underplayed exasperation at the exploits of the two stars makes you like him almost as much as you do them.So what are you waiting for? If you like a good, well done comedy with sharp performances and a kooky atmosphere, check out Ishtar today. Don't allow all those sourpuss, stone-faced critics to ruin your fun.  "},{"Title":"Very Funny Movie","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"32 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have no idea why Ishtar is often called the worst movie ever made. It is rolling-on-the-floor, sidesplittingly hilarious!  The scene towards the beginning with Hoffman and Beatty writing *really* bad songs, and the ones later in the film with a very cantankerous camel had me laughing so hard tears were coming out of my eyes.  I saw the movie at the recommendation of a friend, without having heard any of the media hype, so I wasn't biased against it.  I can't understand why the critics bandwagoned against it so heavily.  They must have absolutely no sense of humor.  Maybe they were expecting another Reds or Little Big Man or something, instead of a higher-class Spies Like Us.Everyone I know thinks Ishtar is a very funny movie.  Even my mom liked it! "},{"Title":"You either get it or you dont. I got it.","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It constantly amazes me that some consider Ishtar as one of the worst movies ever. It is not citizen Kane nor was it meant to be. It made me chuckle, grin and laugh out loud. Silly me, I thought that was what a comedy was supposed to do. I have heard others criticize the music, *HELLO* it was supposed to be bad.  If you want great music listen to Mozart. If you are amused by farce listen to the words from the songs in Ishtar. They make me smile just thinking about them now. I think the thing that really stuck with me about this movie was the fact that Hoffman and Beatty really seemed to be having a good time making it and it shows. If you don't watch many comedies or are easily swayed by others comments, don't bother watching this movie. If you have a sense of humor and can think for yourself, do not rent this movie... Buy it. "}{"Title":"Don't believe the critics!","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I believe the big comedy of this year was Crocodile Dundee.  As far as I can remember, that movie had one good laugh in it and you could get that for free from the previews.  Ishtar, on the other hand, had me laughing hysterically for the first half hour and then continually snickering throughout.  The songs are funnier than anything in SpinalTap and the acting is among the best comedic acting from these two admittedly huge comic talents.  Give me Ishtar over Rain Man or Bugsy any day.  And don't ever try to sell me a blind camel! "},{"Title":"I Really Enjoy This Lambasted Movie","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Despite what was spent on this film and the awful reviews that followed (the latter based solely on the former), I really enjoyed this movie. The story of Rogers and Clarke, two would-be songwriters a la Simon and Garfunkel is genuinely funny and worth repeated viewings just to catch all the gags and the intentionally awful lyrics. Paul Williams wrote the songs with the help of director Elaine May and they provide hilarity throughout the film.According to Leonard Maltin, the movie is structured like a Hope-Crosby outing with shades of 'Road to Morocco'. I have never seen a film in the 'Road to...' series so I have to take Maltin's word for it.Beatty and Hoffman play songwriters who meet one day and find they have the same dream. They both have tunes in their heads that distract them from their lives, their girlfriends and their jobs to such a degree that they pursue a songwriting career together. The trouble is that their songs are so bad, the lyrics so painful, that their agent (the late Jack Weston) can only get them booked in Morocco, bordering the fictional country of Ishtar.The story opens with a sampling of songs written by Lyle Rogers (Beatty) and Chuck Clarke (Hoffman). They range from the hysterical (She said, 'Come look, there's a wardrobe of love in my eyes/Take your time, look around, maybe see something your size.) to the insane (If you admit that you can play the accordion/No one will hire you in a rock and roll band.). In flashbacks we see how they meet and the events leading up to their professional partnership. It must have been May who, in an inspired move, cast Hoffman as the ladies' man and Beatty as the dense Southern hick. That Hollywood joke will last long after they're gone.Once in Morocco, they unwittingly become pawns in an overthrow of Ishtar; Lyle for, Chuck against. Or is it the other way around? Anyway, the story turns away from the songwriting plot and concentrates on blind camels, dopey CIA agents and Sheira Aselle, a left-wing beauty played by Isabelle Adjani. She recruits Chuck and Lyle to find her dead brother's map, and winds up having feelings for them both. Meanwhile, Jim Harrison, a CIA man played by Charles Grodin, convinces Chuck that Lyle is a clever Communist and pays Chuck for everything Lyle says. This eventually leads them out into the desert, hopelessly lost and dying of thirst. When things look their worst under the burning hot sun, Lyle turns to Chuck and says, My lips are on fire. To which Chuck replies, With my desire! Nothing keeps these two from possibly writing the next hit song. Therein lies the true surprise of this movie. It never goes in the direction you would think. There are constant left turns with riotous results.After an attempt to get some drinking water from a band of desert gunrunners (there is a hilarious scene with Hoffman pretending to speak several North African dialects as an arms auctioneer), the film ends with a shoot-out between our heroes and the CIA hit men who want these two 'messengers of God' out of the picture. With the help of Sheira and Abdul (their guide and hash connection) they overpower their pursuers and yell out, F*** you twice! for good measure.What the film may be telling us is that keeping a song in your heart at all times is a sure way to escape your troubles. No matter how bad things get, if you pursue your dream it will happen for you. In order to get their first live album produced, Rogers and Clarke make a deal with Jim Harrison concerning social reforms in Ishtar and the blessed map. The way these two sing, this seems to be the only way it could ever be produced.Although 'Ishtar' is more of a comedy than a musical, I felt it paid homage to a type of filmmaking that is not seen anymore. Even if the songs will never become standards, they are rather memorable in a demented sort of way (according to the end credits, the soundtrack is available). At least the songs fit into the story of the lives of these two guys. The songs from a movie like 'Down Argentine Way' were nothing more than musical interludes. I think the film succeeds on the levels of both parody and originality. It is definitely worth a look.Aside Does anyone have the soundtrack to this film. I would like to know how to get a copy. Please e-mail me at if you can help.  "},{"Title":"underrated classic","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I recall this movie was panned before it was even released to the public. At the time it was also very expensive to produce. I found it to be one of the funnier movies of the period and even now nearly 20 years later I still find it very funny. If you get the chance you should rent this movie because the TV version is edited and does not do it justice. Some might think I am crazy for saying this, but I feel this movie is a classic! I think at the time Hollywood politics doomed it for a less than stellar showing at the box office. I remember hearing for weeks before and even after it came out about how it was one of the most expensive movies ever made! Someone must have been upset about it and decided that no matter what it would be a flop. Again, I urge you to go rent it and decide for yourself if it is a classic or not? "},{"Title":"Better than you you can imagine","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" No one who hates this movie has ever seen it. Most folks don't realize that most critics actually liked this movie upon its release.If this movie had avoided all of the bad publicity from the outrageous cost of production, it would have been released to audiences eager to embrace the combination of broad and dark comedy in which the film indulges.I saw it during it's original theatrical release and the audience gave it a standing ovation.The songs are precious and hilarious. They make the movie. I'm not sure how well it has aged for new audiences, but I encourage everyone to give it a try.You will not catch a disease from it. Trust me. "},{"Title":"lay off all of you baboons!","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The people who rip this movie for being boring and expensive don't understand what its really about. the film has terrible songs featured in it BUT THAT IS THE POINT! the songs are so terrible that they are ridiculously funny. the film's stars, beatty and Hoffman display an incredible talent at being morons, considering at the time they were both sex symbols revered as the coolest of cool. the film is a very funny and witty adaptation of ROAD TO RIO with bing crosby and bob hope. i loved this movie, and you should to if you don't take it seriously. p.s. And about it being overpriced, it cost $40 million, a large sum for the time yes, but 50 FIRST DATES with Adam Sandler cost more that $40 million. $51 exactly. "},{"Title":"Telling the truth is a dangerous business...","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There really are no words to describe the greatness that is Ishtar. All I can say is this go out and see it RIGHT NOW. Yes, that's right, NOW.It's a touching and heartfelt tale of two friends trying to make it in the cold, harsh, cutthroat world of music and entertainment, with only each other to depend on.Accompanied by the genius acting skills of Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman, this tragic story will make you laugh, cry, and love every minute of it.Telling the truth is a dangerous business, honest and popular don't go hand in hand. If you admit you can play the accordion, they'll never hire you in a rock-and-roll band. BUT WE CAN SIIIIIING OUR HEARTS OUT!!! "},{"Title":"Great movie, except ends too soon.","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Believe it or not Ishtar is one of my favorite comedies, along with Monty Python and the Holy Grail, Blazing Saddles, Ghost Busters, Blues Brothers, and the Life of Brian. This movie really has a bad rap. Except for the very end where Hoffman and Beatty are singing in a nightclub, it is hilarious. The beginning in New York is a little slow, but once they arrive in Ishtar, the plot and comedy roll along wonderfully until the too early ending. I bought a VHS tape version, and have watched it many times with my kids. They love it too.If you're a fan of the old Hope & Crosby road movies, you should enjoy Ishtar. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"People who don't like Ishtar haven't watched it","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It drives me nuts when people use Ishtar as a short hand for bad movie. The first 20 minutes alone are worth the price of purchase, just to watch Warren and Dustin create terrible, terrible music, with such impassioned love of the creative process. There are weaker moments in the plot lines, but it doesn't matter because the comic set pieces totally work (the gun auction, the big hotel performance, the blind camel). The people I've met who actually sat down and watched this movie loved it. Those who denigrate it never saw it. If you don't like the first song writing bits, turn it off and declare yourself without a sense of humour. "},{"Title":"off-beat charm","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's too bad when a film gathers a reputation that prevents people from even checking it out for themselves. Despite its drawbacks, seeing Beatty and Hoffman play against type - Beatty the bumbling but sincere, shy nerd and Hoffman as the outgoing, ladies man is well worth the price of admission (or rental, in this case.) But the primary reason to see this is to enjoy the musical numbers. Obviously the actors had a ball doing those scenes and put their hearts and souls into their performances. Those numbers are very funny and portray a realistic segment of the entertainment industry. Believe me, those tunes will stick in your mind and bring a smile to your lips when you recall Beatty and Hoffman performing them. "},{"Title":"Like watching one of the most expensive train wrecks in history","Date":"6 May 2009","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When ISHTAR began, I marveled at the insane casting. First, you have two men who have no musical talent whatsoever. This is the shtick of the film but it doesn't work well. Such a musical team should have at least some possibility of someone enjoying their songs as professional singers. These two (Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty) have absolutely no talent and their casting as singers is way beyond an acting stretch--it just seems stupid. Second, Beatty's character in particular is awful. Who in their right minds would believe that he is an uneducated working stiff who's had jobs as an ice cream man, a gas station attendant and a factory worker?!? And, when he tells Hoffman that he's jealous of him because Hoffman is so good with ladies, it is just dumb....BEATTY of all people complaining that he can't get a girlfriend!?! Talk about ridiculous!! Third, it's a comedy...with Hoffman and Beatty?! Sure, Hoffman did TOOTSIE, but Warren Beatty and a comedy? What were they thinking?! Fourth, I think Beatty was supposed to be playing a Texan, as occasionally he had an exaggerated accent that sounded somewhat like a Texas accent. Beatty...as a Texan?! Yeah...right. So, at the outset the film just made no sense at all and you wondered if either Hoffman and Beatty were THAT out of touch or it was the director (Eileen May) who was certifiably crazy. My assumption is that both possibilities are true! Of course, for $5 million each, I guess I can understand why they'd agree to such stupid roles.The film begins with Hoffman and Beatty meeting and forming a musical team. Unable to get work as an act in America, their agent offers them a job in Honduras as well as the fictional land of Ishtar (in North Africa). They choose Ishtar and find themselves in the middle of a revolution. Beatty is recruited by the Leftists (probably since they'd seen REDS and knew his political bent) and Hoffman is recruited by the wacky CIA agent, Charles Grodin. Unfortunately, both have no idea why they agree to do what they're doing and it looks again and again like they'll be killed. Sadly, they seem impossible to kill and they have many wacky adventures. Sounds kooky, huh? Well, no...it's not. Instead, it all seems very, very forced and not all that funny. Who thought the CIA and revolutions and these two guys were funny?! Now, it's obvious from my review that I disliked this movie. The question, then, is this as bad as the reviewers said? Yes and no. The film is tolerable to watch (particularly if you think the CIA is the ultimate evil on Earth and are looking to confirm this). It is about as good as a second-rate made for cable TV movie. However, considering the film cost a hundred bazillion dollars and took director May decades to finish editing (or so it seemed to the studios who threatened lawsuits to get her to complete the film), the results are stupefyingly bad. This might just be one of the worst films made--dollar for dollar. Certainly not among the worst films ever made...but still quite bad. Only of interest to the very, very curious or those who enjoy pain...lots of unrelenting pain. "}{"Title":"A great movie, at the wrong time","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ishtar was a hilarious comedy, but doomed to failure by the time period in which it was released. Think about it. It was the 80s - the decade of Rocky and the A-Team. People came into the theater expecting Warren Beatty and his partner to fight crime in the Middle East while occasionally throwing off a glamorous joke. Instead, what they got was a pair of bumbling oafs - songwriters, no less - BAD songwriters, no less - who never even realize they're saving the world.In a nutshell, Ishtar was too smart for the 1980s. It tried to rely on the hilarious twisting around of roles, from talentless musician to talentless hero, which didn't penetrate the audience. And the singing sequences, which had me in stitches, just bounced off the audience (which expected the lead characters to be very good but unappreciated, as they again couldn't fathom a movie without a hero.)The second thing that killed it was the bad press it got. Everyone commenting on its being the worst movie of the decade meant even those who would have the capacity to understand it, even today, start out with an initial prejudice. Just watch Ishtar as a subversive anti-hero comedy, and you'll understand its genius. "},{"Title":"We're Off On The Road To Ishtar, This Camel Is Tough On The Spine","Date":"24 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Though the Morocco it's set in is a complete Hollywood fable, The Road To Morocco with its back lot sets and economical budget still provides more laughs than Ishtar does. With Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty trying to take the place of Crosby and Hope, they might have better cast Arthur Shields and Barry Fitzgerald as Frenchmen.About the only thing that rings true is having Hoffman and Beatty as a pair of fourth rate entertainers, guys so bad that their agent gets them a booking in North Africa where the local populace will accept anything in the way. Neither has any musical talent unlike Bob and Bing.Once arriving in North Africa with a booking in the mythical kingdom of Ishtar these two get involved with the Dorothy Lamour of the piece in Isabelle Adjani. They also get involved with CIA operative Charles Grodin who is lucky in that these two are the perfect pair of useful idiots for his nefarious schemes.The laughs rarely come if at all in Ishtar, it lays a most expensive egg. Elaine May won a Razzie for worst director and Warren Beatty got a nomination for worst actor. Poor Elaine, though she's written other films, she's rarely been asked to direct again.If you're fascinated by 20 car pile-ups on a freeway, than Ishtar is definitely your film. "},{"Title":"Great laughs, worth watching","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw Ishtar in the theater when it first came out, and I had never heard an audience laugh so hard before.  Everyone there (I recall the theater was pretty much packed) loved it.  When it came out on video I was working in a small video store.  The negative reviews had been out for some time, and everyone decided it was a lame movie without even seeing it.  But every time I played this movie in the store, someone would ALWAYS end up asking me to take it out of the VCR so they could rent it.  And as far as I remember, no one who rented it ever said they hated it!  I'm glad to see so many positive comments posted here.  It really is a very clever and funny movie, and I would recommend it to anyone.  I still suggest it to people who are looking for a fun movie.  This definitely is one of the most underrated movies I've seen.  Go ahead and watch it! "},{"Title":"Funny movie","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie isn't any where near as bad as the critics say. It's no masterpiece of film and won't become your favorite comedy, but I thought it was very funny throughout. It does get boring in a couple of places, but most movies suffer from a boring scene or two. Also, most of the negative reviews I've read on here mention that the singing is horrible. Don't pay attention to those reviews. Why? BECAUSE THE SINGING AND THE SONGS ARE SUPPOSED TO BE HORRIBLE!!! Why would good singers only be able to get a gig in Ishtar? If they were supposed to be good singers, they'd be in New York, LA or Las Vegas, not in Ishtar.  "},{"Title":"A great film with undeserved bad press. I want a DVD version!","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I wonder how many of the people who voted on this movie actually saw it. If they did many of them would have liked it. Look at Weird al Yankovic's film UHF. It died in the box office but when released on dvd it was a top seller on amazon.com for weeks. Ishtar was given a bad release date. If you sit down and watch it, you will realize that it is not nearly as bad and boring as what the media said (and still does say) about it. It lost much money but bigger losers have DVD releases. Hudson Hawk lost a lot. Cutthroat Island had a much bigger loss than Ishtar and yet it has a DVD version. Ishtar is so badly underrated. When I heard this movie was a major failure, I wanted to see it to find out why. I am glad I saw it and I bought a copy very soon after.Unfortuantely when a movie gets a bad reputation like this it is rare that it recovers. "},{"Title":"What's wrong with it?","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't see why this is considered the worst movie ever made. It's not bad, ok it's cheesy, but at least it is supposed to be cheesy. All I can say is I have seen a lot worse movies...Hey it made me laugh! "},{"Title":"Under-rated","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was grossly under-rated. It got a bad reputation from critics and most people jumped on board because they are incapable of independent thought. People went to the movie with the idea that they weren't going to like it. There is a small faction out there who appreciate the movie for what it really is entertainment.This movie has drama, comedy, multiple plots that all come together in the end, and stupid little things we have all done. It was well done in that it had elements based on reality--espionage, love, work. It is a great piece of satire about covert intelligence.It was a great movie and I watch it over and over and over again. I loved it! "},{"Title":"THIS IS Unbelievable","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie, which was panned, makes as much sense as a get smart episode and that is the whole point! The dialog is absolutely hilarious. It is not for the meek of mind. CIA 1 The KGB is here. I recognize two agents CIA 2 Q The ones dressed as Texans? CIA 1 A No. The ones dressed as Arabs. The ones dressed as Texans are Arab agents. I also Recognize two guys from Turkish intelligence. CIA 1 QIn the Hawaiian shirts? CIA 2 A No. The Bermuda shorts. The ones in the Hawaiian shirts are tourists.CIA BOSS The camel. Move the camel. Hoffman Move the camel. Where? CIA BOSS Anywhere. He's on my foot. Hoffman SORRY! CIA BOSS What the hell's the matter with that camel? ls he blind? Hoffman Yeah. "},{"Title":"Great movie for anyone needing a good laugh!","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What can I say? This is my favorite movie. Only after watching it 6 or 7 times did I pick up all the dialog. This has some of the funniest lines I have ever heard in one place. I grew up in a church where every Wednesday night was amateur night. No one would ever tell these people they had no talent...so it went on and on. Rogers & Clark remind me so much of these evenings, except for the wit. Wednesday night church was funny, but not on purpose. I applaud Elaine May and Paul Williams for the lyrics. Just too funny for words. I have worn out one VHS and am on my second. I would love to find it on DVD. This is the kind of movie you need to share with friends. The reason I believe it was not accepted by a larger audience is the role reversal of Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman. That is part of the fun for me. Whenever I am blue, I pull out the movie and have a good laugh. It makes my life a little more bearable. I recommend this movie to anyone who is intelligent enough to catch the humor and warped enough to appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Wow... what's with the low rating?","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I watched Ishtar last night (at 1am) I knew nothing about how well it was received, or even what it was about. I just knew it was called Ishtar and had Dustin Hoffman in it. All I can say is I found this movie to be a really great fun piece of entertainment, that for one reason or another kept me awake until the later hours of the early hours of the morning. Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty star as Chuck Hawk Clarke and Lyle Rogers, two terrible lounge singers who get involved in international espionage. Stop. Read that last line back. Do you understand? Now are you really going to sit and watch the film and say this is ridiculous and not enjoy it, or are you going to accept it and have a ball. I thoroughly enjoyed this film, I was completely engaged from beginning to end, and while I may not have laughed out loud at all the gags, I can say that nearly all of them at least raised a smile. "}{"Title":"Worst movie ever made","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It has been a long long time since I watched this movie and one might say that it is somewhat unfair that I post a review of it without having seen it recently. Then again, I do not need to have a lobotomy to know it is a bad idea and I do not wish to lose any more time to this abysmal movie.I was only motivated to post after reading the inordinate number of glowing reviews about this drek. This film has no redeeming qualities at all. I cannot even ascribe to the view that it is so bad that it is funny.A comedy should provoke laughter or at least a small giggle the best I could manage was a groan. "},{"Title":"A Comedy Classic!!!","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am very happy to see so many positive reviews on Ishtar!!  I can't understand why this movie was reviewed so badly. This is one movie that I watch over and over and still crack up laughing.  Between their horrible song writing there's a wardrobe of love in my eyes, come in, take a look and see if there's something in your size, the way the CIA pitted them against each other, searching for a blind camel (and through it all, they were still writing horrible songs, and when in the desert we don't need a pencil.  Bottom line, I am a HUGE Ishtar fan and for those who don't get it or didn't see it because of the bad reviews, their loss!!! "},{"Title":"When is it going to be available on DVD","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I personally do not understand how anyone cannot like this movie.  As a whole I cannot really recall many comedies that I would call great movies, and this is not a great movie.  It is certainly one of my favorite comedies, though.  Come on, you have Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman has bad singer/songwriters.  What more can you ask for?  And they seem so sincere in the process.  Maybe I'm just too big of an Adjani fan. "},{"Title":"Only at the IMDb","Date":"12 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm sorry, but there is virtually no terrible film in history that doesn't have these insane If you don't love this, you're stupid or don't get it kinds of really ridiculous adulatory praise. I saw Ishtar on its opening night. The theater was full. There was, listen to me VERY carefully, not one laugh ever. The full theater was half-full by the thirty minute mark. By the end it was a third full. So to come here and read these reviews where people actually say that it's a brilliant comedy (well, how many people are actually saying it?) like they are somehow so clued in to what comedy is and anyone who doesn't like it is somehow an idiot - well, no, we're not the idiots. I have, in fact, just finished watching it again twenty-three years later. Some movies do age well and I hoped that I'd reassess my original thoughts. But alas, from scene one on it's a mess, it isn't ever funny, and it lumbers along with some of the worst pacing ever put on the screen. The only one who escapes unscathed is Isabelle Adjani. Everyone else is embarrassing, the most embarrassing being Mr. Hoffman and Mr. Beatty. There is such smugness behind this film and it reeks of it. This film didn't bomb because it had a huge budget. This film bombed because - wait for it - it was bad. Not funny. That's a problem for a purported comedy. So, to those who say things like, what movie did you see? I have to say, I saw the movie these people made. I don't sit home in some fantasy-laden hazy state thinking a movie like this is the same as a movie by Preston Sturges and Billy Wilder. I don't laugh because I know the film was a bomb and that most people with a brain hated it then and hate it now, as if I'm better than them because I get it. It's a little shocking actually, until you look at the film's overall all rating here - which is a lot more accurate than these silly love letters to mediocrity. "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful in an interesting sort of way","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ishtar is a very interesting film with very good actors. The movie was said to be a flop but it did hold the number one spot in the box offices in it's first weeks. Many people believe that Ishtar was a horrible film and that it was a complete waste of time. I think on the other hand, that this film was well written and extremely funny. Every time my family and I watch it we laugh histerically and cannot control ourselves. If you are looking for a film that you can thoroughly enjoy and not have to strain yourself figuring out the plot than this is the movie you have been waiting to see. The writers were both witty and inventive when they wrote this movie. It will always be one of my favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as they say","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Many call Ishtar the worst movie of all time. I will admit that Ishtar is a little slow, but the humor is creative. There are far worse movies that seem to do well. It is not the best movie of all time, but if you actually catch all the subtle jokes, and great one liners, you might actually appreciate this movie. Very funny if you have an attention span beyond that of a 2 year old, and can appreciate a dry sense of humor. Watch a couple of times assuming that it might be OK, listen to the lyrics of the songs. The line It takes a lot of guts to have nothing at your age, but you say 'Heck with it, I'd rather have nothing than settle for less' is just one of many great phrases used in the movie. I hope for a day when I can get a DVD of Ishtar. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I never understood why 'Ishtar' received such bad reviews. I personally laughed myself silly at these two big stars, obviously enjoying themselves so much in their crazy parts. I think Beatty and Hoffman work well together as a comedy team. Just watch them in the schmuck/smuck scene their facial expressions and vocal intonations are fantastic. Or Lyle (Beatty) in a fight with a turban, and the turban almost wins! Or Chuck (Hoffman) in a weapon's deal (I don't speak Arabic, I only know all the Berber dialects...). Of course the plot is insane, but I'd rather see these two guys doing comedy than, say, today's 'comedy hero' Ben Stiller and friends.This is top notch humor, the two huge stars are not afraid to totally get into the self depreciating humor and make the characters as silly, yet still recognizable as 'real life schmucks' as possible.There ARE people like that out there. The 'Chuck Clarke's' of the world, who despite everything going against them keep believing they are one day going to make it big because they're really misunderstood geniuses.Or the Lyle Rogers' of the world, who're always following in the footsteps of someone they actually buy into being 'great'.To Lyle, Chuck is someone to look up to, possibly because Lyle is so painfully shy and insecure not to mention - let's face it - borderline retarded, that anyone who can out volume his whispery speaking voice must be a person who knows exactly what he is talking about. Enter Chuck, who needs a (as he calls it) 'schmuck' like Lyle beside him just to feel good about himself. Of course the characterizations are greatly exaggerated, but who cares? It makes for one hilarious movie. Not forgetting Charles Grodin whose deadpan performances are always good for a laugh.'Ishtar' a bad movie? Much worse stuff and much more expensive stuff hits the theaters on a regular basis and undeservedly gets praised into heaven. 'Ishtar' is hilarious and to be recommended for anyone who needs a belly aching laugh. "},{"Title":"I think you people are missing the point!","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ishtar was never considered to be a bad film - the point was it went over budget thanks to the costly desert shoots (having to move sand back to how it looked the previous day) and therefore never made nearly enough money to cover the costs. The film itself is excellent. Who'd have thought two great actors like Beatty and Hoffman would make a comedy duo. The songwriting sequences are comedy-genius and perhaps the film is taken too seriously by those that dislike it. If you haven't seen it, find it, rent it, buy it, whatever..this is a great film will have you laughing throughout. "},{"Title":"Hardly the Worst","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I picked up this video for I have heard of its reputation for years, always one to make up my own mind I rented sat down and watched.  This movie was corny, it was hard to believe the characters annoyed you, and the music was awful; and you will laugh the whole way through it.  Any person who did not see this movie as an off beat slapstick comedy is disturbed.  Really a blind camel?  This movie had me rolling on the floor laughing; the scenes were outrageous and played with a straight face that one is reminded of what Police Squad and Leslie Nielsen.  I cannot understand why this movie was so panned, by critics, it is a joy to watch and worth your time just to forget about your cares, I only wish more movies chose to entertain rather than enlighten. "},{"Title":"I LOVE this movie","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I am an intelligent, discerning 57 year old professional, and I have seen this movie dozens of times and it ALWAYS makes me laugh. I have subjected my children and friends to watching it, often having to beg them to open their minds and not be biased by ignorant Ishtar bashers. And not one of them has hated it. In fact, most have had to admit what a truly funny movie this is, and what amazing acting Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman have achieved (and how much fun it must have been for them to play the roles of Chuck the Hawk and Lyle). What was all that bad press about anyway? I just don't get it. If you liked Blazing Saddles, High Anxiety, Superbad, Knocked Up, Shedevil (another underrated great movie), you'll probably enjoy Ishtar, if you let yourself. "}{"Title":"Such A Pity That So Many Slander A Good Movie.","Date":"1 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ishtar focuses on two very untalented lounge singers who are desperate for a gig. Eventually, they get booked to perform in Morocco, where they end up getting caught up in political problems.I had heard a large amount of negative things about this movie, but I must say, that when I watched it, I laughed myself silly. How a movie like this gets so much negative criticism is beyond me, as I found it to be hysterical, fun, and downright entertaining. When I had heard that Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty where staring in this movie, I really became interested in seeing it. Just in 2013, this movie got a long awaited Blu-Ray release, and so I bought it. And when I watched it, I enjoyed every single minute of it. Seeing Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman perform these absolutely ridiculous songs is absolutely hilarious, especially when considering that although it is obvious that they do not have any talent as far as their singing and songwriting goes, the two of them believe that they are talented, and as a result, they come up with classics like Dangerous Business, Hot Fudge Love, and many more laugh out-loud outrageous numbers. And on top of all of that, while in Morocco, they get into a lot of trouble, and bring out a lot of laughs in the process.As I just said, there are numerous hilarious scenes to be found in this movie. Among them include whenever Beatty and Hoffman are performing, as their music is awful. Then there's a scene involving them with a blind camel, in which they end up causing trouble in a marketplace, not to mention the scene where one of them is attempting suicide and the other one is trying to talk him out of it. How somebody could not laugh at things as funny as these, I'll probably never know. I guess that considering the big name people attached it, and since it was Warren Beatty's follow-up to his 1980 movie, Reds, they were probably expecting a masterpiece, and when they didn't get what they were expecting, the Ishtar Hate bandwagon was born, and because of that, it ends up not getting the credit and the love that it deserves, although there are some who do like it.Say what you will about Ishtar, but I am standing by what I believe, this movie is hysterical. I wasn't expecting this movie to be like Reds, but I did find it to be hysterical and totally and completely enjoyable. If I was given the opportunity to watch this movie again, I would definitely do it, as it's got loads of laughs in it. Hey, even my family enjoyed it. However, if you do decide to give this movie a chance and watch it, then I would advise that you throw away whatever preconceived notions you may have heard about it, and keep an open mind. If you do, then the chances of you enjoying the movie will be better than if you don't keep an open mind. Mr. Hoffman and Mr. Beatty, you both did fine work on Ishtar, it's a hilarious movie through and through.10/10 "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I urge you to see it with an open mind. There's something for everyone here, though the two male leads were overcast. Two terrible lounge singers get booked to play a gig in a Moroccan hotel but somehow become pawns in an international power play between the CIA, the Emir of Ishtar, and the rebels trying to overthrow his regime. I thought this film was fantastic in some ways and terrible in others. Great performances help to enhance this story of friendship. No matter what anyone says, this is utterly fantastic, an eye-popping cinematic treat. I will never understand the hate for this movie. I found it to be sensational! "},{"Title":"The Crosby-Hope Road movies meet Spinal Tap","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Naive American civilians and a hypocritical, amoral CIA blunder into the Middle East tinder box with its web of Shiite and tribal wars and a roiling opposition to the entrenched Arab despots -- some supported by the US. No, that's not the latest Oliver Stone. Or CNN. It's Elaine May's 1987 comedy Ishtar, which the critics numbered among the worst films ever made. That's how far ahead of its time Ishtar was. Though she continued to write, even collaborating with Ethan Coen and Woody Allen on a recent Broadway omnibus, May hasn't directed another movie since. Now that the DVD release won positive reviews in the New York Times and here on IMDb, I'm glad to see the film is finally getting its due. In this film May combined the form of the Crosby-Hope Road movies with the spirit of Rob Reiner's 1984 mockumentary, This is Spinal Tap. Dustin Hoffman (Chuck) and Warren Beatty (Lyle) respectively play the Hope and Crosby song and dance men, but with two twists. First, May plays Beatty against his reputation as legendary stickman and denies him Crosby's romantic edge over the delusional Hope character. Here Beatty is shy among women and incompetent. His Lyle doesn't recognize a woman when he wrestles with her. Even when he holds her breasts. Astonishingly, the critics failed to pick up Elaine May's tongue in chic.Secondly, the men are terrible composers and singers. (But Beatty and Hoffman are brilliant in performing mediocrity.) This is where it draws from Spinal Tap. Like that group Chuck and Lyle have a musical ambition entirely incommensurate with their talent and sensitivity. The bathetic lyrics by May and Paul Williams emblematize the shallow sentimentality and naivety of American culture. A doo-wop trio sing I'm quitting high school cause you don't like me. Here Lyle neatly encapsulates the genre's cloying sweetness Hot fudge love, cherry-ripple kisses. Lip-smacking, back-slappin', perfectly delicious. Yet as Chuck lauds another Lyle banality, Shit man, when you're on you're on.This musical silliness shades into the film's political theme when Shirra Assel (Isabelle Adjani, playing the Dorothy Lamour role of exotic temptress) warns the smitten Americans that This is an ancient devious world, and you come from a young country. Promise me you will keep my secret without trying to understand it. By film's end the freedom fighter/terrorist has improbably grown misty-eyed over the clods. She flouts her cell to save their lives. In 1987, of course, the audience could still absolve a freedom fighter of terrorism.Our American heroes are completely unable to handle the area's politics, as the government, freedom fighters and CIA all resolve to kill them. That world is so dangerous that even a simple code -- say, I want to buy a blind camel -- can freeze into a burdensome reality. Their completely unfounded musical ambition and confidence are a desperate attempt to suppress their real sense of their own failure. They have their moments. The scene where Chuck is forced to to fake Berber lingo to auction off black market weaponry is a classic of Hopey bafflegab. He stumbles into effectiveness when he pulls a cry out of the very quality he needs to succeed here. Chuck stretches Chutzpah (yiddish for huge nerve) into Chutzpah-yi-yi! When an extemporized shriek carries such wit and weight you know the script is a work of masterful intelligence.And why wouldn't it be? It's Elaine May, the genius of those sharp-eared satiric skits she did with Mike Nichols. She wrote and directed those shrewd satires, A New Leaf and The Heartbreak Kid, and the brilliant Mikey and Nicky, where she outdid John Cassavetes on his own territory. Elaine May couldn't make a dumb movie. She had already worked with Warren Beatty on the script of his Heaven Can Wait (1978) and would co-write Mike Nichols' Clinton parable, Primary Colors (1998). But in its political satire Ishtar is closer -- indeed a companion piece -- to Nichols' Charlie Wilson's War (2007). The notorious Ishtar, far from being ineffectual, prepared for those later political satires and also, with its awful music and lyrics, the new genre of Cringe Comedy, like the Christopher Guest mockumentaries, the work of Ricky Gervais, and TV series like the transplanted The Office, Girls and Veep. "},{"Title":"Like stealing from a corpse...","Date":"1 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Certainly not as bad as its reputation would lead you to believe, but it's no real surprise that this Elaine May film is not hysterically funny. The basic premise (two bad singer/songwriters get booked to perform in war torn Middle East country) is simply not the stuff of laughs. The film is not fun and there's nary an acid-tinged line of dialog as in May's previous A NEW LEAF & THE HEARTBREAK KID and later THE BIRDCAGE. As the hapless duo, Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty seem to be holding back their energy. They're lifeless, especially Beatty. Nevertheless, there are a few assets. May and cinematographer Vittorio Storaro capture a lot of desert beauty and Charles Grodin (as a deadpan government man) gets all the laughs there are. He steals the movie, but that's tantamount to stealing from a corpse. The large supporting cast includes Isabelle Adjani, Jack Weston (as the duo's seedy agent), Carol Kane & Tess Harper. It's a trifle to be sure. "},{"Title":"A Sad Misfire","Date":"15 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There is so much talent involved in this movie, what happened? The cast and crew have a combined lifetime 61 Oscar nominations and 16 wins. How could this not be a better movie? It is well produced, the cinematography and costumes are fine and well done. The main flaws are the poorly written screenplay, the paper thin plot and the lack of spark from the main stars. It's not without some funny moments, but they are too scarce. The humor wears thin in less than an hour and it becomes a challenge to stay interested in the plot. The lovely Isabelle Adjani is wasted. Charles Grodin does score in a supporting role and outshines the rest of the cast. "},{"Title":"After 24 years, I finally got to see how Ishtar got its bad reputation...","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Just went to the movie site Crackle to watch this big comedy flop that starred Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman and was written and directed by Elaine May. While what I watched was indeed a convoluted mess, there were many moments that I highly enjoyed liked many of the intentionally badly written songs provided by Paul Williams, Ms. May, and Beatty & Hoffman, respectively. There was also a hilarious auction scene with Dustin doing many gibberish stylings that has to be seen to be believed. Leading lady Isabelle Adjani has some nice straight scenes with either leading man that made me smile a little. And Charles Grodin provides some hilarity near the end as a U.S. agent. So despite the unevenness of the whole thing, Ishtar was quite enjoyable for me. "},{"Title":"Not as bad...","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You could be forgiven for believing Elaine May's Ishtar was one of the five biggest financial disasters in Hollywood &#x96; the others being Michael Cimino's Heaven's Gate, Waterworld with Kevin Costner, Gigli with Ben Affleck and The Bonfire Of The Vanities with Tom Hanks, Bruce Willis and others.But you would be WRONG. These five films are merely the most FAMOUS fiscal flops (alliteration!)There are DOZENS that equal and even surpass them. Ever heard of Mars Needs Moms? Precisely.Released (or more properly &#x96; escaped) just three years ago, THAT box-office bomb barely clawed back twenty of the one hundred and fifty big ones it cost to make.And back in the days of the Studio System, the number of films that are considered to be classics today &#x96; is equalled by those that just DISAPPEARED.The studios figured that releasing them would cost more in DAMAGE to their studio and stars than the bombs would net &#x96; so cut as much usable material (like battle scenes which could be used as stock footage) from them as possible and BURNED the rest.However now that the Studio System is long gone, EVERYTHING gets SOME sort of release.Thus Ishtar, which cost $55M to make (a big budget in 1987) was eventually released, netting just $7M at the US box office.But this does not tell the whole story. The worldwide figures are unavailable &#x96; then you have to factor in video, TV and latterly, DVD rights. Nevertheless, it is reasonable to assume that overall, the movie is still a long way short of covering its production costs.These were worsened by the studio's insistence on giving the film high production values. The reason being that having heavyweights like Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty (who had championed Elaine May in the first place) on board, they were not about to scrimp it.Which is the film's first problem. Elaine had envisioned it as a Road To&#x85; movie (although it comes across more like those Sixties Bond spoofs &#x96; like Danger Route and Our Man In Marrakesh) with a modest budget, shot locally &#x96; not an epic, part-made in Morocco.Furthermore, the studio insisted on paying both its lead actors a fortune &#x96; while both would have been happy with far less.To make things worse, the political situation in North Africa at the time was TENSE.Then to cap it all, just as the film was nearing completion, David Puttnam (now LORD Puttnam) was brought in as the studio's new head of production. He hated Beatty, Hoffman and production cost waste in equal measure &#x96; and publicly condemned the movie on the basis of all three.And all along the way, there had been a plethora of problems and fallouts too numerous to mention here &#x96; all of which conspired to CAPSIZE the film before it had a chance.So what is Ishtar actually LIKE? Well, most of those who decried it never even SAW it. It is actually not that bad.Beatty and Hoffman's chemistry is pretty good, Charles Grodin is as funny as ever &#x96; and the blind camel steals every scene he is in (the camel originally signed for the part got eaten instead).Plus Paul Williams' songs are realistically awful (Beatty and Hoffman play bad singer-songwriters) Dave Grusin's score is fine, May's script and direction is okay (although after Ishtar, she never got to direct another movie) and altogether the film lopes along agreeably, never becoming boring (which is more than can be said for the other four films listed above).So if you find this piece in your DVD hire shop or it turns up on your TV schedules &#x96; give it a try. It may not be in my All Time Top Ten Movie list &#x96; or even my top hundred &#x96; but it is NOT as bad as many would have you believe.On its original release, it was well received at its three premieres, hit Number One at the box office during its opening week &#x96; and almost all of IMDb's 121 reviews (written by actual PEOPLE) are POSITIVE.And it is now available on Blu-Ray.I finally saw it a few days ago on DiggerMovie HD and LOLed many times (particularly during the scenes involving that camel). And as Elaine herself once said, If all of the people who hate Ishtar had SEEN it &#x96; I would be a rich woman today. "},{"Title":"Telling the truth can be a dangerous business","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ishtar suffers from an inability to live up to expectations. The movie casts Oscar winners in a film that is basically a remake of the Bing Crosby/Bob Hope road films. Unfortunately, the actors are cast in a story that is not as brilliant as the performers, and when the film was released, it failed to live up to its hype. It became easy fodder for the critics, who seemed to revel in trashing the film in their reviews. At the time of its release, it became fun to make fun of Ishtar, which has become it's undeserved legacy.Actually, Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty are brilliant actors, and their performance as bungling and untalented show business performers really carries this film. The two characters are complete buffoons, and Hoffman and Beatty are quite believable as idiots. Unfortunately, the film suffers from its writing. The story is basically a remake of the Bing Crosby/Bob Hope road movies, and the stories in these films is now a clich. The use of clich is worsened by the use of Arab stereotypes and stereotypes of CIA agents, which litter the film. As a result, it is a little on the long side. But is it a bad film? No. It is quite watchable, and actually very funny. I give it a 6 out of 10. It's in the upper half of comedy films - but just barely. "},{"Title":"Painful to watch","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last time I watched this film before tonight was in 1995. It was just as painful now as it was then. I did not laugh even once, not a chuckle or a slight grin. Please only watch this movie if you are forced to watch it or it is on your list of must watch because your hand is forced. The plot is horrible and weak. The soundtrack is typical 80's elevator music trash. Cinematography is as barren as the desert scene on the box cover. Hoffman is a great actor but it seems the writers never afforded him a strong enough script to even shine. The Direction must have been on heavy drugs because there was no effort to make this film interesting as it progressed. "},{"Title":"A sorry and redundant mess","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was a movie actually that I really wanted to like, but I gave it a chance and I disliked it intensely. It isn't completely laughter-free though, thank goodness, the business with the vultures and Charles Grodin's bungling CIA agent have their moments, but everything else is just sorry and redundant and that is including poor Isabelle Adjani.Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman are both fine actors, but as the tone-deaf songwriters, they can't do anything with their characters or dialogue and their chemistry together is oddball and not in a good way. For me, there wasn't a single likable character, the direction was sluggish, the film feels overlong and dull in the pace and the story is unfocused and never comes alive.I didn't think much of the production values and music either. The production values are okay but did little for me, while the music is forgettable. But the worst offender is the script which is just the epitome of crass, it isn't just that, it is also trite and racially-insensitive.Overall, a mess. 1/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"The Movie That Would Never End","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm pretty easy to please and it's seldom that I don't enjoy a movie. I thought Hoffman did a nice job in The Graduate and The Marathon Man, but these movies were done in the 60's and 70's respectively and I rate them highly. I have noticed a trend with him that as he aged his acting skills diminished. I've watched a few of his more recent movies where he played a comedic role, such as Meet The Fockers in which I would rate his performance as substandard to poor.The general plot of this movie has potential, but neither Warren Beatty nor Hoffman could deliver.I would recommend watching Ishtar only if you are stuck inside your house (alone) on a rainy night and you have nothing else to watch and not a book in the house. "},{"Title":"Hell's Video Store","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Far Side by Gary Larson has a comic portraying Hell's Video Store, which only offers copies of Ishtar.  That joke was my introduction to this movie.Ishtar is easily in my Top 10.  Every line in this movie is ingenious.  I could pause it constantly to relish how perfectly the dialogue AND the delivery embody the concept of these guys who are barely on the fringes of the entertainment business.  The actors don't ham it up, like many comedies featuring out-of-touch characters, but instead they nail the roles perfectly, as their characters sincerely hold on to something that they can't quite achieve (similar to concept behind the heroes in Mystery Men).In most movies, I find the characters are over-dramatized and the comedy is contrived.  In contrast, Ishtar could happen in real life - almost word for word.As someone else wrote on this page, if you don't laugh your head off at the opening scene, you're probably not the intended audience for this movie. The songs are great.  They are to Ishtar as the poems are to So I Married an Axe Murderer.  I would love to have the soundtrack if it exists anywhere. As a lyricist myself, I know something can sound great when written, but then the next day you realize it needs polishing or it should be scraped entirely.  But that realization never dawned on these guys.The movie could stand to be a bit more concise, but the enjoyable parts of this show far outweigh the scenes that drag on.  "},{"Title":"Hope and Crosby, this isn't.","Date":"3 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- 1987, Hoffman and Beatty are untalented songwriters and singers on their last dollar that get the US government to ship them to a Northern African country were they get involved with CIA and questionable comedy.*Special Stars- Dustin Hoffman, Warren Beatty, Charles Grodin, Carol Kane, Jack Weston- Dir Elaine May *Theme- Volunteers working for the US government is always a bad idea.*Based on- Hope and Crosby 'road' films *Trivia/location/goofs-Not interesting enough to matter *Emotion- Not as bad as widely reported. But, a somewhat forgettable satire of the 'Hope and Crosby' road films. The film's producers try a chance with real life pals, Hoffman and Beatty. A blind camel and flock of vultures are funnier that the male leads here. The boring clich spy intrigues get worse and worse with musical accompaniment. "},{"Title":"Either shoot me, or lower your voice....","Date":"6 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Lyle Rogers, a dimwitted songwriter befriends and partners with Chuck Clarke, who is only slightly more intelligent but every bit as untalented. Together the duo dreams of becoming a big-time lounge act, but their songs, with titles like That a Lawnmower Can Do All That, are unintentionally hilarious. Chuck becomes suicidal, but just when it seems they'll never strike it rich, the boys are offered a shady gig at a North African hotel, entertaining U.S. troops stationed in the tiny nation of Ishtar. On their way to accept the job, Lyle, Chuck, and their blind camel are sidetracked by a mysterious woman, and a scheming CIA agent, who are involved in a rebellion against the country's emir.....With it being one of the most notorious turkeys of all time, and almost ruining a few careers, Ishtar is one of those film you just have to watch, no matter how many bad reviews there are, you watch it so you've experienced it, not for story or narrative.Story wise, it's pretty sound, two wannabe crooners get caught up in a middle eastern conflict, it should have harked back to the old Crosby and Hope movies, but there's something really, really wrong about the whole film.The switching of the Beatty and Hoffman personalities just doesn't work, especially seeing Beatty as a shy loner. Absolutely not. And when you can't familiarise with the two main characters, you begin to lose interest in the rest of the film, and this is only after ten minutes.Once in the titular place, it becomes too incoherent, so many characters with different goals can make and interesting movie, but make the script a little fresh.I admittedly laughed once during the film, and it wasn't to do with the blond camel, it was the compre announcing the act when Beatty was on his own.But all in all, it does deserve its notoriety, it makes no sense, it's too dark to be a caper, and too boring to be an action adventure.Next time Warren, don't do anybody any favours. "},{"Title":"Worst Movies Ever Made","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" True story This is the only movie I have ever been to where it was discounted at the box office(This was like shortly after it had been released, I was like 10th or 11th grade). I walked up to pay and it was half the normal price, struck me as odd, but watched it anyway. Wish I had my 107 minutes back. The only redeeming feature was the previews and the Camel. This move lost like 40 million dollars for the production company. The Camel was the best actor in the whole film. The idea as a concept really wasn't that bad, but it jokes were weak at best and it was just dull. I really do believe this to be one of the worst movies ever made. The only movie I have seen worse then this is Freddy Got Fingered and even it wasn't discounted...I just couldn't finish it. At least with Ishtar, I only wish I had left, LOL. "},{"Title":"My ears are bleeding","Date":"25 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Lyle Rogers (Warren Beatty) and Chuck Clarke (Dustin Hoffman) are two bumbling struggling song writers. Lyle is a hopeless idiot. Chuck is a ladies' man. They get booked to do a low-paying sad tour of north Africa. When they land in Ishtar, they get entangled in an international plot to overthrow the government. They meet CIA agent Jim Harrison (Charles Grodin) and a revolutionary Shirra Assel (Isabelle Adjani) who's looking for an ancient map.First, the horrible singing really sinks the movie before it gets going. The sad attempt at comedy does more harm than good. And setting the two actors against type is really confusing. It doesn't work. Warren Beatty is OK as the clueless idiot, but Dustin Hoffman is completely unconvincing.When they get to Ishtar, the whole confused revolution really shines a bad light on the duo's relationship. They're willing to believe the worst of each other. And they are angry at each other for a bunch of lies. They aren't good friends because friends don't do that.And how blind are they that they can't see Isabelle Adjani is a girl? The only funny thing is the blind camel. For the camel, I raise the rating from 2 to a 3. For the camel. "},{"Title":"again a ZERO rating is needed","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" IMDb really needs to have a zero rating and this all-time stink-o-ramma-dome of a film is a perfect case in point ... why Beatty and Hoffman ever signed on is beyond most anyone's imagination and how their careers survived might be understandable but lord almighty they should have been made to clean every star on Hollywood blvd with a toothbrush as penance for this piece of celluloid smegma ...I'm not even going into the plot which is basically some latter-day tainted-mescaline freak-out of a Hope-Crosby road movie and there is little enough plot not to even bother ... one pointless scene moves into another barely held together by the cheapest of generic scotch-tape-premise ...at least Elaine May was punished for this hot-steaming-load of a film and never allowed to direct again ... she managed to produce some passable screenplays after Ishtar, 'Primary Colors' based on the bestselling novel (and nothing new in the political arena except they could point a finger at a current candidate) and 'Birdcage', but frankly they are just passable, not even approaching great in any way, and are a cookie-cutter selection from the Hollywood EZ-Bake script-idea oven (substitute a gay couple for an awful new in-laws meeting in 'Birdcage' and let Robin Williams do his VERY tiresome prancing gay 'send-up' which, also frankly, after 40 years of his doing this in every 'improv' or 'stand-up' routine we see of his, it has become more like trying to say 'it's OK to do black-face, minstrel send-ups as long as it's in the name of comedy' than it is any kind of comedic routine ... seriously, he needs to stop this ... it's offensive and as tiresome as the old comics from the Bortsch-Belt era sitting around in the 60s and 70s and doing their offensive ethnic or even racist routines and saying it's still more clever that those guys working 'blue' such as Lenny Bruce, etc ... sorry, going off on a tangent but Williams ALWAYS falls back on the 'flaming gay' routine, watch any of his appearances on 'whose line it is anyway', and he CANNOT do an improv scene WITHOUT using this hackneyed crap ... it is sad, offensive, and please, retire if this is all that can be passed off as inspiration) OK went off on a tangent there but golly gosh darn it, someone had to say it ...OK back to Elaine May .. even her best movie i think we'd all consider to be 'Tootsie' and yeah it was OK tho an uncredited writing credit so it's hard to tell what she did on it ... Bill Murray was the best part of the movie anyway ... had a big crush on Teri Garr at the time but by this time she was only playing the 'woman who is the patient every therapist/psychologist is waiting for and all they see while treating the patient is a big neon sign on the patient's forehead flashing 'BOAT' or 'LAKESIDE SUMMER HOME' and her routine was getting real old ... sorry Teri, but it's the truth ...'Heaven Can Wait' was OK ... cute and a good 'date movie' i suppose but anyone who believes that some out of shape middle-aged rich guy who never played a sport in his life can turn his physical body into an NFL top-caliber quarterback body just because the 'spirit' of an NFL top-caliber quarterback body just happens to be IN his body, is dosed on the same tainted-mescaline that inspired 'Ishtar' ... yes, it's a 'fantasy' movie ... but a bit of a basis in reality is necessary for us to swallow some of the fantasy ... 'Cinderella' is a fantasy movie too but it takes a fairy godmother to turn mice into horses to pull the carriage, not just put the spirit of a horse into a mouse and suddenly the mouse is as strong as a horse because they have the spirit of a horse ... you need to have a little cornerstone of reality to work with to build the fantasy house, OK? well, I've spent far too much time bitching about all this lol ... but once i get going it's a bit of a torrent during the rainy season on a mattress not conjured by a fairy godmother into a boat and the whole tainted-etc etc etc ..by the way, it's probably been pointed out but if you switch the letters around in the title of Ishtar you get the correct titleand btw, if you want to get a couple of stars trying to redo an old Hope-Crosby road movie in the last quarter of the 20th century, try the very underrated Harry and Walter go to New York with Elliott Gould, James Caan, Michael Cain, Diane Keaton, and lots of other faces you'll recognize ... the studio slashed this movie to hell before release and it was STILL a world away better than Ishtar ... hopefully, this will get a restoration tho it is doubtful ... they finally gave Peckinpah's 'Billy the Kid' it's due by restoring it but I'm afraid director Mark Rydell isn't gonna get the same and overdue re-issue Peckinpah got ... but rent the movie anyway ... i don't think it'd be inappropriate for kids over 11 or 12 these days ... tho they might not get some of the subtler jokes and it's a period piece which sometimes doesn't work well for younger ones ,... but hey, you and the wife can watch and enjoy ) "},{"Title":"Ishtar is a great comedy.","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The film, Ishtar is a great comedy that was directed by Elaine May. Her casting is perfect. Warren Beatty plays Lyle Robers of Rogers and Clarke. And Dustin Hoffman plays Chuck Clarke his partner in song. Together they travel from New York to the fabled land of Ishtar to perform a musical act in The Casablanca, a hotel nightclub. An act is actually way too kind. It is hard to imagine the cacophonous sounds that emanate from their mouths. The attempt on Beatty's part to reproduce the word, schmuck, with perfect intonation is hysterical. And Hofffman's instructions are just as belly splitting. There is a very memorable scene in the desert with a blind camel when Dustin Hoffman's character, Chuck Clarke, is requested to translate in Arabic some detailed instructions without any knowledge of the language. Jack Weston plays Marty Freed, their entertainment promoter. He too is entertaining in his portrayal. One should not miss this movie from 1987. It is truly a classic. "},{"Title":"This movie is a hoot!","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is truly one of my favorite all-time comedies. After I watched it the first time in 1987, I couldn't believe it was panned. Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty are hilarious! Beatty played the dumb card perfectly. The songs (I'm leaving you some love in my will, Telling the truth, etc.) along with the the blind camel bit, are classic comedy. Don't believe the critics -- you'll laugh your butt off. Also, watch the background scenes for more funny stuff. You'll probably have to watch it more than once. Elaine May is an under-rated comedic genius. There's still so much relevance in the story because of the turmoil in the Middle East. "},{"Title":"Doesn't tickle our funny bones enough","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of the biggest mega-flops of all time, this lavishly produced comedy was a real fizzer at the movies, losing millions.Writer-director Elaine May's script must have been good enough to attract the likes of Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty, but its inconsistency is its downfall as Ishtar fails to deliver humour constantly. The two stars play pathetic songwriters Rogers and Clarke, a pair who's musical compositions are more painful than harmonious. Desperate for a gig, they take a booking in Ishtar, Morrocco. However things start to go wrong when they get caught up with local spies, the CIA and an espionage plot.As a comedy, the storyline has very few laughs, and while Hoffman, Beatty and Charles Grodin do fairly well with their roles, the audience will rarely find their situation hilarious. In fact the only real humour comes from the pair when they're composing. Some of the lyrics to songs such as Dangerous Business and Wardrobe of Love are very funny. Otherwise, Elaine May fails to tickle our collective funny bones enough to make this movie worthwhile.Monday, January 3, 1994 - Video "}{"Title":"Spies Like Us meets Whose Line Is It Anyway?","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Yes, that is a 7 out of 10, but my wife made me vote. If you've avoided the media hype, you may enjoy this film. It's like a more mature version of Spies Like Us, and the songs are pretty funny in that really-awful-I-can't-believe-I'm-laughing way. I first saw this movie when I was young, and didn't fully appreciate the irony of having two of the greatest male actors of our generation doing some really bad comedy. My recommendation? Watch it just so that when people are talking about the worst movies of all time, you can have something to contribute. Or, mix up a huge pitcher of margaritas and drink every time they sing. That will at least make the movie more enjoyable. Seriously, I enjoyed it without the alcohol, but if you make the margaritas, I think you'll thank me later. ;-) "},{"Title":"Neglected Classic","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sure, this movie doesn't sustain its level of humor to the inert end. How could it? When a movie begins with the hilarity of this one, only perhaps a preston sturges could keep the level high. But Ishtar became associated with 'debacle' largely because of its high cost and even higher expectations, especially given that dustin Hoffman and warren beatty had signed on.But that is ancient history. A Night at the Opera is full of crappy scenes, and even the best 'Road' movies (that's Crosby and Hope, for you youngsters) inject miserable bathos between moments of high laughs.Ishtar is up there with the classics. Not perfect, like 'Lady Eve', but so far ahead of the mainstream, mundane comedies that routinely inundate our multiplexes. Get yourself some leftwing luckies, a plate of munchies, a DVD of Ishtar (unless you can get your local revival house to revive it), and enjoy the bellylaughs. Keep the remote handy, so you can replay the songs, maybe even memorize them. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"First Half is Great","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The portion of Ishtar which takes place in New York is absolutely hysterical. The scene on the ledge with Hoffman is especially terrific.It's when the lead characters get to Ishtar and the spy stuff starts that the film falls apart. The flow is spotty and a lot of the humor just doesn't work.Despite the talented Charles Grodin, Jack Weston, and others, the script itself sags and really feels pieced together in Acts Two and Three.I would love for the team to have gotten back together and go a new direction with the last two acts, avoiding the whole Ishtar-based storyline altogether. There was real potential for the team of Rogers and Clark. Unfortunately, the desert wasn't it.But I still recommend this film to friends (who usually arch an eyebrow). It captures the futility and desperation of hack songwriters perfectly. And Beatty and Hoffman are great together.Especially the smuck scene! --Ted "},{"Title":"Ishtar is a movie to laugh with, not to groan at.","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ishtar is a great movie...not just for the humor, and catchy tunes, and great acting, but because of the excellent insight into life in a third world country. Perhaps to those who have not had the opportunity to experience life in a third world country, this movie makes no sense. But, the things that happened in the movie that related to the culture and people REALLY DO OCCUR. As someone who has lived overseas all my life, this movie was hilarious, because it captured the ironic tendencies of life in Africa. Ishtar is a funny, enjoyable movie for a rainy afternoon. Don't take it so seriously...anyone who thinks Ishtar is an action movie, a thriller, or a musical (the point of it all is that the main characters cannot write music...the songs are supposed to be lame!) is off the mark. Ishtar is pure comedy...stupid comedy, but funny none the less.  "},{"Title":"This is a very funny movie, highly underrated","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Those who denigrate this movie because it is so silly miss the point entirely. It is supposed to be silly. Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty are hilarious. There is slapstick humor, which I personally like. When the duo is singling in that club to impress their potential agent, Jack Weston, I thought I'd hurt myself for laughing so hard. When I realized that it was getting hard to find in rental stores, I got on the Internet and bought a copy. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Anyone who doesn't like Ishtar is a SMUCK!","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ishtar is so hilarious! And it is still great after repeated viewings. Not only is it funny, but it is so very insightful of people, especially average people who want to be entertainers. It makes me think Elaine May is a genius. Whether or not you view it as a parody of the classic Hope and Crosby road movies, even if you have never even heard of Bob Hope or Bing Crosby, Ishtar is just plain funny. I seriously think that anyone who doesn't like it either has an attitude or has IDD (Intelligence Deficit Disorder). "},{"Title":"S*** man - when you're on, you're on.","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Are you kidding me?  This movie is hilarious.  Those of you that rated it poorly need to stop taking yourselves so seriously.  Just admit that you don't understand the humor and move on.  It's a great movie if you realize that it's not supposed to be Lawrence of Arabia...it's funny, for goodness' sakes! I dare you to think of one other movie with so many great lines.  Can't do it, can you?Hot fudge love...cherry rippled kissesI'm leaving some love for you in my willLyle...I think I want to be alone for awhile.......Yeah, me too.He also has a lame camel and one with no teeth for a *special* price.Get over yourselves.  This movie is a classic. "},{"Title":"Do yourself a favor-- don't judge from these reviews, watch it yourself.","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My personal opinion of this movie is that those that did not like it say they did not like it because they didn't understand it, or they didn't have the tolerance for annoying humor.  That's what this movie is all about.  Hoffman & Beatty play two very passionate, ambitions characters-- but they're also very annoying.  --But they're SUPPOSED to be!!  They sing horribly-annoying songs that THEY think are brilliant!  They think they know the business back and forth, and they really don't know squat! I watched this film years ago over a Thanksgiving vacation, and it sticks with me to this day.  Now I'll not go so far as to say this film was BRILLIANT.... as, yes-- it did have its moments of tedium... but there were some really REALLY funny and memorable scenes in it that I've told people about over the years.  Watch it.  It probably won't be your favorite movie-- but there are some side-splitters that completely make up for the times it gets dull.  Before the men actually GO to Ishtar is the best part, in my opinion.  But, it does keep you entertained throughout.   "},{"Title":"Silly comedy like Canada's SCTV, has gotten better with age","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've waited 14 years to see this, since it was panned upon release. It's really not bad at all, just silly tongue-in-cheek, like the TV show Batman or Canada's SCTV comedy troupe. I expected an extravagant, over-budget flick (according to history) but the footage we see seems like a standard comedy; perhaps the money went to the 2 stars, who do a great job of playing ridiculous losers. There's some spy stuff which comes across like a Get Smart episode, but I still think that series has it's funny moments, too. Sorry I waited so long to see this; neither steller nor loser, though has aged much better than most films of that decade.      "},{"Title":"A riot! I loved it!","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The reason this movie got bad reviews was the reason why all absurdist comedies get bad reviews movie critics like to think that what they do is serious and important, and they only like to review serious movies. Ishtar was an absurdist comedy, like one of  the Police Academy or Naked Gun movies. Those also got bad reviews, as expected.I'll never forget some of the lyrics in Ishtar, such as, There's a wardrobe of love in my eyes. See if there's something your size. Ishtar was a riot. It  was stupid because it was SUPPOSED to be stupid. And it was hiliarious, like Dumb And Dumber, for instance.I'd recommend Ishtar to anyone who likes to laugh.True, the first hour of Ishtar was the funniest, and then it wasn't as good toward the end, but still, it was interesting, and a great absurdist comedy. To all the movie critics out there, GET A SENSE OF HUMOR! "}{"Title":"Improves with viewing!","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Peel back the layers of this film by watching it a few times and discover its huge potential as a cult classic!  A diamond in the rough, chock full of lines ripe for everyday use.  The reward for multiple viewings is gratifying and seeing two movie sex symbols break rank and cut loose with an off the wall film is refreshing. This aint poverty, baby!  Give Ishtar a chance or two and it will win a place on your hit list... even if its near the bottom. "},{"Title":"Telling the Truth can be Dangerous Busiiness","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you like whimsical silly movies Ishtar is the very very best American stab at the genre ever made. It and Being There are my two favorite comedies. The first act of the movie is sheer genius and for that alone Elaine May should get some sort of award and be permitted to make as many movies as she wants no matter how much they go over budget.Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty as too sweet schlubs; who else really has a chance at the intrigue of post World War II Middle East politics, certainly not some polished super spy.The song lyrics by Paul Williams are completely unique and poignant and not only missed getting a soundtrack recording but I don't remember them at that year's Academy Awards. Who could forget, Telling the truth can be dangerous business. Honest and popular don't go hand in hand. If you admit that you can play the accordion, No one'll hire you in a rock 'n' roll band. That philosophy about silly creativity being connected to the truth and perhaps being the only way to solve truly unfathomable problems like the Middle East and being unappreciated, pretty much sums up why the ratings for this film and the box office influenced and murdered by film critics and media journalists and gossips was so low.But if you are brave enough to pick up an accordion yourself, you will run out to buy a copy of this completely underrated movie. The whole CIA and the middle east part in the second and third acts....well you can add prophetic to Elaine May's credentials. If only Lyle Rogers and Chuck Clarke had written the CIA report about Iraq, not to mention a song, the US would never have gone to war there. And there is more...the supporting cast Isabelle Adjani, Charles Grodin, and Jack Weston. They each one sparkle and warm your hearts. The only good thing about the fact the movie is underrated is that some big studio is not going to run out and do a remake so we get to have this treasure unvarnished to forever bring a smile to our faces. "},{"Title":"A glimmering light of comedy from a spotted gem","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you live your life by the judgment of others, Ishtar is not for you. But if you enjoy the smaller more detailed pleasures in life, consider Ishtar. Don't be ashamed to smile at what you know is funny while watching this movie. Catchy yet deliberately stupid lyrics from this movie's heroes (?) might leave you laughing to yourself all day. ...A lawnmower can do all that it's amazing, I can see her standing in the backyard of my mind she cracks her knuckles and the scab that's on her knee won't go away... To be honest I was only 8 when this movie came out, but now with a mind of my own I can see Ishtar for what it really is, comic genius. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" People who downgrade this movie probably never really saw it. It wasn't horrible, it was just goofy. Dustin Hoffman is really good in this movie, and probably more believable than Warren Beatty. The scene with Dustin Hoffman acting as a translator is an all-time classic! Perhaps the theme is too much like Spies Like Us, but it's still one of my absolute favorites. I'm surprised this movie doesn't have a cult following. My friend Kyle and I used to rent this movie all of the time, and it was convenient that nobody else wanted it--it was always available for rental! The songs that these guys came up with in the movie are just priceless. Watch it--if you can find it--you'll like it. "},{"Title":"Very Under-Rated Film","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Like many others who've posted reviews, I too feel that this film does not deserve the reputation that it seems to have acquired.I think that many people (even those who like it) have missed one of the brilliant subtleties of this film.Warren Beatty (who at the time that this film was made was considered a major sex symbol) is cast as an oaf who is completely void of sex appeal and awkward with women.Dustin Hoffman (who has never been known as a sexy leading man) is cast as a cool ladies man.It is a complete role reversal for the two actors and within the world established by the film it is completely believable. It is impressive directing and acting.For those of us that have actually written songs this film is gut-busting hilarious. We all hope that we recognize our own Dangerous Business's when we right them but we often don't. Lots of bad songs have been written that are favorites of the people who wrote them.The movie has had such bad press that I wouldn't see it myself until a friend made me go see it. It is not a great film but it is very funny which is all that it sets out to be.As I said before it is very under-rated. "},{"Title":"Probably the most underrated film ever","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  At first it may seem just silly, but there's so much subtle, intelligent humor hidden beneath the slapstick silliness that I laugh my head off every time I see it.Easily one of my 100 favorite movies of all times. "},{"Title":"not that bad, in fact - quite good","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  o.k. i was one of those people who took it on other's advice not to see this movie.  a trusted buddy of mine and i were discussing our favorite underrated movies and this was his #1.  i rented it, and regretted not having seen it sooner.  as for the people who seem to revel in trashing it, i might recommend 'dumb or dumber'  the point of the humor is subtlety. maybe you just didn't get it.  i haven't seen much mention of charles grodin's performance, but i thought he was hilarious.  how can you not laugh at the lyrics to 'wardrobe of love'?  oh, and the blind camel was pretty funny as well.  the key to viewing movies is to watch them in the context which they were made.  figure it out. "},{"Title":"Um.  I had tried to forget how horrible this movie really was....","Date":"8 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A co-worker and I had a lunch discussion about 'the worst movie of all time.' Well, I'm 37 (he's a few years older) and while he still clings on to Neighbors as THE worst ...I have him to blame for making me recall this - 'thing' they call Ishtar! With 2 of the most talented actors in Hollywood History *rash generalization* starring in this (I cannot say f!lm) ...I had to cast my vote based on the total lack of not only humor, but acting, as well as, writing.I am pretty sure there have been (and will be) movies that sucked worse than Ishtar, but I guess my vote is 'weighted' based on the talents of those that starred, wrote, directed this utter failure (in all aspects).Unfortunately, I had to watch this in the theater -- so I could NOT just stop the movie and smash the VHS tape or DVD disc and light the crap on fire.To Columbia Pictures Corporation of all the horrible movies you release, you WON. This is hands down THE worst movie of all time. As I browse your list of other movies (mostly horrible), I notice you are still trying to beat Ishtar! "},{"Title":"Fahrenheit","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I am writing this at a time when George Bush is still president, Michael Moore's film has just  appeared and the American people are beginning to understand what has happened.We all grasp at the movie we live in. At the moment, the `Republican' movie is in competition  more with alternative comfortable movies instead of real life.`Red, White and Blond' is the standard of the conservatives well-meaning (and white and  privileged) beats dumb. Stuff like the recent `SeaBiscuit' is usually the matter of the `other'  side small guy against established, moneyed interests. But things are getting worse on the  message movie side as preachers of both stripes make movies about their respective  fantasies.That's why I retreated to this wonderful film. It wasn't so wonderful when it was made. But  now the world has changed around this little thing and made it rich. I prefer to break it into  pieces on my computer and mix up the pieces `Pulp Fiction'-like.We have three pretty interesting actors, and arguably one of the best writers in the business.  They obviously were ahead of their time in finding humor in the bungling of CIA and  siblings, Shiite mob violence, `Berber' factions, and bazaar chases. The humor is rooted in  the notion that all these goobs want to do is perform. The Army is rousted out to applaud by  command. Many of us can see the Catch 22 inspired humor in this now.Check it out and see if it doesn't better Michael Moore's effort. He needn't have tried so  hard.That third interesting actor I mentioned above was the actress Isabelle Adjani. She would  segue perfectly from the last scene in this to the obsession of sculptress `Camille Claudel,'  and she had previously been Herzog's Lucy in his vampire film which bears many  resemblances to this.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Such a bad movie, so much fun!","Date":"4 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hell is a video store full of copies of Ishtar, so they say. And yes, it's true! It's a terrible film. It's typical 80s badly written, ludicrous plot, bad acting, you name it, Ishtar has it in spades. And yet so much fun.The plot is two struggling songwriters take a trip to North Africa, one of them gets recruited by the CIA, the other by some local freedom fighters, hilarity ensues and then they release an album. Seriously, could a movie plot be any better than that? There's camels, bizarre songs and zany comedy.To be serious for a moment though, Ishtar represents a dying breed of movie. These days, 'bad' movies are either just dull and poorly written, or 'gross-out' comedies. No one makes truly bad movies any more like they used to. Ishtar is the perfect storm of wacky humour, outrageous plot and great acting by Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty.I'm giving it 7 out of 10 because I haven't seen it in years, and thus have nostalgic memories that I'm sure do not reflect how bad it actually is! "}{"Title":"Poor but I have seen a lot worse","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you are avid movie watcher you could have hardly have failed to notice that when lists are published, for say 'Hollywood's Worst Films' Ishtar never fails to make the top half dozen. This is a little unfair. Yes the movie is pretty poor but I have certainly seen a lot worse in more recent times with 'Burn after Reading' and 'Running with Scissors' being two that come immediately to mind. The film has taken on an almost cult status as indicated by its popularity as an internet download.If it was displayed in DVD rental store it would probably be categorized under 'Curios' because a curiosity is what it has become. Beatty and Hoffman are of similar age but Hoffman looked a good 10/15 years younger. A strong indication maybe that Beatty's chiseled good looks were fading fast. Isabelle Adjani looked as alluring as ever despite only part of her face showing under her Arab headgear. With her raunchy reputation preceding her it was with almost ironic self-mockery that she chose to reveal that she was a woman by exposing a breast rather than removing her headgear.Nice touch. There were not enough humorous scenes to match the one of Hoffman with the vultures which was delightfully underplayed. The bottom line is that it is worth a view if you have nothing else to watch otherwise strictly for the aficionados. "},{"Title":"Not As Bad As They Say","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ishtar (1987) ** (out of 4) Elaine May's notorious box office disaster is, like most box office bombs, not nearly as bad as its reputation would have believe. Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman play two friends who dream of becoming the next Simon and Garfunkle through their song writing. When their careers are at the bottom in America their agent sends them to Ishtar where they get involved in a Civil War. I'm not going to lie because I really loved the first thirty minutes of this movie. Seeing Beatty and Hoffman singing and dancing to various classics as well as songs written for the film kept a smile on my face and I laughed out loud several times. However, when the Civil War stuff kicks in the film goes downhill very quickly. I'm still not sure what all of this stuff had to do with anything and even when the film was over I was still confused about what it all meant. Isabelle Adjani is good in her role as the rebel but Charles Grodin, Tess Harper and Carol Kane are all wasted in their supporting roles. Once again, I loved the rather witty songs being sung by Hoffman and Beatty but I only wish the film had centered on this instead of going off in other directions. "},{"Title":"ISHTAR (Elaine May, 1987) **1/2","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Surprisingly, this turned out not to be entirely disagreeable for such a notorious critical and box-office flop! While watching the stars - cast against type, with Warren Beatty as the shy, sensitive one and Dustin Hoffman as the cynical womanizer - making fools of themselves is decidedly an embarrassment, it does provide some undeniably amusing moments.The best segment is arguably the opening 20 minutes detailing the duo's pathetic attempts at hitting the big time in show business. The deliberately awful songs (courtesy of the ubiquitous Paul Williams) are quite funny. Conversely, the political satire involving intrigue in the Middle East is less appealing - though the antics of a blind camel and a bunch of ravenous vultures steal this part of the show.Charles Grodin (as a CIA agent) adds some class to the proceedings and Isabelle Adjani - The Lovely Lady Of The Left - is the most attractive Arab freedom fighter you'll ever see (her meeting cute scenes with Hoffman and Beatty respectively are early highlights). Still, the best joke is possibly the very last one after the untalented singer/songwriter duo have conned the CIA into funding their live album, its sleeve cover is seen finally gracing a record store window...but then the camera pulls back to reveal that it's being sold at a Special Low Price! "},{"Title":"Not the funniest movie ever, but it wasn't as bad as everyone seems to think.","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ishtar is really a pretty funny movie. It obviously isn't as funny as some other, more famous comedies that have blatant, and sometimes grotesque, humor. The plot is also a little far fetched, and yet that only adds to the comedy, and the songs they sing and Hoffman and Beatty's almost blatant stupidity makes it just as funny as other comedies. The humor tends to be more subtle and dry than most comedies and to be honest, I think the comedy may be so subtle that it simply goes over the head of most people.  "},{"Title":"A Polarizing Experience?","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My wife and I originally saw this when it opened before reading any of the reviews. (This was before Internet email reviews) The whole theater laughed, and sat through the credits. It was only later when I found out how terrible the movie was supposed to be. Look it is far from perfect, I can't decide whether casting Hoffman and Beatty in opposite roles (Hoffman as the ladies man, Beatty as the loser) was inspired or flawed. At some points of the movie it seems that playing against type makes their badness more realistic, unfortunately at other moments it makes each actor perhaps stretch a little too much. And let's just say that as someone who has fooled around with singing, the bad songs are brilliant in their awfulness. And to be able to consistently sing close but off is incredibly hard. Ultimately it is not a great movie, but a funny movie that is better than it's reputation. "},{"Title":"Ishtar - About two singers in the Middle East.","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I thought it was great! I went to see it when it first came out. My wife and I went with another couple and we laughed throughout the entire movie. When we heard the movie was getting panned we couldn't believe it. They had to have seen a different movie than what we watched. I will not give in to peer pressure. It was a funny, funny movie. Even the scenes with the buzzards being throw across the screen was brilliant. I have it in the same category as A Fish Called Wanda and that film did not get the beating Ishtar received. Now that I have written my comments I'm afraid I will have to go rent it again. It will become an annual ritual like Christmas Story and Family Vacation. "},{"Title":"Telling the Truth is Dangerous Business","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I finally saw this funny 1987 bomb 20 years after it was released. Much to my surprise, I enjoyed it tremendously. I even came away with the deliciously horrible song, Telling the Truth is Dangerous Business, running through my mind. (The film's credits disclose that many of the music by the fictitious songwriters of the film were original songs written by famed Oscar-winner Paul Williams.)One of the reasons critics panned the movie so much could have been it was an enormously expensive, over-budget film. As a result people were expecting something spectacular, which it isn't. It is possible that a reason the panning was so severe was because the director is a woman, but I hope no critic used that as a basis for his opinion. I think female directors were rare at the time. Ishtar was directed by Elaine May, who by 1987 had been an established highly respected comedian. With Mike Nichols (before he became a major film director), her partner in comedy records, they have been said to have revolutionized the landscape of American comedy. So it isn't surprising to find that she displays in Ishtar her great sense of humor.How can I describe the kind of movie Ishtar is? It is, of course, a comedy, somewhere between a satire and a farce. But what kind of comedy? It certainly isn't a romantic or bedroom comedy of the Meg Ryan, Julia Roberts or Jennifer Aniston variety. Nor is it slapstick farce of the Chevy Chase or Steve Martin variety. What comes to my mind for reference comparison are the comedy recordings of the Elaine May, Mike Nichols duo (e.g.,the pay phone caller who lost his dime and is trying to get the operator to place a call for him), and the early Martin and Lewis movies. But the comedy style of the latter is totally different so I'm not sure why it comes to mind except that you have two guys getting into jams together. The second time I watched Ishtar it brought to my mind a Bing Crosby, Bob Hope film called Road to Morocco. Although the plots are totally different, Hope and Crosby could have played the lead roles in Ishtar. The film begins with struggling unpublished songwriters Lyle Rogers (Warren Beatty) and Chuck Clarke (Dustin Hoffman) trying to put together the lyrics and music to an original song. They are two schnooks who have harbored dreams of being songwriters since they were teenagers (which was very long ago.) Did you get the joke of the name of the duo, Rogers and Clarke? They are running out of resources and reluctantly accept a paying job their agent finds for them, but it is in the Middle East. When they arrive they immediately get themselves embroiled in espionage and revolutionary conflicts. Naturally a beautiful young woman, Shirra Assel (Isabelle Adjani), is involved. Even before they get out of the airport, one of the naifs is recruited by a CIA agent and the other by Shirra Assel, who's life is in danger. She is involved in a religious conspiracy to overthrow the evil Emir. A secret map and a legend that some day two strangers sent by God will arrive and lead a revolution is the main theme. There is also a blind camel, heroes stranded in the desert with too little water, and everyone trying to kill the heroes.One of the silent jokes in the film is that Dustin Hoffman, whose previous roles included Ratso Rizzo in Midnight Cowboy, plays a man women find interesting, while Warren Beatty, who has the reputation of a womanizer, plays a dork who's shy around women. "},{"Title":"Funny well acted buddy movie with badly directed action scenes","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Often unjustly cited as an example of big star projects that fail, this film has moments of true humor and excellent comedic acting, especially when Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beaty are allowed to interact with each other in scenes that do not have the distracting action/adventure elements which are misdirected by Elaine May. Ms. May who is no slouch when it comes to developing likable funny misfits, loses her central focus with her pointless and non credible action scenes. That said, Ishtar at its heart is a funny well acted movie with enjoyable quirky performances by Hoffman, Beaty and Charles Grodin. While inconsistent, it is a classic clever buddy movie in the On the Road tradition that should be appreciated by anyone who has ever had a best friend. "},{"Title":"i like it","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Admittedly, this is a guilty pleasure. First saw it in the theatres, and found myself the only one that enjoyed it out of our group of attendees. Over dinner that evening, I explained that I had not heard much about its bloated budget and hadn't followed the careers of the stars (yes, I read books and am a losers). As such, I anticipated only an entertaining evening and felt that the film had provided that. The dialogue was snappy and the lead stars fantastic in delivering it. I thought it funny to see Warren Beatty so unaware of being beautiful ... it touched me. The idea of being a frustrated (and not very talented) artist struck a chord. I was alone in my enjoyment, let me say, and my wife has brought it up many times over the years to embarrass me Oh, James liked Ishtar; you can't go by his opinion. Well, I saw it again recently and it is just as funny to me. The whole scene in the desert is fantastic, and if you want to reduce me to hysterical laughter just site the following exchange It's ... it's ... What? What? It's hot today. I will die. "},{"Title":"Considered Worst Movie by people who haven't seen it","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ishtar is an amazing movie phenomena. It is universally known as one of the worst movies ever, almost exclusively by people that haven't seen it. Was it a flop? Yes. It could never have hoped to make back the $40 million it cost to make. Was it bad? That isn't as easy to answer. The first 15-20 minutes, as well as the last ten are simply movie gold. In 1987, audiences weren't ready for two main characters that were that pathetic. It's possible that the movie was so successful at making them look bad, that it was hard to watch. Warren Beatty had never played such a loser before, but was absolutely brilliant. The songs are hilarious, written by Paul Williams, and I wish I had the soundtrack on CD. The problem is really in the middle. Sadly, while the characters are great, and the beginning is wonderful, there just wasn't enough for a feature-length film. The middle has some great moments, but not enough to carry it off in the big picture. Still, Everybody should see this movie at least once before passing judgment. There are enough moments to come away with to make it well worth while  "}{"Title":"Sadly underrated","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This poor movie has been so roundly panned, and I can't understand it. I saw it years ago with a date, when it was appearing in a local theater as a sneak preview, before the official openings, and ratings from critics.Since we had read no reviews we didn't know it was supposed to be dreadful, and we *loved* it. We roared so hard with laughter our sides hurt. The entire theater shook with loud roaring gales of laughter from the entire audience. People were still chuckling as they left the theater.Then the reviews came out - and suddenly no one wanted to see it! I was so surprised at the reviews. I remember reading one review where the reviewer said he didn't understand all the terrible pans, and didn't think the movie was half bad. How brave of him! But I agreed. "},{"Title":"Warren is right This movie is actually funny.","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK, Warren was on Dave Letterman. He says to Dave I still think Ishtar was funny.  I don't get it.  Why is this movie considered a bomb? We liked it!  OK, so the sled was rosebud, but we still give this movie a Siskel-Ebert like thumbs up.  Oops, Siskel passed away.  Well, you know?  Thumbs up to Warren and Dustin.  Ishtar is funny.  Warren is right.  He is a highly intelligent guy, after all.  So, we concur that to view Ishtar as a bomb represents a serious perception-gap on the part of critics and the general movie public.  We call for the production of Ishtar II! YEAH! "},{"Title":"I LOVE this movie","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didnt know crap about this movie when I started watching it on cable tv, I thought I was gonna see All The President's Men... But from the moment it started I was captivated. This movie is SO good. The humor is so intelligent and self deprecating. Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman as the worst songwriting duo in history is one of the funniest things I have ever seen on screen. The only reason im writing anything is because im shocked that so many people hate this movie. Truthfully, I just think this movie was just so ahead of it's time in irreverence and comical situations that the people just didnt get it at the time of it's release. "},{"Title":"much maligned","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Even the stars of the film, themselves would seem to prefer to keep this one silent. However, I , and many others think of Ishtar much more highly. Admittedly, it's not high brow cinema, but it is entertaining, and memorable. Some of the song writing sequences are classic.I think many if not most of its ratings are based on reputation and here- say rather than the opinions of actual viewers. I can't tell you how many times I've met people who profess disdain for something they've never experienced, especially film, just based on popular notions and rumor. Did Mikey from the Life Cereal ads really die from eating Pop Rocks and drinking Coca Cola? Did Cary Grant ever say, Judy, Judy, Judy in a film?Telling the truth can be dangerous business, or is it a bitter herb? "},{"Title":"Audience Loved It...  When I was there...","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I took my dad to see the Sneak Preview of Ishtar 1 week before it opened. The sold out theater I was in laughed from beginning to end. This is one of my favorite movies of all time. As most of the comments will tell, it is not slap stick. You might actually need a brain to get the jokes. Not that they are the same type of comedy, but I feel that this movie is misunderstood just as the original Police Squad TV show was. People expect one type of movie and get something completely different, which they cannot understand. Please release Ishtar on DVD. I would love to the the original version, before it was pulled back and re-edited into what I know and love... "},{"Title":"So bad it's good ... no, wait, this is very funny","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't know why people think this was such a bad movie. The musical performances of Lyle Rogers and Chuck Clarke were, however, every bit as bad as I've heard this movie was. And the only thing worse than these guys trying to do songs written by others was the songs they wrote themselves.The first few scenes were hard to watch. There were so many edits it was like watching a blooper reel. Then when Chuck became suicidal the movie started to improve. After the map was found, that's when it really started getting good. No, I don't mean THAT kind of good.The best thing is to forget that Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman are two talented actors. Actually, Hoffman did a great job in the scene where he was supposed to be a Berber auctioneer. But everywhere else, it just seemed like these were two guys having fun and not trying to show they had talent. I enjoyed Dumb and Dumber, and I tried to think of this movie in that way.There were some genuinely funny scenes. Certainly all the confusing details of the CIA operation and how the guys were to be part of it and then ... oh, I can't give that part away. Of course, the entire fate of the Middle East depends on these two! Those gags connected with the blind camel were some of the best. And to me, the joke about calling a name and having a whole bunch of people answer--that never gets old. One of the best exchanges was one CIA agent (I think that's what he was) explaining to another how to tell which people were tourists and which ones were agents. There was a lot of brilliant writing like this. Oh, yes, let's not forget the trained vultures who just couldn't wait!As for acting performances, Jack Weston was good as their agent. I thought Isabelle Adjani did a good job as the woman who switched clothes with Chuck and started the guys' adventure. Also Aharon Ipale as the Emir. Both Shirra and the Emir had some great lines. The Middle Easterners seemed genuine. On the other hand, Charles Grodin was good to begin with, but by the end he was just pathetic. But that's okay. You're not supposed to take this kind of movie seriously. If it made me laugh, so what? "},{"Title":"Ishtar","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I am a very big fan of this movie. I have watched it numerous times and each time it seems funnier than the last. Are the critics not aware that they are supposed to be bad singers and composers. I am absolutely hysterical every time I watch this. I actually cry while I am watching it, not for any other reason than I just find it hilarious. Beaty and Hoffman are great actors and this is their acting at its best. When can we expect it to be bought out as a DVD. I have been some terrible movies that are rated better than this but maybe its my British sense of humor. I love it. Some of the lines that are especially funny are when they are in the desert and the buzzards are flying around. Hoffman asks 'Are they here on spec another is when he has to translate in a foreign language. Hey guys. You won an Oscar in my book "},{"Title":"Not THAT Bad!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I finally saw this.  After watching Gigli (another supposedly worst film of all time, which Gigli wasn't) I wanted to see this big bomb from the 80's and see what the friggin' fuss and muss was about.It's only a 107 minute movie and not that painful to get through.  Some of it is actually mildly amusing.  The intentionally bad songs that Beatty and Hoffman perform are the funniest parts.  The movie would have been a lot better if it focused on the idea of two hapless, middle aged songwriters with nary a talented atom between them, rather than goto this dopey plot in Arabia about a prophesied Middle East conflict brought about by the archeological discovery of an ancient map.Man, that was a mouthful...but anyway, this is nowhere near as crappy a film as many would make it out to be.  I can think of a lot of successful Hollywood comedies that were a lot worse than this.  I think actress Charlotte Lewis would have been a better choice for the role of Shirra than Isabelle Adjani.  And I'm always reminded of the erotic graphic novel series The Young Witches when I hear the name Ishtar.  That's the god the witches pray to in the novels.But hey, give Ishtar a chance, you just might kinda, sorta enjoy it.  Like I did.  Elaine May hasn't directed a movie since Ishtar.  And she should! This is not the film to end an otherwise successful filmmaking career on, Ms. May. "},{"Title":"After all the pans, I had to see it for myself","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hearing all the jokes and bad mouthing about this film, I decided to check it out. I rented the movie, expecting to eject it in half an hour. I couldn't have been more wrong. The film was rather slapstick, the plot was ridiculous, and the acting was mediocre; yet, that all added up to the appeal of the movie. My friends and I poked fun at it continually, laughing all the way. It's one of those flicks you have to see with a group to set the mood. I guess it was so bad it was good...at least funny. Rent this one out of curiousity, as I did. It'll never make anyones top 100, but it's entertaining.   "},{"Title":"Not the worst but not really funny.","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Saw this movie for the first time last night.  Never watched it before because of all the hype.  This movie reminded me of Spies Like Us with less laughs.  I think I chuckled twice during the movie.  Definitely wasn't the worst movie I ever saw (that would be Spike Lee's School Daze, the only movie where I walked out of the theater) but I lasted about 1 hr and I wanted that hour back.   "}{"Title":"Ponder, Texas","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In the 1967 filming of Bonnie and Clyde (B&C), Beatty and his co-star were filmed on location in and near the actual sight of the deadly duos activities in the 1930s. One such place was Ponder, Texas, north of Fort Worth (about 25 miles). There is an establishment in Ponder known as the Ranchman's Steak House which, being now over 50 years old, was there during the filming of B&C. All over the walls on this Texas watering hole are clippings of the local papers, telling of the movie making and re-telling of the B&C story. B&C had robbed the bank in Ponder once, long ago. And the steaks ain't half bad either. Pure Texas.The only redeeming value to Ishtar is when the Beatty character says something to the Hoffman character about Ponder, Texas (you must listen quickly, it goes by fast). I heard it and couldn't believe it. Beatty had promised the folks in Ponder to one day mention them in a movie. Well, this was it. Too bad that it was the worse freakin' movie ever made.If you ever get down to Fort Worth or Dallas try to find someone who'll take you to the Ranchman's in Ponder. You'll get a Texas treat you will not forget.  "},{"Title":"Not so hot, but hardly the abomination its reputation suggests.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I wonder how many of the IMDb users who gave 'Ishtar' a vote of 1 actually saw the film. After viewing it, my guess is most of them didn't. As a comedy, it's no great shakes but it is hardly the titanic disaster that legend has it being. Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty play a couple of aspiring singer-songwriters with delusions of becoming another Simon and Garfunkle. What they don't even have a clue about, though, is that their talent is as thin as their ambition is lofty. The funniest scenes in the movie have these two hacks writing and performing their own works, actually some very clever stinkers written by Paul Williams, with screenwriter director Elaine May giving a hand with the lyrics.A sleazy agent (Jack Weston) books the duo in an out-of-the-way location--Morocco. Almost as soon as they get there they become unwittingly involved in a convoluted plot involving the CIA, freedom fighters and weapons smuggling. This is where the movie starts to head south. The story gets hard to understand (or care about), the characters get fuzzy (Isabelle Adjani's is a good example) and the jokes get less funny. There's still a laugh here and there but they are fewer and further between. Some have complained about Arab stereotypes. They may or may not have a point, but if it's any consolation to them, the American characters aren't much to be proud of either.I would only give this film the barest of recommendations, mostly because of some good comic moments created by Beatty and especially Dustin Hoffman, who has consistently proven himself an adept actor in comedy as well as drama. Elaine May's script is the main culprit here, I think, as the more involved the plot got, the more the film hit the skids. But 'Ishtar' is nowhere near the synonym for a cinematic turkey that conventional wisdom has made it into. If people don't like it on its own merits, that's OK, but to accept the word-of-mouth of those who have never seen the film is a shame.  "},{"Title":"Stupid, but that's why it's so good","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is so bad that it's good. I saw it for the first time on New Year's Eve and I spent the whole movie wondering where the good part was. When it never came and the movie ended, I burst out laughing at the ridiculous nature of it. I went and bought the movie (after a long search for anywhere that sold it) and it is now a tradition among me and my friends to watch it on New Year's Eve every year.Much like the movie Happy Gilmore, it's the bad acting that really makes this movie so bad that it's good. I wish they would release a soundtrack in the U.S. because that was, in my opinion, the best part of the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Most pathetic waste of time since Plan 9 From Outer Space.","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm not a big Hoffman or Beatty fan. My favorite Hoffman film is Marathon Man. My favorite Beatty film is Shampoo.When I saw Ishtar, I thought I was being punished for liking them. How could two legends debase themselves with this garbage? This mind-numbing, C movie of an endurance test made me feel as if I was being lectured to and ignored all at once. The dialogue was trite and predictable. The plot was farcical and not even remotely believable. Warren and Dustin just plain slumed through this one. Beatty appeared wan and disinterested and Dustin was trying his best to enjoy himself and appeared to have no interest for the task at hand.Which brings me to Elaine MayWhy is it no surprise to me she was uncredited for everything from 1981 to 1995? I want to know if this was by choice or by condition? Why is it also no surprise to me that almost all of these films were ripped apart by the critics and barely managed to tread water at the box office? Some outright went under.To summerize Ishtar If you sit through this movie without hitting the fast-forward button or lying to your friend about having to go to the bathroom when you really don't, you'll never have to prove your courage in any other way. "},{"Title":"What in the name of the goodness of the world","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I first saw this movie on video when I was 7...ten years later, i just saw it again and it left me with the same question the last time I saw itWhat in the name of the goodness of the World was Hoffman and Beatty Thinking?I didn't get the movie's theme, plot whatever when I was 7 (for good reason too--too young to understand such farce) Even at 17 I can't understand why this Junk was made! Don't waste money on it and hopefully Sony won't waste money distributing a DVD version either "},{"Title":"Not the worst movie of the 80s, but plenty bad enough","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The first twenty minutes or so of ISHTAR was a pleasant surprise. I mean, it obviously wasn't going to be a great piece of filmmaking (too much of the comedy is forced), but the relationship between Rogers and Clarke provides a few chuckles.But it's really just the same joke over and over. OK, they're stupid and incompetent, we get it already!Elaine May seems to know this, so the film quickly switches gears and becomes a wacky Indiana Jones spoof, and that's where it plunges into the toilet.It's certainly not the worst film of the 80s (the decade which produced CAN'T STOP THE MUSIC and SUPERMAN IV), but it's definitely bad. "},{"Title":"Ishtar Ishtarrible","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Seeing this movie can be dangerous business.  One would think that the combination of two great stars such as Beatty + Hoffman would generally end up as entertaining.  This movie must be the exception that proves this rule. Unless everything else in the video store has been rented, and your cable is broken, and you have removed all the grout from your bathroom tiles, I would avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"AWFUL","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think that this would have to be THE worst movie of all time. Whenever I see another film that is bad, I compare it to this movie, which most of the population has never seen.  (Lucky for them!)  Please don't waste your time. I often think about the that 2 hours I can never have back, and that $10 my dad will never get back.  Save yourself! "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm the kind of person who often likes bad movies because, even though they aren't very good, they're often cheesy enough to be entertaining and enjoyable.  This is not one of those enjoyable bad movies.  This one is just plain awful.  I rented it with low expectations, knowing the reputation it had, but had an open mind.  Well, it fell far below even those low expectations. I don't think I laughed once, either at the intended jokes, or the stupidity of the movie.  Instead, I just watched in pain at how they seriously seemed to think what they were doing was funny, but wasn't in the least.  This has to be about the worst movie I've ever seen, with no redeeming qualities to it at all. "},{"Title":"As bad as it gets","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ishtar has the reputation of being the worst film ever made, and I have to agree. While Plan 9 From Outer Space and other similar stinkers have their charm that makes them good for a chuckle or two (the so bad, it's good syndrome), this is perhaps the most painful thing I've ever watched. While I try not to be overly PC, I felt that the racism against the Arabs was unbearable, and the swipes at Islam were totally misinformed and uncalled for. I walked out on this one - and I was watching it on video. "}{"Title":"No, It's really Dire","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watched this movie because of many of the comments on this film and I thought 'Well, if they think that, than how bad could this be?' Since I liked all the principals involved, I felt why not give it a try.No two ways about it, it's really bad. The premise, involving Beatty and Hoffman (like Hope/Crosby) is totally untrue to their talents, let alone their screen images,that is where this comedy falls flat. Hoffman can do comedy, Beatty, to save his life, can't. However, Beatty can play the piano and sing, where Hoffman is not as good. The 'funny' songs aren't in my opinion. The plot is like the old skits they used to have on Variety shows. Not to mention that it's pointless and embarrassing. As entertainment, it's a misfire that owes more to a bad Abbot & Costello than the 'Road' Pictures. It's all a shame.I got the sneaking suspicion that the stars probably had a better time making the movie than audiences had watching it. Talented people were involved in this and look what they came up with.However I can recommend it to those who watch TV all the time and manage to get a few chuckles on every show. "},{"Title":"never trust a person who think's this is the best film of all time","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I remember seeing this when i was younger, about eleven years ago but never rearly understood it and never saw it again intil the other week when channel five broadcasted it late one night. Despite of the film's critical and box office failure,i decided to give the film another go as i was older,and i tried to watch the film as a comedy and not take it too seriously. but after seeing it again i have to agree with the majority,this film is abysmal. It's amusing to start with in the first ten minutes mainly because you rarely get a chance to see major hollywood stars like hoffman and beaty making absolute planks of them selves.But as soon as the story heads for morocco,the film louses it's way and becomes an unfunny,badly directed and suprisingly boring mess. All this for $40 million,thats over $100 million today.  "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I remember back in late 1987 I was watching an episode of my favorite TV show The Golden Girls. In this particular episode the four girls (Dorothy, Rose, Blanche, and Sophia) were sitting in the kitchen talking about the meaning of life. Then Sophia steps into the conversation and delivers a truly hilarious speech. Here is exactly what she said Let me tell you girls the three most important things I learned about life. Number one hold fast to your friends. Number two there's no such thing as security. And number three don't go see Ishtar. Whoof! Sophia had the right idea. That series of dialogue is 10 times funnier than anything you'll see in Ishtar, which is not only one of the worst movies ever made, but one of the biggest box office bombs in movie history. What Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty were doing in a movie as bad as this is anybody's guess.1/2* (out of four) "},{"Title":"The worst ever? No! I won't hear it!","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK, all you out there who think this is the worst movie ever!  Listen up!  This is not the worst movie ever!  It doesn't even remotely qualify!  Manos, the Hands of Fate, now there's a bad movie!  Lost in Space takes the prize in the big budget category.  V. I. Warshawski among chick-flicks, Encino Man for most annoying, They Call Me Bruce for most embarrassing, Best Defense for biggest waste of time, etc., etc., etc.In a way, Ishtar is something far worse than a terrible movie.  It is a mediocre movie.  Not good enough to like, not bad enough to hate.  A dull normal, with stilted dialogue and forced humor.  Even Paul Williams' intentionally bad songs, mildly amusing at first, wear thin after a while.  Mind you, I saw this movie after being badgered into it by two former coworkers who swore that this was the best movie they ever seen.  Well, it's not very good.  It's not very interesting.  It's not very likeable.  It's not very entertaining.But worst ever?  No.  "},{"Title":"If the gods of film-making created theatre, what'd we do to make them produce this??????","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Some films were never meant to be seen.  In a combination of bad acting, horrible singing, complete lack of plot, miserable direction, painful camera angles (usually the ones still showing any part of the scenes), and lengthy periods throughout the movie in which NOTHING happens; this film has coalesced into a divine mockery of anything film schools aspire to achieve. It is strongly urged to anyone that before you even consider watching this film, you find something more entertaining to do like making mudpies, doing your taxes, refinancing a loan, calling all your intentionally neglected relatives, or cleaning every single corner of your home from top to bottom. The movie would be great if the jokes were funny and well timed, the plot was interesting or the director had thought about looking at the premise of the film and looking to produce a product people would enjoy.  Honestly, I think that better films have come out of every B movie studio in existence. "},{"Title":"A reunion of cast & crew from another awful movie.","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK. After watching this dreck the other night on HBO, I had to research the thing to find out why the heck it was made, let alone why Hoffman and Beatty agreed to do this.It all goes back to another waste of celluloid called Heaven Can Wait. Same principal actors, producers and writers.What I can't figure out is what made Hoffman decide to be in this one.At least Heaven can wait had a (somewhat) better cast and at least an innocuous script. Ishtar's cast highlights include a wasted Isabelle Adjani and a number of others we've never heard from since (except for Matt Frewer, whose career could only go up after this mess).Elaine May (writer, director) wrote Heaven, which also starrted Beatty and Grodin, as well as Jack Warden. I'm convinced that there were many other minor-role players that were in both films, who all changed their names after filming Ishtar.Dave Grusin wrote the original music for Heaven as well as the forgettable, non-ethnic background annoyance in Ishtar (the ethnic side was written Bhajwa).At least Buck Henry had the sense to stay away from Ishtar. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen....","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  With all due respect to the talented actors of this film, Ishtar is the camel-toe of the Hollywood film industry (I'm sorry, I know that sounds awful). I'm a MAJOR movie fanatic and love a huge range of different types of movies, from Sci-Fi, Comedy, Drama, to Action, Musicals, and the Classics. However, Ishtar was the only movie to date, that has ever made me want to walk out of the theater before it was finished. The acting talents and reputation of the two star performers, were completely drowned and overpowered by the terrible writing, plot development and characterization of the film. For years afterward, this movie has been the butt of jokes by comedians and celebrities, and yet I'm shocked that this movie hasn't been added to the top 100 worst movie list. I figured it should at least fit into the top 5 worst. I'm sorry this review has been so unforgiving, but at least I'm relieved that Dustin Hoffman (one of my favorite actors) has been able to recover from this embarrassment (notice that this movie is never verbally acknowledged in his film making past, in award shows...) and move on to much bigger and better things, thank goodness.  "},{"Title":"Perhaps the worst movie I didn't walk out on","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was definitely Warren Beatty's oyster.We saw it opening night. We sat there waiting for interesting characters to emerge and for a fascinating plot to blossom. By the time the end credits began rolling we were still waiting.The characters were two dimensional -- perhaps that is being generous. It was like the lull before a chase scene for 107 minutes. You were certain it was going to get moving any minute now. The only surprise was that big name stars and a large budget could produce such a vapid film.I didn't walk out because it never offended me. It never interested me either.If you are looking for political commentary watch Wag the Dog instead.  "},{"Title":"Stinks on ice","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There is nothing to spoil about this film. It is already rotten. This is the one and only movie I have walked out of before it was over. You can receive the same entertainment value that this movie provides by going to your local dentist and have a tooth extraction with out pain killing medication. "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever produced.","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I remember going to see Ishtar when it was first released.  I remember walking out of the theatre trying to decide if it was a comedy or a tragedy or a complete waste of time and money.  I remember deciding on the latter. I tried watching it again a few weeks ago and still don't really enjoy it. There were some very funny parts, but they were few a far between.  It wasn't worth the .99 cent rental. "}{"Title":"Telling the truth about ISHTAR is dangerous business!","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've seen plenty out of bad moviedom this year, and that doesn't mean I'm a quittin', either! It's dangerous business for me to tell you the whole truth about ISHTAR. 1987 was a milestone year for Hollywood box office bombs, including the dreadfully demented LEONARD PART 6. Did all that lead to another stock market crash since then? Possibly! This was one of those movies. It tries to be hilarious and display some use of plot, but nonetheless the words B-O-R-I-N-G and S-T-U-P-I-D spell worse relief than Rolaids. Actors can't speak loud enough on the mic sometimes. Both Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty sing terribly bad, making this the worst motion picture soundtrack I've heard in my life. Go out and find the ISHTAR album if you dare! It's actually the best thing about the movie as our bumbling duo goes to Morocco showing off their personalities to the culture way out there. After all, they fared much better in following years. And a blind camel! Who in the hell made that up??? ISHTAR comes up a little short from LEONARD PART 6 in terms of mass dyslexia, but you still can't deny the fact that it won the prestigous Razzies for a job well done! Forget Mr. Maltin's or other political folks' points of view and stick to mine instead!  "},{"Title":"Discomfort abounds","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the only movie I've given a 1 to.  I never expected Ishtar to be a spectacular comedy, but I did expect it to be palatable.  The actors have experience and good movies under their belts, but this just made me uncomfortable and embarrassed for it's stars.  I got tired of the movie telling me how funny it is, it got to the point where I just watched because I want to laugh at something, but I was let down.After reading reviews I've discovered that every movie has someone who loves it.  I actually expected this one not to have any positive comments, boy, was I surprised. "},{"Title":"It Stinks.  You Can Smell It From Miles Away.","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie Ishtar (1987), which was probably intended to be a 1980's equivalent of Bing Crosby-Bob Hope travel movies, is so dismal that it is impossible to underrate it.  I voted it to be one out of ten on the IMDb scale.  Can I give it a negative score?  Only about two minutes out of this so-called comedy is funny.  Rest of the movie is absolutely boring.  When a movie is so bad, it can become a classic.  Remember Ed Wood's Force Nine from Outer Space. The special effects and alien costumes were so cheap.  The acting (if you can call it acting) of Tor Johnson and Vampira were horrendous.  The story line makes Saturday morning cartoons look like Dostoyevsky novels.  However, when all these horrendous, shamelessly cheap and tacky elements are combined into one movie, the end product is something fascinatingly bad and unique; it is a timeless classic.  However, `Ishtar' can never be a classic like `Force Nine.'  There is nothing unique about it.  It is just plain boring.  (Those poor movie critics.  They had to sit through this torturously boring movie.)  The shortcoming of this movie is in its horrendous screenplay.  The talents of stars like Dustin Hoffman, Warren Beatty and Isabelle Adjani could not rescue this incredibly bad screenplay.  Didn't somebody tell Elaine May, the director-screenwriter, that the screenplay absolutely stunk.  Even a chimpanzee can write a better screenplay than this.  You don't need a talent to spot a stinker like this.  This is a rotting, stinking fish.  You can smell it from miles away!    "},{"Title":"Lousy comedy and Lousy singing","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ishtar is argugably the worst comedy the 1980's every produced.  My best guess is that the producers were trying to produce a comedy the movie Spies Like Us; where rejects of  American society are used as ruses to protect the real spies, but the rejects end protecting the free plot.  If that was the plot it was a stink bomb of a movie. Warren Beaty and Dustin Hoffman are better skilled at drama than comedy. The jokes and gags have as much zip as a bottle of soda left open for 3 days.  Finally the singing. I have no idea if Beatty and Hoffman were only improvising or not, but when ever Beatty and Hoffan started crooning a song I had to leave the TV.  To show how awful the public thought of Ishtar, I give this example.In the show Growing Pains there is an episode where a TV camera man and the Seaver mother are stuck in the rain. The camera man has choice of listening to the Seaver's mother boring story or watching the movie Ishtar. The camera man decides to listen to the boring story.   "},{"Title":"Not one of the worst...","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is not one of the worst movies ever made, it's THE worst one. What was Dustin Hoffman thinking? "}]