[{"Title":"Awesome fantasy adventure","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"66 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Just as some movies that should be great turn out to be awful, some movies that should be awful turn out to be great - Masters of the Universe. Unfortunately, for a film that's based on a cartoon that today's 20-somethings used to watch in the 1980's, none of the said 20-somethings are going to admit to liking it now. Few will give it a chance and realize the direction is good, the acting is good, the music is good, that it's exciting, funny, scary, suitably epic and absolutely action-packed and that it looks fantastic. But Superhero Cinema does. He-Man and the Masters of the Universe was a hugely successful mid-80's cartoon based on a line of action figures. The success of each fed the other, as well as a popular comicbook and loads of other merchandise. Finally in 1987 came the big one the motion picture.What looks like suicide at first glance - converting a cartoon based on action figures into a full-length feature - gets more appealing when you look at thes ource material closer. The cartoon is a epic hybrid of fantasy and sci-fi, with ancient castles and sorcerers mixing with laser guns and cyborgs. It also has a very mythic feel, mixing Ancient Greece-era monsters and challenges with fairy tale locations.There are also hordes of exotic characters - warriors, mutants, monsters, magicians of every description, so the film makers could pick the coolest ones to bring to the screen. The ones they've chosen are He-Man and his arch enemy Skeletor (obviously), amazon-type female warrior Teela and her dad Man-At -Arms, the Sorceress of Grayskull, Skeletor's second in command Evil Lyn (which is always pronounced 'Evil-In'), and Beastman. Added to these are four characters that were created for the film - Gwildor, a dwarf-like inventor, Karg, a cross between Captain Hook and a bat, snake-like Sauron, and Blade, a sword and knife-obsessed slaphead. So that's eleven fantasy characters running about, which is a pretty good total.Masters of the Universe succeeds because it takes the cartoon and adapts not it's superficial qualities, but it's essence into a movie, turning it into a mature sci-fi/fantasy adventure. This is where so many comic and cartoon based movies fail. They don't adapt their source material properly to make a successful feature film. You need to make the movie a natural progression from what it's based on, altering the look enough so it looks acceptable in real action, altering the characters into real people, choosing actors who can give real performances. It's not simply dressing superstars up as characters from a comic or cartoon, it's re-imagining the ideas as a movie. MotU does this perfectly. You can fault it as a film itself, of course, but you can't fault it as an adaption.The production design is superb, with some superbly realized sets and costumes. Everything has been adapted to look more realistic on the big screen. The cast give uniformly decent performances. Nobody lets the side down - these are all 3D characters, not cartoons. Dolph Lungren proves he's one of the European bodybuilder brigade who can act. Frank Langella gives an outstanding performance as Skeletor, his powerful presence almost bursting out of the TV and into your living room. Langella gives a shining example to all actors portraying comicbook and cartoon characters in live action. There is a pervading sense of dread whenever he appears, especially during Castle Grayskull sequences, and the script gives him some awesome lines which he delivers with pure evil dripping from his voice.The monsters are pretty bloody scary, especially for a family film, especially the Beastman (who's had a 'the' added to his name). The sequence where they invade a school gym and chase Julie around it is excellent, far more exciting and scary than similar chases in many horror films (including some of those Courtney Cox has been in). It's also, like the rest of the film, surprisingly violent, as the bad guys attack Julie with swords, claws, laser guns and high velocity darts. That she manages to escape is not unbelievable at all, because of the way the chase is staged - it's just a relief she gets out of there, the goal of any such chase scene. The sheer ammount of bad guys that the small band of heroes has to face adds greatly to the drama.Setting half of the movie on Earth has it's advantages and disadvantages. It does give the film a human component, and two ordinary teenagers to be pulled into the adventure with. It also makes the monsters scarier - rather than being in a distant galaxy, they are in the neighbourhood, viciously attacking people and destroying whatever they come across. On the other hand, it would have been cool to see some more of the war torn Eternia and the planet's weird inhabitants and locations, but MotU had a relatively small budget, so that sort of stuff was off limit anyway. A little too much time is spent on the almost soap-opera angle of Julie and Kevin, but it helps flesh out their characters to make them believable.MotU is also packed with action, and we do mean packed. There is an outbreak of violence every 15 minutes or so, usually even less, and there is variety and imagination among the content, unlike many action films, which consist of repetetive shoot outs and nothing more. It could possibly be said that it's quantity over quality, as some of it, particularly the shoot-outs, are badly filmed, and none of the action ever reaches adrenalin pumping. However, it's good enough, in-yer-face and quite exciting to watch, with He-Man taking out hordes of bad guys with his sword, laser beams everywhere, mass destruction and some good old rough and tumble. And all the action grows organically from the story - none of it seems put in simply because the movie needed an action scene at a certain point.One of MotU's greatet assets is it's atmosphere. The sense of an intergalactic civil war is tangible, as is the sheer menace of the villains, the desperation of the good guys, the growing sense of doom as Skeletor captures the Cosmic Key. There is a cower-behind-the-sofa scariness similar to that of TV's Doctor Who.If Masters of the Universe was re-released at cinemas this summer, people would realize how good it is compared to the blockbuster summer fare we get these days. And all for $17m, which was hardly anything, even in 1987. "},{"Title":"Cheesy but Enjoyable Sci Fi Adventure!","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I feel a bit guilty, reading some of the other reviews posted, but I liked MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE! Perhaps because I was never 'into' the cartoon series, I am more forgiving of characters or plot devices left out, and I certainly recognize that it is derivative of both STAR WARS and FLASH GORDON (particularly in Bill Conti's bombastic musical score), but there is so much energy in the film, such abundant confidence in the ultimate victory of Good versus Evil, and such a wonderfully campy performance by Frank Langella as rubber-masked Skeletor that I get a kick out of it, whenever it airs.Physically, no actor could be more perfect as the hero, He-Man, than ROCKY 4's Dolph Lundgren. At 6'6 (that's two inches taller than JOHN WAYNE, trivia fans!), with flowing blond hair and blue eyes, the 30-year old Swedish actor combined a Herculean physique (if Marvel Comics' The Mighty Thor is ever filmed, he would be perfect as the Thunder God), with a knack for weapons that would earn him the future title of 'King' of 'B' action flicks. True, his English was so poor at the time of filming that his dialog was kept to a minimum, but who watches this kind of film for dialog, anyway?Supporting Lundgren's He-Man is crusty veteran soldier, Duncan (Man-at-Arms), played by character actor Jon Cypher, who makes up for He-Man's taciturn nature by reminiscing constantly about a life in the military (with observations EVERY soldier has made, through history), and his daughter, Teela (pretty Chelsea Field, one of the busiest actresses of the decade), serving as a Xena Lite for the proceedings.Opposing the Forces of Good with the irreplaceable Langella is one of my favorite actresses, Meg Foster, as the sublimely wicked Evil-Lyn, using her piercing green eyes and barely suppressed sexuality to great advantage. With an array of the cartoon's more colorful villains in support of Skeletor and Evil-Lyn, He-Man has his hands full!The plot involves a tonal 'key', created by a dwarf, Gwildor (screen legend Billy Barty, in an initially irritating, but eventually endearing role), that can transport individuals wherever they desire. Stolen by Evil-Lyn, Skeletor uses it to capture He-Man's Castle Greyskull and it's resident Sorceress (St. Elsewhere alum Christina Pickles). With a hidden prototype 'key', Gwildor leads our heroes into the castle...where they are nearly captured by Skeletor, before the dwarf throws together some random numbers, and transports our heroes...to Earth.The 'key' is lost, as the four arrive on our planet, to be found by aspiring musician Kevin Corrigan (Star Trek Voyager star Robert Duncan McNeill) who thinks it's a Japanese musical instrument! With girlfriend Julie Winston (future Friends superstar Courteney Cox, looking young and gorgeous), the pair are astonished by the musical complexities of the device, unaware that each time it is 'played', Skeletor is getting a better 'fix' of it's location. Eventually, our planet is pinpointed, and Skeletor leads an army of villains to subdue us, and capture He-Man. With great comic support by bald character actor James Tolkan (BACK TO THE FUTURE), as a bewildered police detective, some spectacular 'set' pieces (Skeletor's invasion force, backed by 'Darth Vader'ish music, is a highlight), and an ending that concludes that ANYTHING is possible, MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE is great cheesy fun! Certainly, the film is not a classic, but if you accept it on it's own terms, I think you might find it to be a lot of fun!  "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"32 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I Have the Power!For those of us who grew up in the 80's, that phrase is all too familiar.  Especially for those who would rush home after school to watch our favorite strongman face off against the forces of evil that threaten the safety and security of his homeworld.  For my money, it was never better than when He-Man faced off against Skeletor for the struggle for Eternia.I also remember the fantasies that I and my friends would have of traveling away to that world of magic and fantasy, to fight alongside He-Man as he defends Grayskull.  It truly was a series that was out of this world.And now it's on Earth.When I first heard about a live action movie, (mind you, I was twelve at the time), I was overly excited about it.  But I didn't get to see it until my late teens.  And I must say that it was very well done, especially in its presentation.  In fact it brought back those far away childhood memories of those late afternoons in front of the tv, or outside with the toys a make-shift Eternia setting with my friends.I'll grant a few things that were wrong with the movie though.  There were times that I think the script was either badly edited, or just too rushed at certain points.  I'm also not thrilled about them being on earth, but understanding budget constraints and the idea to make these characters more real than fantasy help feed into that decision, so I let that one go.  I would have also liked to see more of the characters from the toys in the movie, but have no complaints that they made up a few cool characters, like Blade.The casting choices, I felt, were really good.  Dolph Lundgren worked as He-Man, even though he can't act.  He looked the part, and even pulled off the role.  I could tell that he wasn't walking through the part, as many actor will do with character roles (right Mr. Clooney?).  And Frank Langella the PERFECT choice for Skeletor.  Langella managed to bring that character to life in a way that gave me chills.  Skeletor is perhaps one of the greatest villains ever imagined, but the cartoon made him a cackling villain, who was more a buffoon than anything, therefore he didn't seem threatening.  But seeing Langella make Skeletor more dark and evil put my faith back into the conviction as a great villain.You don't have to be a die hard fan of the series to enjoy the movie.  It's great fun, imaginative, and it captures a moment in time.  Don't scrutinize the movie because it's different from the cartoon.  Look at it for what it is, and don't focus on its faults.  It had the power to recapture my imagination, so its not all that bad. "},{"Title":"WITHOUT QUESTION THE GREATEST SWORD AND SORCERY EPIC EVER!!!","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"35 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not only does this film stand tall on it's own achievements but it is also clearly the inspiration for that well loved classic Beastmaster 2 Through the Portal of Time.  It follows the mythos of the original He-Man mini comics (the ones that came with the toys) more than the plot of the animated series, as such He-Man is not secretly Prince Adam. (My fellow post teenage virgins as well as losers in general will probably understand what I'm talking about.) Anyway Langela proves the perfect Skeletor.  Unlike the cartoon character he proves to be convincingly pure evil.  I must say that he honestly did succeed in being one of the most terrifying villains in movie history. Hat's off to director Gary Goddard and the cast for taking the story entirely seriously and not just dismissing it as a campy hour and a half long toy add.  It's that kind of conviction that distinguishes between art and commercial shlock. This movie also taught me some valuable life lessons.  For instance, if a guy with a skull head gets massive god-like power the only real change he will make to his life is giving himself golden armour.  (Both Skeletor and the Red Skull have done this.)  I also learned that when some one gets god-like power, to defeat them all you need to do is push them into a muddy ditch. Having the characters travel to late 1980's earth made this movie all the better specially since they got to meet Courteney Cox (what a babe. Grrrowwlll).  Why doesn't anybody ever ask her about this movie when she's on talk shows? Oh wait it's cause there's no reason they should care. Anyway if you don't have anything better to do give it a rent... and wait till the end of the credits for the secret surprise.  You can probably find it at your local Blockbuster Video!  Make it a Blockbuster Night!  "},{"Title":"A lot of fun! Some great performances as well...","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw this movie way back in the 80's, and recently got hold of the DVD. I'm pleased to say I still enjoyed it as much as I did back then! While the decision to place part of the story in 1980's suburban America, planet Earth, was no doubt a way to keep the budget low, the end result is still a lot of fun, and the main characters manage to stay pretty close to their original characters. Naturally, though, I'd loved to have seen some more of Eternia instead. Unfortunately, the promised sequel never came to be.Frank Langella is simply brilliant; his bigger-then-life portrayal of Skeletor may be different from what they did in the TV series, but it works great. He commands every scene he is in, and his performance is powerful yet subtle at certain moments. Wonderful! By the way, be sure to watch until the end credits are over...Dolph Lundgren, while perhaps not quite the eloquent thespian Langella is, does make a formidable old-fashioned hero. "},{"Title":"Great Fantasy.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"25 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Some people say it was the Star Wars of the 80's and some people say it was completely horrible.  I wouldn't quite agree with either statement. Though not as good as Star Wars, it really isn't that bad of a movie.  Especially if you remember growing up watching He-man on TV and pretending that you could hold a magic sword above your head and become all powerful. Yes, some of the lines are cheap and the acting is stilted and questionable at times, but it is still a fun movie.  If you forget what I've just mentioned and just sit back and enjoy the fantasy and the adventure, and you will enjoy the movie.  Some memorable scenes are the battles in the junk yard, the flying hover craft fight and the final fight between He-man and Skelator. If you're a fan of He-man or any action movie made in the late 80's, I would recommend that you rent this movie.  "},{"Title":"I have the power!!!!!","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"33 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I love this movie, yes it has bad acting and cheesy effects but so did the original star wars movies, right?? the only thing star wars had was that intangible you cant describe when talking about movies. it had it Masters of the universe had it as well but i think it had a different kind of it. Frank Langella has probably the most underrated performances as the evil and sinister Skeletor, one of my votes as baddest bad guy in movie history if they had something like that... this is the Jack Nicholson performance of the Joker before Batman. I don't know why people are giving it such a low rating, there are a ton of movies that are a lot worse out there. You have to realize that this was made in 1987 and SFX weren't as good as they are today, but this had heart and it shows if you watch it. If you go into it watching for deeper meanings and all this other stuff that art fans go for, i can see why you'd bash it afterward. But if you go into it expecting a fantasy story and great sci fi action, you will not be disappointed... you might actually be surprised with it! "},{"Title":"It is much better that regarded","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have read a number of reviews on this movie and they are accurate and good for the most part. My credit is to Gary Goddard for all he endured and still getting a credible and succinct movie made.The fight scenes are real and actual so they seem methodical but they're great. The hair, clothing, make-up, special effects, and down the list we go, is so caked in '80s gunk it would be hard to fight for this as a classic. It is the only He-Man movie out there, and although a sequel beckons, eighteen years have passed without a stir.If a sequel were to made Langella would have to be Skeletor. I mean the best acting from both he and Lundgren comes when He-Man is being led by the Centaurian. Langella saying I give you a choice return to Eternia with me as my slave and save their despicable lives, or perish with them here on this tasteless, and primitive, planet. It's cold and dark and it's authentic. It's chilling and you get chills. Langella overacts sometimes but mostly is great. He took Skeletor from a whiny, irritating, and downright pathetic worm of a guy to a believable, earthy, credible, and despicable evil-doer. We get a taste of the importance of He-man and all that he does, here in this scene, too.Goddard did something brilliant here, he made the movie personable. He puts these people on Earth, interacting with Earthlings, and putting a grasp on how out there these aliens are. But it is also probably why this movie is so widely disregarded, because it doesn't have great and illustrative fight scenes. Instead they are sensible and plotted. To see this movie remade could be a real treat.Gwildar is, essentially, Orco. He was easy, sensible, irritating, but not nearly as annoying, and unfairly Billy Barty was nominated for a Razzie. The story interlocks with this missing key as created by Gwildar. This cosmos idea of God-like power through the manifestation of a fourth dimension is highly advanced. This is why the movie is good. Portals are doors and He-Man is definitely a science fiction adventurer. This puts an Earthy spin on an idea wiling out.Teela works and Man-in-Arms (Duncan) is good as a faithful sidekick to He-Man. That's what he is. He can hold his own but mostly is fighting for duty of right, and he follows He-Man for he is the epitome of it. Teela's gritty and pitched voice, with her desperate actions, are very formidable. Duncan is best when inspiring Kevin. Kevin is a sensitive guy with a talent. What these Eternians do is showcase pessimism on Earth for their planet is dying at their own hands. They are their own good and evil and it is hard to differentiate, so why care? By the end of the movie Courtney Cox and Robert Duncan McNeill (Julie and Kevin) see that. So does Lubic. The Eternians have no planet and yet they continue to hold hope and forge ahead He-Man. Tolkan is not so much a distraction as he is pretentious. McNeill yelling to Tolkan Lubic this is for real as he dodges a Centaurian blast doesn't hold much weight, or reality. It is about unity, division, and strength. Both literal and figurative.Meg Foster is great as Evil-Lyn because she improves the movie rather than take time from Skeletor. Goddard lets most of the acting chops fall to the incomparable Frank Langella. He-Man is the ambassador of good. He is to talk slow, be level-headed, and search for justice. Lundgren does all of these things. He mission isn't to be malicious and blood seeking. When he runs into Julie (and a great fight sequence ensues) it is Duncan and Teela doing some leg work. He-Man is a protector. He'll abate killing Skeletor to keep any and all safe. In all honesty how many lines can you give someone? Someone suggested Brad Pitt as He-Man for a remake. I don't mind Pitt, but he would ham up the screen like some feel Skeletor did. Skeletor's was good, He-Man's would not be. Lundgren, in all honesty, is great. He has a mullet but looks the part, and contrary to popular belief, acts it. He wields the Sword of Grayskull gracefully, yet with force and some clumsiness. It's heavy, but he's well-skilled and versed in the sword. These oppositions are found in the Soceress. She would normally seem bad to us; however, she is the greatest power of good. Christina Pickles gives great lines of philosophy allowing for good banter and humor with Skeletor. And her love for He-Man is very evident and clear with solid acting.The cartoon is hardly to be found here, aside from the characters and Eternia. Battle cat, and all other characters good and bad, could cloud a remake. But it would be great to see history revealed for He-Man like the new Batman series has done. People forget we like to see depth in our characters. And the character Charlie is filler, not unimportant, but certainly not integral. He's written well. All in all watch this movie because it's really, quite engrossing. "},{"Title":"Great lazy Saturday afternoon movie.","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you're looking for a film to sit back and take in on a lazy Saturday afternoon, look no further. Masters of the Universe is one of the best examples of this type of film. There is no deep thinking, you just sit back and watch. I really enjoyed watching this, it's the kind of movie you can get wrapped up in, just like The Ice Pirates. All in all a worthwhile view. "},{"Title":"Nothing Great, unless you grew up with He-Man cartoon/toys.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"    I'm not going to lie to you!  This is not a very good movie, but I still loved it.  I love this movie cause it reminds me of all the he-man figures that I used to play with when I was a child.  The story of this film is loosely based on the story from the cartoon series.  I say loosely, because other than the names of some of the people (He-Man, Man-At-Arms, Teela, Skeletor, Beast Man) and the names of some of the places (Castle Grayskull, Snake Mountain, Eternia), the two stories don't seem to have a whole lot in common.  That isn't necessarily a bad thing, although, it was sad that some of the key/favorite characters from the cartoon series didn't make it into the film.  It would have been cool to see Battle-Cat in the film, although very hard to execute.  I think a lot of people would have liked to see Orco too...but I never liked him much anyway, so that was just fine with me to cut him out.  As for the cast, I thought they were actually pretty good.  It seems most people disliked Dolph Lundgren playing He-Man, but I thought he was great!  No, he's not the best actor in the world, but I thought he did a fine job.  I really enjoyed seeing Courteney Cox in her early work, and at such a young age, she was quite the looker back then too.  As for Frank Langella (Skeletor), I thought he did a great job with the role!  And I thought his make-up was incredible!  Very good job!  I thought the rest of the cast did a great job too.  People that deserve a special mention is Bill Barty (Gwildor), James Tolkan (Det. Lubic) and Chelsea Field (Teela).  The only major complaint about the movie that I have is why did they have to kill off Sarod and not Karg?  Saurod was cool looking and Karg was just plain stupid.  He talked stupid, he looked stupid, his clothes were stupid...all around stupid!  Saurod was cool!  Anyway, in a strictly movie sense, this movie isn't really very good, and if you don't know anything about He-Man, then are almost sure to dislike it.  But in a nostalgic sort of way, the movie is pretty cool.  Also, you have to keep in mind that this IS a kid's movie, so it's not really intended to be anything really mind-blowing.  Nonetheless, I loved the movie!  I hope you like the film as much as I did.  Thanks for reading.-Chris "}{"Title":"Overwhelming fantasy about  heroic He-man battling  Skeletor  in Eternia and Earth","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A corpulent hero named He-man , a veteran warrior (John Cypher), his daughter (Chelsea Field), a likable midget (Billy Barty) fight in Eternia against a vile villain named Skeletor (Frank Langella as a Darth Vader clone) in a fantasy/Sci-Fi about rebel forces battling for the sake of freedom and engaged in a life or death war with the tyrant leader of a far planet . They transport themselves by means of a mechanism that creates a time hole to earth in which nothing less the future of the universe is at stake . There they meet an intimate and youthful couple ((Courney Cox , Richard Duncan). Meanwhile , Skeletor wants to get a chance by destiny to receive the powers of Grayskull.This is a big-budgeted live-action rendition of the cartoon roles' feats in the ¨Star Wars¨ mold and characterized by He-man , Skeletor and many others . All of them blend together with wonderful and terrific special effects courtesy of Richard Edlund and special designs by Moebius .¨Masters of the Universe¨ is basically numerous spectacular fight-scenes with a tiny bit of plot movement, full of sympathetic dialog and flashy blasts of light and energy . It features stunted and disjointed action, as well as the hilarious but quite conventional characters fitting partially to animated series . The abundant breathtaking images , which labor mightily to reproduce the source materials in some impressive scenes and eye-popping look .After his nasty roles in in ¨Rocky 4 (85)¨ and ¨A view to kill(85)¨ , the Swedish muscle mountain Dolph Lundgren starred this film and followed by ¨Red Scorpion(90)¨ and ¨Universal soldier(92)¨ in his successful period during the 80s and early 90s . Lundgren has enough acting ability and charisma to play this kind of heroes . Based on cartoon and famous toys by ¨Mattei Inc¨ that proved to be one of the biggest of all time . The characters and story may aim a little more at kids than teenagers and adults. For comic relief is in charge of Billy Barty with his antics and jokes . Other support actors making brief appearance are James Tolkan and Christina Pickles as the imprisoned sorceress . The special effects are all they're cracked up to be and set a new cinematic standard for realistic realization . Action scenes have the zip and excitement you'd expect . The motion picture is well directed by Gary Goddard in his only realization , subsequently he dedicated to production and 3D . This would-be epic about ¨ Sword and witchery¨ is an entertaining romp through space and time . "},{"Title":"From the people who butchered Superman, comes . . . an oddly likable movie!","Date":"16 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's a funny thing; when I watch Masters of the Universe I tend to view the movie as a straight sword-n-sorcery adventure, very much of its '80s time and place. And on those terms, I think it's a pretty cool flick. It's got its share of cheese, don't get me wrong (pretty much all of Courtney Cox's subplot), but that's not enough to kill it. Dolph Lundgren makes for a solid hero and he's great for the role's physicality. But it's clearly Frank Langella who steals this thing, buried under makeup but still owning his scenes.It's interesting to see what came out of Cannon in 1987. Superman IV was a disaster, and yet Masters of the Universe somehow works. Chock full of swords, lasers, ships, otherworldly heroes and still grounded in a contemporary setting. Were I a more devoted He-Man fan, this might leave a sour taste in my mouth. But comparing it to others of its type (Conan the Barbarian, Krull, Willow) it ain't bad at all.7/10 "},{"Title":"Masters of the Universe has the power!","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Masters of the Universe blows Star Wars away.  There is only one James Tolkan.  Aside from Tolkan's awesome performance, Courteney Cox, Dolph Lundgren, and Billy Barty as Gwildor all turned in fine performances.Masters of the Universe was a well-written, well-acted, and well-executed 80s action flick.  It receives *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"COME ON PEOPLE!!!!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Nononono!!! You can't just trash one of the most important childhood-memories since Star Wars!! It's HE-MAN for Christ's sake!! You know?! The Super-duper strongman, who battles Sceletor over the power of the universe and stuff!!! In this film, however, they move to earth in pursuit of a MAGIC KEY!! IT JUST DOESN'T GET ANY BETTER!!!!I give this one an 8, as it's fun to watch, and nothing more. It's like THE MUMMY RETURNS Great entertainment, with powerful heros and villians, but no fun for your average Woody Allen fanatic.8 8 8 - so.. I'm a mental morron! "},{"Title":"More than life","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Okay, let's face it. We all have our own opinions on films. Some say the Godfather is one of the best films made. Personally i could name 10 films that easily beat it (Masters of the Universe isn't one of them by the way) but there are much better films out there. But despite our professionalism when it comes to rating films, there's always a special place in our hearts for those really cheesy childhood movies that made on hell of a difference to our upbringing one way or another. Masters of the Universe is one of those films. Frank Langella, Skeletor, plays the part of He-Man's nemesis better than anyone else i could dream of. Dolph was perfect for the part of He-man. Sure there were some good old fashioned bad guys missing. And where was battlecat? I'll tell you where, at the bottom of the budget. At least we had Air Centurions and a damn sexy Evil Lynn. But above all, we had some bad ass lines in there. I think they done well with what they had. Even the tune is good (thanks for Rocky too Bill). If you don't like this movie it's cause you've got no soul. Masters of the Universe is a masterpiece in every way, shape and form. There hasn't been a bad guy like Skeletor (with the exclusion of Darth Vader) who was able to do the role justice. You probably grew up on a steady diet of westerns (that didn't include Clint Eastwood) and therefor have no imagination. If you don't like Masters of the universe then there's a good chance you don't like other classics like Big Trouble in Little China and other such masterpieces. In which case go back to watching so called classics and pick out another sweater from bland wardrobe and rot.Look for more down to earth reviews coming soon (big Trouble in Little china, Rocky, Predator, etc) "},{"Title":"Demonstrates a pulp culture axiom always steal from the best sources.","Date":"17 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A complaint I commonly see in reviews of Masters of the Universe is that it seems to be an obvious rip-off or derivative of Star Wars. Fans of the He-Man cartoons also complain that it does not adhere very closely to the continuity of those cartoons. The latter charge has already been answered elsewhere that this movie is, in fact, based more on the minimal storyline of the mini-comics that originally came with the toys than the animated series that was later plotted around those same toys. Hence, we have mainly just He-Man and Skeletor and some of their inner circles of friends and allies and no Prince Adam or other characters and identities later developed for the animated series.Such creative decisions, as with particularly the decision to replace Orko with Gwildor for the live-action movie, were doubtless motivated partially by adaptive pragmatism and partially by budget concerns. Whereas whipping up a believable live-action facsimile of Orko would be ridiculously easy with the computer graphics technology of our times, this just would not have been feasible for most special effects departments back in 1987. Moreover, that the costumes and equipment the characters use in the live-action movie don't entirely match the ones in the cartoons is surely due to adaptive pragmatism as well as pointed out in one of the live-action X-Men movies, it would hardly have been a good idea to dress all the mutants there in the same brightly-colored skin-tight spandex they wore in the comics and cartoons. In fact, the lighting and coloring of Masters of the Universe actually does give it a credibly cartoonish look for a live-action movie, and the director makes it clear on the DVD's commentary track that he and the cast and crew bent over backwards to achieve this effect by shooting most of the movie at night; looking at the finished product, one can see this effort paid off beautifully.As for the charges of plagiarizing from Star Wars, that Star Wars itself plagiarizes heavily from (or, as Hollywood prefers to say, is inspired by) other sources is fairly well known. What not so many of these critics realize is that Master of the Universe was actually inspired by a great many of the same sources as Star Wars. Try playing tracks from the classical composer Gustav Holst's The Planets intermingled with music from the Star Wars and Masters of the Universe soundtracks, and suddenly you'll realize that Bill Conti was not ripping off John Williams; rather, Conti and Williams were both plagiarizing from Holst. As for the characters and plots of each film, Marvel and DC's lawyers would likely have sued anyone who'd admit this into oblivion, but Star Wars and Masters of the Universe obviously both draw heavily from a lot of Jack Kirby's early Silver Age comics with their grotesque monsters and armies of invading alien stormtroopers, particularly the ones in which a power-hungry tyrant from a metallic and highly technologically advanced dystopian planet seeks out a mysterious source of cosmic power that can give him god-like control over the entire universe, aided by mindless hordes of minions and squads of quirky and monstrous super-powered warriors all seeking to curry favor with him; but enough about Darkseid and Jack Kirby's Fourth World stories.On its own merits, apart from all its predecessors, is Masters of the Universe any good? On the whole, I'd have to say yes. Frank Langella's Skeletor clearly enjoys chewing the scenery at every opportunity, as does Detective Lubic, who's remarkably competent at his job even if he's a bit of a dick about it at times. Robert Duncan McNeill's performance as Kevin neatly foreshadows the same level-headed plain-spoken charming personality he would later bring to his roles as Nick Locarno and then Tom Paris in the Star Trek franchise, Courteney Cox is sweet and vulnerable as Julie, Meg Foster demonstrates considerable ruthless competence as Evil-Lynn in bringing a woman's touch to Skeletor's efforts to retrieve Gwildor's other cosmic key, and even Billy Barty does a decent job being the plucky comic relief as Gwildor. Dolph Lundgren, while playing a rather flat character with minimal dialogue, earns his paycheck by flexing those muscles and swinging that sword at every opportunity, and Skeletor's mercenary squad and stormtroopers are believably menacing and dangerous even though He-Man and his pals end up wiping the walls with them.While a remake is rumored to be in progress now, I strongly doubt it will be able to improve much on this movie. Though the constraints of its relatively low budget do show in places and it has not aged as well as it might, Masters of the Universe is an enjoyable sword-and-sorcery space opera better than most of the kid-vids of its time and still well worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"Perfect example of low-budget sci-fi goofiness but holds a certain charm","Date":"8 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Despite being an epic failure in the eyes of Cannon Films, the live- action Masters of the Universe movie has built a cult following over the past 25 years. Although it's the perfect example of low-budget sci- fi goofiness, it does hold a certain level of charm for lovers of the Mattel toy line. You have to give director Gary Goddard credit for doing what he could with the money he was given to work with. What can you do when there's not enough cash to throw at fantastical otherworldly sets? You take the fantasy characters and put them on Earth in practical locales that don't cost as much money to build. That's what we get with Masters of the Universe.He-Man (Dolph Lundgren) and his band of warriors are accidentally transported to Earth by a powerful key which will give Skeletor (Frank Langella) the ultimate power to rule Eternia. Skeletor sends his evil henchmen and army to find the key before He-Man does. Things get more complicated when the key is found by two teenagers (Courteney Cox and Robert Duncan McNeill) who think it's a musical instrument. They soon find themselves in the middle of a universal battle between good and evil.http//contributor.yahoo.com/user/849014/eric_shirey.html "},{"Title":"Going from Eternia to Earth to Exciment!!","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Masters Of The Universe is the story of He-Man (Dolph Lundgren) that saves Eternia and Earth from the evil of Skeletor (Frank Langella) and Evil-Lyn (Meg Foster). He saves the universe with the help from Teela (Chelsea Field), Duncan (Jon Cypher), Gwildor (Billy Barty), and two humans, Julie Winston (Courteney Cox) & Kevin Corrigan (Robert Duncan McNeill). In order to save Eternia, they have to save the Sorceress of Castle Grayskull (Christina Pickles) from the hands of evil. In you like action and going from one world to another, you are going to enjoy this film. Plus, the special effects are very good, comparing to the year the film was made, 1987. Lastly, Dolph Lundgren does a great He-Man, and a great hero must have a great villain in Frank Langella. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of 80's cheese!","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There are bad movies that you hate and bad movies you love. Masters Of The Universe is definitely a prime example of a good bad movie. Why this movie doesn't work is because it would need a big studio treatment with the resources to supplement the enormous budget that this requires . Since Cannon pictures is the minor leagues in comparison they can't set the film in Eternia. So, what we have here is a 2nd rate Star Wars rip off set in 1980's suburbia. Does it work ? No, but it makes for great entertainment . You get Dolf Lundren with a mullet wig, a gnome wearing a Haiwain shirt eating fried chicken , laser guns, sword fights, a teenage Corteney Cox, keyboards ,bad acting. To put it over the top, Frank Langella not only has the worse makeup job ever. As Skeletor he overacts like his life depends on it . I guess no one told him this Masters Of The Universe , not Macbeth. Having said that I still enjoy this movie as it don't lack in entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Masters of the 80's","Date":"2 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Of all the Star Wars rip-offs, the only worth while watch would have to be the masterful MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE.Set in the land of Eternia, He-Man (played by Dolph Lundgren) and friends find themselves in a bit of a pickle when Skeletor and his cronies crash the party and make heads roll. Skeletor captures the Sorceress, takes over the Castle of Greyskull, and tries to enslave He-Man. Basically, he wants to make peoples' lives a living hell.There are many parts of this movie that bear similarities to Star Wars. Storm Trooper look alike, laser beams that deflect off of swords, a cloaked bad guy who can shoot lightning from his body, bounty hunters, the struggle between futuristic good and evil...the list goes on and on. However, once you get past the fact that this movie directly steals from Star Wars, you start to appreciate the awesomeness that this film brings to the table. Let me review a couple scenes for you.After transporting to earth, the good guys in this movie find themselves conveniently located near one of the most delicious fast food places ever found in a film, Robby's Chicken Shack. Of course, the wily veteran of the group, Man-at-Arms, follows his nose toward the tempting fried chicken and ribs. However, Gwildor, a troll look alike, beats him to the punch and goes fly-fishing for some freshly fried buckets of food out of a nearby convertible. Upon learning that they are indeed eating meat from an animal, the female warrior Teela condemns the two hunger-stricken heroes for being so inhumane. Shut up, bitch... and go make me a space burger. Man, this scene always makes me hungry.Meanwhile, Skeletor is freaking out because no one has died at his hands yet.... (continued at www.oldforgereviews.blogspot.com ) "}{"Title":"Dolph has the Power!","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I really love this movie, because It has everything. It has Action, Comedy, Drama and Thriller. I love it because Dolph Lundgren was absolutely fantastic for the role of He-Man, Frank Langella also did a fabulous job as He-Man's rival Skeletor. This was also Courteney Cox's first movie. I really loved the scenes with Dolph Lundgren's He-Man and Courteney Cox's character, cause I think Dolph and Courteney were awesome together. I think that Dolph Lundgren's He-Man is better than Christopher Reeves' Superman. The opening and ending music of Masters of the Universe sounds a lot like the original Superman theme song. This was Dolph's first leading role and he plays really awesome good guys. "},{"Title":"Eternia is real","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Every time I see this movie it reminds me that Masters of the universe was the best action figure series there has ever been or will be. (Can you even compare them to.. what? Turtles?.. OK they were cool.. but NO.) There could have definitely been a more charismatic actor as He-Man than Dolph, but he does it OK and definitely has the muscles required. Skeletors character works very well in this movie and I think it really did justice to the original. Some people even compare Skeleter to Dark Vader, the villain of all time, so there has to be something good.. eh.. evil in this character and after all what would have been Skeletor like if they would have done two more of these? If we would only have the first SW-film the Vader wouldn't look that much better from Skeletor would it? This is really a great fantasy classic all tho -like said- it could have obviously been much better.I hear people saying a lot that it ruins the movie because it's set on earth - I have to disagree because this way I felt that He-Man was so much more real. Isn't that one of the reasons why so many of us liked this movie as a child (and still do;)? - Because we want to dream Eternia being a truly existing place. "},{"Title":"Not bad story but not following the norm of the original animation","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I feel this would have been better if more funding was available and it kept to the stories of the original animations with more magic. Although not following regular story line this film showed the rivalry between He-man (Dulph Lundren) who defends the secrets of Castle Greyskull and the protect the planet Eternia and Skeletor (Frank Langella) who tries to control all things including the Castle Greyskull. The story starts on there home planet of Eternia but ends up on earth due to the cosmic key which a local inventor designed to transport anywhere in the universe, but was stolen and used to get into Castle Greyskull and capture the guardian the sorceress this is where the battle begins. After recapturing the cosmic key Gweldor ended up having to open a portal door to escape Skeletor and his warriors. They ended up on earth but lost the key so they set out to finding the key. But Skeletor used a second key to follow. Two earthlings found the key and this is how Skeletor located the planet. They find the key had been taken to a music shop this is where the first battle on earth was. Evelyn disguised as the mother of the earthling steals the key back. Then He-man is captured to save the rest. The rest end up using the damaged key with a keyboard to get the required notes to get back home. This leads to the final battle between He-man and Skeletor, this is where Skeletor falls down one of the pits within the castle. The Sorceress is freed from the ageing spell then helps the earthlings back home. "},{"Title":"Don't expect too much and you'll be pleasantly surprised","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I gave a groan when I saw the Golan-Globus name in the opening credits, but this movie actually turned out to be much better than I would have expected.This movie may not appeal to die-hard fans of the animated series because of the liberties it takes with the established characters, but as a stand-alone work it's decent enough for what it's supposed to be. It thankfully doesn't take itself too seriously, allowing us to just enjoy it as the light bit of entertainment that it is.Frank Langella is unexpectedly excellent as Skeletor under all that make-up, and it was fun to see Star Trek Voyager's Mr. Paris at a very young age here.(His first major role perhaps?) Dolph Lundgren is as unexpressive as usual, but at least he looks the part. And Beast-Man makes a good contribution to the cast of villains.All in all, don't set your expectations too high and you will probably enjoy this fun piece of 80s pop culture.Now if it would just come out on DVD! "},{"Title":"Skip this and hunt down Filmation's superior efforts","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While He-Man was hurting in the sales (and other areas) in the time this was made, it can probably be said that this was the last bad move Mattel made before cancelling both the He-Man and She-Ra lines. First off, if you liked any of Filmation's created characters (Orko, the King and Queen, Adam, Cringer, etc.), you're out of luck. Also, if you want to see something that looks like the show or toys, you're also outta luck. If you want to see Skeletor take over Grayskull (and then disappear for nearly half of the film afterwards), by all means, go ahead. (Not a spoiler, seeing as how it happens so early on in the film.) The characters on Earth are totally unrelated, and don't help the story much. If anything, it smacks of cheapness (as it's easier to go film in some city, or city-like sets, than go and make Eternia). Filmation's prior feature, the limited-release Secret of the Sword is historic for its cheapness factor (as it is a condensed version of the first 5 episodes of the She-Ra TV show), but at least it's enjoyable. I truly can't believe that this is coming out on DVD before any of the Filmation shows. "},{"Title":"A great attempt","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't know what all the fuss is about with this film, okay so it was very predictable and not a patch on the cartoon series, but I don't think it's all that bad. The story is as interesting and gripping as any, and all the actors put a great performance in their roles, especially Frank Langella with that brilliant make-up job. And, o.k. the special effects and gun scenes are like Star Wars, but so what? They look good enough, don't they?  "},{"Title":"if u didnt like it u must be boring","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  this is one of the funniest films ive seen. packed with humerous and memorable quotes and absurdly stupid villains  - u will enjoy masters of the universe the movie. dolph may not play the part to the letter of the cartoon, but his adaptation never fails to raise a smile.ok, so the film borrows many aspects from star wars. eg. the theme music, emperors march music as skeletor moves through his palace and the team of frail bounty hunters to name but three, but all is done with tongue firmly in cheek (i hope!)(most minor of spoilers follows)the final emergence of skeletor from the pit after the credits saying i'll be back showed colossal over confidence on behalf of the film makers. dont miss it!id give this film 10/10 without hesitation! "},{"Title":"","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I will be blunt.  This film at the worst is a bad Star Wars ripoff.  However at the best this film is a grand missed opportunity.  The cartoon series He-Man and the Masters of the Universe had a plot and meaning.  He-Man was not always a strong hero most of the time he was the weak Prince Adam and when he was in that form he was a dissapointment to his father King Randor.  This film took out one of the best comic devices of all of the history of animation Orko the Trollan court jester.  The worst mistake though was the casting of Dolph Lundgren.  Nothing against Dolph but He-Man was very literate and sort of a cowboy-type superhero and Dolph has a pretty syrupy Russian accent that he tries to work through but to no avail.  I ask you to not prejudge all things He-Man because of a negitive experience with this film.  Just remember that this is not a bad idea, merely a poorly executed one. "},{"Title":"Muscles of the Universe","Date":"17 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Skeletor is thirsty and the only thing that will quench his thirst is the power of the universe. The only thing standing in his way is the scantily clad, pec-packing, tiger steadless He-Man, played here by the Scantilynavian action star Dolphin Lundgealot. We are not sure where Skeletor's hatred for He-Man comes from, but it could be due to He-Man's muscular physique and his penchant for showing it all off in an outfit for which there is no coat hanger while Skeletor covers up all skin except for his hideous face. It could be He-Man's beautiful blonde mullet that constantly reminds Skeletor that he has no follicles. Anyway, the plot... What sets things in motion is none other than a ginger dwarf with a warp whistle. With the exception of He-Man, there is no other tool that Skeletor would rather get his hands on. But Gwildworf, along with He-Man and friends take a cosmic cruise to the most boring part of Earth where they land in sub-bordemite America. Skeletor has his own personal army of Darth Vaders but he chooses instead to send a curious quartet of ass kickers to retrieve his precious. There's Blade who is a cross between Shredder and a pirate. Sarad, a reptilian relative of Mortal Kombat's Cyrax, I think. The Beastman who seems to have a bit of cowardly lion in him. Then there's Karg, imagine the Grinch had a baby with Joan Rivers and it came out with a silvery mane of hair and a desire to be an intergalactic Napoleon. Unfortunately, Skeletor's A-team get little chance to let their mercenary skills shine as He-man proves formidable. But the saga isn't over as Skeletor has more tricks up his sleeve. Watch it! Love it! "},{"Title":"Master of the Universe","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Masters of the Universe takes place in Eternia and Earth where He-man(Dolph Lundgren)and friends do battle with Skeletor's evil minions, in order to rescue the sorceress and free Castle Grayskull, which has been captured by Skeletor and his evil forces. This is a great sci-fi action flick fantasy, which is very entertaining and is meant for all viewers of all ages. Surprisingly they do a good job, in showing some parts of Eternia but not all of it is shown in the movie, many things is missing in the movie from the cartoon series. They also did a great job with the costumes, special effects and make-up, especially Beast Man, Karg and Saurod.As He-Man, Dolph Lundgren does look good in this role. With his hot look going for him, he does a terrific job as He-man, the man is definitely in good shape and must have been told to tan to look as much as possible like He-man.I miss the good old days when they used to use laser firing guns, sword to sword combat and cool creative monsters. "}{"Title":"Now, i'm not total movie buff. But i know what i likes, and i likes this.","Date":"9 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The first time I saw this movie I was 10 years old. I was a huge fan of the cartoon and I had a few of the action figures. I can't remember the amount of times He-Man and Skeletor went head to head on my bedroom floor and in my back yard. Of course they were also teamed up with Optimus Prime and Megatron (but for some reason they always banded together to destroy my sisters doll house. lol, never mind). As a kid this movie was everything I wanted it to be . OK, I might have bin a bit disappointed that some of my favourite characters hadn't made the cut, but once I got into the movie I soon forgot all that, as I remember. When I was DVD shopping recently I came across it and got it for nostalgia sake. After not seeing it for a long time me and the family sat down to have a watch. Now my kids, being 6 and 9. Have never even heard of He-Man and my wife wasn't a huge fan as a kid. Now I will admit that, when watching it this time I wasn't as impressed as I was as a kid. I noticed a lot of the sort of impossibilities that annoy me even in a Si-Fi, fantasy film like this. For example, when He-Man and his group arrive at the music store before Evil-Lyn and her group. Even though Evil-Lyn left the same starting point first and was flying. (you might call it nit picking but that sort of stuff upsets me) But I realised that all that really didn't matter when noticed that both my kids were really into it. I remembered that it is a kids movie after all; and as such isn't bound by the same laws as movies targeted at a more mature audience. All things considered i think the storyline, plot and acting were all good enough, and all added up to exactly what the film was intended to be, a great family movie. I think Frank Langella gave a very good performance as skeletor. I never realised, and couldn't believe it was him under all that make-up. I watched 'Superman Returns' not long after that. In which he plays the newspaper editor. Watching the two performances back to back is really quite daunting. "},{"Title":"A Fun 1980's Action Film that Forgets its source material!!!","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As a kid in the 1980's, I was not into the Fantasy scene. I would have taken Star Wars and Star Trek over Conan the Barbarian any day. That is why I was reluctant to rent Masters of the Universe way back when it was first released on Home Video. Fortunately I let my buddy pick our rental for the day and we watched Masters.Yeah, this film isn't going to win any awards, but it really is fun to watch. At the time, the effects were not bad and Dolph really looked the part of He-Man.It is interesting to note, however, that this film really does not stay true to its cartoon origins. For instance, the cartoon dealt with the battles of good vs. evil in a mystical fantasy-land 'Eternia', i.e. 'Third Earth' or 'Middle Earth' . . . But this film placed Eternia in a science fiction setting. There really is no reason for He-Man to use a sword when he is shooting his laser gun. Further, the film used mostly new creatures instead of the beloved characters created for the toy line. It's kind of like the producers of this film decided to take He-Man and put a Star Wars-like spin on it. What emerges from the mixer, then, is a sci-fi action film that doesn't take itself too seriously. "},{"Title":"Courteney Cox... hèhèhèhè... this movie's got Courteney Cox.","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Aaaah, it was fun being a kid in the 80's. Star Wars action figures, Transformers, Zoïds,... and He-man. Though I didn't collect all the toys, I did like the cartoons (or what I can remember from them), with Skeletor being at the time one of my favorite animated villains. But by the time the motion picture came out, I had already seen movies like STAR WARS, THE LAST STARFIGHTER and KRULL. Now that was stuff that really impressed me when I was a kid. So, even when I was rather young at the time MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE came out, it didn't impress me much. I remember thinking something along the lines of What's with all this running-on-earth-crap? Where's Eternia?. So over the years I kinda forgot about it. Until recently when I was at my parent's place and found a copy of it. So, back at my place, I popped this baby into my good ol' vcr and thought Let's see what we make of it now. And yep, it's a pretty bad film. It's cheesy & silly, to say the least. But strangely, after a while, you just accept the silliness and go with it. The story is yet another take on the 'good vs evil'-concept. Skeletor wants to absorb all the powers of the universe. In order to do that, he needs a key which has been transported to earth together with He-man and his friends.The special effects & make-up are more or less okay, maybe cheesy at times, but hey, it was the 80's. Some things were just very bad about this movie the annoying little midget-troll (obviously inserted for some comic relief), the key-gadget made these really stupid synthesizer-sounds, the fact that Julie gets re-united with her parents (which were DEAD, by the way) at the end of the movie (really bad move, scriptwriters), Robert Duncan McNeill just can NOT act (and he's not the only one in this movie),etc...And what about Mr. Goldilox, Dolph Lundgren? Well, I think at the time it was a good decision to cast him as He-man. This was to be his break-through roll, possibly lifting him to Schwarzenegger-heights. Sadly, MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE failed miserably at the box-office. Though that wasn't Lundgren's fault, but when it comes to being a good actor, well, the fact that you can read in the end-credits that he needed a speech-coach AND a drama-coach to pull this one off, proves enough, doesn't it? By the way, notice that he has almost no lines in this movie. And perhaps the most unforgivable thing At the end of the movie, when he raises his sword and shouts the most famous words I Have The Power, you can see that his lip-movement isn't synchronized. Slightly hilarious, I call that.On the good side Frank Langella is awesome as Skeletor. His lines are good and you truly believe he's evil. Classy B-queen Meg Foster, with those oh so mesmerizing eyes, is also excellent as the icy-cold Evil-Lyn. This movie features also one of the coolest bounty-hunters I've ever seen Saurod (that lizard-guy with the pulsating throat and the neat helmet. Pity that he doesn't do much and dies quickly). JameskletskopTolkan was also very enjoyable as detective Lubic. And that's about it. Not even Courteney Cox' performance is memorable, but she had me laughing every time she came on simply because she was in this flick, looking young and 80's. Oh yeah, the floating platform fight was kinda groovy too. Though the scene was executed rather poorly, it was fun seeing an action-figure of Lundgren on a board flying around. Goofy stuff.While MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE isn't a good film at all, it still manages to entertain on a spectacular, cheesy sorta level. And it's a must see for kids, I believe. Just wait until they're just old enough to understand the dialogues & story, and I'll guarantee you they'll shut up, watch and love it.Now the film-critic in me is saying Don't you dare give this movie more than 3 stars!... Screw him, I'm gonna do it anyway. "},{"Title":"Well presented take on the cartoon series, and entertaining storyline for those without the background","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Masters of the Universe is not by any means an excellent film or movie, but it is a great roller coaster ride through the fantasy frontier that leaves viewers satisfied and impressed with the depiction of Skeletor in particular, regardless of the sketchy mask. Epic fight sequences and plot twists with side characters help shake down the unbelievability of the idea that Dolph Lundgren, or Ivan Drago from Rocky IV whichever you prefer, has put down his boxing gloves and replaced them with the sword of Grey Skull. Yes he's very skittish throughout the entire movie and he lacks the charisma you would actually expect out of He-Man, but when the moment of truth is upon him he is right when he says, I HAVE THE POWER! "},{"Title":"A Classic For All Those Children of the Eighties","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" What we have here is a campy movie about our world colliding with one that has superheroes, and adventure. Meg Foster as Evil-Lyn, and Frank Langella as Skeletor, were perfect casting. It has all the ingredients of a Fantasy/Science Fiction film for the day. Special effects, dudes in loin cloths, and Billy Barty. What more could you want?Okay, so forget that it is supposed to be about He-Man. This movie doesn't come close to the old cartoons. And Star Wars of the 80's it is not. (I have the original VHS case and one of the movie reviews on the film case says that.)This movie is one of those that are so bad they are good. "},{"Title":"UNDERRATED SCI-FI FANTASY","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If I hear MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE referred to asjust a kid's movie one more time I'm gonna scream!It's a GOOD sci-fi,action-adventure,fantasy movie!!This forty three old is not afraid or ashamed to admit that she watches it once a month!!From Frank Langella's over the top Skeletor,Meg Foster's Evil-Lyn;to Courtney Cox and Robert Ducan Macneill as the young couple in peril.Both of them VERY good in their first movie.The plot held together very well.The only problem I have with is how,even in a small town after dark,no one notices all the noise and carrying on? The special effects are good also.It deserves a better rep!Gary Goddard deserves good credit too!Not bad for a first directing job!!SPOILER ALERT!  "},{"Title":"Flawed, but ONE GREAT performance","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie could have been so much better, if it stuck to more of the original idea's from the movie (prince Adam, the king and Queen, more of the cartoon's villains) then we could have had a real classic on our hands, if only a lot more of the film was spent on eternia, as opposed to earth, maybe an extra half an hour showing Skeletors taking over of grayskull in full along with more scenes of He-man and co in Eternia.BUT, what we are left with is still an effective movie whilst some of the characters fail to warm, i.e. Gwildor, Man-At-Arms, Teela and even He-man some of the others are great Meg Foster was perfect for the role of Evil-Lyn as was Courtney Cox and Robert Duncan McNiell as the young couple, Skeletors four henchman ranged from pretty good to poor, Blade was an excellent idea, and the Beastman was one of the only original elements from the cartoon to remain, but Saurod was awful and Karg was just irritating, but that said, they could have been worseBut of course the final mention on performances has to get a special paragraph to itself, a Truly Inspired piece of casting brought Frank Langella the part Skeletor, and if not for his truly wondrous showing then this film could have sunk without trace, his voice and mannerisms were awesome (nothing like the cartoon, but not a problem) and the delivery of some truly great lines such as 'I must possess all, or i possess NOTHING' or 'Everything comes to he who waits, and i have waited so very long for this moment' as well as his transformation into a god were stupifyingly amazing, a 10/10 for him.Some of the action scenes were very good, whereas some were bad, its easy to see that the budget on this film was unwisely used, too much effort was used to make the cosmic key effective rather then having super cool henchman for skeletor (who were too much like darth vader's soldiers for me) i liked the air centurions though.Summing up this film is a 7 1/2 out of 10, purely because of Langella's greatness.  "},{"Title":"Great for five-year-olds of all ages","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember the hype when this film came out. This big budget movie version of the Mattel toys and comics is still one of my best. I never liked the toys much, but I've always loved the movie since I was about six years old. I always thought Dolph Lundgren is by far the most underrated action star alive, even though he's a veteran now and still makes some action movies, but back then he was the best thing since Arnie. First appearing in Rocky IV, this was his first major role in a movie and arguably the one that set off his career. The story is rubbish, to say the least, about He-man's collosal battle with Skeletor on the planet Eternia, and later getting sent to earth with some friends via a 'cosmic key'. Most of the action takes place on Earth, where our heroes search for the cosmic key before Skeletor and his forces can find it. Throw in the traditional idiot kids (including pre-Friends Courtney Cox), and the rest is a showdown where they almost trash the whole city. There are some great camp performances, especially from Frank Langhella as Skeletor (under loads of makeup) and Billy Barty as Gwildor, a sort of troll-like creature who found the cosmic key. The movie is mainly cue for some expensive special effects and massive setpieces, and a score by Bill Conti that is good but borrows heavily from Star Wars. The set for Skeletor's throne-room was supposed to be one of the biggest sets in movie history, which is a pity because we see so little of it. For those that don't take every movie they see on a critical level, this movie is loads of fun. I recommend you see it and take a welcome trip down yesteryear for some great, undemanding entertainment. "},{"Title":"One of my biggest childhood disappointments","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you were a kid in the '80s, you were all about He-Man, and I was no exception.  I had the toys, the books, the lunch box, the underwear-pretty much everything I owned, in fact, bore the likeness of my all-time favorite cartoon character.  So when I found out there was going to be a movie, I thought my life was complete.I really couldn't have been more disappointed if they'd put He-Man in a tux and top hat.  This movie sucked.  First off, Battle-Cat, Orko, and pretty much all the villains from the original cartoon were replaced by new characters that everyone hated.  Skeletor's mask didn't even come close to looking skeletal, and all his troops (since when did Skeletor have troops?) were direct rip-offs of a handful of costumes from Star Wars.Then we have He-Man, who wears a cape (?) and never becomes Prince Adam. Plus, Lundgren has problems hiding his accent and can't really act anyway. The annoying dwarf Gwildor would've been forgivable if they'd only changedhis name to Orko!  Come on, we all knew this was the movie's answer to Orko...just a few minor changes to the script, and one big gripe could've been avoided.  And who could forget those two teenagers?  Man, I wish I could...But these complaints come mostly from a fan of the cartoon series.  On its own, as well, the movie has a whole host of problems.  For one, the script is awful.  Even for a sci-fi/fantasy adventure, there's nothing about the story that's even minutely believable (why do Eternians speak English?). There's no reason for Skeletor to be so fixated on finding this cosmic key, since he's already got one.  They try to cover it up by adding the line, I must possess all, or I possess nothing! but it doesn't work.Then, on Earth, when He-Man and company lose the key, they just so happen to run across the two kids who found it.With the exception of Frank Langella, none of the actors did a halfway decent job, though it's hard to tell based on what they were given to work with.  And the resolution at the end is so predictable and cheesy I even stood up in the theater as a six-year-old kid and yelled, Bulls***!I could keep listing the its flaws, but my hands are cramping in protest to thinking about this movie.  It gets 3 out of 10 from me. "},{"Title":"why?","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Why doesn't this movie get more recoignition? Call me dumb or whatever but this is a cool movie.i have to admit i was a huge master of the universe fan before the movie came out..the cartoon and the action figures i had. To me this movie seems to be a cross between Conan and Star Wars. It has the sword fighting and the laser blasts..Plus the subplot of these fantastical characters coming to out planet and enteracting with teenagers..I really wish this movie had done good at the box office so a sequel would have came forth...even Skelator says at the end of the credits..ill be back..but he never did... "}{"Title":"what a great movie","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  so many people bash this movie because they dont see it as what its supposed to be. a fun movie. it was and i loved it. it was not meant to be a serious movie. it was not very true to the cartoon but it was still great! i love the cartoon and the movie! sure they changed the costumes, theme(from mediaevalish to futuristic) but this movie was a great experience. lubic stole the show(enough for me to make an action figure of him). i saw gwildor as the movies orko. it was a pretty good idea the whole story line. the universe is music. the sorceress could have been better but still. i would have loved to see tri-klops, 2-bad, trap-jaw and klawful etc. still i love this movie. see it for what it is, a entertaining movie. if you want a masterpiece go rent apollo 13 but if you want a fun movie, rent this. 10 out of 10 i was in korea, i never saw anything like this-lubic "},{"Title":"are you all nuts??","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't believe how many positive comments there are for this movie!! This movie may have single-handedly ruined my childhood.  Okay, exaggeration, but come on, the plot, script, and acting are nowhere near the level of a decent, real movie.  It makes Batman and Robin look good!!The comparison to Beastmaster 2 in the sarcastic comment below is accurate.  It's just as bad in terms of plot/acting/script, and it actually makes the same mistake setting most of the action on Earth rather than in the fantasy atmosphere of the original.  By this one action, they take everything that made the cartoon exciting to kids and flush it down the toilet.A real stinker!! "},{"Title":"The BEST live-action film adapted from a cartoon!!!","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, so this film isn't exactly Oscar material, but it's extremely enjoyable! The storyline was great, and the visual designs of the Castle of Greyskull (both interior and exterior) is excellent.Dolph Lundgren is perfect as the heroic He-Man and Frank Langella is at his best as the villainous Skeletor (who is one of my favourite film villains), but it is James Tolkan who steals the show as the tough-a***d cop Lubic.Many people accused this film of being a 'Star Wars rip-off', but it isn't because the vehicles that were seen in this film also existed in the animated series.Overall, this is a very entertaining film and I rate it 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A pretty decent movie, saved by the talents of Meg Foster!","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Many people do not care for the live-action Masters of the Universe movie, because it was so centered around Earth.  However, the dazzling, pale-green eyed actress Meg Foster, in my opinion, makes it worth watching.  She truly shines as the wicked sorceress of night, Evil-Lyn! "},{"Title":"A cool and fun movie","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was a big fan of He-Man when I was a kid.  I had almost every toy there was.  When the live-action movie came out, I was so excited.  And in 1987, I finally saw it and loved it. Now yesterday, for the first time in thirteen years, I watched it again.  I still love it.  I admit, it could have been done way better.  I don't think they should have spent so much time on earth.  I wanted to see more of Eternia!  What they DID show of Eternia was pretty cool, although it was only a desert and the castle.  If they had the digital technology that Lucas had to make Episode I last year, they definitely could have created some cool features for Eternia.  But for the technology they had back in '87, they pulled it off well. The story was lacking, but I was satisfied.  I enjoyed myself from beginning to end.  All the battle scenes were done well, and the characters were developed.  He-Man could have acted better.  It seemed that he didn't have that many speaking parts. Dolph Lundgren was probably mostly used because he looked like He-Man.  Skeletor, however, stole the show.  His performance was almost as good as the Emperor's in Return of the Jedi. I know that this movie kind of rips off Star Wars in many ways.  The troops being like Storm Troopers, Skeletor being like the Emperor, Evil Lyn like Vader, He-Man like Skywalker, Gwildor like Yoda, etc.  Also, the scene where Skeletor falls down that pit is almost identical to the scene in Return of the Jedi where the Emperor falls to his death.  But so what?  Many movies still do. Overall, I rate this movie a 7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Probably the best licensed film ever","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Masters of the universe still remains the best live action film version of a television show or cartoon.If you think of all of the awful cash in films of recent years, then this film has the best of a bad bunch. The film is highly enjoyable in a campy way, and entertaining to watch. Mainly the film triumphs in it's set design and effects, Castle Grayskull being one of the high points. As we were to see afterward, with wasted projects like Lost in space key things that made the cartoon entertaining only appeared once if at all. He-Man's classic line I have the power! is only said once or twice, and there isn't battle cat (probably due to lack of funds) It is a shame that the film will probably never be re-released on video or appear on DVD, as it is one of my favorites. Good in a bad kind of way. "},{"Title":"Nice movie for He-Man fans!","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Back when it was released, I thought the movie wasn't great. But now, I'm a huge fan of it! True, it lacks the look and feel of the original cartoon series. But some characters like Gwildor, Blade, Saurod and especially Evil-Lyn (played by Meg Foster) are really well done. Skeletor is nice, too. He seems to be a lot smarter than in the cartoon series I think it's cool indeed (perhaps he just needed a better mask). The story is also nice Skeletor captured Sorceress in Castle Grayskull, He-Man accidently visits Earth and must find a way back to Eternia to free the Sorceress). I think Sorceress' outfit is bad, some special effects look dull and Dolf Lundgren's (He-Man) accent is terrible. But overall, it's a cool movie for He-Man, Sci-Fi and Action fans. Too bad they never made a sequel (while Skeletor kind of promised it at the very end) "},{"Title":"Great movie!  A must for Masters fans!","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Great movie!  It was very loosely adapted from the original cartoon, which came as somewhat of a disappointment, but was still very good.  There was none of the familiar faces from the cartoon such as Prince Adam, Cringer, or Orko.  But there were some new characters made up for the movie such as Gwildor, Saurod, and Blade.  Dolph Lundgren was a good choice for He-man, and he seems to fit the character well.  Frank Langella plays the evil Skeletor very well also.  After the credits, there was a link left for a sequel to the movie that never came.  A very good movie if you are a Masters of the Universe fan.   "},{"Title":"Thank you David Odelle.","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" After reading so many lauding reviews, as well as those who revile this film. I wasn't sure to add my own opinion in fear of simply repeating what already has been affirmed by so many. But here I go!MotU is breathtaking and, yes, it's cheesy, but cheesy in a good way. It combines like all good pulp a perfect synthesis of pop-cultus mythology and some real poetry.(yes, I said poetry) The principal flaw or merit of the film take it as your allegiance veers towards the 80's cartoon, is the deviation from the Filmation rehashed, vapid, cell-recycling cartoon. (Don't get me wrong I have the entire DVD set even She-ra, so I love it, but now I enjoy it on a different level)We don't get the epic world of Eternia, but here in a classic 80's twist, the Eternians are whiffed away to our world. (probalby to save a buck)Never the less the plot is acceptable, thanks to David Odelle, the screenwriter. A great part of the movie's power is due to the wonderful screenplay by Odelle. He creates characters with ease, using effective lines to paint their personality and like all those who love the film, I join the chorus is praising that Skeletor is one of the great screen villains of all time, thanks to David Odelle, of course Almost everything Skeletor says portrays regal villainy. (...Let them rot, let them rot), pomposity (The people must know I am Greyskull...), rage (You are all aware of the penalty for failure!) Vanity (I demand the destitution and loneliness of scorn, it is my right, my destiny!), delusion (just see his god-speech and you'll know what I mean, best villain speech ever) and even Loneliness (Tell me about the loneliness of good He-man, is it equal to the loneliness of evil?) Of course the lines written by Odelle are transformed into a tour-de-force portrayal by Frank Langella, everything is fantastic about this role, form his dark brooding voice to wonderful overly dramatic gesticulation. (My friends and I have endless fun, quoting and impersonating Skeletor.) He-man on the other hand is dramatically underwritten, even the stand of between Skeletor and the muscle-bound hero, the blond Scandinavian has little to say. But you'll have fun to see Dolph Lundgren speaking his lines with a thick accent and believe me it just as much fun as Arny.(to bad He-man has no cheesy one-liners The movie is also greatly helped by a fantastic score by Bill Conti. There's an amazing main-theme that in all it's triumph and victorious blazing seems to put the Superman theme to shame to which it bears similarity there's great action music with beautiful trumpet solo's and there's the majestic pompous theme for Skeletor (that develops as the movie progresses and reaches it climax during Skeletor's bombastic travel to our world)If you want a sci-fi/sword-n-sorcery flick (those two are never combined enough) and a trip to the eighties in all it's glory (watch Krag's hair and you'll know what I mean), and are a sucker for a lager than life villains that takes center stage in a film, I think you will enjoy this movie. So gather your friends, pop a dutch-beer and chew down on pizza as you are whisked away into the world of the film version of Masters of the Universe. I have the power! "},{"Title":"For those who don't want to grow up","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" 10/10 for the Nostalgic little kid in me I never want to lose. 6 for the jaded film snob in me I'm trying to kill off.Guess who's winning? This was the first film I ever saw in the theater. I was 3 years old and remember it very well. The smell of popcorn, my friend running up the aisle screaming when Skeletor first turned to the camera, my refusal to leave while he waited in the lobby. I always liked Skeletor more than He-Man and a lot of that came from this movie. I watched the cartoon, but the movie is what did it for me as a 3/4 year old. It really influenced me a lot, especially my action figure play as a goofy little kid who enjoyed doing long Skeletor dialogues alongside the usual action figure...action.All these years later, I really do still have a fondness for this film and since it was such a big part of my childhood...I can't judge it too harshly. As a Screenwriter/Filmmaker myself, I understand the problems this movie faced in fitting an epic universe into a less than epic budget. For what it is, the movie works today, but beyond the nostalgia factor, the three undeniable things that still hold up are the realization of Skeletor's character (look, costume, LINES! ACTING!) the set designs for the greyskull throne room, and the majestic score.I don't turn my nose up at good entertainment(I can watch this film and Apocalypse Now in one sitting and enjoy both for different reasons), and this is good entertainment, certainly with more substance than the 2 dimensional crud kids get today.Tell me about the loneliness of good, He-Man. Is it equal to the loneliness of Evil? Think about that line, and the underlying theme that Skeletor, even though he has won will never be whole because greed needs conflict to survive (i.e. more greedy pursuits, hence Skeletor's obsession with breaking He-Man).Men who crave power look back over the mistakes of their lives, pile them all together, and call it destiny. What it did not have in budget, the film made up with heart. Some of the technical things aren't up to snuff, but again great writing will seep through even when hampered by the constraints of budget (meaning a last second...let's set most of it on Earth note from the producers) David Odell and Gary Goddard did the best with what they had, as did everyone else. Some went above and beyond, Bill Conti, Frank Langella, and for those reasons and more many of us remember this film fondly and enjoy watching it again. "}{"Title":"the greatest sci-fi action movie of the 80's and beyond","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" i know this is not a very cool thing to admit but in my humble opinion this is the greatest sci-fi movie of the 80's and nothing has bettered it since.the sheer joy of watching this brings me back to the day i went to see it as a kid in 1987(the best year for both movies and music).i remember it vividly and i think thats the sign of a great movie. the villains in this movie are also pretty scary.skeletor,beastman,blade and karg all creeped me out as a kid and still do. the best thing about this movie though is its a spectacle.its a story of good versus evil and filmed in such a fantastic way.looking back at it now in crystal clear DVD it shows the limitations of the effects,but it doesn't matter,because the movie just looks so great.the vivid colours of both eternia and los angeles and then final showdown in gold bring you into this cartoon world without ever making you think damn this is cheesy. i would much rather sit through this,even with its limited effects,than the likes of lord of the rings or spiderman.there will come a time when movies don't look like movies anymore because they're so heavily effects-laden(sin city,300).if a movie is to be effective it shoudn't have to have amazing special effects.it should be down to the characters and storytelling.the mind is a powerful thing,we don't or shouldn't need everything put on a plate for us.masters of the universe takes you on a wild ride regardless of dodgy dialogue and not-so state of the art effects. i love this movie,its underrated and deserves greater respect than it gets. "},{"Title":"These plastic action-figurines are alive!","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" War has broken out on the planet Eternia and the evil Skeletor has taken prison the Sorceress of Greyskull castle in the hope of capturing her powers, so he can rule Eternia and finally the universe. Though leading the resistance is He-man and small group of freedom fighters. They rescue Gwildor who has created a device called the cosmic key that Skeletor could use to move between galaxies. To escape the overwhelming forces, He-man and his friends are transported to Earth. Two earthlings stumble across the key and soon find themselves caught in between a universal battle of good and evil.This one definitely brings back mixed memories. I loved the TV cartoon series of He-man and collected the toy figurines (which the movie is based on) when was a young kid. So naturally when the movie came out, there was no doubting that I wouldn't go out and see it with my father. Masters of the Universe was actually the first film I saw at the cinemas and the only time I ever walked out of one. Firstly Skeletor and his minions totally freaked me out. Call me a wuss, but loved how they were represented as bumbling villains in the cartoons. Secondly; I didn't particularly get into the serious direction it went for and the whole mythology the cartoon series drew up was severally lacking. The magic and humour was nowhere to be seen on this live feature length presentation.This was my third viewing of it and I still found it to be an averagely uninspired and bloated clunker that somewhat resembles that of a Star Wars-Flash Gordon hybrid. If it wasn't for Frank Langella's theatrically imposing portrayal as the malevolently power-hungry Skeletor and a lusciously icy Meg Foster as the vindictively sly Evil-Lyn (Yep, I don't mind how viciously wicked they are now). This would have just been another forgettable fantasy fodder.The costumes and make-up (especially Skeletor's mercenaries) do look vividly striking and convincing, but the variably dazzling special effects with its pyrotechnics light show and grand scale treatment became dreadfully cheesy, but I guess this made it mildly fun and diverting. The budget is reasonably minor and you can honestly tell, despite with its striking set designs for Eternia and this is why most of the story takes place on earth. Director Gar Goddard does quite an generic job with David Odell's scratchily rapid screenplay (with an uncalled for sappy conclusion), but the speedy story does have its moments and Goddard generates a couple exciting flashes of creative gusto. This is mostly when the villains are on the screen or when James Tolken's slightly humorous Detective Lubic gets caught up in the mayhem. The script is singly minded, but there a few risible lines delivered with strenuous conviction by Langella. The glistening gold Dolph Lundgren looks the part and does the action scenes quite well, but he does provides nothing but a monotonously laconic performance. Courtney Cox's debut film role is nothing spectacular, but reasonable. John Cypher as Man-at-arms and Chelsea Field as Teela provide sound contributions. Robert Duncan McNeill's rabbit in the headlights performance is pretty weak and Billy Barty very much annoys as Gwildor. Bill Conti's corny and grand sounding music score is easily influenced by Star Wars musical score and I got that feeling it tweak around with the Superman one too.Masters of the Universe is a weird live-action cartoon that's full of hiccups, but with its overblown nature and fast pacing it amuses without much fuss. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When I was 5 or 6 I used to be the biggest he-man fan of all time. I would run around my house in my he-man undies and scream, I have the power, with my plastic sword in my hand.This is a classic movie like (STAR WARS) good vs evil plot, with happy ending except STAR WARS didn't have the cool undies! It has some unforgettable characters like guildor the locksmith, who's cosmic keys sparks this adventure to earth. Heman the hero who takes down legions of stormtrooper-esk characters with his sword.Great movie when you are growing up, something you will never forget. I plan on showing this one to my kids when they are growing up.Wish Skeletor would have fulfilled his promise at the end of the movie.This one needs a sequel!!!! "},{"Title":"A great story, great action, great characters = great film","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" One of the greatest action film of all time!Although a huge flop at the box office, this film is fantastic for 2 reasons1. Frank Langella (under rated in a big way, fantastic as Skelator! 2. That great 80's feel that we all love!I have no idea why this film wasn't a big hit.Evil lynn is absolutely scary as hell and played fantastically by Meg Foster.Although Dolph was a bit square in the movie, he is believable and acts to a satisfactory standard.I bought this on DVD a couple of years ago and it borough back so many memories from my child hood. So now i watch it at least once every couple of months. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" People who call this movie a Star Wars rip-off have not seen Episode III. At least two lines spoken by Palpatine are ripped directly from this movie and the mouth of Skeletor. Anyway...I don't wanna get in to how this thing relates to the cartoon because frankly, it doesn't. You watch a Dolph Ludgren movie for the same reasons you watch a Schwartzenegger or Van Damme film. Not because of good articulation, but because of the immediate coolness factor.There's no hiding the fact that the movie was low-budget, but regardless the special-effects were quite crisp and I personally didn't mind taking the action to earth since this time around they avoided any residual corniness you tend to get with films like this. Of course there's always the risk of getting the wrong type of comic-relief, but I liked Gwildor so I don't care.If there's something about this movie I didn't like it has to be two things 1.) Teela's diminished role 2.) Blade's lack of screen-timeOther than that, this is one excellent adventure. "},{"Title":"Fun!!!","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There's a lot to like about this fun flick based on the popular cartoon and toy series. It's a surprisingly entertaining movie that delivers plenty of enjoyable escapism. Dolph Lundgren as He-man was a fun casting choice. He certainly looks the part! My favorite part of the movie is the evil Skeletor. He's awesome! Frank Langella was a perfect choice! He's extremely enjoyably EVIL in every scene he's in! It's great stuff! Like He-Man? Give this flick a try. Pick up the new Best Of Masters of the Universe animated DVD too. You can't beat the fun of He-Man on DVD if you get this sort of thing. I've had a blast watching the movie and the cartoon. Good fun! "},{"Title":"Skeletor Makes the Movie","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Let's face it they don't make the like this anymore. The script could have been better . But Frank Lagella almost immortalizes Skeletor. If their a new film a actor needs to use this portrayal of Skeletor as inspire. The special effects are great for that time period and if the budget had been higher it probably would have become a classic like Star Wars and Flash Gordon.Dolph was alright as well. But I'm afraid he and the other actors are out done by the villains. This may do to the fact we really can't get any good characterization out our heroes. THe film deserves attention do to the fact that in the 80's this film included with such films as Back to the Future, Willow, Indiana Jones,and Star Wars really pushed the boundaries of what could be done on film , at least in the realm of science fiction and fantasy. We need to understand and continue try to achieve more great scifi and fantasy films like this one. "},{"Title":"Worth The Watch","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A lot of He-Man fans think this movie was terrible. I don't. Sure, it could have been much better, but for any He-Man fan, this movie is worth watching. I liked the idea of bringing the MOTU characters to Earth, however, there should have been more action on Eternia and a little less on Earth. They should have showed Snake Mountain, for instance, and how Skeletor took over Greyskull. I liked the new characters that were added to the movie, but I don't think they should have replaced the original characters from the cartoon. This movie certainly could have been done better (and I think a remake is called for), but all in all, it's not a bad movie. If you haven't watched it, you should at least give it a try. "},{"Title":"I've Always Liked This.","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am positively sure that most would consider this lackluster and cheesy, but I have to go by my own personal viewing of the film.Maybe I am a little partial to it because this was one of my favorite's as a child.Firstly, the performances of Frank Langella, Meg Foster and Courtney Cox are all filled with class and a certain finesse that not only makes the film exciting but also enjoyable to watch.Sure the film would have been a great deal better if it had all been on Eternia, that fact has always been indisputable.This film needed much more than 17 million to be the epic that it rightfully deserved to be.I must also compliment the near perfect, flamboyant score by Bill Conti.On a down note I do feel as if the story would have benefited more with a larger number of the cartoon series' characters..but those were all script decisions.There is one scene in particular towards the end where Skeletor is being transformed into a god-like being that particularly stands out.Langella's acting there puts to shame most of all of your supposedly great performances of modern day.On a final note I also think it's truly a shame that the new He-Man cartoon was cancelled, and that there can not be a movie produced in Hollywood's dry, remake fringed state of today.Who knows, it may actually make money.Masters of The Universe Has The Power to entertain.  "},{"Title":"On your knees proud warrior","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  An enjoyable romp of a movie, aimed at kids of all ages and enjoyed by many. My memories of the film as a child are dim, unlike many of my contemporaries who fondly remember Masters of the Universe.  So I revisited and whilst now the effects are ropey, the dialogue a little limited and the plot very 80s, the cosmic key doubling as a cool synthesiser, it does have a certain nieve charm.Dolph is muscled up, baby oiled up and stoic.  He doesn't seem to have a lot to say which may not be such a bad thing. Langella is a delight and very much the focus of the movie playing the rather camp Skeletor with great gusto.  He delivers lines like 'on your knees proud warrior' and 'yes you will, yes you will or I shall wreak terrible harm upon you' (or words to that effect)with verve.  As He-man points out, he doesnt want the woman (the sorceress/hag) he wants his he-man and its always been between them.  And perhaps it always will? Make of that little nugget of information what you will.  I know my interpretation added depth and perhaps hidden dimensions to the struggle for power between skeletor and his bulky nemesis.The leprechaun, gwimmer, gwildor something gwimmy anyway, is interesting too, nice scene between him and the cow.Cast your cynicism and modern sensibilities aside, rest your weary brain and any thought processes, and enjoy this tale through the eyes of a child. You may just surprise yourself.  "}{"Title":"Good Journey?","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A twisted exercise in wish fulfilment and post-bereavement fantasy in which Courtney Cox gets a chance to resurrect her dead parents killed in an air crash one year previously, aided by extra-terrestrial warriors whom have dominion over time and space. Director Gary Goddard fashions a disturbing dissection of grief and guilt in which Cox's Julie constructs a hyper-real fantasy world - an uneasy profusion of pop cultural artifacts (Star Wars, Children's Dolls and Action Figures) and the symbolic projection of repressed desire, particularly with regard to the device of the 'cosmic key'. It is both a literally employed narrative device to allow the visitation from Eternia, the alien world of Julie's dreams, and the restoration of her family in whose death she feels complicit but facilitates structures of fantasy in which Julie's need for escapism from her grief and the ability to alter the past become manifest in technology. The technology doesn't exist of course hence the need for Cox to invent her otherworldly heroes but also we become aware of the need the Cox character has to address the role that transport technology played in her parents death. Just as the plane killed them and blew their fragile bodies into millions of blooded and metal infused bits, David Odel's script suggests that an even more advanced instrument of transport can bring them back to life. The visitors themselves are supermen and animal like creatures, perfectly divided into easily coded forms of good and evil and subsequently a complexed play of light and dark is played out between 'He-Man' and Skeletor' in which the character's narcissistic identification with the conflicting emotions she feels surrounding her guilt complex are personified in an on screen war between these alien visitors. This might be an easy enough paradigm from which to judge the thematic and formal conventions employed in Masters of the Universe but the film itself provides more questions than it answers. What are we to make of the boyfriend Kevin (Robert Duncan McNeil) who is viciously beaten by the 'beast man'? As the narrative takes place in Cox's mind, characterisations of friends and partners are unreliable. McNeil is an idealised conception of ideal partner who is of course an extension of her dead father, namely supportive, loyal and alive. His vicious beating however suggests that in the midst of her catharsis revenge fantasies are being played out, the beast man the personification of rage and barely concealed contempt. The only conclusion is that McNeil's boyfriend has beaten his girlfriend in reality and probably subjected her to indecent sex acts and psychological torture. If his on screen personality is an idealised opposite then in reality he has propagated the notion that Julie killed her parents by choosing not to go to the lake with them that weekend. Furthermore the decaying father made flesh, i.e Skeletor (Frank Langella) compounds this notion by punishing her culminating in a physical attack that recalls the spectre of rotting decrepitude in her parent's burnt corpses. Ultimately then this is a children's film in which death, torture and suffering walk hand in hand with schizophrenic hallucination and Bill Conti. It's either the greatest diatribe on loss in modern cinema or an offensive mish mash of half-baked psychological projection and the Reganite culture of fear. Which is it? You decide.Some good special effects. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This has to be one of my favourite films of all time. I admit that the acting is a bit ropey in places, and the plot is slightly absurd, but I think that the reasons it means so much to me are a bit more personal.As a young boy of 6 years old when the film was released, this was the first action type film that I saw, and as He-Man and the Masters of the Universe was my favourite cartoon series at the time, it held a special appeal for me. I still can't describe the feeling of seeing my favourite characters come to life on screen!! -)Thank goodness this film is now on DVD in the UK. It has been off general release for far to long, and now fans of the original series, and the new series (which is very faithful to the original) can see this treasure!! "},{"Title":"Greatest friggin' movie","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Biased my view is for this movie, but I really love it. A great story and great action. I thought the camera angles were great. Sure, Dolph can't act, but that Skeletor is one of the best renditions ever. Those who don't like He-Man aren't gonna like this one, but those who do will find it magical ) Chacon a son gout "},{"Title":"One of my fave films ever!!","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Like many people of my sort of age bracket, when I was younger I was obsessed with He-man, the cartoons, toys and whatever else. When this came out, I was understandably very excited. Never have I felt the same excitement about a film as I did when this came out.Of course the film is by no means a classic. It was a relatively high budget by mid eighties standards, being 17 million. This was still fairly cheap in terms of recreating the worlds of Masters of the Universe, hence most of it was set on Earth as opposed to Eternia. Other gripes would be, no Orco, no battle cat but He Man purists could go on. The changes that the designers made were generally well recieved. The darker more gothic look with the costumes, I thought He Mans costume was really good.The cast are good. Dolph Lundgren is perfectly cast as He-man on the physical side of things, and for his debut he isn't half bad, he's good hero material and his physical exploits make up for his lack of acting ability. He has however improved immensely since this movie and I have been a Dolph fan since, thanks mainly to the fact that he portrayed my childhood hero. Meg Foster is excellent and strangely sexy as Evil Lynn and James Tolkan is as usual very good too, but it is Frank Langellas superbly evil performance as Skelator. Skelator gets all the best lines and Langella revels in his role, with his performance shining through heavy make up.The sets that have been built are good, particularly Greyskulls interior, which at the time was one of the largest sets ever built. This is all harmless and camp fun with a superbly uplifting musical score from Bill Conti and despite not being a very good film in the critical sense it is fun and I love it. 9/10 "},{"Title":"I Have The Power!","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Only fans should check this out.If you don't watch the cartoon or have never collected the toys in the 80's,you probably will see this film as a Star Wars Rip-Off which it basically is,though it stays pretty faithful to the cartoon,since it was only an hour and a half film.To include every villain and hero would be impossible in this situation.The typical teenage couple in trouble is used here,though it is done very well.The action is fun,if you liked Star Wars (which everybody does)you should check this out for a fun night.And in my opinion,Dolph Lundgren plays a great He-Man.Blond hair and big muscles is all you need and he did a pretty good job covering up his heavy russian accent. ) "},{"Title":"I have the Power!! Oh wait. No i don't.","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was 9 when this first came out. I was amazed, excited and in awe. It   was he-man! In real life! But then I started to think 'Wheres battle   cat?' 'where are all skeletors henchmen?' 'why the hell isn't this set   on eternia?' 'He-man can pick up mountains. Why is he getting his ass   so beaten?'. And so it continued. The annoying midget took the place of   Orko, was the icing on the cake!    The problem with this film is, basically, that it was released 2 years   too late. He-Man was hot in 1985. His popularity was on the wane.   They also changed far too much. I know they probably relocated the   story to Earth for budgetary reasons (a scrap yard is a cheaper place   to have a battle than a 'mystical swamp'), but they could have at least   kept skeletors old henchmen. Only Beastman survived and he was pretty   lame. And don't get me started on the others.    Aside from its cheapness and derivative nature, there are so many   things wrong with this film. It is so unambitious. He-Man had the   potential to weave a believable universe. It had established characters   and conventions, it had mysticism and technology and a super hero lead.   When you change that much you please no one. Fans of the original are   disappointed and non fans have no interest. The only decent change they   made was to include Mr Strickland from back to the future. That guy   kicks ass!    At least in the She-Ra movie they kept things the same. Now that was a   tie in (note Irony). "},{"Title":" Thank you, my darling","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   Masters Of The Universe is an enchanting fantasy with lots of spunk and jazz. The actors are all great with the exception of Dolph Lundgren. They should've gotten a better actor for He-Man. Courtney Cox was excellent as Julie. She looks really different now. Meg Foster is thrilling in her role. Frank Langella was scary. He gives me the creeps in any movie he's in. It's a wonderful film no matter what people say. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Possibly a period piece","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the kind of movie that can almost only be enjoyed in the context of when it came out.  I suppose just seeing it on TBS like, I guess, the viewers who voted did, then you might not think highly of it. but it takes the normal he-man comic\cartoon and changes it up a little for the screen. example all of the comic\cartoon he-mans episodes took place in he-mans homeland where grayskull was and with skeletor always lacking in his attempt to take over the castle.  In attempts to make it less of a fantasy and more relateable they set it mainly on earth and though it may have hurt comic fans to see he-man only and not as the prince. Also no Panthor, i believe that was his panters name but maybe im wrong. I have to admit i loved the cartoon but i was only 5 in 87 when the movie came out so i saw very little of the cartoon. which came out in 82.  But it has an intresting new plot entangling the 2 worlds and also. Great action scenes. Plus lets not forget the late Billy Barter, Who has a really funny voice (see willow for more Billy Barter).  The music is very well done and plus there is that ode to comic\cartoon fans where he-man shots at the end. I HAVE THE POWERYou have to love that. I love this movie, its hard to find and very unappreciated.  I love when it comes on TBS but now i own it so i can watch it every now and then.  It was unavailable for years but i think it will be realeased on DVD soon so they re-realeased it on VHS. I should have waited for the DVD and bought it but oh well.You dont have to love it but please dont vote that it is a bad movie cause its not.  You shouldn't watch it objectively watch it thinking its a good movie. Thats my advice. If i picked apart every little think i didnt like about the movie and rated it on that, then i would not be criticing it correctly. You have to see a movie as a whole not in its horrible little bits. It's the final battle between to huge comic book characters. Then latter scenes where Skeletor gets both swords and has all that power is just magnificint.  You cant watch it thinking, man the 80's were lame. Its a great little movie. Just cause its not Gone in 60 seconds (which i dont think is very good) I promise you in the next 2 decades 60 seconds will be just of badly thought of then as masters of the universe is thought of now. You get what i am saying. Some movies can only be enjoyed at the age you first saw them. I saw this movie when i was 5 i loved it then. so i think fondly of it so i like it now. Its not the kind of movie you can watch at any age and love i think. but as i am not any age i cant say for sure. This movie rocks hard. LOVED IT "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie isn't that bad, but could have been done better.  I thought the costumes where really off!  Teela's character annoyed me!!!!  I really hated her costume!  She-ra's friends wore really cool colorful outfits.  This movie made everything dark and ugly and not true to the cartoon.  Courtney Cox was really cheesy.  Skeletor was dumb, and so was Evil-lyn.  It just didn't work!  It did seem like a Star Wars rip-off. "},{"Title":"this is a classic movie for me","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  this movie came out when i was only 5 years old and was in the whole he man thing. I loved it when i was a kid and i still love it. Yes it has a few cheesy things but it is still cool. I just bought the dvd and love it. "}{"Title":"One of the greatest movies of all time!!!!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time.Some minor spoilersGrowing up I watched the greatest cartoon,He-Man and the Masters Of The Universe.I loved to the muscles of He-Man and all of great monsters that was in the show.Not to mention the great villian Skeletor. Really he was the star of the show.He had some good men like Evil Lyn,Beast Man and MerMan and Trap Jaw and Cyclops among others.When I saw that they were going to make a movie of the greatest cartoon the world has ever seen I went crazy.I just couldn`t belive it.When I saw the movie I was in awe!I wasn`t diappointed not one bit.I was so happy to see Dolph Lundren as He-Man and Frank Langella as Skeletor.They act very close as to how they were in the cartoon.Tella and Man-At-Arms is in it also although only two villiams from the cartoon are in it and thats Evil-Lyn and Beast Man but don`t worry there are three newer villians thats just as good.Saurod,a retilian type warrior.Blade,a bald swordsman and Karg,and warrior with hooks as for hands.I like James Tolken in this movie,he acts very well and you see a very young Coutneey Cox and Billy Barty as well.The music in this picture is great.Please if you can find the score please buy it you will not regret it.I am so happy that this movie was made,If you liked the cartoon I`M very sure you`ll like this.Please see this,its very action packed and it`s an adventure you`ll never forget!  "},{"Title":"best movie for boys in 1987","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw this movie in 1987 at the age of 11 and was already a big He-Man fan. I was disappointed not with the casting which was great. The actor who played He-man was great as well as the guy who was Skeletor. The only thing missing was that He-Man had an alter ego like all the great superhero know as Prince Adams. It was also missing his cat Battle Cat. The King and Queen were missing, but not totally needed. I think a computer generated Orko with the voice of the actor who did him in the cartoon series would have made this an even better movie "},{"Title":"My favourite movie from my childhood. Absolutely amazing!","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  One movie has never stuck in my head like this one. Even as I watch 14 years later then when i first saw it, i still get the same tingly feeling as He-Man defeats Skeletor. I think the rating it is given right now is an outrage and deserves much more respect than that. Masters of the Universe covers every aspect of what a great movie should contain. It has action, mystery, love and suspense. It is my favourite of all time and probably will never be replaced.Xorcist "},{"Title":"Just seen it today!","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The last time I saw this movie,was about 6 years ago but today on 17 march 2001 to my suprise its just finished on BBC 2 and Ive taped it and I loved it!It was better than I thought.Superstar Dolph Lundgren portrays He-Man with style whil Frank Langella and Meg Foster steal the show as Skeletor and Evil Lyn.Billy Barty was good but I think he should have played Orko instead of Gwildor.Jon Cypher IS Man at arms as he resembles the character very well but Chelsea Fields Teela was possibly the weakest act in the movie as she did not portray the character as well.Look out for now famous Courtney Cox and old favourites Beast Man and The Sorceress appear.It would have been better if Blade,Karg and Saurod would have been replaced by Mer Man,Trap Jaw and Kobra Kahn as they were popular villians.If a sequel is made I think Battlecat,King Randor,Ram Man,Stratos,Orko,Queen Marlena,Hordak,Grizzlor and Jitsu should appear.Overall a smashing film! "},{"Title":"Pretty impressive","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In 1987 He man was going downhill in the states but was still doing well over here.So they made a live action film to keep kids interested in it still(I even liked He man until 1994)It may have looked like Star Wars and Conan but like kids craze movies like Transformers and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles it was quite good.I do think that  orko and battlecat should have been in as well as other favourites but I still prefer Secret of the sword. ***/***** "},{"Title":"What else to say... I have the power...","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Masters of the universe, a forgotten movie??? A movie nobody really likes??? I say the movie is a legend! Dolph Lundgren has one of his best performances, Courteney Cox started her career in cinema here and her movie's boyfriend is Voyager's Tom Paris! The effects are great (for that time) and feeling is brilliant. It's an 80s film, yes, but most 80s film do have a special feeling 90s movies or nowadays movies don't have very often! It's a pity that there's never been a second feature film... I'd like to see a special effects packed reunion featuring Dolph als He-Man again and Courteney Cox and all the others. This movie will rock you over and over again... It's magic, it's from the 80s, it's Masters Of The Universe!!! I have the power.......... "},{"Title":"Skeletor RULES!","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While this movie is so incredibly bathed in 80's cheese, it does have it's good points. Frank Langella as Skeletor, delivers one of the most deliciously sinister performances I've ever seen. If for no other reason, watch this fantastic actor deliver a hell-raising performance.  "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I actually saw this movie when it was in theaters, way back when I was just a kid in '87. I remember liking it then, and I still do now. Yes, I know, it is a bit of a rip off of Star Wars, but keep these two things in mind 1) This takes place primarily on Earth 2) It was based on the cartoon TV show.The movie is without question on of the best TV show-movie conversions ever. Considering the disasters of late (Batman & Robin, The Avengers) this movie turned out real well. The reason is the cast, it was great. Dolph Lundgren earned my admiration after this movie, and so did Frank Langella(recently seen in Roman Polanski's ninth gate). These to guys acted so good. Skeletor comes across as a cunning, evil bad guy who will stop at nothing to achieve what he wants. I love that line I am not in a giving vein, after Blade says Give me one more chance. Courtney Cox does a very good job in this movie, and so does Chesela Field (Remember her from The Last Boy Scout, I don't hate you Joe, you're the one that hates you). There are a lot of good one-liners in this movie too, but I don't want to ruin it for you.One thing good about this movie is it is NOT just for fans of the show, because it is presented in a form that allows those unfamiliar with it to enjoy it (and trust me, you will). "},{"Title":"A Good Feeling!,He-man Goes To Earth","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Very Underated film,,yes not exactly like the cartoon,,but when you watch this film, it wn't matter much.....sure it upset me that he-man was never prince adam and a few characters were left out,but once you see this film ,that won't matter!,,,,i agree dolph is not the best he-man inpersonater,but he does a, above avearge job!,,frank is a excellent skelotor,,so excellent that they should of made a part II!great fantasy,makes you feel  good inside,a rarity among fantasys!also of note is james tolkan - did a very good job as the police officer.i give it 3 stars out of 5.    "},{"Title":"I have the power!!!!!!!","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the best B-Movies ever made. Dolph Lundgren did a fair job of playing a very realistic He-Man.Of course this movie shouldn´t be taken completely seriously otherwise you can´t enjoy it.And compared to other movies about cartoons(Mario Bros. ; Mortal Kombat) this one truly is a great one! "}{"Title":"What happend to the 2nd?","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorite movie's. I liked He-Man when I was a kid and I still do. The only problem is, I want them to make a 2nd Masters Of The Universe. Maybe next time they can add Battle Cat and even She-Ra. "},{"Title":"This movie is where it's at!!","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There's only one thing terrible about this movie--It's terribly entertaining! The characters are fun, the action is cool, and the music rules!! How can you not love Dolph Lundgren as He-man? The way he delivers his lines is flawless. This is one of those movies I remember loving as a kid, and it still holds up. Heck, I think it may be even better than I remember it. This movie is very exciting and a great one to watch over and over. I'll never get sick of it!  "},{"Title":"It's good to see the positive feedback ....","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It was good to read the positive views on the film.  It seems that an awful lot of people enjoyed the film, and I think, all things considered, it turned out pretty well.  As to Frank Bailey's notes - everyone has a right to an opinion. No one will ever realize what goes into making any movie, but we had many masters to please on this one.  The entire movie was done for $17,000,000 and it's a good looking film. I'm proud of the film, and pleased to say it was the feature film debut of Courtney Cox, Robert Duncan McNeil(Voyager) and Chelsea Field (Last Boy Scout). I recommend the film highly, but as the director, I am a bit prejudiced.  I saw it again recently and enjoyed it.  I hope any of you who view it enjoy it as well, but remember, it IS HE-MAN, so you shouldn't expect Lawrence of Arabia. It's definitely an enjoyable film if you view it with the spirit in which we made it - which was to be engaging family sci-fi.   "},{"Title":"The best movie ever made","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In my opinion, this is the greatest film of all time.  The acting was wonderful, the story line was suspenseful, and the overall fantasy was enthralling.  I loved the cartoon and action figures when I was a kid, and I must have rented this movie from the video store like 30 times!  I think Meg Foster did an excellent job as Evil-Lynn (love the eyes!) and Skeletor was also a highlight.  I recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys a good somewhat sci-fi story, with lots of action.  I am still waiting for the sequel ) "},{"Title":"A lot of fun.","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sure it's not the greatest thing since sliced bread, but it is a lot more fun to look at.  If you just want to have a good time, this is the one to watch. "},{"Title":"High Camp at Its Best!","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  No, Masters of the Universe is not a Master-piece.  But, it is an earnest adaptation of the hit animated series and toy line from the 80s.  Don't take this film seriously, because if you will, you'll only be disappointed.  It is based on a cartoon and an extensive array of action figures, and that is how it is portrayed on screen. The movie is a great time, full of escapist, Star Wars-esque adventure.  Lundgren is physically capable in his role as He-Man (without his Prince Adam alter ego), but look for Frank Langella as the sinister Skeletor to steal the show.  Langella rules the screen every time his excellently made up skull-like face is depicted.  You can really tell Langella had a terrific time making this movie, and he serves to help save the film.  While I would have preferred the film to be set more on Eternia's surreal landscape, the Earth as a battlezone motif was a departure from the cartoonish roots.  No, Masters of the Universe is not a well-made or even a good movie, but is great fun, and that's just the only way to look at it. "},{"Title":"He-Man Has the Power!","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  	It's a classic confrontation between good and evil, and a struggle to save the Universe from the dark side, when a villain rises up and threatens all who oppose him with slavery or destruction in the 1987 offering `Masters of the Universe,' directed by Gary Goddard.  The evil Skeletor (Frank Langella) has captured the good Sorceress of Castle Greyskull (Christina Pickles) and is awaiting the moment when the Moon is at it's zenith, at which time he will be able to absorb all the powers of the cosmos and become Master of the Universe and omnipotent Ruler of their land, Eternia.  But everything is not yet right; though he has the Sorceress in his clutches, his formidable opponent and champion of the people, the indomitable He-Man (Dolph Lundgren) is still at large, and Skeletor knows he must bring him to his knees if he is to succeed.  Besides which, the `Cosmic Key' that will make it all possible for him is not yet in his possession.  So his task is two-fold  He must enslave He-Man and find the Cosmic Key in order to effect his plans.  And the secret of the Key lies with the peaceable locksmith and inventor, Gwildor (Billy Barty), a trusting soul, who betrayed by the beautiful Evil-Lyn (Meg Foster) has gone into hiding.  Now it's up to He-Man to foil Skeletor and save Eternia and the Universe from his unscrupulous grasp and restore power to the Sorceress and Castle Greyskull.	Though the make-up, costumes and special F/X are a bit cheesy, and overall the acting is bad, Goddard has put together a movie that is fun and exciting, and by lightening up on the menace has made it accessible to the whole family, including the younger set-- and, of course, since it's based on the children's animated TV series, it's just what you would expect, or should I say, hoped for, going in.  Goddard moves it all along at a crisp pace, never allowing it to get bogged down unnecessarily, and the ideals and principles to which the story adheres-- loyalty, honesty, trust, love of family-- all make this a worthwhile endeavor and a film to embrace.  Call it a poor man's `Star Wars' (from which it draws heavily, with the plethora of laser blasts and the ersatz `storm troopers' of Skeletor's army); the scale, perhaps, is not nearly as grand, but the sense of adventure and the overall feeling of Lucas's monumental film are certainly present.	Hidden behind the bony skull mask, Langella brings Skeletor to life with flair, successfully conveying the evil at the core of his soul.  This is a creature cloaked in darkness, ruthless and intimidating, effectively sinister, but less daunting than say, Darth Vader.  He's scary, but it's not a character that's going to drive the little ones out of the room shrieking in terror.  Langella makes him a fun kind of evil presence, which keeps it upbeat and creates the necessary sense of evil without taking the viewer to the brink of despair or bad dreams.  It allows that unsettling feeling within an atmosphere of hope, and the realization that in the end all will be well in Eternia.  It's a strong performance by Langella, and without question the best in the movie.	Another good performance is turned in by Meg Foster, as Evil-Lyn, Skeletor's right-hand woman.  Like Langella, Foster manages to convey evil without too much menace, and few actors have such absorbing, riveting eyes, which she uses to great effect here.  With her flowing cape, meaningful stride and a glance from those mesmerizing eyes, Foster makes Evil-Lyn a force to be reckoned with; she's a formidable opponent for He-Man, and one of the most memorable characters of the film.	As He-Man, Lundgren certainly looks the part, which is no doubt what put him in the role to begin with.  But can he act?  Let's just say this is a fantasy, and as such, what Lundgren brings to the part is good enough.  When he raises his sword and exclaims, `I have the power!' it's a rush; He-Man lives-- embodied by Dolph Lundgren, and for this movie, it works.	Fans of the TV series `Friends' will be interested in seeing the young Courteney Cox (twenty-three when this movie was filmed) here in her motion picture debut.  As Julie Winston, a high school girl who unwittingly gets drawn into the fray, she comports herself well enough, though her performance is a far cry from anything that would earn an Oscar nomination.  She does make Julie believable, however, which is the important thing.  Again, this is a fantasy, and as such it doesn't take a lot to keep you in the story.  Suffice to say that Cox has come a long way since making this one.	James Tolkan, on the other hand, does not fare as well as some of the others here.  A talented character actor, he nevertheless gives an embarrassingly bad performance as Detective Lubic.  A stereotype if ever there was one, Tolkan still can't seem to get a handle on who Lubic is or where he fits in.  This is a role just about any actor could've walked through without missing a beat, but Tolkan manages to muck it up so badly he becomes a distraction at times.  It may have been a case of trying to make too much out of something that simply wasn't intended to be anything other than what it was; and it's understandable that as an actor Tolkan would want to make the most of what he was given.  In this case, however, it was unnecessary, and just didn't work.	The supporting cast includes Jon Cypher (Man-at-Arms), Robert Duncan McNeill (Kevin) and Barry Livingston (Charlie).  Enjoyable family fare, `Masters of the Universe' may not be the best movie of all time, but it is what it is and offers a fun and satisfying evening's entertainment.  It's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 7/10. 	      "},{"Title":"my first movie","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This was my first movie to see on the big screen. I was nine and my brother seven. We live in Houston. There was a General Cinema not far from our house. I remember my Dad's beeper going off. Can you imagine what those looked like nearly twenty years ago? The movie is over and we're leaving I saw some lift his right arm in the air saying loudly I have the Power!. So it was not a big box office hit. I don't care I and my brother loved it and always will. I can not imagine Rocky as He-Man. Uh-uh. Who could not like Gwildor? Does anyone remember Willow? He was in it. No matter what movie I see Frank Langella in I will always remember him as Skeletor. I would have like to have seen Masters of the Universe Part 2. "},{"Title":"It was not bad at all","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I enjoyed Masters of The Universe especially the toys. When this movie came out, picking Dolph Lundgren was a great choice for He-Man, if he had worked out some more, it would have been more appealing. At least they didn't pick Lou Ferrigno, he would be terrible being blond. At least the movie itself wasn't too campy, otherwise it would be a big spoiler for movie goers. Having Orko and Prince Adam. This was a whole different story and it couldn't get any better. Meg Foster as Evil-Lyn was awesome. She didn't need any special types of contacts for that character. Her eyes made her evil enough. Frank Langella as Skeletor? NOT BAD. It was great who need to change a thing? 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the 80's","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Masters Of The Universe is a brilliant movie. It may not be exactly the same as the animated TV series, but that does not matter. The storyline was quite good too. I think that right now would be the perfect time to make a sequel. If they did, they would obviously get people who saw The Phantom Menace earlier this year going to see it. They could even have a computer generated Orko and Battle Cat. I give this film a 10/10. "}{"Title":"Brainless fun","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Made by Cannon Films which is not exactly remembered for the high quality of its output, I'm not really sure how to classify my enjoyment of this film. I mean, it isn't very good but it's far too good to be considered so bad, it's good. I don't want to call it a guilty pleasure as that might suggest that I feel ashamed about enjoying it, which I don't at all. I don't really have guilty pleasures. Let's just say it's brainless fun. The film does not have a great deal in common with the (first) animated series outside of the basics, playing fast and loose with the mythology, most notably completely omitting the entire Adam, Prince of Eternia part of He- Man's identity. The film takes a pinch of Flash Gordon, a dash of Conan the Barbarian and a sprinkle of Star Wars. The script by David Odell is not a master class in subtlety nor it is entirely free of cliché while the direction of Gary Goddard is very mediocre at best. The action scenes, particularly the sword fighting, are rather ineffective. I did really like the design of some of the aliens though such as Gwildor, Karg, the Beast Man and Skeletor himself.The best performance in the film certainly comes from the wonderful Frank Langella as Skeletor. He is an excellent actor and knows when to go over the top and when not to. Dolph Lundgren is no Laurence Olivier. In fact, he's no Arnold Schwarzenegger but that's okay since all he really has do as He-Man is to look muscular in skimpy costumes and say something every five minutes. In his only major film role, Robert Duncan McNeill is very good as Kevin Corrigan because he takes the material so seriously. The same is true of Jon Cypher as Man-At-Arms, playing the role as if he were a grizzled sergeant in a World War II film. James Tolkan is great as the antagonist authority figure Detective Lubic but he could probably play that role in his sleep. Meg Foster is perfectly cast as the aptly named Evil-Lyn and, like Langella, does not make the mistake of playing her role over the top in every scene. On the other hand, Chelsea Field is pretty bad as Teela while Courtney Cox is boring and rather forgettable as Julie Winston. Billy Barty alternated between kind of funny and slightly irritating as Gwildor, essentially the film's version of Orko. It also features nice performances from McNeill's future Star Trek Voyager co-star Anthony De Longis as Blade and Cox's future Friends co-star Christina Pickles as Sorceress.Overall, this film is greater than the sum of its parts. It shouldn't really be enjoyable when it has so much working against it! "},{"Title":"Fun 80s schlock for a rainy afternoon","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Of all the things to admire about Frank Langella, and there are many, one of the more obscure is that his role here, as the villain Skeletor, is one of his favourites. Here's man who's been nominated for Oscars, been picky with the roles he's selected over a long career, and one of his favourite roles was playing a masked Shakespearean villain in a movie made on the cheap for kids that few people saw. Gotta respect that.So let's go back in time to the 1980s, and He-Man, subtle homosexual overtones and all, was King of Cartoon Land. I have the POWER!!! If you were young at the time, you know exactly what I'm talking about. So it was only a matter of time before a Hollywood studio got hold of the property and made a movie. Enter Cannon Films, makers of such masterpieces as Superman 4, The (ex)Terminator, and The Happy Hookers, to try and milk this cash cow.As the hero of the film we have Dolph Lundgren, just off the boat from Sweden and speaking his lines phonetically. And that will make a lot of his performance in this make sense. Poor guy literally has no idea what he's saying. He-Man is trying to save the kingdom of Eternia from Skeletor (Langella) who's forces have captured the Sorceress of Gray-Skull (Christina Pickles-nice name). Old Skull boy wants to take the Sorcerer's power and add it to his own while making some awesome Shakespearean monologues to his henchmen. To make matters worse Grinners has also stolen the mysterious cosmic key off a Dark Crystal reject. The key enables Skels to travel wherever he wants to in the Universe by playing a tune, which makes me wonder where he will end up if he plays Sweet Dreams by the Eurhythmics. Luckily He-Man is able to steal the key, and not wanting to get his ass kicked by the baddies at Castle Gray-Skull (including Evil-Lyn, played by Meg Foster, who I really need to introduce somewhere in this plot summary) He-Man and some offsiders cosmically leg it to Earth. Joining He-Man we have Man-at-Arms (a likable turn from Jon Cypher) his daughter Teela (Chelsea Field-The Last Boyscout), and the afore mentioned Dark Crystal reject Gwildor (Billy Barty, Nope, me neither).Once on earth they lose the key and it's found by Kevin (Robert Duncan McNeil of Star Trek Voyager fame) who thinks it's some darn fangle new Synthesizer. He has a girlfriend Julie (Courtney Cox) and eventually they get sucked into the main plot as the Laughing Langella and his forces come to earth to retrieve the key. Also dragged along is Detective Lubic (James Tolkan, the Principal from the Back to the Future films) and they all end up in Eternia to listen to another Langella monologue and eventually see He-Man save the Sorceress and kick Skeletor's ass.This movie is made on the cheap, and has a star who literally doesn't know what he's doing, or saying, or what anyone is saying to him. But what it does have aside from that is a surprising amount of fun. And I don't mean laughing at the movie, though there is certainly opportunity to do that in spades, but I mean the type of fun that is just you, as the viewer, enjoying yourself watching these guys. Front and centre of the enjoyment is Langella who relishes the opportunity to use his theatre training to run off on some truly glorious monologues. But I like a lot of the minor players in this too O'Neill and Cox get into this, as does Cypher. Foster, who apparently was sweltering in her costume for most of the filming, gives a perfectly acceptable portrayal of a villainess/ evil lackey.Masters of the Universe has a hero and a story who, apart from the homo-erotic subtext, are far removed from the cartoon. It's cheap, and obviously so, and has a lead actor giving a performance that has to be seen to be believed. It's no surprise at all that it bombed, and bombed huge. But that doesn't mean you can't enjoy this. This is the type of film that, if you were switching through channels on your TV on a rainy afternoon, you could put on and be pleasantly diverted, and sometimes that's all a movie needs to be. By no means Masterful, but hardly embarrassing. Ultimately, to summarise not good, but it'll do. "},{"Title":"Not awful, just boring","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember hating this when I was a kid, I'm guessing because they changed so much stuff from my beloved cartoon. Of course, the cartoon was garbage in the first place, I realize now, only existing to sell toys. The toys were pretty cool. Revisiting the film almost 30 years later, and knowing that it came from the Canon Film Group, I was hoping for a dumpster fire of a film, something my friend and I could laugh at. Unfortunately, it's borderline competent, which is quite a bit worse. It's more or less a rip-off of Star Wars and Conan the Barbarian. The script is awful, but the production design and costumes are very good. Cheaper than Star Wars, obviously, but still not bad at all. Frank Langella plays the villain, Skeletor, fairly well, and Meg Foster is a good henchwoman to him. The heroes are less interesting, with Dolph Lundgren as He-Man (most annoying, he's off screen for long periods of time). The film is perhaps most famous now for co-starring a young Courtney Cox. The film as a whole is kind of a bore and pretty forgettable, which is probably how I felt as a kid, too. "},{"Title":"memorable movie from when I was a little kid","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was 5 years old when this movie came out and I can't even count how many times I've seen this movie (to this day if I see it on TV I'll still stop on it).What makes it so special? A movie adaption of a cartoon I loved that stayed true with all their characters. Seeing Skeletor and his monsters was always kinda scary and Evil-Lyn was kinda hot I suppose.They did a excellent job of casting Dolph Lundgren as He-Man and seeing a young Courtney Cox is cool in retrospect.And to this day I still have that beat from THAT cosmic keytar stuck in my head.There are a lot scenes in this film that will stick to your head really. There is some type of awesomeness to these old school sci-fi films that were low on special effects and makeup but that made it seem even more real to a little kid.The movie is what it is, a cartoon adaption, but for a movie made in 1987, they almost got it perfectly right. "},{"Title":"Masters of the Universe","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm not sure if younger people these days have any clue whatsoever about Masters of the Universe, since it was never some sort of big blockbuster hit -- like, say, Ghostbusters (from '84), or Batman (from '89). For those of us born in the '70s or '80s though, there's a few ways of looking at it. Some might call it underrated. Others might call it a guilty pleasure. Fanboys of the cartoon and comics might call it a poor adaptation. Finally, in regards to the box office statistics back then, the term would sadly be a bomb, a flop, etc. According to IMDb and Box Office Mojo, Masters of the Universe had an estimated production budget of $22 million. Its domestic gross, however, was only a little over $17 million. With that being said, the question is, was the film -- in fact -- straight up lousy, or was there just an overall lack of respect/appreciation?To start off, the most important place on planet Eternia is Castle Grayskull. Basically, think of Castle Grayskull as being almost like the White House; if you take it over, you become the new ruler. Anyway, when the evil and power hungry Skeletor (Frank Langella) manages to do just this, as well as making the Sorceress (Christina Pickles) his prisoner, many, many years of peace and harmony quickly turn into chaos. Furthermore, to make matters even worse, not only does Skeletor gradually drain the Sorceress of her great powers, but also in a matter of time (as in when there's some sort of noteworthy moon alignment), he will possess god-like powers. The only possibility of hope is He-Man (Dolph Lundgren).Going beyond He-Man, there's also Man-At-Arms (Jon Cypher) and his daughter named Teela (Chelsea Field), as well as Gwildor (Billy Barty). Unlike He-Man, Man-At-Arms, and Teela, Gwildor is a Thenurian. Although Gwildor looks like a somewhat odd creature/being (kind of like a troll), he happens to be a very intelligent locksmith and inventor. His cosmic key invention, in fact, is what was stolen and used by Skeletor to help successfully take over Castle Grayskull. Unfortunately for Skeletor, however, there's still another cosmic key not in his possession. Although time is running out for He-Man and his small crew, because they have the other cosmic key, they still have some hope.That's the setup -- essentially. Soon though, the story goes from planet Eternia to another one, which most would agree (especially fanboys) isn't as fascinating, interesting, mysterious, exotic, and so forth. Apparently, due to the budget, it just wasn't possible to have the entire film take place on planet Eternia. For this reason, the cosmic keys ultimately take everyone to Earth (or more specifically, California). I'm not sure if this is a valid reason for some to call the film a poor adaptation. For anyone who's ever been part of making a low-budget independent film though, having a $22 million budget would be like having an infinite amount of money to spend. Were the filmmakers here perhaps bad with money management? Did they lack creativity/imagination as to what was truly possible? Majority of the movie taking place on Earth certainly doesn't make it bad or unwatchable. You just sort of assume though that if Masters of the Universe took place entirely on Eternia, it could've been more special.By taking the story to Earth, we get -- at least -- a couple of results. First, we get the fish-out-of-water type of story (Eternians now on Earth). Secondly, we also get a teenage love story (between Courteney Cox and Robert Duncan McNeill). Again, odds are that the film suffered more than it benefited from this.To conclude, despite its flaws, Masters of the Universe does have some good qualities. For me, the two that certainly come most to mind would be the visuals (both the exterior and the interior) of Castle Grayskull, and of course the very interesting-looking villains (Skeletor, Evil-Lyn, Beastman, Saurod, Blade, and Karg).Rating 6 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"A Strange Little Film","Date":"13 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A prince turned warrior named He-Man battles against the dark lord Skeletor on the planet Eternia. He-Man and his comrades arrive on Earth and discover two teenage lovers to find the magical Cosmic Key.Now, the strange thing about this is that the film was in production based on the toys and not on the cartoon. This results in two very different visions of the same characters, and probably results in plenty of confusion from those who expect the cartoon and get something with lasers and Courteney Cox.But taken in its own right, it is not bad. Not great, but not bad. And it certainly is better than what they tried to do with the Super Mario Brothers. (Although, even that one is fun now that we can look back and laugh.) "},{"Title":"I'll put my faith in the apocalypse to spare future generations from having to see this movie","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A movie set is typically where movies are filmed. Depending upon the lighting, a movie's set can appear as a real place or as a stage setting. Costumes and make-up also can either aid or hinder a film production. Special effects in the hands of a master can create amazing illusions, and in the hands of lesser talents, equally less impressive results are achieved. Actors are crucial to saving or ruining a movie, a great performance can be unforgettable, and a bad performance can be haunting. Directing and Producing are also crucial to a movie's success or failure, but really the most important part of any film ever, is writing. Spend heavy on good writing. "},{"Title":"Tell me about the loneliness of good, He-Man. Is it equal to the loneliness of evil?","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The 1983 cartoon series was entertaining enough, but pretty dumb. Its silliness is fun enough, but this film is actually more based on the action figures and the early minicomics that came with them. There's no Prince Adam alias for He-Man, and Skeletor is no comical villain. The costume design and makeup are very good, and the set of Castle Grayskull is excellent, a fortress celebrating both good and evil in its design. The acting is pretty weak for the most part (although to his credit, Lundgren definitely looks the part of He- Man), with the major exception of Frank Langella as Skeletor. His long winded speech during the climax is a highlight. Jon Cypher and James Tolkan are pretty good too.Not perfect, but I'd say it's the best thing to come from the MOTU series so far. "},{"Title":"Ugly Toys + Fetish Characters = crummy film","Date":"8 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" 'Masters of the Universe' is a movie whose problems come two-fold from the conception stage. It is a bad cheap looking movie based on a bad cheap looking cartoon show based on a set of bad cheap looking action figures. After that there isn't much left.He-Man could have been played by any number of last year's contestants for Mr. Universe. But the 'plum' goes to Dolph Lundgren whose wooden expression and personality make him the 'actor' that I least look forward to in any role. He-Man (a character not a million miles removed from Conan the Barbarian) is locked in a sword-clanking battle with Skeletor over the planet Eternia. But who would want it? It's dark, ugly and seems to be under the constant threat of bad weather.Somewhere under Skeletor's awful make-up effects stands Frank Langella but you would never know it. Skeletor is a skeletal creature but his skull looks like a painted plastic mask that someone must have put down a dollar for at the drug store.Anyway He-Man and his warrior friends and Skeletor and his vile band are transported to earth via a cosmic key invented by a dwarf named Gwildor. He was suppose to transport them to another planet but a glitch in the key sent them here. Apparently, the filmmakers decided to forego sending them to that other planet and sent them to California so they wouldn't have to spend money on a new set design.Two American kids find the key and mistake it for something Japanese. They end up helping He-Man defeat Skeletor. What did you expect, a truly original movie where the heroes take that key and go off to new worlds and find wonderous new civilizations and get in adventures with them and then come back and open up mankind to the wonders of interstellar travel and advancing technology? This stuff costs money y'know! "},{"Title":"The second most wonderfully cheesy movie of all time","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If it wasn't for the ultimate in sci-fi cheese-fest aka Flash Gordon in 1980, then Masters of the Universe would rightly hold the title. However, second place isn't bad. And nor is the film either.If you're looking for Oscar-worthy performances, big-budget special effects and great character development then look elsewhere. This is NOT Avatar.What this is is a tale loosely based on the classic eighties figures of He-man and co. On the planet of Eternia, the evil Skeletor is trying to take over the universe and it's up to He-man and his furry underwear to save the day. Of course this involves a trip to Earth to the only place in the world where no one takes any notice of large muscular men wielding swords in their Y-fronts.It's very daft and you won't know whether to laugh or cry. But it's still enormous fun. It may not have the budget of the acting performances of Lord of the Rings, but with Lord of the Rings, you couldn't really cheer loudly for the characters as well as you can with Masters of the Universe.This is fun for all the family (especially if you were either a young boy in the eighties - like me - or simply someone who can appreciate cheesy movies for what they are - also me). Don't take this too seriously - it was never meant to be that way. Just put your brain on hold and enjoy the silliness of the ride.(Oh, and did I mention there's a very young Courtney Cox to see, long before the start of Friends!) "}{"Title":"This film is why I always wanted Skeletor to win","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Anyone who watched He-Man as a kid needs to have a butchers at the movie. Just for the big finale when Skeletor finally gets his hands on Grayskull and the sword. It's just about the best maniacal villain speech in history, totally validating why I always rooted for Skeletor as a kid. Stuff He-Man, fascist poster-boy. Skeletor all the way.Wanna know why? (And here come the spoilers...) Here's why Skeletor finally gets the Power of Grayskull and becomes a shiny golden god of evil, gloating ever more epically while having literally spurting blasts of evil glee... until He-Man inevitably bursts his chains, beats the hell out of Skeletor's evil legion, seizes the sword and gives it the old I Have The Power! The surviving hordes of darkness flee the castle as He-Man and Skeletor finally set to, hammering each other with all the godlike fury we expect from guys dueling to be Master of the Universe. He-Man wins. Skeletor's godlike powers fall from him and he's left at He-Man's feet, all shrunken and puny as before. He-Man begins his own macho gloating speech about the power of Good etc, etc... but doesn't get two words into it, because Skeletor gets the hell up, sets on him again, and batters him stupid... for all of five seconds, before He-Man flings him into the obligatory chasm of fire.Point is, even without his godlike powers, Skeletor still gets up and had another go. This is like Lex Luthor getting up again after Superman's slapped him about. At the end of the long credits and classic 80s Fantasy music, Skeletor drags himself out of the pit of fire, still leery. That's... actually more heroic than anything He-Man ever did. Hence, I always wanted Skeletor to win. Come on, he deserves it. "},{"Title":"Gotta Love It","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lighthearted with enough action to keep one content enough. Frank Langela does a terrific performance as Skeletor, the subtle touches he adds to the character stays true to the animated series and out of all the cast he really does steal the show. He-Man could have been played by no other than Dolph Lundgren he fit the description of He-Man to T. The story may be somewhat weak at certain points, but the character development is very good you have to pay close enough attention to catch it. Beastman and Evilyn are the only villains from the animated series besides Skeletor, while Beastman's part is small his character does come through subtlety at points. Meg Foster did well with Evilyns character so beautifully evil. Though I do wish they would have gone with the sorceress's original look my only complaint.You get a little more insight from the commentary as well The schedule was very tight, and all the cast to-date agrees making the film was hard work for all of them, so at least appreciate the time they put in it, it wasn't easy. For people who complain about it being different from the animated series,look at it this way it could have been a lot worse. For most people the story will probably be hit and miss but overall, Gwildors lines and Skeletors mixed in with Saroud, You just gotta love it. "},{"Title":"Rating","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I enjoyed the film, and I am one who does like the cartoon series, from the 80s version to the 2000 version. This film is not really like the animated series, a lot of people complain about that, but if it had stayed true to it, it would probably have been a lot more campier when you think about it, it was a show made for kids. Its another version of He-Man where there is no alter identity his background was supposed to be a prince turned warrior, I think thats fine of course I do wish they would have had Cringer in it and Orco, I still like the movie. I think Skeltors character stayed true to the animated series, that sort of evilness mixed with a mockness of He-mans nobility. My personal rating would be a 4 and a half out of 5 stars, and my critical rating acknowledging the plot holes would be a 3 star out of 5. "},{"Title":"A light hearted entertainment.","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" You know... People say that I am wrong, but I judge adaptations by themselves. For instance, I've read Hobbit long time ago, but I look at those movies like Hobbit never existed, same goes for Anna Karenina, Transformers and others... Being a purist, in my opinion, is bad for giving anything a constructed objective point of view on something.With that said I can say is this movie is fun. It has its share of plot holes and some bad effects, but for what it is worth, it is fast paced (stuff almost always happens except those 'family' stories), costumes are funny, one-liners are cheesy, sets are interesting and so on.Maybe it gave bad hohmage to the cartoon series but as a stand alone title it is good entertainment and I recommend it if you are in the mood for some light-hearted-laser-shooting-sword-fighting-army-teleporting- time-traveling-food-stealing-fantasy-movie. "},{"Title":"Masters of the Universe really came out two years to late.","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film came out in 1987 which was two years after the Transformers movie (the cartoon). It also came on two years after the last new episode of the cartoon was made. Basically, it pretty much was a done franchise when the live action adaptation hit the big screen. I was a fan of the cartoon, so I went to this film, but even at this young age I was not the fan I once was. Transformers took the mantle of my favorite cartoon. Still, I thought it would be cool to see a live action He-man, which I remember reading about in my He-man monthly magazine. What graces the screen is a mixed bag. You find yourself saying 'that is pretty cool' while at the same time going 'this really isn't much like the cartoon'. The film was released by Canon, which is odd mainly due to the fact they mainly released 'R' rated, over the top violence and bloody movies during this time. Here they release a children's film and do so with a rather large budget...over 20 million. They cast Dolph in the role of He-man and had a few other stars of note in what would be a doomed franchise in that it never made it passed the first initial film.The story has Skeletor basically in charge. He has taken over Castle Greyskull, he has the sorceress in his evil clutches and he has He-man and his two allies Man-At-Arms and Teela on the run. So already it is nothing like the cartoon as I just do not remember any episodes where Skeletor was this ahead of the game. It is kind of like the Transformers film in that in that one the Decepticons were winning despite never really challenging the Autobots during the course of the show. It is also more forgiving here as this is a live action movie, independent of the cartoon, while the Transformers were a continuation of the show. Well He-man and company run across a little creature named Gwildor. I do think they should of just named him Orko and be down with it, cause that is obviously who he was in essence. Well this creature has a device that transports our gang from Eternia to Earth and thus Hollywood once again uses the trick of setting what should be a battle on a fantasy world to Earth. Earth, the place where sets are not as expensive. We also get these two teenagers who have drama in their lives, making me wonder, who the heck were these two characters trying to appeal to? Not me, or my friend as we both found their romance and storyline boring. Well there are battles aplenty and when the film is focused on the action it is pretty good.Dolph is okay as He-man, he certainly has the looks. Still, he does not look at home in a child friendly film in costume. Frank Langella seems right at home though as the evil Skeletor and he does a commendable job. He also has the coolest scene in the film, where his giant throne like ship comes rising up behind our characters. The rest of the cast do okay, get rid of the two teens and their asinine sad plot and this film could of been great. Not saying we should not have an earthling for the gang to interact with, but not the girl from the Bruce Springsteen video! Seriously, were they trying to attract teens that would not want to see a He-man film in a million years or what? If they were looking to attract teen guys, all the simply had to do was put Teela in the costume she wore in the cartoon.So basically the film has some good and some bad. A bit more good than bad. The film plays like other films like Star Wars and Krull with the added additions of the He-man and Skeletor characters. I do not understand the inclusions of the newer characters, because at this point the toy was finished so why not have more of the characters from the show. Why Gwilder instead of Orko? They at least had Teela, Man-At-Arms, Evilyne and Beastman, but those new characters were just lame. Well Sauron was cool and not in the movie for long. Karg and Blademaster were just embarrassing looking. The film though has some good action, between the melodrama and this film while not perfect did probably the best it could with the budget and the source material. Had the rights been bought by a bigger film company I am sure it could have done better. This film reminds me of the Dragonball Evolution film, it too was released well after the show's popularity had fallen, only this one was not the failure it was, because even it followed the source material better than that film. So an okay action flick with some fantasy touches. "},{"Title":"All very agreeable.","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I suppose it does make a difference if one is like this viewer and loved the Mattel toys and the animated series as a child, so visiting this vintage big screen treatment is appealing enough to the kid that's still inside me who would have just lapped up something like this had he caught it when it first came out. I always thrilled for my dad to rent the tapes of the series. Now, of course, as an adult I can't help but laugh hearing something like I HAVE THE POWER!!!!!!!, and see this as a very cheesy, silly affair, but again, it was meant for kids of the era and is still very likable. Appropriately cast Dolph Lundgren is He-Man, battling with associates Man-At-Arms (Jon Cypher) and his daughter Teela (Chelsea Field) against the forces of cackling, demonic bad guy Skeletor (the great Frank Langella, unrecognizable under the mask). Skeletor desperately needs to get his hands (or should that be bones?) on a cosmic key devised by lovable imp Gwildor (Billy Barty); said key opens dimensional doors and transports various characters good and bad to Earth, where they raise all sort of hell in their battles, and two teen lovers, Julie (a young Courteney Cox) and Kevin (Robert Duncan McNeill of 'Star Trek Voyager') get caught up in all of it, along with a flustered detective (James Tolkan). The movie is quite easy to take from start to finish, with pacing that doesn't falter, lots of colourful visuals and effects, a score by Bill Conti automatically calling to mind John Williams's work for Superman and Star Wars, and entertaining characters, although the villains definitely fare better than the heroes; Langella is commanding as Skeletor, and Meg Foster likewise delicious as Evil-Lyn. The four henchmen dispatched by skull face are an amusing bunch, especially the Beastman who looks rather like the character Alph from the futuristic action / exploitation flick Turkey Shoot. But for this viewer, what makes this as much fun as it is, is the ass kicking character of Detective Lubic; Tolkan is hysterical in the role. A nice diversion overall, with a funny surprise for anybody who sits through the closing credits. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not perfect but has a sustaining quality","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is not among the best but it has far more entertaining value than other in same genre and from same era. When reading reviews, the earliest ones are the ones rating this movie lowest and the later ones gives the higher scores. One explanation can be that He-Man is not as popular these days and knowledge about He-Man's origin as a comics hero is not as common as back when the movie premiered. The movie got a lot of negative reviews because it was not true to the stories the film is based upon. There is three main reason why this movie not get higher rating from me than 6/10. One and obvious reason is the story it self as stated above. It lacks resemblance to the original He-man theme. Another reason is some weak performances from leading actors like Mr Lundgren, Cox and Field. The third reason is the movie it self after the music store scene. I seen the movie couple of times and after the scene where Cox meet Foster in the alley behind the music store, in which a battle is taking place, the whole movie drops from a decent B-movie to C-movie level. Special effects and story becomes more strained. Battle in the heart of the town and no humans seems to react is annoying and the hover pods special effects is far from entertaining. It would have been better for the film if the scene took place on a more deserted place or even not on Earth and if they replaced the pod chase with a less effect depending battle event. However, this is not an all bad movie. It is entertaining and have qualities on many levels. Some performances are better than one is used to see in films from end 80's in this genre and also the costumes and decor are well made. Compared to many sci-fi/fantasy TV productions of today like Farscape for example this movie is still going strong. Compared to Disney Channel movies in the genre this is a master piece. Mr Lundgrens costume could have been bit more modified for movie visuals though. Notable performances without handing out Oscar nominations are Langella, Foster, Barty, McNeill and Cypher. These actors made this movie enjoyable. Lundgren, Field and Tolkan did not reach all the way and to me, Cox was some thing of a disappointment. The movie have a entertainment value still and for a movie released 1987, in a special effect dependent genre where techniques grow old in months, it's actually a bit impressing. "},{"Title":"Above average popcorn movie fun from a long gone era","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" One of the hallmarks of childhood has always been cartoons. Every kid in America loves to get up early to watch Saturday morning cartoons. The 1980s was an especially prolific period for them. Sure it was the decade of excess, Reaganomics, leg warmers, etc., but not everything from this time was bad. There was certainly no shortage of fun things for kids, including toys based on cartoons characters and vice versa. One of the most popular at the time was 'He-man and the Masters of the Universe.' It was no surprise that Hollywood was eager to adapt the property for the big screen. The result was not a major success at the Box Office and a lot of fans were disappointed by the liberties taken with the source material. Despite all that, the film is quite entertaining and something to bring back fond childhood memories.Pros Cast is game. Exciting score. Neat costume and production designs. Fast paced all the way. Lots of cheesy goods. Decent effects. Plenty of action packed sequences.Cons Thin plotting. Quite dated. Serious signs of a tight budget. Little we haven't seen in so many other films.Final thoughts 'Masters of the Universe' was made by Cannon Films, known for making films for cheap. This can be a good and a bad thing depending on where the money goes. 'Superman IV' is a case where the final product looked awfully cheap. 'Masters' however comes out pretty well and can still be enjoyed all these years later. Even if you were not into the series, but like Fantasy and Sci-Fi you should get a kick out of this. Too bad that sequel never came to fruition.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Good adaptation","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" My son loved He-Man when he was a kid (the original cartoons, not the remakes), and we watched them A LOT.Then along came this live action version, so what was it like.Actually, it was a more than halfway decent realisation of a cheap and cheerful, formulaic Saturday morning cartoon. It had a reasonable budget, it had Dolph Lundgren as He-Man and, despite any acting reservations, he certainly looked the part), and most of the expected supporting characters turned up. Battlecat was a bit much to cope with in pre-CGI days, and while I was pleased that the irritating Urko had been dropped, he was replaced by the equally irritating and broadly equivalent Gwildor. And Frank Langella, in a largely immobile mask, gave us a Skeletor who was more a sinister tactician than a cackling maniac.But it was fun. It never took itself seriously, but it never betrayed its source material by playing it for laughs either. It had bags of action (much of which took place on Earth, thus avoiding the cost of creating large chunks of Eternia, and it had an early appearance by Courtney Cox. Who was cute.Recommended for rekindling those childhood memories. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm not lying. But like most people say, this is a bad movie. You simply can not compare with the films of today. Like the films of the year 1970. This film is in the 80 years that just the computers were used in an animation film. Let alone the CGI effects of today. This film is just a movie fan base, not a movie for people who CGi effects and fast action are habituated.This movie is just for fans like me. Nothing special for people who do not know he-man. The action is just bad. Action is slow. And you will certainly those who are habituated to the fast action, will certainly resent the slow action.Het fun of the movie is that it is the only one of its kind. "}{"Title":"i'm not in the giving mood today....","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" On the planet Eternia, evil Skeletor and his army of darkness have taken over Castle Greyskull, the mysterious castle, and imprisoned The Sorceress of Greyskull, and Skeletor has begun draining The Sorceress of Greyskull's powers as he bids to claim the powers of Greyskull and become master of the universe.Mighty warrior He-Man, the most powerful man in the universe and his companions loyal soldier Man-at-Arms, his daughter Teela and a dwarf inventor named Gwildor accidentally finds themselves on Earth, by Gwildor's creation, The Cosmic Key, a device that can open portals that lead to any part of the galaxy, which Skeletor requires in his goal for universal conquest.But when the Comsic Key is taken in possession by Julie Winston and her boyfriend Kevin, both unaware Earth is about to become a battleground, as Skeletor and his mercenaries arrives on Earth, as they go in pursuit of He-Man and his companions who are searching for The Cosmic Key ....A pure guilty pleasure of any sort. Lundgren plays He-man in the guise of the plastic doll he is based on and his acting is incredibly bland. Sometimes his lines feel so rushed that they are just laughable.On the other hand, Langella seems to be having a whale of a time playing Skeletor and almost comes across as a Shakespearian villain.He absolutely rules the film, and it feels a little flat whenever he isn't in it.The rest of the cast are a little annoying, and I really wished the character of Kevin was slapped around a bit more. But for a kids film, it's really fun, and there is plenty for adults to enjoy too. The action scenes are adequate, and the special effects surprisingly good for a Cannon film, but ultimately, this film is forgettable and some of the camera-work is really bad (seeing Dolph swing a sword from a front perspective is a standout).Well worth watching if you were a fan of the cartoon. "},{"Title":"Is this movie bad or just merely a guilty pleasure?","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" We all grew up watching the cartoon He-Man and the Masters of the Universe a campy 80's cartoon not particularly well-animated or voiced. Golan-Globus took it upon itself, in Uwe Boll fashion, to create a live-action film version with none other than Dolph Lundgren to play He-Man himself. I don't necessarily see Ivan Drago as a Master of the Universe, but okay, its fun. Frank Langella actually plays a major villainous part as Skeletor and is really the only bright acting spot in the film unless you also consider James Tolkan as a nosy police detective, basically his roles as Tom cruise's superior in Top Gun and Principal Strickland in Back to the Future combined. This film answers the universal question of how a sci-fi film is made badly, and the answer is by putting the main characters in peril on Earth. If the filmmakers had the budget this film could have been really amazing, instead we are giving an extremely cheesy storyline and an equally worthless supporting cast. See AVP and AVPR for reference on how the human element can actually destroy a film. Yet there is a lot to love about this film. It is so bad it is actually entertaining for taking itself so seriously and the story, when not on Earth is average. It is campy 80's fun but well worth owning for the $5 you'll put down if you want to take the trip down memory lane. "},{"Title":"Where are they? Where are your friends now? Tell me about the loneliness of good, He-Man. Is it equal to the loneliness of evil?","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is the first film that I can remember as a kid seeing at the theatres. In fact, many of the people at the theatre were all dressed up in costumes relating to its characters.... Skeletor, He-Man, etc. And for whatever reason this gave me the idea that this entire film was being made right in front of me. Yes.However, this movie has He-Man (Dolph Lundgren) and friends, battling Skeletor (Frank Langella) and his goons on the planet Earth, as they are aided by American teens Julie (Courteney Cox) and Kevin ( Robert Duncan McNeill) Personally, my favorite character from the cartoons was non-other than Orko, the magican. However, the dumbos' decided to replace Orko with the hideous troll Gwildor (Billy Barty). The damn character is so freakin annoying. One of his lines is literally.  The door! The door! I still think the coolest thing they added were the whole mercenary group of Beastman, Saurod, Blade and Karg, who are ordered to recover the lost Cosmic Key. The scene where they return without the Key is bad ___ You are all aware of the penalty of failure. Skeletor then zaps Saurod to some other freakin dimension.Frank Langella's Skeletor is easily one of the best movie villains. Forget Jack Nicholson and his boring Joker. Langella is this movie. In particular, the I am a God! sequence is worth the price of the DVD alone.A lot of weird vibes all throughout this film though. Definitely related to the costumes. And definitely some homo-erotic stuff going around here. The whiping scenes? What in the hell. "},{"Title":"Decent live-action version of immensely popular 80s kids' cartoon","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" More like Star Wars than He-Man, 1987's Masters of the Universe is no less an amusing little Sci-Fi fantasy tale of different world's colliding. The film opens up with a hauntingly beautiful and inspired shot of Castle Grey Skull on Eternia, but the film's plot takes our heroes to Earth, where most of the resulting fighting takes place (budget constraints apparently).Only a few characters from the cartoon are here but translated quite well to live action (though He-Man's alter ego, Prince Adam, is MIA and Cringer/Battle Cat and King Randor are nowhere to be found). Lundgren is perhaps the first and still only actor to completely look the part of his superhero role. He is in fantastic shape and leaves little to the imagination as is true to the character (not so for Meg Foster's, unfortunately). He also has some of the child-like innocence necessary for the role, though he lacks any strong charisma. Langella (Skeletor) and Foster (Evil Lynn; looking absolutely stunning) steal the show as ruthless and cunning villains who are lovingly over the top in their viciousness. The film is mostly a good rousing action/fantasy until near the end where the final battle is quite rushed and poorly choreographed, not to mention the ridiculous golden armor Skeletor dons. The film asks the popular teen/child question where do I belong? of all the characters in the movie. Nothing deep, but a good fantasy for kids and fun for adults that aren't too stuffy. "},{"Title":"Do we need a remake?","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Who said action figures couldn't make for a great movie? Well, this film actually, but it is pretty darn amusing. The acting is really something else, half the time I'm wondering why He-Man sounds so damn happy. Considering that Castle Greyskull has fallen to a surprise attack by Skeletor and the Sorceress is his prisoner, this guy should be a little worried.Soon he discovers how the forces of evil penetrated their defenses, a slightly insane Dwarf who created the ultimate key. This key, which sounds like it was manufactured by Yamaha, can open anything - even doorways between dimensions. Which is how the group ends up on Earth, though the device which brought them there lands some distance away.This gives a neat reason to include a budding Courteney (not a joke about her breasts, well maybe) and her A-Ha idolizing boyfriend, because they find the Cosmic Key and immediately begin playing with it.Skeletor's forces lock in on the signals and battles rage through the suburbs. Surprise, surprise the good guys lose the first encounter and He-Man is taken in chains back to Greyskull, everyone else is left alive on Earth to rot.Of course Gwildor MacGuyvers up a makeshift Cosmic key and Kevin remembers the song to open the gateway to Eternia. He-Man sees his friends, breaks free, and recovers his sword for a final battle with a Skeletor (who has just absorbed the power of the universe, as if that would matter. He's the BAD guy, Dolph is the GOOD guy - he's screwed).Okay, the film is very predictable, but combine the premise with a motivating fantasy score and I start cracking up. They should play this music in mental wards, though having two hundred people in gowns acting like Conan would probably be bad... "},{"Title":"Lots of fun with Meg Foster","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Personally, this really isn't my kind of movie, but I got hold of it on VHS because of Meg Foster. And am I ever glad I did.This isn't really an adventure/action picture. It's more like high camp. If it reminds me of anything, it would be Barbarella. True, Meg Foster's a little older here than Jane Fonda was in Barbarella, and true, she's one of the baddies, but still . . .Even if you don't particularly go for these kind of comic strip movies, you've got to see this one for Meg Foster's performance as Evil-Lyn. Yeah, she's one of the baddies but still she comes off kind of likeable, sort of like she's been victimized herself by Skeletor in some way or another. In fact, I think that's how she described her character of Evil-Lyn in some interview she gave.As a side note, James Tolkan is hilariously perfect as Detective Lubic. I love that scene where he's feeling perfectly demolished in the middle of all these space invaders and says something like, Gee, I think may be I need some back-up! "},{"Title":"Once an all-time favourite...","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Back in the period between 1987-1990, when I was a mere 6-9 year old, I used to absolutely love this film.  I saw it in the cinema, and constantly rented it out from the video shop.  It's fair to say it was my favourite film of all time at one point.12 years later, I realised it had been released on DVD, and decided it was time to make a purchase.  Sadly, my memories of such a fantastic film have been clouded by terrible acting, cheesy dialogue, and a rather weak storyline.Gwildor is the Jar Jar Binks of the mid-eighties, while Dolph Lundgren appears to be struggling with the concept and execution of the English language.  On the plus side though, you do get to see a youthful Courtney Cox, years before the idea of marrying a wrestling policeman that struggles with giant spiders ever entered into her head. "},{"Title":"I love it, but it is average","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to say that when i saw it i loved it and i still do, just because it is He-Man. The Film is Average at best, and i think most people realise that, but it has some plus points. Dolph lundgren was right as far as the physical side went, but i think he should have taken about 6 billion more acting lessons. The Whole Eart thing was thing that ruined the film. Yeah so its nice to think that Earth in this Universe is playing a role in a cataclysmic struggle between good and evil, but i just want to know why nobody managed to see Skeletor's Army March through a massive Purple glowing portal in the middle of a suburb somewhere. More of Eternia would have been much better, and the set for Greyskull was pretty cool.Most of the acting was pretty average, but Langella stands out head and shoulders, despite the moving cheekbones. Everything about him is evil, and Langella's dominant voice, and in some cases over acting show Skeletor how he should have been, because i look back at the cartoon and Skeletor just gets a bit annoying with his whiny cackling voice. I just hope that with the resurrection of He Man now, if the cartoon is successful, they should give a film another shot. "},{"Title":"He-Man or She-Male?","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Like many others of my generation, I was a die-hard He-Man fanatic.  I owned scores of He-Man action figures and accessories, and I saw every episode of the original animated serious, religiously tuning in without fail.  And then the movie came along.  I had such high expectations, and oh how I was terribly disappointed.Masters of the Universe was a bad production.  Golan-Globus is a production company with a history of producing nothing memorable.  It is sad that such a company so obviously geared toward an easy money market was given the helm at such an important film.  At no time did MOTU's producers stop and think that the fans should be given what it is that drew them to the series in the first place.  That special chemistry of CHARACTERS and interesting stories of enchanted Eternia.  Instead, we got a film that blatantly ripped off other popular films of the era.  Rather than being creative and innovative, the producers chose to follow a tried and true formula prevalent in the industry of the time.This film was positioned perfectly to boost and expand upon the popularity of the original franchise, and yet the producers chose instead to torpedo the franchise to death by sputtering out an exceptionally low quality B-grade movie, taking advantage of the popularity of the name alone to make some fast cash.  We're this movie named anything differently, certainly it wouldn't have been accepted by anyone with any shred of decency.  Some die-hard fans say they forgive the movie's shortcomings, but I feel quite the opposite.  I believe we were betrayed by this movie.  It is clear the producers never took the time to get to know the characters and the elements of storytelling we so loved as children.  No doubt, they simply skimmed over a few episodes to get a general idea of the show, and simply pasted the names and faces of a few of the original characters over hollow shells. Masters of the Universe was merely the facade for a sub-standard piece of rubbish, and I will not be forgiving.  When any production company is given the reigns to such an important project, it is my hope they will hear the pleas of the fans for justice to be done.  Learn from Peter Jackson, who so excellently brought The Lord of the Rings to life, staying so true to what made the novels great.   "},{"Title":"I HAVE THE POWER!","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's true that this movie doesn't hold true to the tale of the cartoon classic so many of us (who are interested) are familiar with, but as an action movie in general it has it's good moments.  Dolf as He-Man?We'll I feel he did a pretty good job with what they gave him.  The script could have used work, having He-Man and his gang in present day is a bit odd.  The plot is strong enough to keep it going. Skeletor is a pretty evil guy, his army of thugs are just as mindless and blundering as in the cartoons and Evil Lynn is who she is, evil.  I will say as far as most of the visual effects go, not bad.  Better thenFlash Gordon... sort of reminds me of Monster Squad.  Funny, those three movies dealt with a sort of alternate time period or distant civilization that gets mixed up with present day, seems to be a trend.To sum it up, what are you looking for?  I classic cartoon portrayed on the big screen that holds true to the original?  No.  An action movie typical of what you would expect from that era and genre as far as an action/adveture/sci-fi movie goes?  Yes, just maybe yes.  Remember, think 80s.  Rent it, don't buy unless your familiar with it... and it's on sale (got it myself for $4)  Enjoy.  "}{"Title":"Piece of well put together, entertaining, eighties cheese","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  At Sundance this year, one of the big successes was the rave/character study Groove. Sure, It's a chunk of compost with poor acting and vapid dialogue, many critics agreed, But we've never seen a movie about a RAVE! Thumbs UP! I've read people dogging Masters of the Universe and, with boring crap like Groove getting praise for being original (Human Traffic? Hell-OO?!), I just don't understand how people can be so hard on this eighties masterpiece. Yes, MASTERPIECE! Sure, Masters of the Universe is a travesty of a film; a relentless Star Wars ripoff right down to the extraneous, unnecessary troops in Darth Vader helmets (although continuously foiling Skeletor's evil plan of domination, he continues to contract larger and larger groups of soldiers to do his dirty work, as if the amount of moronic troops is directly proportionate to the quality of destruction). But that's what makes it so great! For a film to be so bad it's unwatchable, to me, it has to be as shallow and boring as, say Groove. The characters in Masters of the Universe have goals to attain and motivation to carry through with. (Well, all except He-Man who could only be helping the rag-tag group of white trash Eternians for his own, altruistic purposes.) Aside from the speeder bike-esque hoverboard chase scene (which I think Highlander 2 actually ripped off! Someone else ripped off Masters of the Universe!!!) in which we see cardboard cutouts of the characters woodenly defy gravity to absurd levels, the film is actually put together rather well. The laser beams look cheesy, but the scenes are edited well, with continuity between the lasers and explosions. There's an impressive scene of Skeletor being escorted through a hole in . . . the universe? The fabric of spacetime? Even the heavy metal-playing cylinder that the two teens find is constructed rather well; very detailed. If you still can't get around the production value of Masters of the Universe, I believe it still may hold great entertainment value. I kept giggling whenever I saw Man at Arms, played by dinosaur Jon Cypher. Mental pictures of a steadily decomposing Cypher (like that's his real name) bouncing his grandchildren on his knee and telling wonderfully embellished stories about his time on the set, where many of his dialogue ideas were accepted by the director kept crawling through my head. Plus, he's got a bad wig and the worst moustache since Rollie Fingers'. I enjoyed staring at the moustache and imaging what it would smell like if I were to put my nose directly in it. Consensus canned cheese. Plus, Dolph Lundgren is hilariously near-nude, Chelsea Field, as Teela, has some serious rage issues, and there are phalic symbols in every other shot. I would also like to point out that this is not a childhood revival review. I saw Masters of the Universe in theatres in 1987 and I hated it. My views and comments come from a recent screening a week ago. So blow $8 and take your chance on seeing something truly bad, like Groove. And spend the rest of the week complaining about how you actually helped such a piece of crap prosper financially. Or drop a dollar at your local Blockbuster, invite some friends over, and get some huge laughs off of a movie that may not be very good, but does what it's supposed to do Entertain. "},{"Title":"Good, but not too faithful...","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's merely a darker version of the original animated series.  Perhaps the filmmakers were afraid that a direct translation would seem 'uncool'. Creating the FX for a floating Orko, a Prince Adam/He-Man transformation sequence, or a talking BattleCat would be a computer animated snap today, but too difficult or costly back in 1987, so that's probably why they were omitted from the film.  Dolph simply doesn't have the goodie-goodie charm for He-Man, and Langella's Skeletor is way too sinister.  A redheaded Sharon Stone would have made a perfect Teela, and the whole Cosmic Key idea...not good!  If you're a He-Man purist, you might have the same complaints, if you just want a fun sci-fi action movie, by all means, check it out! "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie!! One of my favorites of all-time","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember seeing this movie in early 1988 when my parents rented it and loved it having grown up on He-Man. It is very well done going between Earth and Eternia. Casting is top notch and the script is great. There is a great mixture of effects and live shots. I highly recommend you see this movie. I wished they would have gone on to make a sequel but Lundgren said he wouldn't do it and Cannon films went under shortly after the script for the sequel to this movie was redone and made into another of my favorite movies Cyborg Starring Van Damme. Great 80's action/fantasy, this movie is another reason why the 80's rocked!!! "},{"Title":"Cheesy = almost good enough","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" To say this was cheesy is to say the Pope is catholic. Based on 80s cartoon, this was a live action movie. It had cheesy FX. It had cheesy character costumes. It had cheesy acting from Dolph Lundgren. Yep the cheese is all over this thing.He-Man escapes to our world while Skeletor sends his minions to follow and search for the Cosmic Key that could open doorways to other realities. This certainly have its moments. It had some funny moments both intentional and unintentional.It's also noteworthy to see a younger Courteney Cox play the suburban teen who helps He-Man and his friends. "},{"Title":"Very Derivative","Date":"17 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This piece is so very derivative. 1. The titles - Go back 10 years and look at the original Superman titles. They zoom in with tracers. 2. The opening music - Again, the same movie. Listen to the Superman music and then listen to this opening music. 3. Other places within - Riding little saucer shaped scooters. This has been done. Check out Back to the Future. 4. Costuming - it has all been done before. Even the old time serials had face masks like Skeletor. Storm Troopers, anyone??? Yes, there is some original stuff, too, but, goodness, so much imitation. Oh, well, it was lit well and the sound was recorded well but that's some of the best of it. Otherwise, much chest beating and shooting and jumping and running around.I did finish it. That says something positive about it and that's how it got to 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Derivative and insipid","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" During the 1980's the world of advertising and general marketing took on an all invasive, sinister tone. After the success of the Star Wars toy line from Hasbro, the industry began a series of fantasy toy lines that used the 30 minute Saturday morning cartoon as an advertising tool. This led to famous toy's/cartoons such as Tranformers, Thundercats et al (there are way too many to list in this review. I believe the first of these was the He-Man and the Masters of the Universe, which hawked a band of sword-and-sandal-like fantasy characters, in a world called Eternia.The cartoon and toy line were incredibly successful, and whilst as an adult, my cynical side sees the enormity of this exploitative marketing, as a child I was totally sucked in. With the unbridled achievement of cynical marketing, it was only a matter of time before the Hollywood machine would take the buff character of He-man and immortalise the c**t on screen.The 1980's also saw an increase of over sized muscle-men on the big screen. This was of course reflective of Reagan's politics of big-is- good etcetera. So with such a low-rent project, the film needed a pretty low-rent, muscular actor. I'm guessing that even Schwarzenegger and Stallone were too good for this film, as the actor chosen to play the homo-erotic, buff-dunce He-man was Dolph Lundgren, another of the increasingly large action stars of the decade.The story involves a set of keys that can open a portal to other worlds/dimensions, and He-man's evil foe, Skeletor (Frank Langela) obviously wants the set. During a battle in Snake mountain, the hero's are forced to go through a portal where they find themselves in contemporary America, and take on the help of a native, Julie (Courtney Cox).This derivative, insipid film is just awful. The action is more than likely placed in a Earth-bound setting for budgetary reasons. And to be fair, even if this was not the case, it would probably be just as s**t. I did see this at the cinema at the time, and probably liked it. But seeing this as an adult just makes me realise that there was an abundance of genuinely awful movies in the decade of greed.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"It could have been a good film i fit would have been more &#x84;Masters of the Universe","Date":"17 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If you grew up in the 1980's, there were several reasons that you didn't know &#x84;Masters of the Universe &#x96; like, having been raised by wolves or being in a coma, for example. Naturally, much greatness was expected from the motion picture adaptation of Masters of the Universe. Oh, what grandness would await us! Lundgren seemed perfect for the role of the kid-friendly, blond version of Conan the Barbarian. This film would be bigger than Star Wars and Lord of the Rings (had we known about this one back then) combined! Just think of the myriads of creatures from the toy-line, Trap-Jaw, Battle-Cat and all the others.Well, there was no Battle-Cat. No Trap-Jaw. No Man-E-Faces, no Mer-Man&#x85; you get my point. Instead, we got a couple of new creatures; we got annoying teenagers that could only exist in 1980's Americana and, of course, Charlie, the most pointless character in the annals of cinema. And they gave Man-at-Arms the name Duncan, which animated a friend of mine to quip &#x85; and Skeletors first name is Fred. And the movie committed one faux-pas that was common for productions with a limited budget it took the setting to contemporary settings (that's 80s Los Angeles, to you and me).This review may sound negative, having so far pointed out mainly the short-comings, but not all is bad Frank Langella makes a wonderful Skeletor, who obviously enjoys hamming it up to 11; Meg Foster was born to play Evil-Lyn and, as mentioned, Lundgren was a very convincing He-Man, even though there really was no need for that cape. Though the absence of all the characters like Stratos and Zodiac was painful, the new 'creatures' Sauron (not related), Blade (not related either but one of the movie's highlights) and Gwildor (as obnoxious as the cartoon-Orko, but made a better toy) were very well designed and performed.So, all that's left is to wait and dream of a remake, that probably will never materialize &#x96; unless of course the toy-line is revived one day and a remake is turned into some kind of CGI-monster-production (a crate of beer says, it will be in 3-D).If this movie would have had a bigger budget and would have stuck closer to the original story, it could have worked. As it is, the flaws outnumber the merits, and giving 5 points from 10 is plain fair. "},{"Title":"Now, quite a shameful and poorly done attempt at a sci-fi franchise but a pleasant nostalgic trip if that scenario also applies.","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have read in the past about people, as young children, replaying the original Star Wars films from the late 1970s, early 1980s over and over again on home videotape once they became available, that the tapes have become old and worn through repetition. True as that may be I will never know because I never saw a Star Wars film properly until the last year and a half or so but one science fiction/adventure hybrid fable I did have on videotape through one means or another was this Masters of the Universe, an under funded and pretty poorly thought through piece from a bunch of 'C' going on 'D' list talent made in the mid to late 1980s.I saw this film recently for the first time in what must be a decade-plus and while I didn't wear out the tape all those years ago, I saw it enough times to take a trip down memory for this occasion. You don't remember lines of dialogue or gripping narratives in scenarios like this, you remember individual shots and facial expressions from the film. As it was, Teela's (Field) reaction shot when she finds out what she's eating very early on in the film was one of them as was Gwildor's (Barty) joyous and knowing expression towards the end when he sends certain characters to a point in Earth's history they will appreciate.But enough of that and to cut right to the chase, the film is pretty poor. Although, it's that watchable sort of rubbish that accompanies the fact you saw it as a child so often that the experience now is a trip down memory lane rather than an out and out first time film viewing. To some, this might be the worst film they've ever seen and I wouldn't have a problem with that; to others, it may be their favourite and I wouldn't have a problem with that although I would point out to them that their childhood links with the piece has blinded them somewhat.I read only now that the film was originally going to take place on the planet of Eternia but budget limitations brought it to Earth &#150; there's your first clue as to how ordinary it is. The fact the film's idea of where it wanted it set had to be scrapped should really have been enough to dissuade the producers from making it, surely. But, it didn't and of course we're all glad it didn't. Masters of the Universe is one of those strange hybrids that has a clear cut hero in He-Man (Lundgren) come out of where he's familiar with (Eternia) and travel to a far off place in order to achieve something. In this case, it's Earth in order to escape evil Skeletor (Langella) and his foes who want control of an item called 'The Cosmic Key' little creature Gwildor has created. This key enables folk to travel from planet to planet and, naturally, Skeletor wants control of this contraption.But instead of being a circular journey in which a hero leaves their homeland; fights battles and defeats evil before returning home an even bigger hero, the film presents us with a typical high school romance involving Kevin (McNeill) and Julie (Cox). The idea that He-Man is the focus is still very much present but it is Julie we have more of a connection with as an audience as we feel she may be in peril at certain times and her back-story may touch us somewhat.But the film is really just a collection of nice outfits and rather unbelievable scenes. The film needs to happen in the early hours of the morning on Earth for the sake of convenience and the heroes know they have until 'moonrise' on Eternia to achieve their goal because Skeletor was kind enough to tell them that ultimatum much earlier on. Initially, monsters resembling wolf-man rip-offs and rejected Predator prototypes are sent to Earth as a scout party but it isn't long before Skeletor himself and an army of his soldiers, most of which wear body armour that resembles the troopers' in Star Wars, arrive to check things out for themselves.Although perhaps the actors in the soldier suits are the lucky ones as they don't get to have their faces revealed. I think everyone in the film, especially by the end, is accepting this as Reaganism inspired, tongue in cheek action/adventure and nothing more. Frank Langella does a great job in bellowing his lines, demanding he be worshipped as the most powerful being in the universe &#150; indeed 'God'. But that's all he's doing and the fact the rest of the acting talent is an array of stunt men, Karate fighters and actors more used to television work sort of grates in the end, although it does bring a certain quirkiness to certain characters.The film has its charm, no doubt about it. A pumping synthetic 80s soundtrack and a great turn from James Tolkan, otherwise known as Principal Strickland from Back to the Future, whose best line is Nobody takes pop shots at Lubic! are some here and there highlights but it isn't really enough to cloud adult judgement on a childhood 'favourite'. Skeletor may have been the most powerful being in the universe at one point and he may have wanted to remain like that but how does one so powerful explain the stupidity of having a huge pit complete with lava at the bottom mere feet from where you rule on high in your throne? Regardless, I don't think he'll be back. "},{"Title":"Masters of the Universe -The Movie","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie that was based on a popular children's cartoon from the 1980's. However...the cartoon itself was based on a toy line from Mattel.In other words it's Star Wars in reverse.... Instead of Action figure dolls inspired by movie characters.....It is a movie inspired by action figure dolls. (okay- get it now) Oddly enough, it isn't a bad movie. It's actually half-way good. I would have like to have seen more character development, and I would have liked to have seen more action. But it really has it's moments.I recommend this movie to anyone with kids, or just wants to watch a good movie "},{"Title":"Best STAR WARS imitation of them all!","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie wasn't given a chance back in the 80s simply because it was based on a toy. Nowadays, with big-budget epics based on video games and other playthings being a common occurrence, you'd think people would be a bit more open-minded. It's true that MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE really is a low-budget movie but it does a great job stretching its meager funds into a very elaborate fantasy look. The production design by William Stout is fabulous and Gary Goddard's direction is quite stylish. Bill Conti's music score is especially noteworthy -- one of the best fantasy-adventure scores of the era. Skeletor's prosthetic make-up takes a bit of getting used to (not so great, I'm afraid) but Frank Langella plays him like he was doing Richard III at the Old Vic! I love it -- there's not an ounce of the tiresome eye-rolling which most legitmate actors feel compelled to introduce into these types of roles (think Peter O'Toole in SUPERGIRL). Many of the reviews already posted seem to fault the film for not being more faithful to the TV cartoon. I was already a grown-up when this one came out and had never seen the cartoon, so I took it at face value as a stand-alone film. The decision to set most of the picture on earth (which I'm told was done for budgetary reasons) actually gives MASTERS a nice TARZAN'S NEW YORK ADVENTURE quality that I find quite appealing. All in all, I think this is the best of the many low-budget STAR WARS imitations that came out in the 80s and a very entertaining drive-in style night at the movies. My own kids love it as much as I do! "}{"Title":"A Great Movie but it Has it Flaws","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I Get Sick and Tired of the Stuff i Read Yes it Has it Flaws but it Ranks as a Great Movie of the 80sOne thing that Wrold have make the Movie better to the Viewers that it should have been released in 1986 a Year after the Cartoon Serise that Wrold have wrok outbut that ok i Love this movie for two reason 1 the Storylne wrok out Just Fine the last Battle 2 the Cast Frank Langella is the MVP of the Movie He Make a BAD Bad Guy. when the movie Ended and the credits Roll By and seeing the Skeltor thing Freak me out cuse in my Young Mind i thought He Said Something to me. that what made this Movie Good with me ai like Dolph Lundgren as He-man Furture TV Stars Courteney Cox and Robert Duncan McNeill as Good looking 80s teen and with all the bad rap that They Good i felt that Jon Cypher and Chelsea Field as at their Best Playing Man-at-Arms and Teela Overall it was not the Best but it had all the He-man Stuff that any he-man Wrold have like but but had it Flawsno matter it Will Always be my Top Ten Movie of all Time4 out 5 Stars "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Very good movie, a nice backflash for 80's kids.  The movie was in a way different from the TV show, but yet still a healthy sidestory. Dont' forget Skeletor! His booming voice scared me many times as a child. "},{"Title":"Not all bad","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Growing up with the classic cartoon series masters of the universe I believe that this film does the animated series justice by sticking to familiar characters and locations. Although the acting is nothing special, I thought that Frank Langella was very good as the evil overlord Skeletor. This film has got a bum rap by many but I believe it to be very good entertaiment for most ages with very good special effects and some creative ideas from the writers. "},{"Title":"Action-Comedy","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Alright, this movie has some years on it's neck but it still is good. Maybe not as exiting and cool as when I was younger but nowaydays there is more of a real cool comedy veil over it. Damn I laugh when I see Dolph running around in underware and a Cape gainig trust from scared earthpeople. Sadly i's getting harder and harder to get a copy of, but anyway. A cool movie. "},{"Title":"You'd think a pair of masters of the universe would have a better fight than that.","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was born in 1983 and so, like many others, my childhood belongs to he-man and because of that I can forgive this film a lot (i actually first saw it in a dubbed spanish version when i was 4 and seemed to completley understand it but that probably says more for the paper thin plot than anything else). The film had a very low budget and there was no way that the world of Eternia could be done justice.  That said, what is there (the throne room, the barren plain at the beginning) looks very alien and cool.  None of the performances make me cringe and I particularly enjoy John Cypher as Man At Arms who really gives a flesh and blood performance to the character.  As for Frank Langella, well what can be said, put it this way, before the movie I would play with my Skeletor figure and put on his high pitched whine from the cartoon, and after i always put on Langella's memorable voice.  He defines how the character should be played.  For me, the character in the cartoon started out unredeemably evil but just got goofier and goofier as the years went on, Langella puts it in it's place.  For those complaints that Bill Conti's score is hardly original and a rip off of John Williams best work (Star Wars and Superman), well hardly any music score is original these days and i find the music memorable enough and far from incidental background stuff.  Although many themes of the cartoon are sacrificed, one of them, at least, remains, that being the eternal struggle between He-man and Skeletor.  Skeletor is a man obsessed with obtaining god hood and opnipotence and people like that hate to have someone who is there equal in every way.  Which is why my one unforgivable gripe about the film is the final clash between the two. I know He-man is the mightiest man in the universe but considering Skeletor has just turned himself into a god i didn't expect him to get his arse handed to him like that.  The fight could and i don't see any reason why it should'nt have been a titanic struggle that does their ages long battle justice.  If only they could have fought on the outside of Castle Grayskull, oh what could have been.  In response to the previous reviewer who mentioned the current revival of He-man and the movie possibilities, i whole heartedly agree with you.  Hopefully if the new conan the barbarian flick does boffo box office then He-man will soon return to the big screen and this time be done right.  By the way, can anyone please fill me in on the second masters flick.  I know that it was re-written into Cyborg but how would the He-man characters have originally fit into it and is there the original script for masters 2 floating somewhere out there on the web.  Any info would be much apreciated.  My god i have gabbed on haven't i, Masters of the Universe gets 7/10 from me.  "},{"Title":"I HAVE THE POWER!","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's true that this movie doesn't hold true to the tale of the cartoon classic so many of us (who are interested) are familiar with, but as an action movie in general it has it's good moments.  Dolf as He-Man?We'll I feel he did a pretty good job with what they gave him.  The script could have used work, having He-Man and his gang in present day is a bit odd.  The plot is strong enough to keep it going. Skeletor is a pretty evil guy, his army of thugs are just as mindless and blundering as in the cartoons and Evil Lynn is who she is, evil.  I will say as far as most of the visual effects go, not bad.  Better then Flash Gordon... sort of reminds me of Monster Squad.  Funny, those three movies dealt with a sort of alternate time period or distant civilization that gets mixed up with present day, seems to be a trend.To sum it up, what are you looking for?  I classic cartoon portrayed on the big screen that holds true to the original?  No.  An action movie typical of what you would expect from that era and genre as far as an action/adveture/sci-fi movie goes?  Yes, just maybe yes.  Remember, think 80s.  Rent it, don't buy unless your familiar with it... and it's on sale (got it myself for $4)  Enjoy.  "},{"Title":"A whole lot of bad fun!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is fun, period. The dialogue is corny, the script is awkward and yes, there are lots of unintentional laughs. But the special effects and acting are great, the film has a lot of exciting set pieces, and some great monster make up effects (Skelator rules!). It's also fun to see Courtney Cox making a total fool out of herself. She runs from monsters, makes sappy love, and even gets captured by some funky lizard warrior things. Fun stuff! Recommended! (*** 1/2 out of ****)  "},{"Title":"Not as Bas as I thought it would be...","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I picked up this movie at a video store and decided to buy it for 6 dollars, thinking I'd add it to my collection for child-memory sake.  I thought it would be horrible when watching it again, expecting bad effects, and pure and utter lameness.  I even commented to the guy I was buying it from that I probably wouldn't like it, but hell, I remembered watching it as a kid.  Funny, but when I watched this movie, I was pleasantly surprised.  Now, 16 years later, I have forgot everything (almost!) about He-Man, so I did not compare the movie to the cartoon.  I even think I like this movie more now then when I was a kid. This movie is a brilliant blend of science fiction and fantasy, right up George Lucas' alley.  I swear, he could have written and directed this.  I think I liked this movie better than Phantom Menace and the effects and sets in the movie look fine!  Sure, some of the acting is not exceptional and some lines, predictabilities, and plot holes get frustrating (why didn't skeletor take the key at the end???) but the pure imagination of this movie is what took me!  I must rate this 7/10 and reccommend it only to sci-fi fantasy fans who are in for one pretty cool movie.  Or anyone else who wants just a fun movie to watch! "},{"Title":"I have the power!!!!!","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  No dont write this off from the start because you could be in for a surprise. I grew up watching the He-man Tv show and I had nearly all of the toys, so at around the age of 7 when it was on Tv. I had it taped and have watched it ever since. Lundgren struggles to lose his accent, which is strong in a few sentances including the one line summary and when he tells Skelator  I don't want innnocent people to die a good childrens film and an interesting watch "},{"Title":"Laughable, Boring and Lacks Any Real Energy","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Masters of the Universe (1987) * 1/2 (out of 4)Silly live-action version of the animated series has the planet of Eternia being destroyed by the evil Skeletor (Frank Langella) but some freedom fighters led by He-Man (Dolph Lundgren) are out to save it. As a kid I was a fan of the animated series but I remember my parents refusing to take me to the theater to see this feature because they thought it would be a waste of money. Over time I had grown apart from the series and it never really struck me to go back and watch this feature until years later. By the time I did get around to it I had forgotten the majority of the story lines from the original series but I'm not sure if that really played a part in my disliking of this so much. I will start off by saying this type of fantasy isn't normally my cup of tea but I'm one who believes that any movie can be enjoyed if it's well-made and especially if it's a good one. This, however, isn't either of those things as this cheap looking picture looks even worse today than I'm sure it did back in 1987. I think the biggest problem lies in the screenplay, which has an incredibly weak story, no character development and it seems really boring when the action goes to Earth. We get the typical type of humor of the newbies being on a new planet but there's not a single laugh to be had. The action scenes were all clearly inspired by STAR WARS but there's just not any excitement to any of them and after a while you can't help but start to look at the clock to see how much more there is. The bad thing about that is the film clocks in at 107-minutes, which is way too long for this type of thing. The performances have become somewhat of a cult over the years and it's easy to see why. Lundgren is never going to be confused for being a good actor but while watching him here I really started to wonder if perhaps he was smoking something strong or perhaps he had no idea where he was and what he was doing. He's certainly got the look of He-Man but as far as any type of performance you're certainly not going to get it here. Langella has the misfortune of wearing a really embarrassing mask and his constant screaming is certainly over-the-top but this at least brings a few smiles to your face. The supporting cast includes Meg Foster, Jon Cypher, Courteney Cox and the one and only Billy Barty. The laughable special effects really don't help much but I will admit that the entire film has a campy tone that might keep some entertained. Sadly, I wasn't one of them. "}{"Title":"Choke! Choke! Choke!","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This has to be one of the worst movies I have seen in the past 15 years. First of all the plot overall is weak, but it makes sense. CAUTION SPOILER Wildor(the half midget-half elf-half-bird-mutant looking techno-geek) uses the mystical key or whatever it is and accidentally opens a portal into our universe and Skeletor tracks them down, as He-man an company tries to find a way back home. However there could be a little more meat in this watery plot, here.The set design and the character design are not-bad for a movie that has more cheese in it than a plateful of manicotti. Which leads me to my second reason why this movie is awful. The dialogue is appalling, the action is predictable and is only there as an excuse to kill more time. But both of these reasons are nothing compared with the third and final one. WARNING ULTIMATE SPOILER!!!! The final scene.....ARRRGGGGHHHH!!! Don't even get me started on that! It's the most worst scene in the entire movie. When Julie(typical name for a white suburban teenage girl in the 80's)goes through the portal to her world from Eternia (stupid-ass name for a planet)she finds herself back in her bedroom as if nothing has happened. What the hell is going on here? How did Wildor know about her parents being dead and when they died? Was the little bastard a mind-reader or something? But wait..there's more! She finds her parents alive at the breakfast table. Then Masters sounds more like a teen coming-of-age drama on Lifetime, as Julie convinces her parents not take the flight. Then for some strange-ass reason, she yanks the keys to the plane with the damn newspaper as runs out of the house (in her f*@king nightgown)saying I love you as if she was running away or something into the middle of the street and kisses her boyfriend. W-W-Why?! What the bloody blue hell was that?!! And I thought Courtney Cox was more annoying in Friends. "},{"Title":"I Have the Power!!!","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie would of made double than what it did if it would have been made 2 years earlier.A lot more He-Man fans would have liked it better had all of Skeletor's henchmen from the cartoon appeared.  The movie didn't have Mer-Man, Trap Jaw, Clawful, or even Panthor!!And on He-Man's side, where was Kringer/Battle Cat, Orko, Mekanek, Stratos, or even Buzz Off!!But anyway, it's still He-Man vs Skeletor, in a classic confrontation.I would of liked it better if it would of took place on Eternia instead of Earth, but I guess they didn't want to duplicate the cartoon. Which is understandable.Dolph Lundgren was good as the hero, Frank Langella was ok, just weird seeing Skeletor with a white face instead of yellow.  And with Black clothes and no blue skin or purple hood.**1/2 stars out of **** "},{"Title":"It's my opinion not yours","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I will be honest, I wasn't a fan of the cartoon series, but I did enjoy this movie very much. I've read all the other comments harassing this movie with star wars (get a life!) I liked star wars too, but all sci-fi borrow ideas from each other. Just like star wars borrowed ideas from the E.E. Doc Smith novel lensman. I am a Dolph Lungren fan and I was hesitant to see him as He-Man, but he was a Manly He-Man not the wimp in the cartoon.  Frank Langella as Skeletor, WOW! He was Skeletor the way Skeletor should have been! I've adopted his quote as my own motto,  I must Posses all, Or I posses Nothing! He just had some of the greatest lines I've ever heard from a villain!The musical score for me is what really brought the whole thing together. This is to me Bill Conti's best I've ever heard! Especialy the track called Skeletor the Destroyer it sounded like a Roman legion on the march, that makes John Williams'(a great composer as well) Imperial March for Star Wars the Empire Strikes Back sound like a Sunday parade.You can disagree with me if you want, But you can't say I'm wrong! It is just my opinion not yours.  So there. 8p "},{"Title":"Despite not being EXACTLY like the classic animated show, Masters of the Universe the movie is great!","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time.I really don't understand why this movie is hated like it is. Sure it isn't like the classic animates show bit its a great movie! Dolph Lundgren was perfect for the part as He-Man! Frank Langella was excellent as Skeletor! He acting was flawless! I loved it! Meg Foster was perfect for Evil-Lyn as well! The music by Bill Conti is superb! In My opinion Its one of the greatest ever written for a film! The way the people were about the classic cartoon I would think that this movie would be on the greatest of all time list. I think its a wonderful movie! If you love He-Man I strongly recommend you watch it! "},{"Title":"Masters of the Universe","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Oh my how delicious is this piece of 80's panto, some of the best badly adapted hokey nonsense I've seen, yet somehow its so damn good.Where to start! this really is your typical fantasy film of the era, every cliché every funny little niche is here as you would expect and the funny thing is it was actually meant to be a blockbuster. I have since found out there were many problems in creating this film and it does show some what, the film is really nothing like the original He-Man cartoon in any way.Effects wise this sorta stumbles through with some interesting ideas, some of the makeup is actually quite good, Skeletor, Beast Man and Saurod all have pretty nice makeup appliances and costumes which fit the He-Man universe. Other effects are laughably terrible with some awful bluescreen work, nasty models of which most seem ripped straight outta 'Star Wars', faded poor laser blast effects and some of the most hilariously bad stunts and fight choreography you will see. Most kicks and punches clearly (and I mean CLEARLY) don't make their intended contacts.The cast are actually a mix of decent character actors which is the funny thing, some of these performances saved the film and gave it cult status. Of course Langella as Skeletor is the co de gra of cheesy villains with his snarling voice and bellowing cries lusting for power. For me the best and most amusing performance was James Tolkan as the no nonsense cop Lubic with his sharp tongue, gotta love that guy and his baldness.Along for the ride is steady character actor Jon Cypher, fantasy actor regular Billy Barty, Meg Foster as the quite sexual Evil-Lyn in her lovely tight barbarian-esq outfit with luscious lips (oh yeah!) and last of all Courtney Cox, yes THAT Courtney Cox of 'Friends' fame and as you would expect she's still annoying as hell even back then. So yes the film is practically a joke with its Punch and Judy style and completely awful effects, fights etc...but it has gained a lot of notoriety for just that. Even when I saw this back as a kid I knew the film bared no resemblance to the original material, it always bewildered me why the creators thought to create new bad guys when there were so many rich villains to use, who the hell was Blade, Karg and Saurod suppose to be? where was Trap Jaw Tri-Klops Mer-Man or Man-E-Faces? the same could be said for the heroes also. Then there was the question of who on Earth were all these stormtrooper type foot soldiers clad in black armour that were an idea rip from so many films!?.I have since found out they were stuck in so He-Man could kill things without becoming too violent for the kids as He-Man wasn't suppose to kill. I can see that now but it still doesn't work right does it, I can't believe Lucas never sued frankly even with the almost identical ending to 'ROTJ'.Its funny to look back and laugh, even more so to think films like this actually made it to the cinema and were meant to be big money spinners. I actually love how the film just goes off on its own tangent completely ignoring the source material, its so far gone its brilliant in such a bad way. Gotta love Skeletor's golden coloured horned silver foil battle mask getup when he transforms at the end which seems to be a rip off from 'Big Trouble in Little China'! the way Tolkan swears oh and the fact Teela seems to be wearing a thin thong if you look closely as well, kids film?.Wanna give it a good score because its just so poor its good, but really I can't...end of the day it is purely sh*t.3.5/10 "},{"Title":"Mediocre at Best","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's no surprise that after the success of He-Man and the Masters of the Universe (1983) cartoon that Hollywood became interested in creating a live-action version of the series. However, it turned out to be a financial and critical blunder for everyone - crewmembers and audiences alike. It's pretty much a split right down the middle. It either will be enjoyed or it won't be. I for one had a hard time figuring out where my stance is. It certainly is not even close to being a good movie but it also isn't close to being a terrible film either. It's just blah.The film starts out with already what seems like a finale to the film - Skeletor (Frank Langella) has captured the Sorceress of Castle Grayskull and wants to lure He-Man (Dolph Lundgren) himself into a trap so he can acquire the powers of Grayskull. All Skeletor needs is He-Man's sword. But writer David Odell thought it would be a good idea to create a subplot that involved a gizmo called the Cosmic Key that can transport anybody anywhere across the universe. But the only way to make this item work is to play a musical tune out of the finger pads surrounding it. I mean, it's an OK plot device but it's not necessary.Upon being ambushed when He-Man arrives to confront Skeletor, a portal is opened from the cosmic key and he lands on Earth. From there a boy and a girl find the instrument and mistake it for a synthesizer. How 80s like. It's because of this plot device that carries the whole film. As a whole, it's a chase, but it's a slow chase. And kind of cumbersome too. Every scene is one clichéd chase after another where each team is a step behind the other. It's just so happens that everything occurs coincidentally with one another to string along a very thin plot line. It's not great entertainment but one should also understand that it isn't unwatchable either.To be fair, this film stays pretty faithful to the cartoon. Everything from the set design of Eternia, to the costume design of each character looks and feels like the cartoon was rendered into the real world. Dolph Lundgren's physic matches He-Man accurately as does his co-star Jon Cypher as Man-At-Arms (with that brush of a mustache). Frank Langella as Skeletor was an okay choice, but his make up could have been done better and he could have at least tried to make his voice a little higher pitched. The same goes for many of the other creature like characters. In some ways, they remind me of Steve Wang's creature costumes. I did wish the character of Man-E-Faces was included though. He was an awesome character.What's even more interesting is too see a very young Courteney Cox as the girl. However, that doesn't mean that the acting is great. For the actors that take part in this, the performances aren't really convincing. No one's performance really feels genuine, nor is any of the dialog anything special. Even for an 80s movie, you'd think there'd be cheesy one liners - not even that. But again, it's not terrible, just plain. But, the other aspect I did find gratifying was Bill Conti's score to the film. I am confused to why he didn't reuse the theme from the cartoon but his new tune sounds praiseworthy none the less. There is a theme and it sounds heroic. Too bad it can't support all the other dead weight.For a live-action film, it stays faithful to the cartoon and has a good musical score, but its' actors' performances are barely passable and the writing is too silly. "},{"Title":"He-Man hits the big screen","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember this movie was a pretty big deal when it came out in 1987. He-Man was a hugely popular cartoon in the 80's and when it was announced the were making a movie version of it many a kid must have been very excited to see it at the cinema. The result sadly is a bit average, first of all the action takes place on Earth for 90 per cent of the movie. It would have worked so much better if they kept it on He-Mans home world of Etarnia. Also a very popular character from the cartoon Orco was missing and replaced by a slightly annoying little creature called Gwildor played by the great Billy Barty. Both of these decisions were due to budget problems (this movie was made by Cannon films after all) but a Kid who was a huge fan of the cartoon is bound to be slightly annoyed at this. Still credit where credit is due they certainly tried to offer up a big Star Wars type spectacle but it didn't quite work out. More positives were that Dolph made a pretty good but not very talkative He-Man and Langella makes a great scenery chewing Skeletor but you can't help see this movie as a missed opportunity. "},{"Title":"How Should One Judge This?","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" How does one start judging a movie that is based on a comic book or a cartoon? Do we actually judge it on the basis of the original characters and the original story line? Or do we judge it as a stand-alone completely independent of what we already know about the characters? Well, the fact that the name of the movie and the characters in it are based on some existing characters, then I guess I would prefer judging it based on what I know about the world as it exists in the original story lines! In that case, the movie is a perfect disappointment. None of what you know about the original characters strikes you when you see this movie. You see He-Man and you feel that for sure Dolph Lundgren is a nice selection but when you see him holding a laser gun in his hands and uses a hovercraft to move around, you know for sure that he is not the He-Man you read about in the comic books or admired as a child in the cartoons. No way! And it was a shock for me too. The last thing I expected to see in the motion picture based on He-Man and his world was to see these characters so weirdly dressed, using all kinds of gadgets that best belong to a Star War kind of a movie. There would have been one way of making this movie better. One could change the names of all the characters in the movie. This way, nobody would walk into the movie hall with expectations of this movie being about He-Man. I must confess at this point that I am not a geek in the sense that I have read and seen all there is about He-Man but at the same time I can assure I know enough to conclude that this movie definitely is not a good He-man movie. Well, now forgetting for a while that this movie is not to be judged based on the He-man universe, let us see how it stands out as a movie on its own. The special effects are decent and the story line is just about okay. The characters are not identifiable with and do not come with proper development. They are just there doing their role as the Alpha and the Omega. The story is okay in the sense that there is something in it and not pure action. There is a little plot. But again, it is not much deep. To sum it up, just see this movie once and forget about it. I don't think there is anything in the movie that would make you go back to it and see it again out of admiration. "},{"Title":"Other than the names, it holds very little to the He-Man legend and yet he as a cult feel to it","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I think the biggest problem with Masters of The Universe is not that it is incredible cheesy with a sub par cast, not the best story, and an overall attempt at being serious that comes off laughable...it's the fact that Masters of The Universe strays so incredibly far from it's origins. Masters of The Universe has so little that is actually taken from the original cartoon series, or the action figures for that matter. Sure the names are the same on the lead characters, their world is mentioned, Castle Grayskull is in tact but where does it go from there? There is no battlecat, there is no Prince turning into He-Man in secret, instead the writers and/or film makers chose to take Masters of The Universe in a strange and rather typical eighties way and bring it to earth. Now in some ways this is a cool idea but overall it kind of kills the whole Masters of The Universe idea. Pile on top of that they rip their Eternian minions right out of Star Wars and aren't apologetic about it at all. There are some very good things about Masters of The Universe, part of the reason why it is a cult classic and an absolutely favorite to some.Dolph Lundgren probably actually gives one of his best performances, following Ivan Drago in Rocky IV as He-Man himself. I mean the role is campy as anything but Lundgren is obviously taking it dead serious and that is just fun. I would have loved to have seen him try to the whole dual identity of Prince Adam and He-Man but they scrapped that entirely. Still he looks awesome as the blond hair, muscle rippling hero with the sword. And when he belts out I have the power! well it's just movie magic. Frank Langella probably gives the best performance in the film as the wickedly evil Skeletor. He looks awesome and plays the role brilliantly. Probably one of the more faithful characters carried over from the cartoon series. He isn't used as much as I would have hoped but the final battle between him and He-Man is excellent. Meg Foster is also pretty darn good as Skeletor's right hand woman Evil-Lyn. She looks the part and is really truly a great bad girl nemesis. She isn't used as much as she should be either. Jon Cypher and Chelsea Field are the father/daughter duo Man-At-Arms and Teela ported from the cartoon. They bother look their roles and they do a decent supporting job but they are left as very under developed characters unfortunately. Courteney Cox and Robert Duncan McNeill are the earth couple that get caught in the cross fire of Eternia's inter-dimensional battle. They really get all the focus on their characters and that is really unfortunate. I mean they both are good in their roles but we don't wanna see earth characters we don't know compared to Skeletor and He-Man and all the other amazing characters we grew up with. 80's character actor phenomenon James Tolkan brings his typical role to Masters of The Universe as tough no nonsense cop Detective Lubic. His role is exactly the same as the one that made him famous you're nothing but a slacker McFly. And finally you have Billy Barty playing the little knome like creature Gwildor who is an okay character especially for kids but why in the hell did he not play Orco? WHERE WAS ORCO?!? He was my favorite and would have made this film substantially better!! So we have a strong cast and overall the special effects are actually very good for their time. Plenty of laser fights with the complete Darth Vadar rip off minions, sword battles, flying vehicles, explosions, and a few creatures as well. But imagine the incredible host of strange creatures they could have used from the TV Series. Skunkor, Mer-Man, Buzz Off, and the ones they did use hardly got any screen time like Beast Man and Saurod. First time director Gary Goddard obviously cared very little for the enormous fan base around He-Man and cared very little about re-creating that world in live action because that is still every He-Man fan's fantasy to this day. It is said that star Lundgren worked with Goddard to re-tool some of the action scenes and He-Man's role and in that way he might have saved this from being a complete disaster. Like many 80's films I think this one has a place in many of our hearts and will always be a guilty little classic but as far as bringing He-Man to life you'll only get a smidgen of what could have been done. Rumor has another one in the works, let's hope they do it right. Still see this one for all it's crazy campy glory because it's not the worst thing out there. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Re-vamping my opinion.","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  You'll have to excuse my previous comment for this film, but in my defense, I was rather young. Anyway, to the film.All in all, my opinion of it has improved, possibly down to the fact that I am now aware of the type of budget this film was made on, i.e. $17 million. Now don't get me wrong, I would dearly love to own $17 million, (preferably pounds, but beggars can't be choosers). But for a fantasy film of the Masters of the Universe ilk, this budget falls sadly short, and (in my opinion) is the main reason why this film has been so slated by fans and critics alike (regardless of when the TV series' popularity high point was).Now, I own a copy of a fairly early draft of this script, and as one would expect, there are some rather large differences. This script would call for several large, expensive sets (Eternian at that, therefore probably more expensive), far more special effects, far more gimmicked Eternians (again, some requiring extensive special effect work), and a hike through Eternian rain forests lasting several pages (and presumably requiring expensive location shooting in South America). Obviously, the budget wouldn't stretch to all this, and it had to be hacked down to what we see on our screens today. And believe me, even this script is quite far away from the He-Man cartoon. So if this wasn't feasible, how can we possibly expect a 90 minute live action He-Man film that is DIRECTLY compatible with the TV series to be?To satisfy most fans, I'm assuming that these changes would have been desirable from the finished productFar more of Eternian terrain covered, more of the familiar characters, Prince Adam/He-Man transformation, less time (if not no time at all) spent on Earth, more familiar (and mystical) sets.Well, I'm sure that these all appeared in earlier drafts. However, on a budget of $17 million, realistically these were not possible, especially before the digital revolution. Think about it - it's only recently been attempted to use a completely CGI character as a main part throughout a film (i.e. Scooby Doo). In a Masters of the Universe film, you'd be talking about Cringer, Battle Cat and Orko, to say nothing of the several more incidental characters which would have to fit in this bracket. In the 80s, just not possible. So, how would I personally have changed this film?1) I would have made it NOW, rather than then. After all, He-Man is back on our television screens, and fairly popular. Special effects are more advanced and the money would go further, important on a fantasy film such as this.2) I would have attempted to secure more money. After all, Ghostbusters was made on a budget of $31 million, and that required far less special effects than a more Eternian He-Man film would require.3) Probably wouldn't hurt to have a more experienced actor in the lead role. Dwayne The Rock Johnson (with dyed hair) possibly? After all, he's just about the best action-guy actor out there (assuming I completed point 1).4) ILM for special effects.5) And of course, the film would have made slightly more faithful to the cartoon.However - I'll say one thing right now - Frank Langella as Skeletor would stay! "}{"Title":"Is He-Man back??","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I was 11, I saw this movie the day it came out.  I loved it, butlike a lot of people, I wished they had more scenes on Eternia. And I didn't remember so many lazer guns from the show.  ButHe-Man, Man-at-Arms, Evil Lynn, Beast Man and Skeletor wereperfect!!  They all looked the part amazingly well!  And the music,sets, and special effects are equally great.  And now there's newHe-Man toys, cartoons and comics.  Whether or not He-Manpopularity is as strong as before, I'd love to see another movie. But the funny thing is the theater wouldn't be packed with kids, butwith Generation X'ers like me.   -) "},{"Title":"Hmmm...","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is definitely worth watching if you're a fan of He-Man, Dolph Lundgren, Frank Langella, Star Trek Voyager, or Courtney Cox-Arquette. This movie is, left to itself, destined to obscurity and mediocrity.  Yes, it is mediocre.  It is NOT better than Star Wars, but it is a fun movie.  If you see it in your video store (by some miracle), grab it, watch it, and turn it in covertly so no one will see... You may be glad you saw it.  You may be glad I convinced you not to. "},{"Title":"O.K. I guess","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I used to watch He-Man when I was little, and liked the cartoon. The movie wasn't all that great. It copied of of star wars too much. In the cartoon they didn't have laser guns. But in a way I like this movie, cause I am a big He-Man fan. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes He-Man. Or to anyone who likes science fiction. "},{"Title":"Had potential","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What could have been an excellent transition from TV to the silver screen was ruined by a very bad storyline. It was not the acting that was the problem. I admit it wasn't great but Dolph Lundren and Frank Langella were both good enough for there roles. The only reason why this film failed for me was why the they go to earth. Eternia was so much more interesting than stupid earth and those people that they found were so annoying. I didn't want to see any stupid humans I wanted to see Masters of The Universe characters. Oh well I guess I'll have to be happy with this, even though it had a lot of potential to be something great. "},{"Title":"Better than Star Wars","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have always loved this film and even now i still do. I like the way the made it more grown up and star wars like. That got me thinking i have never saw why everyone liked star wars and think if this was a 6 parter it would of done so much better..... Think about it more Masters, Hordak, even She-Ra. Plus old bone face could take darth any day. Add to that how hot evil Lynn was (and i'm gay) and the fact they had her shape shifting powers. It's a winner do you hear, eh? the alpha and the omega, death and rebirth, and as you die so will i be reborn I know people will disagree but anyone out there with me on this? Whats the goss on the new film? "},{"Title":"Embarrassing and dull","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was dumb as a kid. I swallowed hook, line and sinker whatever evil, exploitative corporate scheme that was designed to capture children's minds and the contents of their parents' wallets. As a consequence, I spent several years of my childhood pestering my folks to buy me worthless chunks of plastic with the Masters of the Universe logo on the packaging. I remember seeing this on VHS as soon as it came out on video, and the one thing I remember about that viewing is that I was disappointed by how unfaithful it was to the original cartoon series. Time passed, I grew up and began spending my money in marginally less useless ways. Then one day I came across the VHS in a flea market.Peter Bagge's excellent Hate comic book series has a character named Jay, who makes his living selling vintage toys and other memorabilia -- stuff that has no value except to people who valued them as children. Jay's motto is the desire to reclaim some dusty, forgotten corner of your childhood can be overwhelming at times (or something to that effect). I always doubted this and considered people who give in to such urges a bit foolish. Well, I'm no longer laughing -- the person laughing now is the guy who managed to flog me the MotU VHS. I recently watched the movie after a sauna and a few drinks. It is a very bad film, of course, I didn't expect anything else, but what I found disappointing was that it wasn't even funny. Mocking this is too easy, it's like making fun of Vanilla Ice or saying that J-Lo and Affleck suck as actors. All I felt while watching the MotU movie, besides boredom, was a vague sense of embarrassment and unease had I really looked forward to this cr*p as a kid? I admit that I probably would have been at least a bit thrilled to see some of my favorite characters from the cartoon and the toy line (Moss Man, Modulok, Two Bad, Stinkor, etc -- the baddies were my favorites). But the MotU movie is just another Star Wars ripoff (while Star Wars, btw, now looks more than ever like just a pale imitation of LotR). Many people praise Langella's performance as Skeletor, and sure, he's a good actor, so what? His role is just ridiculous. I wish I had left this particular dusty, forgotten corner of my childhood unreclaimed.  "},{"Title":"Average Kids Sci-Fi","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Average kids sci-fi movie that needed a bigger budget and a better script/screenplay.The directing was also bad.It is a fun movie to watch if one loves the Sci-fi action B movie genre.Too bad though because this movie has great characters and good story that could have been brought to life better with a quality production.Only for fans of the genre and big fans of the lead actors.....    "},{"Title":"Not so good in heinsight","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsThere was a time,when I was much younger of course,when I thought Masters Of The Universe was probably the best film Dolph Lundgren could possibly make,and enthusiastically added it to my collection of his films,as I've always thought him superior to Jean Claude Van Damme,despite the latter being more succesful in terms of box office take-in.However,having watched it again last night,I now consider it to be a pretty fundamentally empty film.For what's meant to be a sort of children's based Sci-Fi fantasy ,it would have been good for Mr.Lundgren early in his career to have such a film to back up his CV with.But this film only revels in itself to be 'the most violent family film ever made'.With 101 minutes in which to convey itself,I would have thought some new and original magic could be sparked from it.But this film is just a particularly empty,rather soulless mess.The colourful combination of the good guys and bad guys so entertaining to watch in the way superior kid's show is totally absent here.Skeletor,who looks like a skeleton stolen from a science lab throughout,summons a flashy guy with two swords and another guy somewhere in the middle ,but they're about the only two fun bad guys we do see.Frank Langella,reputedly a good actor,opts for heavy handed cynisism instead of quirky wisecrackingness throughout.None of the emotional drama ever works,especially a hop footedly lame sub-plot about the deaths of one of the characters two parents in an airplane crash.Lundgren's uncompetable woodenness squanders any of the chirpy family movie flow throughout,obviously a guy who likes things done his own way too much .Also,the fight scenes are rather unexciting,especially the end showdown.The film just seems dead.There are some things you can guarantee yourself with a Dolph Lundgren movieit's going to be an action film,it's going to have martial arts,it's going to be done by an unheard of company,it's going to be filled with never heard of actors,it'll probably be short,but it is'nt going to be new.Films like this are so frustrating because they have so much potential,but they succomb to the cliches.** "},{"Title":"A flopped franchise exercise.","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of those movie franchises that never quite got off the ground to say the least, and one that many of the cast would  probably like to wipe off their CV.Surprisingly, many of the cast have now gone on to big success in either TV or movies. Courtney Cox is now an international super-star, Robert Duncan McNeill has found success in Star Trek Voyager, and Christina Pickles has now carved out a good career in Friends and with such movies as The Wedding Singer and Romeo & Juliet.This, then is a true example of what struggling actors will do for money and recognition because this movie pays very little attention to the childrens TV series on which it is based, and the result is a laughably dreadful film with little plot and a dreadful script.The only reason to watch this is to view the future stars as they were before they were stars. "},{"Title":"Unfortunately, a disappointment","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I hadn't seen this for 16-17 years and was hoping to be kind to it. I loved the old cartoon and toys when I was a kid, but this movie just does not have what it takes to be good in any way.First of all, the story is terrible. Bringing He-Man to the cheesy 80s United States was a major mistake that could not be overcome. I mean, where's Prince Adam and Eternia? All we ever see of Eternia are 8 guys in bad costumes looking up at a projection of Skeletor on a stage. The plots of the cartoons were actually totally superior (which is sad).Dolph Lungdren is big, but has absolutely no charisma as He-Man. The other characters are simply there for the sake of being there. There is no connection between characters that shows any emotion. Not so ironically the best acting comes from teenager Courtney Cox. She doesn't have good lines, but at least she comes across as sincere, which is a talent of hers.Evil-Lyn and Skeletor's mercenaries are completely wasted. Evil-Lyn does nothing other than continually walking onto scenes leading the drone troops.We don't get to know any of these characters. In one of the many what could have been moments, Evil-Lyn puts an electronic choker around the teen boy's neck. The director stays on a dumb side-angle two shot of the two of them, when a good director at that moment would have gotten close-ups of them or of the device. We could then have seen the fear in the boy's eyes, or the glimmer of evil in Evil-Lyn's. Finally, when we do see a close-up it is way too late to evoke any emotion at all - the moment has passed. I could go on and on about such similar moments, but this is what distinguishes good directors from bad. Do you think Spielberg would have missed that moment?Ultimately, the cheesy 80s decor, weak costumes, and awful opening titles also betray the film. Langella can't even save it with his hamming. It probably shouldn't have been made and came almost two years after He-Man's heyday of 1983-5. The effects were not able to do what was necessary and most of all, there are so many great characters from the toys and cartoons that are absent. Where's Stratos, Ram-Man, Trap-Jaw, Mer-Man, etc.??? Only Beastman, Teela, Man-at-Arms, and Evil-Lyn are here. What's worse is each is wasted. "}{"Title":"They mastered the art of boredom...","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" He-Man travels to earth to retrieve a key which can free the good sorceress who has the power to defeat the unspeakable evils of skelator. Along the way two annoying kids tag along with our heroes for a (boring) match between good and evil. Masters Of The Universe can be seen as two things. 1)It can be seen as how little creativity and life goes into products made for children. 2)It can be seen as a low point for all involved. (Yes even Dolph Lundgren) The special effects are okay but hardly impressive and the bad guys are straight from the Star Wars replicant store. Movies like this live or die by the imagination invested in them, Masters is of course bankrupt in all these essential departments.* out of 4 (Bad) "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This really is awful. I will never get back those 90 mins ever.OK it was released in 1987 so you aren't going to expect lots of modern cgi, but even Star Wars did a far better job 10 years before this monstrosity.Skeletor looks like a wax model that got melted down, his face so obviously a mask and not in the slightest bit scary even when he gets mad. No battlecat, no Oracle, instead he's replaced by a goblin, He-man using a gun, never do we see him as Adam nor do we hear him ever say by the power of Greyskull!The majority of the film takes place in a small-town village in America where the police force doesn't seem to take any notice that there's a war going on in the middle of it. Eternia itself has a mediocre population of 10 people.It's a really poor adaption of the cartoon done on a limited budget. "},{"Title":"Isn't this just Star Wars but with less SFX?","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember watching this movie as a kid, thinking that this was a direct from tv-cartoon to full action movie, and that somehow all the characters from the cartoon would make their way onto this film...how wrong I was. In fact, this seems to be a very good attempt at trying not to be the cartoon and be more like Star Wars...but setting most of it in some American City - with the obligitary cues taken from Star Wars (a la Emperor Marching Music, Black Stormtroopers who can't shoot anything, the mercanaries who aren't any good).I know Masters of the Universe is a very very bad movie. But I actually enjoyed it - until it came to Earth, which was a mistake...mind seeing that scene where Lubic (the bald guy from Top Gun) says Police Freeze, and he gets shot at - is pretty funny.Anyway, I recently saw this, and realised how much cheese this film is...its pure cheesy fun all the way, and although I wish it wouldn't take itself so seriousily, it does - and that seems to hurt the film - and make it less paltable.Lundgren is just Lundgren - waving a sword around, trying to be a hero, but not really doing all that much, except being happy - which I found really strange, I mean Grayskull had been taken over and Skeletor was gonna become Master of the Universe...he should have at least been a bit worried...Man at arms and Teela are okay, but all the credit and power of this film goes to Skeletor.  (He has all the best lines such as I must possess all, or I posses nothing)  He's a lot like the Emperor from Star Wars, but with the venom of Darth Vader.You don't really need to care about the plot, its all fun - even though its kinda painful in some areas.  For example, in the final battle when Skeletor becomes a god - and absorbed the power of the universe he still gets his butt kicked...maybe being a god would matter. He's the BAD guy, Dolph is the GOOD guy - he's good as dead.In fact, the only good sequences are when Skeletor are in them, or when Julie (Courteney Cox) see's her dead mother in the alleyway and gives her a cosmic key...Anyway, enjoy this classic piece of 80s cheese...Overall 5/10. "},{"Title":"Make no mistake, this is a bad movie, but watch it anyway","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I only rated this movie with a 4, but it's a movie that I enjoy watching. It would be a disservice to truly good movies to give this one a higher rating.Having said that, let me say that Masters of the Universe is a fun movie to see.  If you're looking for an accurate live-action version of your beloved He-Man, don't watch Masters of the Universe.  If you're looking for a good sci-fi fantasy movie, don't watch Masters of the Universe.  If you're looking for awesome fight sequences, don't watch Masters of the Universe. But if you're looking for a goofy movie that you can enjoy and to which you can unwind, then Masters of the Universe is what you want.By no stretch of the imagination is this a good movie.  It has a trite plot, terrible acting, and special effects that were bad even for the 80s.  But the folks that made this movie knew they weren't making a Best Picture contender.  It's full of cheese, and like a pizza, that just makes it better.So for your next cheesy film fest, make sure to include Masters of the Universe.  It's perfect for a night of popcorn, pizza, drinks and friends. It probably deserves a 2 or 3, but gets a 4 because the movie does exactly what a movie like this is supposed to entertain and make a few laughs. And after seeing Masters of the Universe, you, too, can say, I HAVE THE POWER! "},{"Title":"MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE (Gary Goddard, 1987) **","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I first watched this one on VHS in the late 1980s&#133;so it's another nostalgic trip down memory lane for me; besides, as a kid I used to love watching the animated series on TV &#150; along with its short-lived predecessor, BLACKSTAR (1981) &#150; and even owned toys of some of the characters! This is a juvenile live-action version and although watchable, it's still among the least adventure epics of its day to begin with, the characters don't look much like their old selves and there's little use of the mythical Greyskull setting or He-Man's trademark I have the power line. Besides, the time-travel convention adopted for the film's main plot feels as ill-advised now as it seemed then, but is more like than not a measure of budgetary constraints on the part of the penny-pinching Cannon Group.Dolph Lundgren is a stolid He-Man; Frank Langella a campy yet unconvincing Skeletor (especially when he exchanges his typical hooded attire in blue for a mask and golden costume); Courteney Cox is the present-day heroine; Billy Barty's Gwildor replaces Orko from the animated series (but, then, there's no sign of Battlecat&#133;or, for that matter, He-Man's mild-mannered alter-ego Adam either!); Meg Foster comes off best as Evil-Lyn, with the good sorceress (who has been turned into an old crone by Skeletor) at the other end of the scale; admittedly, James Tolkan, is quite fun as the tough but bewildered modern-day cop. While there's plenty of mindless (if uninspired) action throughout, Skeletor's army is lazily depicted as a black-clad variant on the 'stormtroopers' from the STAR WARS saga &#150; while his gallery of mutants is, at best, a forgettable lot! Skeletor even re-emerges from his watery grave after the end credits had rolled &#150; thus promising a follow up which, perhaps unsurprisingly, never materialized... "},{"Title":"Oh, what might have been....","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was the premise of a classic toy line and the classic cartoon that emerged from it When the planet Eternia-think a futuristic Camelot-comes under attack by the demon sorcerer Skeletor in an attempt to abscond with the mythical Castle Grayskull and thus conquer the universe, Prince Adam, teenage son of Eternia's King Randor and Queen Marlena, discovers that he has been chosen by destiny to bear Grayskull's power against all who would threaten Eternia's safety. By raising the enchanted Sword of Grayskull aloft and shouting By the Power of Grayskull, Adam is transformed into the superheroic swashbuckler He-Man, and proceeds to do battle with Skeletor...and to try and prove himself to his demanding father.From that premise, Filmation created a terrific cartoon that, even though it had its share of '80s cheese, was rich and complex, deftly mixing Arthurian legend with sci-fi. At its essence, MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE was a coming-of-age story set against a high-tech sword and sorcery backdrop. As such, it had the makings of a great movie. Unfortunately, the low-budget Golan-Globus team (which destroyed SUPERMAN IV) got their hands on it, and we the viewers got cheated. The essence of MOTU was trashed; the Adam/He-Man duality and everything it entailed was tossed away. Several critical characters, like Randor, Marlena, Cringer/Battle Cat (Adam's pet tiger), and the like were ignored. And finally, 90% of the character and set designs immortalized by the toys and cartoon were changed as to be unrecognizable. Only Man-At-Arms, Skeletor, and Skeletor's lover/servant Evil-Lyn emerged on film as being visually recognizable as their cartoon counterparts.So what did we get in return? We got a shameless, low-budget STAR WARS rip-off. Instead of the myriad beasts, demons, and cyborgs that Skeletor employed in the cartoon/toy line, we got three beasts and a bunch of armored stormtroopers. Instead of getting a He-Man who captured the feel of the character, we got a wooden Conan wannabe who relied more on laser guns than on his sword. Instead of a story that spanned Eternia and carried the appropriate sci-fi/fantasy feel of the series, we got a story that took place primarily on Earth, complete with a crabby cop and two ditzy teens. Instead of having a skilled, experienced director at the helm, we got unsteady, pedestrian direction from novice filmmaker Gary Goddard (whose day job was designing amusement parks). Sure, we got some excellent FX work, a great Bill Conti score, and a terrific Castle Grayskull throne room set, but we also got bad costumes, a stupid Grayskull exterior that looks like a pirate ship, a plotless script that's all noise and no depth, substandard fight choreography, and really bad acting. Only Man-At-Arms (Jon Cypher), Skeletor (Frank Langella), and Evil-Lyn (Meg Foster) are well-acted in this film; Langella's theatrical performance in particular is the film's saving grace, and deserved to be in a much better movie. Otherwise everyone else in the cast stinks. Dolph Lundgren is a perfect physical match for He-Man, but the guy can't act and his awkward Swedish accent has been the butt of fan jokes for years. Everyone else is just too vapid, too bland, and just too unsuited for the roles to be any good. This film needed to be a big-budget affair with top-rate actors and a script that followed the cartoon closely, not a STAR WARS wannabe that fails on most levels. THE BEASTMASTER with Marc Singer was far closer to the spirit of MOTU than this film (and Singer's Dar looked and acted far more like He-Man than Lundgren's hero did), and is a vastly superior movie. Pretty sad that the actual MOTU movie didn't even come close to matching that level, isn't it?To be fair, I initially saw this film when I was 9 and enjoyed it, but over time I realized how weak it really was, and how it could have been so much more. While I don't HATE the film, I don't like it too much, either, and it hasn't aged well. This summer, Mattel will relaunch MOTU with a brand-new cartoon series and toy line that retells the story of Prince Adam/He-Man from the beginning. Hopefully, if Hollywood decides to make another go at a He-Man movie, they'll use the cartoon as the baseline and get it right this time. As it stands, the 1987 film is an OK way to kill a few hours, but as a He-Man film and as a fantasy film, it just doesn't cut it. "},{"Title":"Courntney Cox and action figures","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   When watching this movie you have to remember that  1. HE-man action figures were hot items in 1983-86. 2. Remember that there was a successful He-Man and She-ra cartoon series for a few years.  3. but most important remember Courtney Cox was an up and coming actress trying to break into  movies. Frankly, Courtney Cox trying to fight off the villians is the only reason to watch this movie. I quickly got tired of the half-troll elf that was in charge of the Cosmic Key, the sub-par make-up on the villians, and the Cosmic Key being  a ripoff of a musical keyboard.  The last two minutes of the movie has an interesting plot twist involving Courtney. Overall there are only three reasons to see this movie 1.  To see Courtney Cox before she became a TV star  2. To relive 80's toy fads 3. To see hot looking women like Courtney Cox. "},{"Title":"A terrible blow to the legacy of He-Man","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I grew up watch the animated He-Man and the Masters of the Universe cartoons during the 80's, and I was a huge fan. I also loved the 2002 re-birth of the Masters of the Universe series. Heck, I even got a tattoo of He-Man (from the 2002 series) covering most of my back), that is how much a fan I am.But this movie. Wow! It was terrible in so many ways. It should never have been associated with the Masters of the Universe franchise. Not that I got anything against Dolph Lundgren - he have some fairly adequate movies to his name. But this movie was a gloveslap to the face of fans and an insult to He-Man.The movie is not bad in itself, if you distance it from the He-Man story. Had this movie been totally unassociated with Masters of the Universe it would have been acceptable.I remember when I was young and this movie came out, it killed off He-Man for me for a long, long time. But then thankfully I got over the crap that is this movie, and then were blessed when He-Man came back, mightier than ever in 2002.This movie should be watched as a sci-fi adventure movie, and try not to associate it with the Masters of the Universe story. You might just set yourself up for a major disappointment. "},{"Title":"Courtney Cox","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  So Courtney Cox has a role here. That fact upgrades this horrid piece of dung to a 2 out of 10. The whole thing looks as if a couple of high school kids had made it while skipping school. Can you believe they actually made this? Yes, perhaps you can when you see that Golan-Globus were responsible. "},{"Title":"Disrespect to the Cartoon Series","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  May Contain Spoilers This is one of the worse adaptations of a cartoon series by a movie I have ever seen. Hollywood has been known for dropping the ball, when it comes to making movies based on cartoons, comic books, and video games. They seem to always screw up. And this is proof right here. I was a fan of He-Man and She-Ra back in the eighties, and when I heard that there was a movie out that was based on He-Man I was thrilled. When I finally saw the movie, I was highly upset. First of all, Why did they set most of the movie on earth? What about GRAYSKULL dammit! Second, why was Skeletor only in the movie for the first 5 minutes and the last 15 minutes? Third, what did those lame teenage characters have to do with the story?Another complaint is that there wasn't really any sword fighting in the movie. The only sword fighting that took place was between Skeletor and He-man, and that was poorly choreographed. The best part of the movie is the first five minutes. The rest goes down hill. This movie isn't good enough to watch even when there's nothing on T.V. In addition, the characters could of been developed a little bit more. The special effects could of been better too. My other big complaint is Dolph Lungren. He looks the part, but he can't act worth a sh**. He spends most of his time smiling and looking cute in the camera. Hard-rock pecks can only get you so far. When Lungren tries to show some depth, it's just pathetic. Sure, he looks the part but he needs to stick to roles where he hardly speaks and/or just pouts in the camera (Rocky IV and Universal Soldier). Marc Singer, of Beastmaster fame, would have been better for the part. Since, he can act and had a wash board stomach at the time. Yes...his hair is brown but it could of been dyed. Frank Langella was okay as Skeletor for the short time he was in the movie. But he kind of hammed it up. All of the hamm in the world can't save a DOO-DOO script, and this movie has a doo-doo script. Courtney Cox is probably shaking her head in shame at this one. Thank God...they didn't make a movie to the SHE-RA series. Godzilla (1998)was better than this trash. The movie isn't even bad/entertaining (Kull the Conqueror).I give this movie a 2/10, and that's for the first 5 minutes and the brief scenes with Skeletor.  "}{"Title":"What is this??????","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I figured that I should check out this movie when it came on television. I've heard all the terrible stories, so I had to see it for myself.I really wonder why this film got a (at this time) 4.3 average. I think it would fit well in the 250 worst movies of all time chart.If you liked the animated shows in the eighties, stay clear from this one. The plot is ... well ... boring. Grey Skull is captured by Skeletor (who looks awful by the way, they could have done him way better). He-man has to run to fight another day. Through a time and dimensional gate, he lands on earth ... blah blah. The rest isn't even interesting enough to tell.Just stay clear of this film (unless of course, you have to (like me) see for yourself if it's really that bad). I'll give it a 2 out of 10 for effort. "},{"Title":"Shameless Tripe!","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you were going to produce a children's action-fantasy movie would you really risk your money by casting as the lead a man with the charisma of a bag of sugar?Having said that, Dolph even Keanu has a greater screen presence Lundgren does try really hard, and is still miles better than his dreadful co-stars, Frank Langella excepted. Jon Cypher is particularly uninspiring as Man-at-Arms. Maybe they make films like this to take it easy on the Oscar Academy. Based on a popular cartoon series/toy figure range, the film naturally expands its audience by downplaying the more eccentric (expensive?) looking characters (We get Teela but not Orco or Ram-Man, Evil-Lyn but not Triclops or TrapJaw) and setting the vast majority of it on Earth. This cheap scrimping even writes out the popular Battle Cat. New character Gwildor (Billy Barty) has two dual functions - one is as blatant plot device and font of all exposition, the other is to irritate you s***less.Being derived from an already pretty vapid cartoon series, the film even blands it out further, with a mawkish, tritely sentimental end and a predictable plot. It's not her you want, it's me. It's always been between us, says He-Man (Dolph) to Skeletor (Langella) at one point. While 'tor, for his part, wants He-Man kneeling before him with his chest stripped bare. No wonder they're aggressive to one another - it's an unrequited homo scenario going on here.The generic movie takes everything it can from the genre. The opening theme and titles so want to be Superman you almost pity them, while Skeletor's opening march is straight out of Star Wars - and that's just the first five minutes. Only decent moment is a quick blast of Purple Haze, though as it's used as character shorthand to pretend that nerdy Barry Livingstone is a cool heavy metal store owner even that holds little comfort. Look out too for the incessant product placement for Burger King.Although the plot is simple, not to say microscopic, the execution leaves it all a little confused. Combine this with a romantic subplot involving an 80s-style Courtney Cox and some of the most feeble comic setpieces ever laid to celluloid and you're looking pretty grim. Add to this disinterested direction, cheap-looking design and a witless script and what's left is a noisy, worthless (and violent) dirge. Yet it's still better than Power Rangers. Well... just. 3/10. "},{"Title":"I was a kid and obsessed with He-Man, and I still thought it sucked.","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I haven't seen this movie in years, and with good reason.When I was a kid I was OBSESSED with He-Man. yet I still didn't like this movie. That may very well have been the problem; I knew everything that was wrong with it.The only thing they got right were the portals, and those portals were used more often in She-Ra than He-Man. He-Man doesn't transform, Cringer/Battlecat is nowhere to be seen, Orco is nonexistent (instead there's just this hairy dwarf that wasn't in the cartoon). Most of He-Man's friends are gone, except for man-at-arms.Most of the movie is set not in Eternia but on Earth. I suspect this was to save money.Worst of all, Skeletor had lips! His lips actually moved and changed shape as he spoke! Since when does a skull have lips? Skeletor has a skull for a head, everyone knows that. And everyone knows that his jaw just goes up-and-down as he speaks.Again, they decided it would be cheaper to cover a human with make-up then design a working skull for Skeletor. And it's not like it was impossible at the time, there were lots of horror movies made in the 80's, many of them had animatronic skeletons/zombies, or stop motion. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably Stupid, but fun camp nontheless...","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Masters of the Universe is one of those low grade E.T. wannabe 80's kids films like Exlporers that has developed a weirded out cult following over the years.  He-Man has always been something of an enigma, I loved this character when I was a kid, but looking at how cheap and retarded the 80's Filmation cartoon was I can't for the life of me figure out what was going through my head to actually come back for more.I do remember this movie from 1987, and thank God I'm not the only one that remembers a key fact that this movie's release year of 1987 was WELL AFTER the initial He-Man craze of 1982-'85.  That clearly hurt the movie.  If you were some 5 year old back then, you probably didn't care and loved the movie despite it's stupidty just because you were 5.  Those of us that were a bit older remember that by 1987, shows like Knight Rider and A-Team were already canceled and off the air.  And even the Transformers/G.I. Joe weren't very popular, to say nothing of the goofy He-Man cartoon.  I was still very much a child in 1987 at around the age of 11 and 12, so I remember having the kid interest in this film.  But it was also crushed with the newly developed pressure to act cool since I was heading into 7th grade and thus had to leave behind all my elementary school ways.  A cheap ass made for 5 year olds movie like this was dreadful for the image of any pre-teen back then, despite the fact that practically everyone secretly yearned to watch it.The film is packed to the hilt with all kinds of unintentional hilarity, and the campy, gaudy 80's flavor will leave you howling.  Dolph Lundergon looks like he is in a European smut film with that fetishistic gay porno costume of his.  Man at Arms and Teela have respectively cheap looking Halloween rental costumes, but Frank Langella really elevates this movie from bargain basement crap to cult status.  Langella really steals the show as Skeletor, and the makeup is suprisingly effective.  Yes this movie is stupid beyond belief, but it's about He-Man and it's from the 80's.  So give it a chance, I'm 28 years old now and I'll still watch this movie for fun.5/10   "},{"Title":"almost all of you should be ashamed of yourselves...","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  great movie?  excellent?  wonderful acting?  What the heck were you people thinking?  So far, sickink2's comment is the only one that has pegged it dead on the nose (though i'd give only give the movie a 2...maybe a 2 1/2 for some of it's hillarity).  The movie was like a train wreck  it was a horrible thing to watch, but i just couldn't look away.  it should've never scored higher than a 3.5.  and if, god forbid, they make a sequel or remake - do the poor beloved cartoon some justice and stick to it's cast of character's and their struggles.  GEEEEEZZZZ. "},{"Title":"Another low budgeted piece of crap from Golan Globus","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The kings of low budgeted tongue in cheek crap -Golan Globus and director Gary Goddard churn out yet another piece of crap starring Dolph Lungren a few yrs removed from his evil Russian boxer role in Rocky 4 with an even worse accent than AAhnold in the Conan movies. The movie veers away from the cartoon - there is no Prince Adam transforming into He-Man ,no King and Queen and no Orko. All the characters look nothing like their cartoon counterparts , Teela and Man at Arms look straight out of Battlestar Galactica and the Sorceress looks like a cheap made up Statue of Liberty. The bad guys are even worse with Skeletor looking like a kids Halloween costume and the others like Evil Lynn equally as cheap looking. The whole story is pure b/s and typical cornball sappy crap acting with ordinary young humans becoming heroes in an intergalactic battle. Total crap and hopefully they will leave it alone and not make another one. "},{"Title":"Masters of the Universe? They Could Not Even Master This Film.","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Much like the equally anemic The Transformers The Movie, Masters of the Universe is a terrible ploy by high-powered executives to sell more of their product (in this case action toys). Dolph Lundgren (who had a little celebrity after Rocky IV) is He-Man, a mystical warrior in another world who is trying to save his universe from his evil enemies (Frank Langella and Meg Foster). Soon a device is created that Langella wants, but the heroes are able to use it to escape to Earth before he is able to close in. Naturally the planet is strange to them and the magical device has fallen into the hands of humans Courteney Cox and Robert Duncan McNeill. Thus a race starts to get the device back between the good guys and the bad ones. The production values would like to be higher than they are as the film-makers tried to get youngsters in with crazed visual effects that look hopelessly dated. Parents were also suckered in by this mess and the production ended up being a mild success, but not good enough for further installments. Thank goodness for that anyway. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Oh no! Skeletors got stormtroopers!","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Give me a break. I used to watch the old he-man cartoon and I can tell you this, there were no laser guns. This movie takes the general idea of he-man and mixes it with the empire from star wars. This does not work well and will certainly offend fans of the series. That being said the cast is good. Dolph lundgren is probably one of the better choices for he-man at that time. Frank Langella plays skeletor to perfection (even if the makeup is a little obvious) and billy barty is a nice addition to the overall cast. Thanks to the cast the movie would have gotten a 6/10 if not for the absence of ortho. I mean they could have gotten rid of that little troll character and put billy barty in a wizards outfit for crying out loud. Overall, for me it earns a 4/10. "},{"Title":"A pretty poor movie overall.","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  One of my biggest disappointments as far as movies go. Having grown up with He-Man, I watched the film with hope, but, despite not having seen the cartoon for a number of years before I watched this on VHS, I still spotted the gaping holes. No Battle-Cat, no Orko (not that I really missed him - never liked Orko) and since when was He-Man permanently He-Man? What happened to Adam?Dolph Lundgren's He-Man was just perfect as far as physical resemblance goes. Just like Arnie in the Conan movies, you had no trouble believing he was the main character. But unlike Arnie, whose acting weaknesses actually came across as social ineptitude on Conan's part and enhanced the image, Dolph's acting and accent ruined any credulity he had as He-Man.Despite being set on Earth (no budget for Eternia, apparently) the film is saved primarily by James Tolkan's character, Det. Lubic, a cop with an attitude. I ended up watching it more for him than anything else. Basically it's the same character he played in Back to the Future.Billy Barty reprises his village wizard role from Willow here, albeit with more make-up.Interesting to see Robert Duncan McNeill here. He later went on to play Tom Paris in the Voyager series.Apart from the unforgiveable liberties taken with the source material (at least it's not as bad as Dungeons and Dragons!) the film's biggest letdown was Skeletor. Oh. Frank Langella plays the part well enough, but I'm referring to the rubber skull mask he wore. It was just so lame and obvious. And since when did Skeletor have eyeballs anyhow?A pretty poor movie overall and something only the youngest fans will enjoy due to the extreme low budget and lack of understanding of the materiel on the part of the producers, writers and director. "},{"Title":"No respect for the source material","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of the worst big screen adaptations, of an animated series ever! Simply because it showed a total lack of respect for the source material. Masters of the Universe (they couldn't even give it the full title) wasn't set on Earth because the writer was trying to be clever and not give the audience exactly what they expected. It was done simply because they didn't have the budget to create Eternia, so instead of putting the idea to rest, they saw dollar signs and continued regardless.There are so many things about this film that annoy me as a childhood fan of the cartoon. An example being the fact that Skeletor isn't a skeleton-man, he's a man wearing a rubber mask that has an image of a skull on it. What were they thinking? It looks cheap and ultimately insulting.In short, avoid like the plague. If you're feeling nostalgic, get on the internet and hunt around for the original, animated series on DVD. "}{"Title":"On of the worst movies of all time","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw Masters Of the Universe on of our local TV-stations in 2002, and boy this movie was of such poor quality, that I laughed so much it almost made me cry.The low quality and bad acting in this movie are in my opinion the result of this being a low budget movie.In a way this movie reminds me of Hercules in New York (1970) starring Arnold Schwarzenegger. Both gave me a good laugh.If You are interesting in a laugh I recommend You go rent Masters of the Universe.Fred "},{"Title":"If you grew up with the cartoon, then you'll hate this.","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Okay, what's wrong with Masters Of the Universe, let's start with the title. MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE when it's HE-MAN AND THE MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE. That's one, two He-Man and Skeletor's outfit are all wrong. He-Man wasn't born He-Man, it's a super hero name, his parents didn't look at him and said, Let's call him He-Man. No, that didn't happened. He-Man's secret identity is Prince Adam of the city Etnernia. Secondly, Skeletor has no lips, they could have passed on the star power considering you have no idea who it is behind the make-up. Next, this was based on a cartoon and it's way too violent for He-Man, he doesn't go around killing people. The two things they got right, Man-At-Arms was pretty good and so was Evil-Lyn. The next thing they did wrong is were is Battle Cat, they could have made it a puppet. But no, they didn't have the nerve to dye a tiger. With the right company of dye wouldn't hurt the tiger. The sorceress transforms into Zoar the Falcon, no crystals. What happens when you base something on another popular media and take liberties, you get a huge steaming pile of crap that isn't fit to watch. If you grew up with Masters of the Universe, avoid this movie. THE RASBERRY. "}]