[{"Title":"Easily the best of the sequels","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"42 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Dream Warriors is without a doubt the best Elm Street sequel. The first 2 dealt with just one main character against Freddy and everyone else thinking they're crazy. But of course, after a while people start realizing they're all dreaming about Freddy. And If he can use their dreams against them, they can also use their dreams against him. Brilliant!This is where the deaths became more elaborate and Freddy started to spout out catchy one-liners. A lot of people resent this film for starting the whole 'joker Freddy' trend, but this has just the right amount of Freddy wit to still have him be scary and threatening, which really he is.This is the most exciting, thrilling, imaginative Freddy movie of the bunch. You have to see it to believe it.My Rating 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Another bunch of kids try to stop Freddy.","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"41 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nightmare on Elm Street 3 (1987) was the third film in the Freddy Krueger series.  This time around a hospital ward full of disturbed teenagers are the latest target for Freddy Krueger.  Thanks in large part because the kids can't stop dreaming about the world's most famous serial killer/ child molester turned supernatural monster.  Everyone should know by now  that he likes to feed off the fear of the wee ones.  Now with more people to add to his collection,  Freddy decides to play ten little indians with the lot of them.  That is until his old nemesis Nancy comes back into town to help the kids fight him off  and end the nightmare.  Will Nancy and the kids be able to defeat Freddy for good?  Find out because this one's too good to  pass up. Not as complex as the last film but highly entertaining.  This is the film that has Freddy morphing into his one-liner  spewing act that has made him insanely popular.  Fun stuff.Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but better than the 2nd","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"49 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors is the third installment of the Nightmare on Elm Street series. It's actually one of the better sequels that I enjoyed. I was lucky enough to get the Nightmare on Elm Street series boxed DVD set for my birthday. So I've now seen all the sequels and A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors is a decent sequel. Not to mention it was pretty cool to see Patricia Arquette's first big role, I can't believe a lot of these movies how many stars started out in this series. It was also a nice touch that they had Nancy back for this film. The deaths are gory and Freddy is back and meaner than ever! This time he's after the kids in the mental institution and he's not going to go easy on them at all.Nancy has now grown up and she's become a therapist for dreams, she starts her work at the mental institution where she meets Kirsten, a girl who has the power to pull other people into her dreams. Kirsten is a bit scared of her powers though and knows that Freddy wants to use her so he could pretty much squish several bugs with one stomp. But Nancy knows that Freddy is up to his old ways and wants to help Kirsten along with the other teenagers at the hospital that Freddy is after, but hopefully she can do it before it's too late.A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors has one of my favorite nightmare sequences. I loved the puppet on the strings, only, well, I won't spoil it, you're going to have to trust me when I say that this was a very cool death scene. This is a must see for the Nightmare on Elm Street fans of course, but even you're just looking for a good scare, I promise you that you'll get a few chills from watching this nightmare. Freddy isn't going light when it comes to scaring these kids... to death.7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the better 'ELM STREET' films in the series!","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I've been a fan of Chuck Russell's films ever since his 1994 classic THE MASK. Each one of his movies have a strong amount of slickness and energy, especially A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 3 DREAM WARRIORS. It's one of the better 'ELM STREET' films in the series and was one of the cinematic highlights of 1987. Like THE LOST BOYS, which was also released in 1987, it has style, imagination, a good premise, and gore. It does have a few faults though. Some of the special effects are dated and look quite cheesy and the flick seems to rely more on blood than genuine scares at times. Also, while by no means terrible, Heather Langenkamp's performance is not quite up to par with her performance in the first 'ELM STREET' and NEW NIGHTMARE. Occasionally it feels like she's phoning it in. These faults don't hurt the movie too much. It's still a enjoyable horror picture that holds up relatively well today. It may not be as good as the first A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET, but it's much better than most third installments are. I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Hands-down, the best Elm Street sequel!!","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Outstanding third entry in the Elm Street movies is definitely the best of the sequels and well lives up to the excitement of the original film.Nancy is now a psychiatrist who must help some troubled youths that are in danger of being sliced by murderous Freddy!It's not surprising that this sequel was written by 'Elm Street creator Wes Craven, who chose to leave the directing to Chuck Russell for this movie. Nightmare on Elm Street 3 is a fasted-paced, cleverly written horror fantasy that's the most entertaining of the Elm Street follow-ups. The movie plays out as a gripping thrill ride that's both chilling and darkly funny. There's a number of smart twists thrown in as well. 'Elm Street 3 also has the most dazzling and impressive special FX of the series, as well as some of the greatest nightmare and murder sequences. The marionette sequence with Bradly Gregg is a big favorite. The direction of Chuck Russell is slick indeed, delivering plenty of atmospheric darkness and energetic action. Even the maze-like sets are impressive. Charles Bernstein's Elm Street theme music is used once more. In addition there's also an awesome title rock anthem by the group Dokken.Another high point in the film is the cast. Heather Langenkamp reprises her role well, as does John Saxon who appears once again as Langenkamp's father. Craig Wasson is a good hero as a doctor attempting to help the teenagers. Patricia Arquette, Ken Sagoes, Jennifer Rubin, Bradly Gregg, and Rodney Eastman all make for solid teenage characters. Of course Robert Englund is back as Freddy, who has a bit more of a cheeky sense of humor this time around.One couldn't ask for a better Elm Street sequel than this one. It's a fun ride all the way for fans and is one of the best horror-fantasy films out there. Check it out.Followed by a number of inferior sequels.*** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Maybe even better that the original","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This part is more entertaining that the original. I always watch slasher movies only for entertainment, I don't care much about a dialogs (Psycho would be an exception, the dialogs was the best thing in it) or acting, all I want to see is some entertaining, sometimes funny looking graphic murder scenes and this movie has it. My favorite was TV room scene. I also find this movie being really creepy sometimes, what is not usual for slasher films, like that scene where Freddy made one of the kids fall from a window, the whole scene was kinda creepy. The plot was great, I liked the idea that this movie is set on mental hospital, that made this movie even more creepy. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Sequel","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When the teenager Kristen Parker (Patricia Arquette) has nightmares with Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund), he cuts her wrist and her mother Elaine Parker (Brooke Bundy) believes her daughter wants to commit suicide. Elaine interns Kristen in an institution for therapy with teenagers with dream disorder, where she meets other youngsters having trouble with Freddy Krueger under the treatment of Dr. Elizabeth Simms (Priscilla Pointer) and Dr. Neil Gordon (Craig Wasson). When the intern of dream therapy Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) arrives in the hospital, she discovers that Kristen has the ability to draw other people to her dreams, and she convinces Dr. Gordon that Freddy Kruger does exist and needs to be destroyed. Nancy uses Kristen and the other teenagers together in a group session to join forces against and destroy Freddy Krueger in their common nightmare. Meanwhile Dr. Gordon meets Sister Mary Helena (Nan Martin) that tells him who is Freddy Krueger and how to destroy the evil character forever.A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors is my favorite sequel of Freddy Krueger's franchise. Written by Wes Craven and with the return of Nancy Thompson, the story explains how the evil Freddy Krueger was generated. This movie is also the debut of the gorgeous Patricia Arquette and Jennifer Rubin. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) A Hora do Pesadelo 3 Os Guerreiros dos Sonhos (The Hour of the Nightmare 3 The Warriors of the Dreams) "},{"Title":"The most satisfying sequel of the franchise!","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"20 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Six Years has passed since the events of the first movie, a beautiful blonde girl named Kirsten (Patrica Arquette) had a nightmare involving Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) which almost leads her to suicide as she ends up in a psychiatric ward with the other kids of Elm Street named Joey (Rodney Eastman), Taryn (Jennifer Rubin), Philip (Bradley Gregg), Jennifer (Penelope Sudrow), Will (Ira Heiden) and Kincaid (Ken Sagoes). However Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) who survived the original massacre now works as a psychiatrist who helps with patients who have dream problems and she's joined by Dr. Neil Goldman (Craig Wasson). However some of the patients seem to dream about Freddy as some of them get killed one by one, only Nancy has the answers as she wants some of those patients to join with her to battle against this evil cretin once and for all.The best sequel of the series! after the very disappointing and yet homoerotic Freddy's Revenge, New Line Cinema decided to hire Wes Craven back as he co-write a script with future Shawshank Redemption and Green Mile director Frank Darabont to ignore the events of part 2 and continue off the first one. Chuck Russell makes his debut for this one as it lead him to make The Blob in 1988 and The Mask in 1994, this installment delivers all the goods that a fanboy and fangirl can enjoy. The film co-stars Laurence Fishburne and John Saxton with appearances by Dick Cavett and Zsa Zsa Gabor, this horror fantasy thriller has good scares and some gory violence abound. The special effects even for it's day are just incredible like the Freddy Snake critter and the acting is superb, this movie made Freddy more popular thanks to witty one-liners and a dark sense of humor. Greg Cannom and Kevin Yagher did a nice job on the make-up and gore effects for this production, the film also gives us a nice look into the mythology of Nightmare on Elm Street with some nice twists and turns even by the ending.This is one sequel that still holds up and rocks! i highly recommend it.P.S. The Dream Warriors rock song by Dokken rules! "},{"Title":"To be honestly accurate this is not a movie about dream warriors, though it has some warrior wannabes in it.","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Before I saw this movie, I already had the notion it is considered by many as the best sequel on the Nightmare on Elm Street franchise. So I rented it, not only because I like the concept of the NOES movies, but also to see for myself what is this movie all about.And boy, was I disappointed...It has been many years since the movie was made, so I managed to be condescending even though I believe good movies survive time.This time, and for a change we have a multi-plot storyline, where we have three main characters able to throw the story ahead, but the really one that matters, because he is the one who really solves the movie throughout is the one that never seems to interest the viewers. I'm talking of Neil Gordon (Craig Wasson), the doctor who the mysterious Nun (Krueger's mother) talks to and finally destroys Freddy Krueger's body in the end. All the rest of the characters are used to distract the audience from this story. And that's sad, because the warrior background is good material. If it's Neil who finds out how to kill Freddy and if it's him who really does it at the end, what's the importance of the other characters if not only to feed up opportunities for gore moments? Even though it never really goes anywhere with it, Nightmare 3 has a good storyline, if we stick with the wrong idea that this is really about kids who face Freddy Krueger through their powers in dreams.But if we -again - are accurate onwards the story we understand that when the characters finally know their point in the story (to confront Freddy using their powers connected as a group, to survive) and they jump into the dream to do as they think it's best, they die. They only use their powers once and lose. The first time, the wizard kid uses his powers, he dies, the first time the drug addict girl uses hers, she dies too and the others never fully use theirs against Freddy. Only Patricia Arquette completely uses her kick-boxing features at Freddy only to fall to the ground easy and if it isn't for Neil Gordon's help, they would all die.What irritates me is not the fact that the characters fail miserably when put face to face with Freddy, but the fact that this is supposed - as the title indicates - to be a story about dream warriors, so at least they could give a bit of a fight and show at least once a cohesion as a group. It never happens. So, the best idea of the movie is wasted completely upon his failure to deliver what it promises.Another annoying thing is how shallow Nancy's character has become. She seems like a doll, acting almost without expression as if she was an angel. And in fact her role is not that important in the movie if we watch it as a whole. If there was no Nancy in there, the story would go exactly where it goes, only with the five special warrior kids. So why bring back such a rich character if not to make her unforgettable in her final goodbye to the saga? The only thing she's useful for is to stall Freddy Krueger while Dr. Neil Gordon destroys the skeleton.Oh, and more... What about the rules on Nightmare movies? If there's one thing that I think about movies is that if they create rules, they can't bend them willingly without explanation. Since the first movie, the basic rule is Freddy Krueger exists only in the dreams of people, nothing more and he only has powers within that world. So how the hell can he make his skeleton come back to life if that scene doesn't take place in the dream world? Where's the explanation for that? It's lame that they never give it. They could use the whole skeleton idea which is very good in fact, but at least they could explain how it is Freddy has powers over his real-life skeleton.OK, people can refute me, try to talk back and say that this was a b movie, so it's normal that there are flaws, but I cannot accept that as an excuse. As a spectator, I want to watch a movie regardless if they spent a zillions more or not on the script or effects. It has to be logical. Especially when all of the flaws that I pointed out are storyline mistakes, and a screenwriter takes the same money if he writes good or not.But this is movie with good moments too, so it's not all about negative things for me, it has great special effects and creepy atmosphere when we are in the dream sequences. Everything within the special effects in the movie is kind of mind-blowing and overall that's what stands off in the movie (the marionette sequence, the TV eating the star wannabe or the curious penis-like Freddy Krueger eating up Patricia Arquette).This movie could have been much better if it was told with fewer characters, and that is to me, what cripples this movie. There was no need for Dr. Neil's character, Nancy could fill up his role and be more active on the storyline with no harm done to the story. And I would like pretty much to see the whole group of dream warriors fighting together as a group, and not only the small showoff scene when they go and save the mute captive. But enough is enough, for this movie stands off as a sequel better than others did (Friday The 13th, Chucky, Scream) and managing not to be a terrible movie, this Nightmare sequel has style and creativity. And that has to mean something. "},{"Title":"The bastard son of a 100 maniacs.","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nancy Thompson, survivor of the Elm Street murders is a psychiatrist brought in to help troubled kids at Westin Hills Psychiatric Hospital. All of these teens have one thing in common, their dreams are being invaded by someone Nancy knows only too well, Freddy Krueger.After the abomination bore that was A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge, New Line Cinema set about making a better and more truer sequel to 1984's excellent A Nightmare on Elm Street. Recalling series creator Wes Craven, who had bailed after the first film claiming he didn't want a franchise born, and installing the first film's scream queen Heather Langenkamp in a more mature role, New Line meant business. With more budget to hand and Craven aided in the writing by Frank Darabont, Chuck Russell and Bruce Wagner, the end result is arguably the best sequel of what was to become a money spinning franchise.With a sharp elaborate story focusing on troubled kids, and dealing in themes such as teen suicide, heroin addiction and dream suppressant drugs, all that was needed was authentic location work and the skill to formulate horror sequences worthy of the name. Thankfuly we get both. Some of the disturbing and gruesome methods used by Freddy as he cruelly goes about offing the last of the Elm Street children, are some of the series best. Puppetry, TV and needle point rushes are just a few on offer, while a skeleton sequence harks to the work of one Ray Harryhausen. There's even a nice plot thread involving a nun that puts a bit more meat on Freddie's troubling back story.But some problems do harm the film. Heather Langenkamp, bless her, was suitably cast in the first film, here she is not. Badly out of sorts trying to convince everyone she's a mature psychiatrist, she's even out acted by the almost worse Craig Wasson as Neil Gordon. One glance at the subsequent post Elm Street 3 career of Langenkamp sadly speaks volumes. She isn't helped tho by the exuberance of the young and upcoming cast around her, led by pivotal Patricia Arquette as Kristen Parker and boasting cool in the form of Bradley Gregg's sleep walker, Phillip. It's with the youngsters that Elm Street 3 is ultimately remembered for, well that and the ingenious ways Krueger tries to off them of course. Laurence Fishburne is also in it but is underused as Max, a hospital orderly with a heart.This was the last time that an Elm Street movie had some nous about it. Before Krueger became a caricature of a caricature, where a quip became more important than an effective, and intelligently constructed kill. Craven wanted out, but after making a $40 million domestic profit on part 3, it opened up scope for further ventures. Ventures that sadly took the franchise, and its main character down hill fast. 7/10 "}{"Title":"This sequel seems to be less darker than the original and the 1985 sequel but it's extremely well made sequel that made Freddy a star.","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When a terrified teen named Kristen (Patricia Arquette) is been stalked by a killer in her dreams by the name of Freddy (Robert Englund). When she wakes up, without knowing that she slits her wrist. She been sent to a mental hospital for troubled teens. When a new young psychiatrist specializing in Dream Thearpy is by the name of Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp). When Nancy finds out that Freddy stills haunt the frighten teens and knowing what Kristen is talking about. Most of the teens are now dreaming about the killer in their sleep. Nancy and Dr. Neil Gordon (Craig Wasson) are helping the teens to fight Freddy back with their dream powers and their help.Directed by Chuck Russell (The Blob-1988, Eraser, The Mask) made an excellent scary sequel, which is closer to the spirit of the original Nightmare. This film has excellent visual effects are the highlight of this one, which is done by Oscar-Winning effects house Dream Quest Images (The Abyss, The Crow, Total Recall). This movie has good clever plot twists and it has the best cast from the series, includingJennifer Rubin (Screamers), Bradley Gregg (Fire in the Sky), Rodney Eastman (The Caveman's Valentine), Laurence Fishburne (The Matrix Trilogy), John Saxon (Enter the Dragon) and Priscilla Pointer (Carrie).DVD has an strong anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (also in Pan & Scan) and an excellent digitally remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD also has the original theatrical trailer, Jump to a Nightmare Opinion and Cast & Crew information. On the Elm Street Series Box Set in the eighth disc. The DVD has interviews with the Cast & Crew, a Music Video and Bits moments from MTV with Englund's appearance as Freddy.This was a much bigger hit than the previous two Elm Street films. This film has amusing cameos by Dick Cavett and Sza Sza Gabor, who play themselves on Television in a memorable scene. Englund as Freddy has some amusing memorable one-liners. Written by Wes Craven (The Hills Have Eyes, The Last House on the Left, Shocker), Frank Darabont (The Green Mile, The Majestic, The Shawshank Redemption), directorRussell and Bruce Wagner (I'm Losing You). From a Story by Craven and Wagner. Do not miss this imaginatively directed flick. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"An Excellent Sequel And One Of The Best Films in The Elm Street Series.","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare On Elm Street 3Dream Warriors is easily one of the best films in the Elm Street series,an excellent sequel that's filled with wonderful,atmospheric direction,great characters,haunting imagery and great special effects. It's not only one of my favorites in Elm Street series and one of my favorite Horror movie sequels,but one of my favorite sequels in general.Set six years after the first film,Dream Warriors tells the story about a group of troubled teenagers who are patients at psychiatric hospital who are all having nightmares and are being stalked by dream demon Freddy Krueger(Robert England). Now with the help of Nancy Thompson(Heather Langenkamp,survivor of the first film)and Dr. Neil Gordon(Craig Wasson)the teens are going to figure out how to stop Freddy and get rid of him once and for all.I think one of the reasons Dream Warriors is an excellent sequel is because this takes the concept of Wes Craven's(who co-wrote the script for this film)brilliant,groundbreaking first film and takes a step further with this film. Instead of having Freddy come into your dreams and your nightmares and killing you,DW has Freddy going into teenagers dream worlds and nightmares and taking the things that teenagers like or dislike and turning it against them. It's a scary concept for this film because it makes Freddy more powerful not just from a physical advantage,but a mental advantage. The Nightmare and dream sequences are effective,dark and imaginative and will have you on the edge of your seat with lots of tension and suspense that is like a tightrope and you will feel like you are inside the nightmares and dreams and you want to wake up. The first 10-15 minutes of the film set the tone for the rest of the film,showing viewers a world where teenage suicide is just a normal occurrence and happens all the time. It was pretty daring for a film to take on such a taboo subject like suicide during the 80s(remember this was 2 years before Heathers hilariously tackled the subject of suicide)and I think that's one of the things,along with the dream sequences that add to the dark and Gothic tone of the film and make the film bleaker than it is. The characters in the film are well-developed and likable and when things start to go wrong you will feel sympathy for them and root for them as the film goes on. One of the things that I've always liked about the Elm Street films and what sets them apart from other slasher films is that the characters are not just faceless victims waiting to be killed or slaughtered,but are well-developed characters that viewers can relate to and identify with and this film is no exception. The Action and violence in the film is well-done and fits the tone of this film and while the film is not as completely bloody or gory as the first two films DW has a few moments of blood and gore. The character Freddy Krueger is creepy in this film and spits out darkly funny one-liners something which has divided Horror fans for years as many have said that the film made Freddy from a scary villain to comical one I say yes and no to that. Yes because the later films made him less scarier and more of a comedian and the star of the films no because many fans seem to forget that Freddy had always had a twisted since of humor especially in the first two films that is often overlooked because Freddy was always in the shadows and dark. Freddy's an excellent character and has never been a silent slasher movie villain and the character had to evolve and do more things otherwise the series would've never gone on. I can understand most fans complaints about the Freddy character,but maybe because of his personality and one-liners Freddy's one of my favorite movie characters. The ending of the film will shock and surprise viewers because it's a twist that you will not see coming or expect and is one of the things that adds to the greatness of the film.The whole cast is great in their roles. Heather Langenkamp does a wonderful job as Nancy who returns from the first film to help the teenagers fight Freddy. Craig Wasson does a great job as Dr. Neil Gordan,the doctor who cares about his patients and Wasson has a great chemistry with Langenkamp. Patrica Arquette(in her film debut)is excellent as Kristen,a girl who has a powerful gift. Robert Englund is scary and menacing as Freddy,while saying great one-liners. Laurence Fishburne does a wonderful job as Max an orderly who cares for the patients. Jennifer Ruben does a good job as Taryn,a recovering drug addict who is tough. Ken Sagoes is great as the short-tempered,but sympathetic Kincaid. Nan Martin is creepy as the mysterious nun Sister Mary Helena. John Saxon returns from the first film as Donald Thompson and gives a good performance. Ira Helden does a fine job as Will. Rodney Eastman gives a good performance as Joey,a teen who doesn't talk. Bradley Gregg(Phillip),Penelope Sudrow(Jennifer),Prisilla Pointer(Dr. Simms)and Brooke Bundy(Elaine Parker)give good performances as well. Also lookout for cameos from Dick Cavett and Zsa Zsa Gabor.The direction from Chuck Russell is great,with Russell effective and dark atmosphere giving the film a sense of dread and energy. Great direction.The score by Angelo Badalamenti is creepy and scary and fits with the film's dark tone. Great score. The film also has great songs from Dokken including the great title track Dream Warriors and Into The Fire. Great songs.The special effects in the film are amazing especially with the Freddy make-up and the special effects hold up well.In final word,if you love Horror films or the Nightmare On Elm Street films I highly suggest you see A Nightmare On Elm Street 3Dream Warriors a great Horror film that is one of best films in the series. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"One of the better sequels","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors (thankfully) ignores part 2 and picks up after the events of the first film. Nancy Thompson is now a psychiatrist at a hospital for disturbed children. She ends up discovering that all of the children in her care are not suicidal, but were attacked by Freddy Krueger because they are the last children of the lynch mob that killed him. Nancy ends up teaching the children that they can fight Freddy, because in your dreams you can do what you want. The children form a small army, calling themselves the Dream Warriors, and set out to take Freddy on. This isn't a perfect movie, but it is much better than the terrible part 2.Due to the return of characters Nancy Thompson and her cop father Donald, who is now an alcoholic after the events of the first film, this movie makes a return to what the first movie was all about. The mood and the creepiness return, and Robert Englund plays Freddy the way he's supposed to be played...As a wise cracking maniac. The movie is generally creepy throughout, but unfortunately toward the end it gets a bit silly. The children become kind of like superheroes in their dreams to fight Freddy, and it gets a bit goofy, especially when one of them becomes the Wizard Master and starts pulling some Dungeons and Dragons crap of Freddy. Another silly scene is when Lt. Thompson digs up Freddy's skeleton and it climbs out and starts fighting with him.The acting in this movie is pretty good. Heather Lengenkamp, John Saxon, and Robert Englund are just as good as in the first movie, and newcomer Patricia Arquette is very good. Also look for a young Laurence Fishburne as a hospital orderly.Overall, this is one of the more entertaining Nightmare films, and should be watched by fans of the series.6/10 "},{"Title":"Have you ever thought about using special powers in your nightmare?","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** THE BEST FREDDY KRUEGER FILM!.A Nightmare On Elm Street 3  The Dream Warriors apart from being the best film in the ANOES franchise, it's one of the best horror movies of the 80's. Seriously, for a 3rd. insalment this movie is very good. Also, it had the big responsability of returning the originality and quality factor the series after the mid success of part 2. Part 1 is a horror classic, it's almost perfect and that  means big problems when it's intended to create a franchise because it's very hard to match the opera prima. Part 2 did quietly good but never stood a chance compared to the original. The Dream Warriors was produced with the intention to capitalize the Freddy Krueger phenomenom of the 80's. The film created a strong image for Krueger and gained him a place in the horror icons haven.The good things about THE DREAM WARRIORS1. Likeable characters with a developed story. Probably the best character development in the series. You can say that you feel sympathy for the children. The actors did a great job by giving life to disturbed children that were afraid for falling asleep, in concrete, they were hugely threatened and scared of Fred Krueger. You feel sorry when one of the dies, it's like you are part of their group. Join Kincaid, Taryn, Brian, Joey, Jennifer, and Kirsten for the ultimate fight between the Elm Street children and Krueger. Kirsten Parker is this time's heroine, she'll be Freddy's deadliest enemy and the key to discover where to attack him in order to defeat him. I want to add that the acting is top notch for the series. I mean, Patricia Arquette, John Saxon, Heather Langerkamp, Laurence Fishburne, Craig Watson, Ken Sagoes, and of course Robert Englund deliver great performances, the best cast in the series.*SPOILERS* 2. A great story. Frank Darabont (which years later was involved in the 94's masterpiece The Shawshank Redemption), and Wes Craven created the PERFECT ANOES script. The best, hands down. Have you ever thought what would be your special powers in your dreams? In this movie these thoughts materialize and you feel related to them. Having powers in your nightmares now it's a more serious issue and it's well treated in the movie. The children know that everytime they sleep their life is in risk, so that means they have to fight for their life using their abilities. Freddy is back and he has to eliminated the last Elm Street children. Freddy attacks them in their dreams, that hasn't changed but now these children are internated in the Westin Hills hospital. The children receive medical attention in order to stop their nightmares and conduct disorders. The doctors don't believe their stories about this skin burned man with a hat, and they attribute their dream problems to a massive psycosis. The Dr. in charge, Neil Gordon    aided by Nancy Thompson believe the children's story and research about Freddy Krueger. Kristen Parker is now Freddy's new victim. Kristen has the special ability to call people for help in her nightmares. This ability is the way to end for once and all with Krueger. Dr. Gordon and Nancy use Kristen's ability to fight Krueger; the children, and Nancy against him in the same nightmare.At the end who will survive? How will they use their special powers against Freddy?The return of the favorite ANOES character, Nancy Thompson was a great addition to the film. Nancy is the first person to ever defeat Krueger and this time she won't be alone. Nancy encourages the Dream Warriors to don't fear Freddy and stay alive. Also, bringing Freddy's mother to the story was a nice and scary element at the same time. Mother Mary Helen is a dark character in the series, and surely plays an important part in this film as she's the key to defeat Freddy. This time Freddy Krueger is not as mean as in the original, but still he knows how to scare and impose his presence. Krueger has gained more abilities and this time he's stronger than ever! That means a difficult job for the Dream Warriors.3. The direction/Score/F/X Visually THE DREAM WARRIORS is perfect for being a horror film. Chuck Russell's direction in no way  matches or is better than Craven's but still it's fantastic, he gave it a fantasy and sci-fi touch to this horror feature. The F/X are great! The puppet death, Jennifer's death, and Freddy's demise are the best scenes where the F/X were needed. The Krueger make-up is decent, but not the best. The score is great, mixing 80's metal pop tracks with the characteristic ANOES themes. It's the perfect soundtrack in a horror movie, a mix between scary themes and rock 'n roll.4. The best scenes... The puppet death, Freddy's demise, when Kincaid, Joey, Alice, and Nancy escape from Krueger; overall all the deaths. The ending is chilling and in my opinion, is the best in the series. *END OF SPOILERS*Overall this is a great horror film, you can't ask for something better. It's not HALLOWEEN, THE TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE, EVIL DEAD, or THE EXORCIST, but still THE DREAM WARRIORS matches the fun factor and the quality.I'd say that this is the best in the series without a doubt.This film inspired in great amount the script, and settings used in FREDDY VS JASON.Watch this film even if you're not a fan of the ANOES series, watch if you are hungry of a good horror film with some dips of sci-fi.Very recommended, 8/10. 10/10 IN THE ANOES SCALE. "},{"Title":"A quote from Poe?","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Very stylish and very eighties and all, and one thing that people usually remember is the famous quote about the little slices of death in the beginning. But guess what? It is most likely NOT from Edgar Allan Poe.If you don't believe me, check this out http//www.bartleby.com/66/90/46190.htmlAnd check this out http//www.online-literature.com/forums/showthread.php?t=808And this http//answers.google.com/answers/threadview?id=273825Interesting, isn't it? However, this is one of my favorites from this era and anyone who wants to pick up the style and pace of this decade and be entertained at the same time, this is your choice.And don't forget the first one.Sweet dreams, everyone.... "},{"Title":"good recovery after inferior second movie","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's six years after the original movie. Kristen Parker (Patricia Arquette) has been having awful dreams about Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund). Her mom thinks she attempted suicide and sends her to the Westin Hills Psychiatric Hospital. Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) is the new intern at the hospital. Neil Gordon (Craig Wasson) is the doctor in charge of the kids. The kids all dream about Freddy Krueger and Kristen has the ability to pull others into her dream. Laurence Fishburne has a smaller role as an orderly.The franchise is revived after the inferior second movie. Nancy is back and so is Wes Craven. The kids are interesting and so are the kills. There is actually a plot. Patricia Arquette has a nice central role. The pacing is a bit slow at times and the production is still a bit lower grade. Nevertheless, it is really nice to have Nancy there to tie it back to the original. "},{"Title":"One of the Better Horror Sequels Ever Made","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" With a somewhat intelligent plot, some amazing special effects, its own theme song, and some good actors, Dream Warriors sees the remaining kids of Elm Street banding together in a hospital setting to battle and defeat Freddy Kreuger. This movie is barely horror, more like an action/thriller. It focuses a lot more on the human characters working to defeat Freddy rather than Freddy stalking the protagonist. So as a film, it feels solid even outside of a slasher series (which I barely want to call this film. It may have the villain of a slasher, but it's like saying Hellraiser is a slasher film...it's hard to justify when there's an insistence not on murder in mundane settings but special effects and plot).There are some great, cheesy special effects that really help add a creepy air to the film.If you haven't checked this one out yet, I'd suggest you do, even if you're not into slasher films or horror movies the effects and horror won't be quite as effective to a modern audience and serves much better as entertainment. "},{"Title":"An excellent third entry in the franchise and a lot better than Freddy's Revenge","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Wow. Just... wow. I can't believe that I became blown away by this sequel. I mean, it's as solid as the first Nightmare and it's an improvement over the second entry. It may feel a little dated to others, but fans would want to watch this over and over again. It is that good.The story is great and doesn't destroy the continuity of the original film with a solid idea about a girl bringing people to their dreams. The direction from Chuck Russell is great; the writing is great and the comedy is well-done. The music score is superb and the theme song Dream Warriors from Dokken is great to listen to, but the best part is the cast with their excellent performances and the make-up of Freddy is great.Overall, A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors ranks with the first as the best of the series. Go watch it! It's that good! "},{"Title":"My favorite Freddy film!","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Kristen Parker (Patricia Arquette) is a troubled teen whose dreams are haunted by the evil Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund), the ghost of a serial killer who was burned to death by the angry parents of his young victims. If Freddy kills someone in their dreams, they die in real life. After several of these horrific nightmares, Kristen is taken to a local mental hospital where she meets other teens who are tormented by Freddy at night when they go to sleep. Among these troubled young men and women are Kincaid (Ken Sagoes), Joey (Rodney Eastman), Taryn (Jennifer Rubin), Will (Ira Heiden), and a few others. The teens are visited by Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp), the main character from the first film, who is now a psychiatrist who specializes in dream therapy. Nancy is the only one who believes the poor kids as she went through the exact same thing three years ago when Freddy killed all her friends. She discovers that Kristen has the power to pull other people into her dreams, a gift she decides they all must use to their advantage. Nancy, with the help of Dr. Neil Gordon (Craig Wasson), then guides the teens and trains them to use their special dream powers against Freddy. These dream warriors may actually have what it takes to defeat the wicked nightmare demon for good and send him to hell where he belongs.This is one of my favorite movies of all time! I know I'll get lots of crap for this, but I actually like it better than the first movie! Don't get me wrong, the original is far scarier, darker, and more sophisticated but I'm afraid I would have to pick this sequel over it by a hair. There were things in the first film that never got explained and made no sense at all not to mention the ridiculously stupid ending. This movie is just way more entertaining and enjoyable to watch, with some great characters. It's great to see Heather Langenkamp return as Nancy and Robert Englund gives what is without a doubt his best performance as Freddy. This is the first movie in which Mr. Krueger is no longer dark and scary but hasn't exactly become a completely goofy comedian yet, like in later films. I love how his voice changes from quiet and sinister to deep and demonic throughout the movie. My favorite part of this film has to be when Freddy takes possession of his own charred skeleton in the real world and then buries someone alive. That scene had some great special effects! What else can I say about this movie? Well just watch it and find out why it's a magnificent entry to the Nightmare on Elm Street series! "},{"Title":"The 1st Best Sequel Of The Series!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the disappointment of the previous sequel A Nightmare On Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge. I didn't think they were gonna make another sequel that connected with the first film. Boy was i wrong this sequel ended up being the first sequel of the Nightmare series i actually enjoyed and still till this day is one of my favorite Nightmare films. Not only did Robert Englund return as Freddy Krueger but also Heather Langenkamp returned as Nancy Thompson from the first film. As well as John Saxon returned as Nancy's father Donald Thompson from the first film too. This happens to be actress Patricia Arquette sister of David Arquette of the Scream films first movie. And again like the first film this sequel had great acting and great cast. Featuring a young Laurence Fishburne who would later star as the abusive husband Ike Turner in What's Love Got To Do With It? I really enjoyed this third installment. I can watch this film over and over again and never get tired of it. I recommend that this sequel is a definitely must own like the first film for horror fans. "}{"Title":"One Flew Over Freddy's Nest","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Possibly the funniest film in the series (of the ones I've seen). Funny in a great way, let us not jump to conclusions and say this is a ridiculous flick cause it's not. Some of its choices certainly are and for its own sake it should be sold and advertised as a comedy rather than a horror film because...let's face it, it doesn't scare at any point. It's what we call here as being a Terrir (a Portuguese cross between the words terror and laughs, given to laughable horror movies). It has its horror elements but it doesn't cause any effect on you except hilarious laughs. A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors has some new victims for Freddy Krueger (the eternal Robert Englund) and some old ones too. And they're all gathered in this group therapy of a psychiatric hospital after seeing Krueger in their nightmares. One of the poor kids is a girl (Patricia Arquette) who seems to be able to control part of her dreams and make connections with the other suffering teens through their dreams. Who's gonna help them besides her? A dedicated doctor (Craig Wasson) and an intern (Heather Langenkamp) which we know as being one of the very few survivors of Krueger insane attacks, she was right there in the first film. Not much of a fun idea seeing these unfortunate kids being sitting ducks there in the hospital just waiting for the horrifying creature to haunt them in their sleep, but it's really creative the way those kids were composed, you care for them and their disabilities. There's truth in their performances as crazy as it may sound. Craig Wasson, we all know from Body Double has never been better than in here, and Laurence Fishburne steals the show as one of the hospital nurses. Highest point comes to Dick Cavett and Zsa Zsa Gabor cameo which turns into another trick created by Freddy. Had me laughing for a long time. The only genuine horror element that truly deserves appreciation comes from Patricia Arquette. If she was the one who did all that screaming, boy, she has some powerful lungs. But other than that, the third Nightmare on Elm Street is flawed in its horrific purposes. Englund as Freddy isn't much special in here, except for some hysterical lines here and there. Making a puppet out of a kid or the television killing (just to mention a few) might be a good and original way to present as Freddy's casualties but it doesn't work much due to its poor special effects. We're not scared, we're laughing and loudly of those. But still. Kudos to Frank Darabont, one of the writers of this, already showing his ability to leave us concentrated in one particular place, sort of trade- mark more successful in his Stephen King's adaptations of The Shawshank Redemption, The Mist and The Green Mile. Something tells me it was this special touch that really kept me going in watching this, feeling pity for those kids locked in that facility not knowing how to fight evil.See it as a very humored picture and you won't be disappointed. It had me very entertained and that is something to acknowledge. Way better than seeing the awful and embarrassing follow ups like Freddy vs. Jason. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A peppering of horror amongst the quips","Date":"26 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Departed serial killer Freddy Krueger returns to pick off the remaining teenagers of Elm Street who are housed in Westin Hills, a psychiatric hospital for the disturbed.After the oddly toned second outing, Wes Craven and co-writer Bruce Wagner bring the dreamlike horror back to series with an interesting premise that reunites Heather Langenkamp (Nancy) and Robert Englund (Freddy Krueger) respectively. The catchy theme song Dream Warriors, by heavy metal band Dokken is hard to shake off like Patricia Arquette's screams as Kristen Parker.With a cast that includes the likes of Arquette (in a début role), Laurence Fishburne and John Saxon - director Chuck Russell dishes out some creepy and macabre visuals and the introduction of the otherworldly nun (Nan Martin) is a nice touch. Englund is on top form and has a stronger presence with a defined look. The return of Langenkamp gives part 3 some credibility, continuity and closure. Notable is the Jason and the Argonauts (1963) homage where the special effects that are expertly handled and the marionette puppet scene of Phillip played by Class of 1999 (1990) actor Bradley Gregg.In this instalment there's plenty of social commentary in the Craven, Wagner, Frank Darabont and Russell screenplay that touches on the staffing of hospitals, parenting, drug usage and means of psychiatric therapy. While it has its cheesy comedic moments in relation to the sectioned aspirations it has a positive theme of team working which is not usually seen in horror films.Yes, Dream Warriors is a series of kills linked together as with most horrors but it's the atmosphere and execution that gives it a lasting appeal. It's not often especially in the 80s' that sequels, certainly a third would deliver quality but to producer Robert Shaye's credit goes against the norm'.It's subtle ghost, resurrection theme underpins the camaraderie storyline and while humorous at times with Freddy being less crucial its delivers a layered piece of entertainment with a peppering of horror. "},{"Title":"Freddy Fully Formed","Date":"14 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When people think of Freddy Krueger, they think of this movie as establishing what his character was. In the first two films, he's a rather vague menace terrorizing regular kids.This was the beginning of wise-cracking Freddy killing his victims in ironic or specialized ways. (His blades turn into needles when he kills a drug addict, he kills a Dungeon and Dragons enthusiast in fantasy motif.) It also tells more of Freddy's back-story as the child of a nun who is assaulted by dozens of mental patients.This film also has the return of Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) from the first movie. And somewhere, Heather actually took some acting lessons.This was the most commercially successful Nightmare movie, being made on a relatively cheap budget while doing pretty good box office. The special effect, still pre-CGI, are pretty good quality and make the nightmares frightening enough. "},{"Title":"Some of the More Memorable Freddy Kills","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Survivors of undead serial killer Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) -- who stalks his victims in their dreams -- learn to take control of their own dreams in order to fight back.One thing I like about the Elm Street series is its continuity. While my favorite horror series is Friday the 13th, you have to give them credit for continually bringing back Heather Langenkamp and Robert Englund. 13th rarely used the same actor to play Jason, and only vaguely tried to use the same survivor twice.What makes this one of the better ones in the series? Dokken. Not only the Dream Warriors song, but the rocking tune of Into the Fire. (I have heard not all versions of the movie use this song... but when I saw it on the big screen at the Portage Theater in Chicago, it rocked our collective butts.Some of the more memorable Freddy kills appear in this movie, particularly the sleepwalking scene. Although I recalled relatively little else from having seen this film years before, that scene stuck out as if I had seen it yesterday. Very, very creepy using a kid's veins as puppet strings. "},{"Title":"Nightmare On Elm Street 3","Date":"17 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The title to this film makes it sound like a Marvel adaption. Dream warriors is a decent enough film which will satisfy your Freddy needs. You see plenty off him compared to the 2nd film, but only this time, he is more of comedian than a child killer.When i watched this many years ago, i instantly thought how inferior it was to the 2nd film. I've changed my mind. His attire hasn't changed a bit but his method of killing and even his voice has made him adapt to a new humorous persona. Some might find this good; while others will miss the darker Freddy from the the first 2 films.Now, rather than tricking you into believing you're still awake in the real world, Freddy now has a world of his own in which he finds many imaginative ways to kill his children.Several deaths are gruesome and makes Freddy seem more eviler than he ever could in previous films but the one -liners that boast out off Freddy's seconds before the poor sods imminent deaths will either make you cringe or spill your beans.Sadly, the acting has been turned down a notch. As great as it was to see Nancy again, her good acting couldn't help the others to turn up to the game. The short-fused black kid made you wish for Freddy to kill him off quickly; the wannabe actor was horrible and it is best to leave things unsaid about the Wizard Master. The junkie girl i thought was decent enough.It's a mix bag this film. Some parts are entertaining but not once are you frightened - something you never feel in the remaining films. The final act showcases an instant bout of tremendous stupidity wash over one of the main characters which will make you scream at the TV. "},{"Title":"Turning Point in the Series!","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie was definitely a turning point in the series. Wes Craven really took advantage of the whole whole dream demon concept. This is the entry that stepped it up a notch when it came to creativity which resulted in a really entertaining movie. The nightmares are more intense as anything is possible in this one, Freddy does a lot more then just jump out at you here. Plus, we ignore the events which took place in part II (good idea) and we get to see a familiar face as Heather Langenkamp returns as Nancy Thompson. With the return of Nancy and Wes, this movie really feels like something special.In this entry, we follow the story of Kristen Parker (Patricia Arquette, who does an excellent job alongside Langenkamp) who is placed in to a psychiatric institution after slicing her wrists, but really we know it was Freddy doing it by making the taps of a bathroom sink come to life in a dream (pretty intense nightmare actually). Once in the hospital, we meet a bunch of other kids who all share similar dreams of FREDDY! It's a really good idea and setup for things to come. Also, Wes brings back Nancy by having her accept a position as a research scientist at the same psychiatric institution. Now with everything set in place, it's time for Freddy to cause some havoc.Immediately we see Freddy begin picking off the kids one by one. We see him go after Kristen first as a snake like monster in a nightmare. Luckily, she pulls Nancy into her dream to help before she is completely swallowed. This ability to pull people into dreams was another great addition to the film/series. One of my favorite kills of the series comes shortly after, as Freddy goes after a kid named Phillip Anderson (Bradley Gregg) who is known for his sleepwalking. While asleep, Freddy jumps off the wall as a puppet, which was pretty neat, and becomes himself while standing in front of Phillip's bed. I know I'd freak out if I woke up to him just standing there. Once noticing Freddy's there, Freddy begins cutting him up, and using his bloody veins to control him as a marionette, which leads to Freddy cutting the strings and Phillip falling to his death and making it look like a suicide. Easily of the most creative and gruesome deaths in the series and it looked fantastic.Another creative kill is when Jennifer (Penelope Sudrow playing another patient), the girl who wants to be the movie star and burns her own owns to stay awake, falls asleep while watching TV. The TV goes fuzzy and as she tried to change the channel, the TV grows arms and Freddy's head busts out picking her up and smashing her head through the screen while delivering the line Welcome to Primetime Bitch!. Pure awesomeness, but with this being said, allow me to introduce to you, the new and improved...Comedian Freddy, well maybe not yet, but like I said already it was a turning point, for the character and the series.The effects used in this film are great for the most part, the snake bit and puppet death both look fantastic, but there are some choppy bits as well, like when The head doctor at the institution Dr. Neil Gordon (Craig Wasson) teams up with Nancy's father Lt. Donald Thompson (John Saxon) to properly bury Freddy's human remains, but are confronted by his skeleton (ugh @ that scene).Throughout the film, we are shown more and more what can be done with dreams, as the teen patients all find out they have their own dream powers, as they team up to become Dream Warriors! This really helps build up to the final showdown as they all must use their dream powers in stopping Freddy. The 'death' of Freddy is much more epic in this film compared to the one before, as it's a combination of taking him on from the dream world and reality. Unfortunately, while making it more epic, we also see the death of Nancy as Freddy imitates her father and finally takes her out. I must say it did work well though, with Nancy passing the torch on to Kristen...for now.Dreams Warriors has one of the best casts in the series, if not the best. We get a younger Patricia Arquette and Laurence Fishburne both putting in good performances and Robert Englund back again as our burned up maniac. Also I really like the tag team combination of Joseph 'Joey' Crusel (Rodney Eastman, playing a mute until he finds his voice) and Roland Kincaid (Ken Sagoes, playing a smack talking strong man with some pretty funny lines).In conclusion, this is a fantastic sequel that could have easily worked as a conclusion to the series since everything seemed to wrap up fairly well. We see an equal amount of comedy/scares from Freddy, unfortunately for the last time before the comedy takes over. This entry is easily my second favorite in the series, but when comparing it to the original, I just can't give it that 10, but a much deserved 9.5...9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Love the film but still not as good as number 1","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film ignores the elm street 2 and continues 6 years where the 1st left off. Now Nancy (Heather Langenkamp) returns as an intern for sleep patterns etc. At first she is unaware that the kids are being tormented in their dreams by the legendary Fred Kruegar, but soon she runs into Freddy in dreamland and Freddy easily recognises her and this is where the movie can become more interesting.Some downsides is this is where Freddy begins to become comedic but not to bad effect in this movie and it's not too over the top. I personally think that this film has some inventive death scenes and the puppet scene always freaks me out though i'm not quite sure why and seeing as I watch much T.V I must personally say that I think I'll give up the T.V or i just might die that way.There are quite a few memorable scenes and I honestly believe that Nancy was perfect in this movie, and the idea of dream powers was a good idea but this idea wasn't used fully or this movie could have been better but it gave the basis for what it needed to show that just because you have dream powers it doesn't mean that you have no fears and this can be shown quite well although mainly in my opinion in one scene.I believe the acting was brilliant as i have already mentioned Heather Langenkamp and others such as Petricia Arquette and John Saxon and of course the wonderful Robert Englund who portrays once again the fearsome Freddy and he does it so well that It deserves such mention as some people don't respect him in such a way and it's a shame as he is very talented.So in my words of wisdom if you've watched the 1st nightmare on elm street then should definitely watch this if you haven't already and if you haven't seen any of them then this is a great one although you may appreciate it more if you watch the 1st one before this one. "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" this is one of the best NOES movies ever made. u just have to see it. although most of the characters aren't originally how they were created in the script, (for example Tayn was supposed to be African American and stuff like that) the movie is still really good. i liked Jennifer's death and that saying Welcome to Prime time, Bitch! before she was smashed into the TV. but that was supposed to go This is it, your big break in TV!. but the one in the movie is better, i think. cool death scenes too. like the one where the Freddy turned one of the boys into a puppet and made him jump out of the highest window. all though it was a bit yuck (the strings where his veins!!!). i have only seen the first 3, but this and number 1 were the best so far. number 2 was really stupid. and i mean really really stupid. "},{"Title":"An army is rising against Freddy Krueger","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" New director for this third episode. The modern world is growing and we are starting to have the information highway coming into the picture. The new architecture is very striking and powerful. We come back to a girl as the center of the film, but at once that girl is living with her mother and her male guests. But also at once she is moved to a hospital where she meets a whole gang of young people who are Freddy's victims. Freddy does not try to make anyone kill the others. At first he tries to terrorize them into committing suicide. Society reacts as can be expected  the kids are calling for some attention and their dreams and suicides are nothing but the symptoms of their guilt. A junior doctor reacts positively when a psychiatrist comes into the picture, and this psychiatrist is the surviving girl of a preceding episode. This leads to a psychiatric ward in a hospital with all these kids, and group therapy. This time Freddy has a group against him, a group that can remain united, or at least the survivors can, and they can start a war against this Freddy. The film also densifies Freddy Krueger with a mother who was a medical personnel in the old psychiatric ward of the very hospital in which we are. This wing of the building was closed when this young woman was by accident left behind in the ward surrounded by all kinds of crazy criminals. She was raped and many other things and Freddy is her son. Even worse she lost her head, though not completely and could then dedicate the end of her life to religion. She became a nun. The father of the young psychiatrist who has survived Freddy was one of those who burnt Freddy to death when he was caught after kidnapping and killing twenty children. His remains had never been buried. The father will finally accept to tell where the bones are. During that time the kids and the young psychiatrist are getting into the dream to save the others who have been taken and to get rid of Freddy. They will not all come back, but they will come back after Freddy's destruction by the junior doctor burying the bones and sprinkling them with holy water before covering them with earth. It is the first time the Christian theme is brought in with holy water and a crucifix, hence with a parallel to vampires. The film then is a new twist in the general fabric invented by Wes Craven and it is quite effective. We must go on in this saga to see where we are going, where we are taken to. Be sure Freddy will live forever and ever, ever after the end of each film.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Paris Dauphine & University of Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"Let's snuff the sucka!","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" For my money this is the best Elm Street sequel. The story has Nancy Thompson from the first Elm Street film now an adult and working at a psychiatric hospital where teenage patients are being stalked in their dreams by Freddy Krueger. One of these teenagers (Patricia Arquette in her film debut) has a special gift that becomes the key in defeating Freddy once and for all (or at least until the next sequel). Nightmare 3 has a lot going for it. It has the return of Heather Langenkamp as Nancy, a smart script written by Wes Craven, a memorable theme song by '80s metal band Dokken, and some impressive dream set pieces. The movie also has more going on in the story department than just about all the other sequels put together. The teens here are interesting characters rather than the usual cardboard cutouts that are there just to annoy us until Freddy gleefully slaughters them. I actually liked most of these kids! That by itself is pretty amazing for a horror film, where unlikable supporting characters are the norm. As I said the script is great, as is the cast. In addition to Langenkamp, Arquette, and (of course) Robert Englund, the cast includes Craig Wasson, Jennifer Rubin, Rodney Eastman, Bradley Gregg, Laurence Fishburne, and John Saxon reprising his role from the first movie as Nancy's dad. Special mention for Ken Sagoes as the foul-mouthed tough kid, Kincaid. Chuck Russell's direction is solid, if not as stylish as Jack Sholder's work in part 2. That's about the only thing part 2 has over this one, believe me. As far as quality Elm Street movies go, there's this, the original, and maybe New Nightmare. Everything else is varying degrees of suck. "}{"Title":"Almost there to being the best in the series!","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Despite the negative critical reaction that Freddy's Revenge got, the movie was a financial success and in 1987, Wes Craven returned to write A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors, which was the second sequel in the Nightmare on Elm Street film franchise.In the second sequel, Freddy Krueger is systematically killing the last of the Elm Street children. The few remaining children have been placed in Westin Hills Mental Institution, for allegedly attempting suicide. Nancy Thompson arrives at Westin Hills as a new intern and realizes the children are being killed by Freddy in their dreams.With the help of Dr. Neil Gordon, Nancy helps Kristen, Taryn, Joel, Kincaid and Will find their dream powers, so they can kill Freddy once and for all. But in all scary movies, the killer never dies. Neil, unknowingly until the end, meets the spirit of Freddy's mother, Amanda Krueger, who instructs him to bury Freddy's remains in hallowed ground in order to stop him for good.Neil completes his task, but not before Freddy kills Nancy, but Kristen kills Freddy. The film ends with Neil sleeping in his own bed with a dream doll and Kristen's model of 1428 Elm Street. As he sleeps, the bedroom light in the model comes on, revealing that Freddy is still alive and setting up a new installment.I had to say I almost did not watch this film because I thought it was just a rip-off of the previous film, Freddy's Revenge, but after watching the trailer for the film in 2010, I actually really wanted to see how this would turn and finally in 2013, I got to see this movie and it was one of the best viewing experiences ever.Unlike other franchises like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, this franchise along Halloween and Friday the 13th knows how to stay true to it's source material and this was the 80's and still today. This was the movie that changed Freddy Krueger turned from just creepy to creepy and funny at the same time.This film has the old cast with a new set of character and that works for a movie like this. The cast strikes an awesome balance of suspense and comedy, this definitely goes to Robert Englund as Freddy Krueger, he does a darn good job this time around. The effects were cheesy, but also good for the 1980's and were very awesome as hell. The dreams are as creepy and intense and just like the first film, they build up to each other with suspense.The cast is really strong here and we can tell that they care about their characters that they are playing, especially Heather Langenkamp and John Saxon, who says that this is their favorite film and also had the best roles in the original 1984 classic film, A Nightmare on Elm Street.Patricia Arquette is really amazing as Kristen and she did a damn good job making her performance believable as I thought she would.The only person that I was not expecting to be in A Nightmare on Elm Street film was Laurence Fishburne, who is known as Ike Turner in What's Love Got to Do With It and as Morpheus in The Matrix trilogy. He does a darn good job and really awesome to play in this film. Really cool and really amazing casting choices.It's a good scary movie flick where the characters actually fight between the dream controller and the ending may have you crying because Nancy dies, but it also makes you really get scared of the way it ends. It is really cool.Freddy Krueger has the coolest lines ever written and I am really glad that Wes Craven came back and help with the screenplay. He is still scary, still creepy, but can also get very comedic at points, especially in the TV nightmare sequence where he tells the girl, Welcome to prime time, girl! and that is one of the best lines ever written for an iconic horror movie character.This film is just spectacular. From the music to the acting to the effects to the incredible performance of Robert Englund as Freddy Krueger, you will find an incredible experience in seeing this film.Overall, there may be a couple of flaws, but it is easy to see why people watches this one second instead of A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge. I love it for everything that it does right and I like this one, better than the second one, but I still watch the second one, the first one, the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh film. I also like Freddy vs. Jason and the 2010 remake of the original film.My rating is going to be 6 / 10, not a bad rating, but it is a little bit good. "},{"Title":"The Citizen Kane of Tongue Movies","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Wes Craven was lured back by New Line to write a screenplay for A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 3 The Deam Warriors and he succeeds in building on the mythology of earlier films in the franchise. It's a solid entry in the series fans will no doubt enjoy. It falls short of the mark in establishing characters and that's a bit of a problem. If you don't like the characters, you can't relate to their plight. We're presented with a group of kids in a mental hospital driven to madness by a killer stalking them in their dreams. But we only get to know the kids as cartoon stereotypes (a wizard, a street fighter, etc). Even Heather Langenkamp who we met as Nancy in the first film is bogged down in hospital administrative clichés. The character of Freddy has been watered down a bit with an over-reliance on quips and corny lines as he goes in for the kill. But the special effects are the star of the show and for the most part they deliver the shocking nightmare imagery we expect from the series. One bravura sequence finds a mute boy tongue-tied over a flaming pit. There's a lot of tongue related shocks in the Elm Street series but this has got to be the Citizen Kane of Tongue movies. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Simply the best","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" All the good sequels take things a step further. They remind us why we love the original, while expanding on what it set up. The first 'Nightmare on Elm Street' sequel attempted this, but not too successfully. I dig the film personally, as do many other fans, but something was missing. If the series were to stay afloat, the makers of 3 had to step things up. To our delight, that's just what they did.Pros Great performances by the ensemble cast. Impressive debut for director Chuck Russell. Fabulous script. Good score and cool title theme. Stellar effects. Nice production design. Full of inventiveness, including the deaths. Flows at a good pace. Effectively builds on what started in part 1. Some nice twists and turns.Cons A bit dated.Final thoughts 'Freddy's Revenge' has it's share of fine moments, but could've been better. Fortunately, the folks at New Line saw this dilemma and delivered something better by far. It may not be as scary as the original, but it makes up for that. These days, Horror sequels this good are few and far in between.My rating 5/5 "},{"Title":"This surreal fantasy is the best of the Elm Street sequels.","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If there's one film that matches the original A Nightmare On Elm Street (1984) this is it. The original was made on a small budget ($1.8 million) but showed once again that with creativity you can make a great horror film. A Nightmare On Elm Street 3 was made on a larger budget ($4.5 million) and it shows. The sets and the special effects are impressive. But its biggest strength is its cast of talented young actors, including Patricia Arquette, Ken Sagoes, Bradley Gregg and Jennifer Rubin. The return of Freddy's babe Heather Langenkamp and John Saxon is an additional treat. Angelo Badalamenti provided the effective score while the heavy metal band Dokken provided the film's two catchy tunes, Dream Warriors and Into The Fire. Roy H. Wagner's cinematography adds to the already effective atmosphere. In addition to all this the film is thrilling. Wes Craven and Bruce Wagner worked on the script, but the results aren't confusing but interesting. Here we get to find out about Freddy Krueger's past. Krueger kills his victims in a number of inventive ways, all of which are aided by excellent special effects. The sets in the dream world, full of atmosphere, are memorable. But my favorite set is the auto salvage yard. I can list other reasons why this film is such a treat. It's a neat product of the 80s, and it showed that sequels don't have to be inferior. A Nightmare On Elm Street 3 is a gem of a film. I easily recommend seeing it. "},{"Title":"Fantasy not horror","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" By all rights, after the the last scene of 'A Nightmare on Elm St' (1) the lead character of Nancy should be dead, but here she comes back as a psychologist to mentor a bunch of haunted kids in a mental asylum to become dream warriors and fight Freddy. What a load of dribble...By reading the reviews by the fans of the Elm St series this film is supposedly better than the second. People even say on here it's the best in the series. I have to disagree. This film doesn't even touch on the first. I've just watched the film for my first time and I have to say it was so boring I struggled to sit through it. I said to myself I wouldn't bother writing a review but the film bored me so much it must have spun me into some kind of perpetual state of boredom, making me become boring myself and come on to write about how bored the film made me feel and probably bore you that is reading. I guess you can call this a horror film, yes, but it does not scare, not for one second. This is a teenage fantasy film, and this film is prime reason why franchises are bad. I will happily never watch this film again. "},{"Title":"One two, Freddy's coming for you...","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 - Dream Warriors' was the first Freddy-film I saw many years ago, and what a great start.The main characters from the first film, Heather Langenkamp and John Saxon, are back with a troop of great actors including Patricia Arquette and Lawrence Fishburne. But most important of all, FREDDY IS BACK! Bigger, stronger and more vicious than ever! It is clear that the budget is bigger, the special effects are stunning and the dream sequences are much more elegant and terrifying, especially the puppet-scene made my underpants crawl up my crack.A great sequel and definitely a must buy for every Freddy fan! "},{"Title":"It's no surprise","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" With the Story once again from the mind of Wes Craven, and the re-introduction of Nancy (Heather Lagencamp) Its no surprise that this is Freddy's second best outing.Nancy now coping with the nightmare that is Freddy (Well not really!) is the new recruit in a Dream clinic full of Freddy's new batch of Elm street kids. Containing some very imaginative death scenes, utilising some dated, yet cool effects; this movie restored my faith in horror sequels (breifly).Some good new characters, who learn to control their dreams are still no match for Freddy, except maybe one, Kristen Parker (Patricia Arquette), who has the power to pull others into her dreams, and fight Freddy with them at her side.Too bad that the death of Nancy (Nice Shock That) signalled the downfall of the series after this one. Except for New Nightmare, but thats a different story.8/10 "},{"Title":"Freddy does Once Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (spoilers)Phillips' death was a sleepwalking accident, nothing more!I'm prescribing hypnosil, that's a dream suppressant!Freddy... the bastard son of a hundred mediums. Some say he was murdered, but no body was ever found... You must find the remains and bury them in hallowed ground.Freddy's back, and this time he's framing kids for their own suicides! Or if they don't die, the evil adults (parents, doctors, psychologists) lock them up in a mental institution.These elements are preserved from the first one cheesy dialogue, hammy acting, the pretense of really difficult issues which give the actors an even tougher job (suicide, madness, mental institutions), Heather Langencamp from the first movie (who comes out with such beauties as All of you have that inner strength, some special power you had in your most wonderful dreams)and imaginitive, humorous death scenes.Stop-motion animation is shamelessly used multiple times, to create fouler, more imaginitve deaths than in the first movie Dick Cavett turns into Freddy, a puppet turns into Freddy for a moment, Freddy appears as a giant, greasy killer worm, a sink turns into Freddy and a TV turns into Freddy, and kills a girl who wanted to be an actress in a very Cravenesque self-referential scene This is it, Jennifer, you're big break in TV!Its trashy, cheesy, sometimes gross and freaky, but always fun because it doesn't pretend to be anything else.Look out for Morpheus playing an orderly and cute Patricia Arquette. "},{"Title":"One of the better ones in the series","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"22 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film in the series isn't as great as part 1, but it is a hell of a lot better than part 2, 4 and 5 (am I still with everyone here). In this film, Craven returns as co-writer and so do stars Heather Langenkamp and John Saxon (they wouldn't return again until part 7). But it isn't just that, it is also the breakthrough performances by Patricia Arquette and Laurence Fishburne. They bring the plot about a group of kids in a mental home, who have sleep deprivation thanks to the Fred man (Robert Englund). But luckily, Langenkamp comes to the rescue by adding her old expertise in the problems. Very smart, and very cool (definatelty the best horror film of 1987), just not as good as some of the other parts. Still very watchable. "},{"Title":"Original entry in the series","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When her nightmares start proving injurious, a teen's admission into a psychiatry clinic puts her in contact with others who share her delusions about a a razor-gloved killer stalking them and must band them together to fight him off for good.This one is actually really good and quite surprisingly holds up real well. As with most of the movies in the series, this one gets quite a lot right here when it's filled with some great dream moments. The opening is one of those, as we are just repeatedly thrown one horrific image after another throughout the house which scores nicely at generating lots of action and tension as well which really help out with the scene, a fantastic effort where they get sucked into a dream where the Freddy worm begins attacking them and the results of the group hypnosis session that features their burgeoning realization of their situation, the discovery of the missing patient and the changing room before his big break-out makes for a wholly enjoyable series of events here, which all go hand-in-hand with the impressive kills along the way. From the shredded-tendons human-marionette to the TV screen face-plant and the different cut-ups with his clawed hands, there's plenty of impressive kills here that come along with all the different effects work in the dream-world. It's all done quite nicely here with the way this one presents the dark and demented world of his dreams quite well as there's plenty of dark, demented work here in creating not just the atmosphere but also the different props throughout the sequence which is so much fun with the action involved in such a setting as well that it really scores nicely. Along with finally getting a reason for why he's still coming back, this is the start of comic Freddy, so he has some okay lines for his kills that provides some chuckles for some. There's a few small problems here with this one. It does have some pretty bad lines, but it is still the start of him turning into a comedy star so some are quite groaners that can lead to some real moments of agony as you wait for the next kill. As well, the middle part of the film is pretty slow, which is quite the opposite of the thrilling intro and ending, so the middle is a bit hard to sit through. Despite the reappearance of Nancy, she really isn't given a lot to do other than tell what Krueger can do to the children. For someone who had firsthand experience with dealing with Freddy, she should've had a larger role in the film, especially billed third on the top. Still, this is one of the better entries in the series.Rated R Graphic Language, Graphic Violence, Nudity and drug use. "}{"Title":"A great film and the best one out of them all.","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Part 3 is great it is a fun slasher film with the best characters in any horror film you got an element of humour and just likability. So after the last film this is the sequel everyone wants it has Nancy make her return for her last movie as Nancy until New Nightmare.The plot of the film has Freddy mess with a bunch of kids in a mental asylum. Which leads to Nancy and the other characters stopping Freddy at the end of the film. Another plot that happens in this film involves a nun who is relieved at the end to be Freddy mother and would play a big part in part 5 i believe but is referenced in part 4.Part 3 is a great movie the best in the nightmare series and has a brilliant score as well everything about this film was fun and great. "},{"Title":"My favorite in the series, definitely the best sequel.","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" By the time I was 10, I'd seen all of the series up to that point(born in 1989, Freddy VS Jason had yet to come out by then). Part 3, Dream Warriors, became an immediate favorite as I had a childlike fascination with the idea that a group of kids could be heroes with superpowers in their dreams. And while that fascination has died down, my love for this movie has not changed.Boasting a well-rounded cast and a return of Heroine Nancy from the first film, this sequel captured Freddy at his best. A blend between the scary, looming figure with a perverse humor and the wise- cracking, one-liner Freddy of later entries. Here, it wasn't tiresome. As funny as the Welcome to prime time, B----! line is, being strung up like a puppet by veins and muscles is terrifying. There's also something troubled teens can connect with the suicide theme(which had more prominence in Craven's original script). The idea that you could be murdered by someone and have everyone who loves you think you committed suicide is horrifying in my mind.The atmosphere of the sets, the lighting, and the score while they're dreaming were very well done and essentially, this is one of the most original supernatural slashers in existence. I know many people complain that this is where Freddy took a turn for the worse(though I really think it's part 4 where he lost the chill factor with his stalking, manipulation, and kills), but this is the high point in the series for me. "},{"Title":"Quickie Review A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nightmare 3 feels far more connected to the original film than the second one. Heather Langenkamp returns as Nancy Thompson, now a psychiatrist, to fight Freddy Kruger. She attempts through her mediocre acting skills to support a group of teenage mental patients who are all institutionalized due to the horrific dreams they have and their subsequent outbursts. This film is far creepier and downright scary compared to its predecessor. Some of Kruger's kills really gives me the willies and the use of children's screams to set the tone for the dream scenes really tells you all you need to know about the scare levels. The gruesome death scenes hold a bit of weight as you do care (even a little) about the main characters and there is one ballsy death that is truly an oh-no-they-didn't moment. It's also cool how we get a little insight into Kruger's freaky backstory.Some of it gets a little hokey towards the end (stop-motion skeleton fights and wizard battles?!) but that's to be expected with a lot of these 80's horror films. Also Nancy is a bit dumb compared to how she was in the original (there was no way she'd fall for Kruger's mirror trick). There are one or two plot holes and inconsistencies spread throughout the film, but that doesn't take away from the fact that this is a solid entry in the Elm Street franchise. Best Scene Definitely the puppet strings kill. That heart-breaking scene really spooked me "},{"Title":"The man in my dreams... he's real, isn't he?","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After what her mother assumes is a failed suicide attempt, Kristen Parker is admitted to Westin Hills Psychiatric Hospital.There, she meets doctor Neil Gordon, newly appointed psychiatrist, Nancy Thompson and fellow patients Phillip, a serial sleepwalker, fiery tempered Kincaid, aspiring actress Jennifer, former drug addict and wannabe punk Taryn, mute Joey and Dungeons and Dragons loving Will.Each of the teens are all very different but have one thing in common; they were all admitted to Westin Hills for having nightmares of former child murderer, Freddy Krueger. Through Nancy, they learn of Freddy's past and realise that they are the last of the original Elm Street children.Kristen and Nancy bond instantly when Nancy catches Kristen reciting Freddy's jump-rope rhyme (One, two, Freddy's coming for you). One night after Kristen pulls Nancy into one of her dreams, Nancy (who was able to pull objects out her dreams in the first movie) comes up with a plan to discover each of her patient's dream power and work together in order to defeat Freddy for good.Of course, her plan sounds absurd to the other doctors at the hospital and must convince fellow psychiatrist, Neil to take part. Fortunately, a mysterious nun who seems to know a lot about Freddy's origins is there to help her convince him. Dream Warriors was the turning point for the Elm Street series in which the movies stopped being straight forward 'horror' movies and become more like dark fantasy movies. It isn't very scary, but it is very enjoyable.I like that they took an element from the original movie, in which Nancy was able to retrieve objects from her dreams, and expanded upon it.I also like the hospital setting as it gives the movie a clinical, isolated feel as very little of the story takes place outside it.And there's that song. Yeah, you know the one. (We're the Dream Warriors! Ain't gonna dream no more!) "},{"Title":"The Best one in the Series for me!!","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Dream Warrios is the 3rd sequel in the series after the god-awful 2nd sequel they wanted to make another one and they brought the Series back on greatness i loved the plot for this film the way they got their magic powers and tried to fight Freddy was pretty cool also this are the best practical effects from any of the Elm Street films also this one has a pretty cool music video that you can hear on the ending credits. I loved how they even brought Nancy back and teamed up with Kristen and all the rest of the children. A Nightmare On Elm Street 3 Dream Warrios is definitely one kick ass sequel and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Almost there to being the best in the series!,","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Despite the negative critical reaction that Freddy's Revenge got, the movie was a financial success and in 1987, Wes Craven returned to write A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors, which was the second sequel in the Nightmare on Elm Street film franchise.In the second sequel, Freddy Krueger is systematically killing the last of the Elm Street children. The few remaining children have been placed in Westin Hills Mental Institution, for allegedly attempting suicide. Nancy Thompson arrives at Westin Hills as a new intern and realizes the children are being killed by Freddy in their dreams.With the help of Dr. Neil Gordon, Nancy helps Kristen, Taryn, Joel, Kincaid and Will find their dream powers, so they can kill Freddy once and for all. But in all scary movies, the killer never dies. Neil, unknowingly until the end, meets the spirit of Freddy's mother, Amanda Krueger, who instructs him to bury Freddy's remains in hallowed ground in order to stop him for good.Neil completes his task, but not before Freddy kills Nancy, but Kristen kills Freddy. The film ends with Neil sleeping in his own bed with a dream doll and Kristen's model of 1428 Elm Street. As he sleeps, the bedroom light in the model comes on, revealing that Freddy is still alive and setting up a new installment.I had to say I almost did not watch this film because I thought it was just a rip-off of the previous film, Freddy's Revenge, but after watching the trailer for the film in 2010, I actually really wanted to see how this would turn and finally in 2013, I got to see this movie and it was one of the best viewing experiences ever.Unlike other franchises like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, this franchise along Halloween and Friday the 13th knows how to stay true to it's source material and this was the 80's and still today. This was the movie that changed Freddy Krueger turned from just creepy to creepy and funny at the same time.This film has the old cast with a new set of character and that works for a movie like this. The cast strikes an awesome balance of suspense and comedy, this definitely goes to Robert Englund as Freddy Krueger, he does a darn good job this time around. The effects were cheesy, but also good for the 1980's and were very awesome as hell. The dreams are as creepy and intense and just like the first film, they build up to each other with suspense.The cast is really strong here and we can tell that they care about their characters that they are playing, especially Heather Langenkamp and John Saxon, who says that this is their favorite film and also had the best roles in the original 1984 classic film, A Nightmare on Elm Street.Patricia Arquette is really amazing as Kristen and she did a damn good job making her performance believable as I thought she would.The only person that I was not expecting to be in A Nightmare on Elm Street film was Laurence Fishburne, who is known as Ike Turner in What's Love Got to Do With It and as Morpheus in The Matrix trilogy. He does a darn good job and really awesome to play in this film. Really cool and really amazing casting choices.It's a good scary movie flick where the characters actually fight between the dream controller and the ending may have you crying because Nancy dies, but it also makes you really get scared of the way it ends. It is really cool.Freddy Krueger has the coolest lines ever written and I am really glad that Wes Craven came back and help with the screenplay. He is still scary, still creepy, but can also get very comedic at points, especially in the TV nightmare sequence where he tells the girl, Welcome to prime time, girl! and that is one of the best lines ever written for an iconic horror movie character.This film is just spectacular. From the music to the acting to the effects to the incredible performance of Robert Englund as Freddy Krueger, you will find an incredible experience in seeing this film.Overall, there may be a couple of flaws, but it is easy to see why people watches this one second instead of A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge. I love it for everything that it does right and I like this one, better than the second one, but I still watch the second one, the first one, the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh film. I also like Freddy vs. Jason and the 2010 remake of the original film.My rating is going to be 7 / 10, not a bad rating, but it is a little bit good. "},{"Title":"The Dream Warriors Must Battle Freddy Once And For All.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This third entry in the series is one of the better ones. Wes Craven gets the writing credits on this one, which could be why it is better than the second installment and the rest to follow.Kristin Parker (Patricia Arquette) is sent to a mental hospital when her mother believes she is trying to commit suicide. The truth is Freddy is killing the teenagers in the dreams, and making it look like suicide. Nancy and the other kids sent to the hospital must battle the evil entity lurking their dreams. They get help from a doctor and Nancy Thompson, who is now a psychologist specializing in dreams. Can Nancy and these dream warriors stop Krueger? There's only one way to find out. "},{"Title":"The Dream Warriors Must Battle Freddy Once And For All.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This third entry in the series is one of the better ones. Wes Craven gets the writing credits on this one, which could be why it is better than the second installment and the rest to follow.Kristin Parker (Patricia Arquette) is sent to a mental hospital when her mother believes she is trying to commit suicide. The truth is Freddy is killing the teenagers in the dreams, and making it look like suicide. Nancy and the other kids sent to the hospital must battle the evil entity lurking their dreams. They get help from a doctor and Nancy Thompson, who is now a psychologist specializing in dreams. Can Nancy and these dream warriors stop Krueger? There's only one way to find out. "},{"Title":"The best sequel","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was actually the first Freddy film I saw, as a child discovering these gems for the first time was a real treat and also discovering Jason and Michael Myers. But to this day The Nightmare on Elm Street series always had the better quality that helped them rise above the usual low budget fare. And seeing this one first, I can honestly say that I started with the best.I'm always torn between this and the first one, but honestly I think I love this one more. After the' what's considered a disappointing part 2 (honestly I thought was decent), part 3 brought things back on the right track. Firstly bringing back the imagination was a good move and focused on the creepy, but fun aspect of the dream sequences (something the sequel did lack). This also brought something new and fresh to the Freddy story, by introducing his mother, which was an interesting back-story and doesn't feel completely made up at the last minute, you can see that a lot of thought went into it, which was great. Another great addition to the plot was that the characters can pull each other into their own dreams, which was again very interesting. Another thing that was awesome was the special effects, which still look fantastic to this day, especially the Freddy snake which was very cool and unsettling at the same time and the Freddy puppet which was also cool, and none of that CGI crap was used either, back in the good old days of practical effects, which always remain the best.Even the plot was very decent and interesting, this just had a much better story and the fact that it was co-written by Wes Craven himself, was just an added bonus. This one has a group of teens who are the last of the Elm street children, rounded up in Weston Hills sanatorium and are all being stalked in their dreams by Freddy himself. Also bringing back the best heroine in the series Nancy was another nice touch, she's older and wiser this time, playing a doctor who studies dreams and tries to help the kids fight Freddy, by discovering that they each have special powers in their dreams.Another thing that this movie got right was the casting and characters; each of them gets their fair share amount of screen time and is all relatable. Heather Langenkamp coming back older and wiser is like I said a brilliant move, and she brings depth and warmth to such a brilliant character and feels an intriguing part of the story. Patricia Arquette also truly shines as the new lead Kristen she proves a definite match for Freddy, while still maintain innocence and charm. Craig Wasson does well as the doctor and does work up great chemistry with Nancy. Ken Sagoes plays another interesting addition Kincaid, with each of his emotions feeling true and never forced. Rodney Easton also does great as the silent Joey, his expressions and emotions do more than what words can, he really shines in his role. Jennifer Rubin is probably one of the most memorable characters in the entire series, she was just brilliant as Taryn, and also just loved her punk look. Even the first 2 victims Phillip and Jen were interesting and sympathetic and were definitely sad to see them go so early. Another sparkling move was bringing back the ever amazing John Saxon, whose just great as always and even pre fame Laurence Fishburne was also cool to see. Then finally Robert England himself was just as brilliant as ever, and hasn't quite turned into the wisecracking clown yet as this point, but even then he still steals the show.So all in all this sequel takes full advantage of its surroundings and is executed perfectly, showing that everything from the cast, the story and the effects, everything was done at the correct balance and truly stands out as one of the best all-time slasher movies. "},{"Title":"A lot of Fun!","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" So it's probably a guilty pleasure. So what? It's still 8x better than Freddy's Revenge and as a fan of Freddy and horror and gore films, you just gotta love Dream Warriors. First thing I love about the movie is that 80's feel, but the 80's in a good way from the first scene with Patricia Arquette drinking soda and listening to Into the Fire, OH so good. Also, Dream Warriors has some of the best and most imaginative kills and stunts of the series. Memorable moments like Freddy the puppeteer or Freddy the TV make this a fan favorite. Also props for the amazing practical effects. They just don't do them like that anymore. If this movie would have come out this year, it would have been all CGI and jump-scares. But it didn't, and I'm a happy man. Dream Warriors works perfectly as a sequel to the original and, although definitely not better, has its own beauty. "}{"Title":"great horror movie","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a great horror movie. The best of the series. Great parts are the first Freddy part, the Freddy in the mirror part, the girl becoming a skeleton part, the line where that guy says someone cut off their own eyelids to stay awake part, the puppet death part, the tongue-tied part, the spiked wheelchair part, the talking severed head part, the crying faces on Freddy's chest and belly part, the Freddy skeleton part, and the part where Freddy disguises himself as Nancy's dead dad then kills her part. The Freddy Krueger movies are fantastic horror movies and deserve awards. Of the 9 movies with Freddy Kreuger which are A Nightmare On Elm Street, A Nightmare On Elm Street part 2 Freddy's Revenge, A Nightmare On Elm Street part 3 Dream Warriors, A Nightmare On Elm Street part 4 The Dream Master, A Nightmare On Elm Street part 5 The Dream Child, Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare, Wes Craven's New Nightmare, Freddy vs Jason, and a remake of the original with the same title, part 3 is the best. The rest are really good too. Don't believe any reviews that say any of these movies aren't good. Trust me. They're great! Freddy is an absurdly evil character and uses people's life situations to kill them while making wise-cracks. See this! See all of them! "},{"Title":"I've killed you once before......","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nancy has grown up and become a psychiatrist specialising in dream therapy. She meets a group of children at a local hospital facing Freddy Krueger, the same demon she once encountered in her sleep. One of them is Kristen, who has the power to draw other people into her dreams. Working with a male doctor assigned to the case, Nancy helps the kids realise their special abilities within the nightmare world. When Freddy captures one of her charges, she leads a rescue attempt into Krueger's domain, in hopes of putting his spirit to rest once and for all.....Out of all of the sequels, not counting the New Nightmare, or anything after, this has to be the most fun of the series. Nope, it's not scary in the slightest, and it sticks a huge middle finger up to the original film, but this is where Freddy came into his own, and the one liners were more exciting than anything the film had to offer.It's basically the Marvel comic book version of Elm Street. By day, they are just normal kids with a jagged, haunted past, but by night, when finally asleep, they are heroes with their own unique powers.And after twenty eight years, it's amazing to see how well the film holds up compared to the other movies, and amazingly, the special effects are still pretty awe-inspiring.The cast are the usual Krueger fodder, and you can almost guess which ones will get it first, and who will survive.All in all, its a fun, forgettable entry into a franchise that time forgot.Only in the eighties..... "},{"Title":"The best Nightmare sequel, hands down.","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Truth be told, the Nightmare series would have done well to end as a trilogy. We would have gotten two great films, and one mediocre film (part 2) which at least had potential, and was decently thrilling and interesting. Nightmare 3 was almost perfect, aside from perhaps a TOO comedic tone in certain areas, and some CLEAR camp aspects which otherwise blotch up an outstanding entry to the series.With that, I can't lie. There's times you'll be watching this, and thinking God, could it get MORE 80's cheesy? Unfortunately, Nightmare 3 dates itself in that regard. However, even with its flaws, it's still a good entry, and definitely worth a viewing.Nightmare 3 is the direct sequel to the Nancy Thompson storyline, as Nightmare 2 isn't connected to that plot at all (it only alludes to it). Nightmare 3 continued the development of Freddy Krueger in more than one way. Not only did we get more of his backstory, we also got a broader expansion on a key part of his character development The bogeyman terrorizing an entire town. Nightmare 2 didn't really do either of these things, it only (briefly) retold the events and backstory of the first film. While it was focused on Freddy's terror, it was more centralized to the main characters. Nightmare 3 began to show the effects that Freddy was having on an entire town worth of children, and with that, it connected Nancy Thompson to this next series of victims admirably.It was no longer a small group of friends coping with the bogeyman of their nightmares, now it was strangers having to come together. Strangers who could never get the adults in charge to understand that it wasn't just suicidal teenage melancholy, the terror was real. Freddy started to really reach out his razor claws and touch the whole of the population. And all it took was a few of these adults to believe in them before they could make progress. The film really moved the series forward in a respectable way, and that's the key part of why it's a must-see.Freddy establishes a respectable body count in part 3, with more creative and interesting deaths as well. This is honestly both good and bad. Good in the sense that they are fun, and prove that Freddy personalizes his power based on whoever he is killing. Bad in that as the series chugged on, the deaths just got very silly. There's nothing wrong with a wisecracking Freddy, it's the incarnation of the character that we've all grown to know and love. However, moving the series in to that direction really hurt it, in my opinion. It made it much easier for bad writers to cheese out the remaining films in the series. Although, that's just another reason why I feel that Nightmare on Elm Street should have ended as as trilogy. It was a funny Freddy done well. He still presents an actual air of terror without turning completely in to a cartoon character.So laugh at a few cheesy scenes, a few thin points of dialog, what have you. Overall, you'll agree that this was the best Nightmare film since the first one. Unfortunately, it's the only one (aside from a couple of spin-offs) that was really any good. But good it was. Nightmare 2 may have had a darker Freddy, but Nightmare 3 was a better film by far. "},{"Title":"Nothing to scary, but still fun, and much better than two. (SPOILERS FOR THE FIRST MOVIE)","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you are expecting a scarefest, you will be a tad disappointed. This movie is creepy, but not scary like the first. It's more just-for-fun than it is scary, but it is a good movie. The effects are, once again, great. There are dozens of crazy battles, monsters, and dreamworlds. The acting is decent too. It was nice to see (SPOILER)Nancy(END SPOILER) back again, and the others do a good job too. The script (thankfully) is much better than Part two's. There are some pretty cheesy moments in the dream sequences, but that's about as far as it goes. The rest of the script is decent, and the plot flows well. So I would recommend this movie for fans of the original. In all it is a fun and very cool movie. So I will give A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors 6.3/10, or three stars out of five. "},{"Title":"Hurrah, Freddy's back","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The rot sets in here. Freddy is out of the shadows and so begins his devolution into the James Bond of the slasher genre, a wisecracking child murderer who in the last two films was an actual character but is now just make-up and a costume, seemingly amusing himself between appearances by coming up with puns he can deliver when he kills his victims. 'Welcome to prime time, bitch!' he says as he smashes a girl's head through a TV. 'Feeling tongue tied?' he jokes as he lashes a mute patient to his bed with tongues. Tee hee.Heather Langenkamp returns, now a graduate student specialising in sleep therapy who attempts to help a group of teenagers with sleep disorders brought on by their encounters with Freddy. It's an interesting idea, and the hospital setting means there's a good reason for the authority figures to ignore their dire warnings. As the kids bond and learn to fight back against their common enemy the movie plays pretty well as a logical sequel to the first film (Wes Craven returns as co-writer). Unfortunately Langenkamp's performance is absolutely terrible, just tone deaf and flat as a pancake; somehow she's gotten even worse than the last time we saw her. It's almost a relief when the film focuses on its other one-note characters.Parts of it work. The scene with the TV kicks off with Dick Cavett interviewing Zsa Zsa Gabor before transforming into Freddy and attacking his guest with a snarling 'Who gives a f*** what you think?' Well, I laughed. There's an effective scene in which Freddy attacks a character who makes marionettes by first appearing as a terrific stop motion puppet and then ripping out the kid's tendons and walking him around the hospital; it's a gruesome visual and plays with the character's habit of sleepwalking in an inventive way. And you can't go wrong with a good old-fashioned stop motion skeleton.In fact most of the goopy effects are great, but the film is never scary despite all the blood and panicking and surreal weirdness. Chuck Russell's direction is flat and the editing is graceless, so the movie just plods through its plot. The screenplay thoughtlessly includes a method of dispatching Freddy that throws up too many narrative questions so the parents that burned down his lair... what? Waited until the fire had subsided, which presumably means that the Springwood fire department had something better to do, and then sifted through the debris until they found Freddy's bones, and then drove to a junkyard and stuffed them in the truck of a Cadillac? Well, okay.'Nightmare on Elm Street 3' lacks the structural integrity of the original film and the driving intensity of the second, and so it quickly becomes repetitious and boring and reliant on jokey send-offs, effectively setting the template for the rest of the series. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first film is a classic scary movie, but the first sequel was absolutely dreadful, thankfully the concept and ideas put together for the iconic villain had improved much more in this third film, from director Charles 'Chuck' Russell (The Mask, Eraser, The Scorpion King), written by returning Wes Craven (The Hills Have Eyes, Scream). Basically six years have passed since the brutal events on Elm Street, and one night teenager Kristen Parker (young Patricia Arquette) is building a papier-mâché of the infamous house on Elm Street, and she refuses to go to sleep, but she does fall asleep and dreams of being inside this constructed house being chased by a psycho killer. Waking from the shock of this bad dream and finds her wrists slashed, her parents assume she attempted suicide and she is admitted to Westin Hills hospital, and there she meets dream specialist Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp), former victim to previous terror now a new intern. Nancy realises she is dreaming about child murderer and razor handed killer Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund), recognising her reciting the nursery rhyme about him, One, two, Freddy's coming for you. Three, four, better lock the door. Five, six, grab a crucifix. Seven, eight, gonna stay up late. Nine, ten, never sleep again! But Kristen is not the only one in the hospital suffering these chronic nightmares, other inmates having them are talented puppet maker Phillip (Bradley Gregg), Roland Kincaid (Ken Sagoes) who is a tough guy with attitude problems, former drug addict Taryn White (Jennifer Rubin), Joey (Rodney Eastman) who stays silent following trauma, formerly suicidal and now wheelchair bound Will Stanton (Ira Heiden), and wannabe actress Jennifer Caulfield (Penelope Sudrow). Of course one by one these patients fall asleep, despite some attempts to stay awake, and in their dreams they fall victim to Freddy who kills them, meaning that they die in reality as well, so with the advice of Nancy they try using pills to eliminated their dreams all together. Somehow Nancy and Dr. Neil Gordon (Craig Wasson) find out that the bones of Krueger were never buried after he was burned to death by the parents of Elm Street, so she asks her father Donald Thompson (John Saxon) to retrieve the remains of the killer and that a way to destroy him one and for all would to bury them in the ground. Meanwhile she tells the remaining patients of the ward that they have the power to combat Freddy in their dreams, especially with the psychic like powers of Kristen, Nancy and Don are killed encountering the monster, but Neil does manage to bury the bones causing Freddy to explode. In the end a funeral is held for the Thompsons, with Kristen and the remaining victims attending, and Neil notices nun Mary Helena (Nan Martin) there, who he met earlier, in fact she is Amanda Krueger, Freddy's mother, and when Neil goes to sleep he has the papier-mâché house by his side, and inside the lights come on, suggesting Freddy is not dead and will return. Also starring Laurence 'Larry' Fishburne as Max the hospital porter and Priscilla Pointer as Dr. Elizabeth Simms. Langenkamp is a welcome return as the more mature and educated original victim helping the others out, Arquette proves a good choice in her part of the psychic girl, Englund returns to form with his cheeky one-liners and vicious kills, and little known Fishburne charms in his moments. The story is much more thought out than the film before, the death sequences are just as inventive as the original film, e.g. veins used as puppet strings, the dream world having no limits is used well, and the homage to Ray Harryhausen with a living skeleton is fun, and moments with a Freddy snake, a possessed television and tongues pinning a victim are cool, it is a most watchable horror film. Good! "},{"Title":"A mini-fightback...","Date":"12 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I disliked the fact that the teen heroes were all archetypes... but, I liked the fact that the concept of being able to 'pull' people into dreams was introduced... (Nancy pulls Freddy *out*, in the original). Also, the audience is given a bit more backstory, to add to Freddy's mythology (the bastard son of a hundred maniacs!), which is always cool, for a franchise geek like me - I love extraneous detail!It's kind of an early forerunner to the superhero genre, since all of the kids are given special powers, whilst in the dream-state... It's still not great, but, if you discount the original, then it's definitely the best in the series; which probably has something to do with the fact that, aside from the original, it's the only other one that Wes Craven wrote! (New Nightmare is non-canon, as far as I'm concerned!) "},{"Title":"I Said, Where's The F**king Bourbon?","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Robert Englund, Heather Langenkamp, Patricia Arquette, Craig Wasson, Laurence Fishburne and John Saxon star in this 1987 horror sequel. A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge wasn't received well because of it's different direction. Wes Craven was brought back as co-writer to help get the series back on track with this entry where burned killer, Freddy Krueger (Englund) terrorizes a group of teens in a psychiatric hospital who turn out to be the last Elm street kids. Langenkamp reprises her role as Nancy Thompson from the original who is a new staff member and expert on nightmares. She learns Freddy is haunting them and helps them use their special dream powers against him. Kristen Parker (Arquette) is a recent nightmare victim who becomes the key to bringing people in and out of her dreams. Wasson plays their doctor, Neil Gordon who gets close with Nancy, Fishburne plays orderly, Max and Saxon also returns as Nancy's father, Donald. This is a good sequel that's basically the fan favorite, Englund is great as Freddy, the visual & make-up effects are good and it's nice to see Langenkamp & Saxon return. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Stuff","Date":"16 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" *******Seven Out Of Seven Stars******* One Sentence Summary The last of the Elm Street children, who are now residents of a psychiatric hospital, are terrorized by Kruger as he sets out to finish the job.Review Summary I viewed this sequel based on the many positive reviews about part three, and indeed, it was an excellent film. Which begs the question Why is it so difficult for film makers to turn out quality horror sequels? You'd actually think it would be easier for writers to work with an established idea? Anyway, Nightmare 3 is great stuff. It's great because the Elm Street kids are all very likable. Heather Langenkamp returns from part 1 as Nancy and brings a nostalgic feel to the picture. Craig Wasson, playing Dr. Neil Gordon, is absolutely wonderful and very likable. And of course, Englund, is stellar; as he spews out Kruger one liners. Part 3 is actually pretty well written, as the children are able to fight back in the nightmares using their imaginations; a wonderful concept that's foolishly abandoned after this sequel. Did I forget to mention the special effects? Because THEY ARE incredible! The rock band Dokken adds to all this greatness with the song Into The Fire, which was incidentally replaced with the track Quiet Cool by Jay Ferguson on Laser-disk issues. So all in all, this is one of the better horror sequels around; it really has everything going for it. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm Street 3","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" 2 Years after new line cinema released that poor excuse of a sequel Freddys Revenge they started on a much better sequel in the franchise called Dream Warriors. They hired Chuck Russel to direct and they didn't just bring back Robert Englund but Heather Langenkamp and John Saxon from the first film, with a new cast of actors in Lawrence Fishburne, Patricia Arquette, Priscilla Pointer and Craig Wasson.This film is worth watching because it has originality just like the first film, it has got better actors then the last sequel, the director does a better job and the plot fits together with the first film.I have no problems with this sequel it is a masterpiece just like the first film and if anyone here is a fan of the franchise then this film is for you and in my opinion it is the best sequel. "}{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors","Date":"29 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" As far as sequels go in the A Nightmare on Elm Street this is a favorite of most ANOES fans. I also found that this was the most entertaining film because of some good dream sequences and the expansion of characters. This is the film which turns the dark scary Freddy into more of a comical figure although he is still very sinister. It was nice to see some familiar faces such as Langenkamp, Patricia Arquette and Laurence Fishburne. The movie also a questionable plot but its pulled out fairly nicely do to interesting dream scenes and dialogue between inmates at the sanitarium. Dream Warriors is a can't miss when viewing the franchise and I believe you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Nancy's last battle with Krueger!","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I liked this movie a lot because it is Nancy's last battle with Krueger. The idea was that the last of the Elm Street kids were at Westin Hills institution due to some suicide attempts(trying to keep awake and escape their nightmare)when Kristen comes goes there(Krueger nearly had her) and sings the Nightmare rhyme(1,2 Freddys coming for you...)when Nancy comes in. She tells the rest of the children there about Freddy Krueger and her battle with him and tells them that they are the last of the Elm street kids. She trains them using their dream powers to fight Freddy in case if something happens to her. But when one of them is captured and held by Krueger, Nancy joins up with the rest of the Elm street kids to fight against him, but unfortunately Krueger tricks Nancy into thinking he is her father(he killed him while her father was trying to bury Freddy's remains)and kills her, but just before she dies she stabs him with his own glove(holy water is sprayed on him, and a cross is over his head) and then Freddy dies again. I hated that Nancy died in this film but she can always come back in another film. Overall a great film, I am a major Fred Head fan. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Contains spoiler. Not bad. I wasn't expecting much after Freddys revenge, but, WOW! This was good! The only DOWNSIDE IS that Nancy dies, but besides that, it was cool! If you want your elm st fix, this is the movie for you! You'll love it. I like the scene where Freddy turns into the snake.classic.Im proud of Craven now because this is a good movie.Definitely a worth it movie.Robert did a good job playing Freddy. Very good.Movies to be reviewed Childs play, Childs play 2, Childs play 3, Bride of Chuck, The seed of ChuckJoe "},{"Title":"Dream Warriors Better than the average horror sequel?","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Wes Craven's A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) is unquestionably one of the greatest horror movies of all time. It's my favorite slasher movie of all time, and Fred Krueger is my all-time favorite slasher movie villain. A Nightmare on Elm Street has been followed by six sequels, a television series, a 2003 cross-over flick (Freddy vs. Jason), and a 2010 remake. Like most horror film series, the sequels got worse with each subsequent entry; the Nightmare series is no different.The worst thing to be said about the Nightmare sequels was that as time went on, the image of the series chief antagonist, Fred Krueger (Robert Englund), was softened in an attempt to appeal to a mass audience. A spectral, razor-fingered night-monster who stalked teenagers in their dreams, he was first presented as a humorous sadist who took pleasure in torturing his teenage victims. He didn't hide behind a mask - one of my favorite characteristics about him - and if he was going to kill you in your dreams, he wanted you to know it was him. But as time went on, his image was softened and he became more comical and less scary; he later became known as Freddy Krueger (as opposed to the more menacing Fred Krueger), he cracked dark-humored jokes, he got somewhat sillier, and he got more screen time.It was interesting to note that in the first film, he was a true force to be reckoned with; he redefined modern horror villainy. And he got very little screen time. Craven's inventive use of shadows, his focus more on characters and story rather than gore and special effects, and blending of dreams and reality made A Nightmare on Elm Street a new standard for the slasher genre in the early '80s.Wes Craven parted way with the series after the 1984 original, but had some hand in writing the screenplay for 1987's A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors; some other notable future talents also had a hand in developing this film's script, one of whom was none other than Frank Darabont (director of The Shawshank Redemption, The Green Mile). Director Chuck Russell also worked on the screenplay, which has some moments of ingenuity, but still falls into being a typical horror sequel with some inventive flourishes.Krueger is still haunting the dreams of teenagers and offing them in some pretty creative and gruesome ways while they sleep. Here, he's systematically eliminating the last of the Elm Street children, all of whom are sharing the same collective nightmare while staying inside a psychiatric hospital. The hospital staff are cold and distant, and disbelieving the teens' assertions that someone is trying to kill them in their dreams. Only Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp), sole survivor of the original Nightmare film, believes their story, and she forms sympathetic links with some of the patients, including Kristen Parker (Patricia Arquette), the violent loner Kincaid (Ken Sagoes), the mute Joey (Rodney Eastman), recovering drug addict Taryn (Jennifer Rubin), and the nerdy paraplegic Will (Ira Heiden). Nancy also forms a close bond with Dr. Neil Gordon (Craig Wasson), the doctor assigned to look after the kids, and Max (Larry Fishburne), the orderly with a lackadaisical attitude about his job.Nancy eventually teaches the kids, including the most gifted of all Kristen, to turn the tide of their life-and-death struggles by unlocking their dream powers, special abilities only available to them in their dreams so that they can battle Krueger on his own terms and turf. And somewhere in there, we eventually learn of the horrific origins of Fred Krueger himself.This is not a bad film, even though it tends to get a bit silly at times, which I guess is part of the package, being that it's a sequel and all. Many fans consider this film and New Nightmare (1994) to really be the only sequels worth watching and for some reason, I agree fully. I was glad to see Heather Langenkamp back in the series as Nancy Thompson. She was by far the best thing about the original film, with her girl-power attitude to fight back against an unspeakable evil, and her quick-thinking resourcefulness also won me over. Without her, I don't think I even would have bothered with this film.It's also interesting to note the number of future Hollywood talents here, including Patricia Arquette, who would go on to star in my favorite movie of all time, True Romance (1993), and would also appear on the television show Medium. Larry Fishburne would also go on to be a top Hollywood talent as well, most notably starring as Morpheus in the Matrix films. Director Chuck Russell would also make The Mask (1994) and Eraser (1996).All in all, A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors is not a bad film, nor a bad horror sequel. It's just a sign of the times of what the slasher genre had become by 1987, old and stale. But it's nowhere near the disaster it could have been, like many of the other sequels in the Nightmare series.7/10 "},{"Title":"The best sequel with the words A Nightmare On Elm Street in the title... hey, at least that's something","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I must preface this review by admitting a certain sentimental attachment to this third film in the Elm Street franchise, simply because it was the first installment I saw. However, even judging it from the strictest critical eye, Dream Warriors is a worthy successor to the brilliant original, and it certainly has the distinction of being the best sequel of the series that retains Elm Street in its title.Granted, there isn't a whole lot of competition on that front. While the concept of a maniacal killer who stalks you in your dreams was, and remains, a truly frightening and original punchline for a horror film, it's amazing how many atrocities were done with this powerful concept, as the Nightmare On Elm Street franchise is overall the worst extended horror film series of all time. While horror lore paints Freddy, Jason, Michael Myers, Leatherface, and Pinhead as modern successors to the Dracula, Frankenstein, Wolf Man, and Creature From The Black Lagoon rogues gallery of horror's classic past, Freddy's contributions are by far the most lackluster of the bunch. While the original Nightmare is a certified classic in its own right, the downward slide the series started right after it was only interrupted by Dream Warriors, and to a lesser extent, its follow-up, Part 4 The Dream Master. This duo was followed by a Part 5 that offered very little in the way of notable legacy enhancement, and this was in turn followed by Freddy's Dead, which is a largely unwatchable and pathetic embarrassment to the character. Though Freddy would be re-imagined to fantastic effect with Wes Craven's New Nightmare, which is by far the best true sequel to the original Elm Street (the fun and goofily awesome Freddy Vs. Jason notwithstanding), the Nightmare On Elm Street series boasts almost no sustainability as a franchise. Even though there have been subpar raisings of Hell, unmemorable Friday The 13ths, and massacres of Texas Chainsaws, Nightmare On Elm Street remains perhaps the most problematic horror franchise of all time, simply because so little justice was done to an original concept that seemed to promise so much.But, I'm not here to review the series (although I'm sure I'll get around to each installment before too long). Even ignoring the wretched tripe that followed it, Dream Warriors holds up as a creative and well-executed Freddy tale, and had the film-makers followed the intriguing concept of individuals having powers in the world of their dreams to combat Freddy with, chances are, we would have gotten sequels with much more punch than what stands on the record. Kids with dream powers are certainly a more worthy foil for Freddy than dreaming babies, terrible 3-D effects, and Roseanne Barr cameos.As it stands, not much is done with the idea here, either. We only get a few short glimpses at the powers hinted at in the film, and seeing how quickly a pre-dating Harry Potter wannabe and a Suicide Girls cast-away get thwarted by Freddy, these special abilities are rendered a bit mediocre.But, for pure visual and visceral panache, Elm Street 3 packs more into its 90-minutes than any other film in the series. The film is almost an homage to special effects, utilizing every trick available at the time, and resurrecting ones that were seldom used in the era. The straight-up splatter is augmented with claymation effects, stop-motion animation, puppetry, and even pure camera tricks. Though Part 4 would employ all of these elements to even more fantastic effect, Dream Warriors maintains a darkness that keeps it true to its horrific centerpiece, while the films that followed continued to explore the fantasy-based elements of the character.Some of the sequences still pack an indelible punch today, and I defy anyone not to cringe at the sleepwalking sequence. I have a friend who will not let anyone touch her wrists, and she told me this phobia stems directly from this scene. The neglect of an erogenous zone because it brings about thoughts of Freddy is certainly a powerful statement about the impact of a well-executed scare.Having Heather Langenkamp and John Saxon back in the fold certainly helps things along, and the great performance from a young Patricia Arquette and equally strong turns from her peers in the film add some credibility to the teens vs. adults crux of the story. And, while Freddy certainly has his wise-cracks here, they aren't as over the top or prevalent as those we'd find in future installments. Here, he doesn't make a quip every 10 seconds, and when he does, most of the lines are witty and morbid enough to enhance, rather than detract from, the brutality.As previously stated, it's a real shame that the series didn't progress forward in the direction hinted at here. For sure, we would have had future installments that were more scary than silly, and the Freddy character might have maintained what little menace he had left when Dream Warriors came out. A subsequent film that centered itself around the idea of actual Dream Warriors, with complementary dream powers that were fully developed and explored, certainly couldn't have been worse than what we ended up getting.In the end, Dream Warriors remains a brief ray of light in a series that degenerated into nauseating disappointment. For that, it certainly deserves notice, and those who never revisited this chapter because of the sour taste left by The Dream Child and Freddy's Dead should give this outing another shot. We'll see how much life Freddy has left in him, but if his legacy has already been largely carved, Dream Warriors deserves to be mentioned on the tombstone. "},{"Title":"It wasn't enough","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I think Freddy Krueger makes a good serial killer,and the since the 'Nightmare On Elm Street'movies have a fantasy element to it,they're actually pretty cool to watch,even though I haven't seen the fourth or fifth film yet.But this one doesn't have much energy to it.Some scenes of the movie are so ridiculous that you can't help but laugh.The movie starts out OK,but then it falls into the so-so area where you might think about watching a different movie.The director tries to give fans what they want,but instead he disappoints them.Robert Englund does a great job at playing Freddy Krueger,but even he can't save this movie.It's not that bad,but compared to other great horror films,this movie disappoints.I have to give credits to some of the special effects.Sorry,Freddy. "},{"Title":"One of the standout films of 1987","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A lot of the people involved in the production of this film went on to be rather successful in later life. Chuck Russell made the 1994 hit The Mask, Frank Darabont, who did a lot of effects scenes in this, went on to direct the Shawshak Redemption and The Green Mile, arguably the two best and most loved Stephen King adaptations. Looking at this, it's not hard to see why. It's obvious from the get go that the people involved in this see it as much more than just a horror sequel. This does what a good sequel should, deepening the backstory in a sensible way and expanding the battle ground between the hero and villain.This also has possibly the best cast of any 80s horror movie with Craig Wasson, Patricia Arquette and Laurence Fishburne all signing up. Of course Wasson and Fishburne were no names back then and Patricia Arquette, like Johnny Depp in Part I was taking on her first movie role. We also have Heather Leagankamp and John Saxon returning and Wes Craven involved in the creative process. Basically this one had no excuses, and as it turned out, didn't need any.The story here is that Freddy Krueger is continuing with his quest to wipe out teenagers and is currently having fun forcing a group of them into a mental institute through recurring nightmares, but his fun is interrupted as he targets Kristen (an adequate performance from Arquette), a girl with the ability to bring others into her nightmares. When Kristen is sent to the mental institute with the other teenagers, Nancy Thompson (Leagenkamp, the hero of the original) and she comes up with a plan to combat Freddy in dreamland by getting Kristen to drag all of the teenagers into one of her nightmares, where they will use their special dream abilities to take down Freddy.We are given further insight into Freddy's origins, he was conceived by a nun who worked at a mental asylum. And Craig Wasson is left in the real world to give Nancy's father (John Saxon) a chance at redemption, and giving the special effects guys the chance to do some walking bone shenanigans.In case you can't tell, I loved this movie. It is a standout not only in the nightmare series, but in 80s horror. There is nudity and sexual references, but this is a good movie that has aged well. Worth watching whether for the first, or hundredth time. "},{"Title":"Welcome to primetime!","Date":"15 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Making up for a lack of consistency in A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge, the third installment in the series switched gears, added more characters, brought some back and gave the legend of Freddy new life. With better productions values, better gore and better actors, it's hard to go wrong. But it's the return of Heather Langenkamp and John Saxon, along with creator Wes Craven that is the icing on the cake. A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 The Dream Warriors is bigger, bolder and badder than it's predecessor and, in short, is the finest sequel in the entire series.Freddy's influence upon the children of Elm Street (and likely, the entire town) has gotten so bad that the children are being locked away in Westin Hills, a psychiatric hospital where the patients are anything but safe. Like the kids in the original Nightmare, this group shares a dream but are united when a maverick doctor, who just happens to be our heroine, Nancy, from the first film, helps them unite and face Freddy. Overcoming their worst fears and finding their own power within the dreams, the teenagers eventually work up the courage to face Freddy one on one. In this film, we are introduced to the Freddy that has become a mainstream icon. This is the joker Freddy, the one that cracks one-liners and offs his prey in some rather ironic ways. For better or for worse, this is the rebirth of Freddy, and the turning point where he became the main character. So, unfortunately, despite some of it's grisly death scenes (human marionette, anyone?), the creepiness factor that even Freddy's Revenge had has all but vanished. No longer relegated to the boiler room, Freddy has become a star. Speaking of stars, however, look out for a young Patricia Arquette and Laurence Fishburne, who would go on to have budding careers after this film was released. Overall, The Dream Warriors is a classic 80's horror movie. It's got great special effects, a great cast, a rocking, if not, dated soundtrack and some of the best gore the series has to offer. Despite turning Freddy into a punchline, this movie helped get the series back on track and set the standard for the rest of the series to come. The Dream Warriors, for any fan of the genre, is a must. "},{"Title":"A fun and frightening entry in the Elm St. series.","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I couldn't take my eyes off the screen for this one. Dream Warriors starts out fast and never really slows down. It has some seriously frightening sequences and the camera work is surprisingly timeless. I couldn't really tell this was an early 90's movie. (Besides the Freddy Kruger snake...) Patricia Arquette shows early signs of greatness with her performance here. Lots of genuine scares and a few cheesy jump-outs. But it ain't Scream. No, unlike Craven's later, weaker effort, Nightmare On Elm Street 3 is not formulaic Hollywood junk. Maybe we can thank Frank Darabont (Director of The Shawshank Redemption) for that...he co-wrote the screenplay with Craven. My only complaint with this one is *mild spoiler* how they bring back Heather Langenkamp and she is supposed to be a 'grown up' but she is clearly about 17 years young. That was ridiculous. 7 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"A Good Film, The Best Sequel","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is such a great accomplishment for the horror genre. When I put this movie on my DVD I thought to myself, Is this gonna be as good as I thought? I mean, the night before I watched Freddy's Revenge which is a film I'd give a 3.5/10 for. After one hour and a half of excellent film-making I thought wow. This delivered everything it wanted to deliver, The Scares, The Dark Humour and a piece of Awesome film-making. I watched all 7 films a year ago, summer of 2007, and to this day I still question myself this Is Dream Warriors better than the original? The original provides more scares, but Dream Warriors has a very good plot.My rating for this would be 9/10, but because this film good be better than the original, which is so rare, It deserves another point.10/10 "}{"Title":"Again Freddy Krueger killing teens in macabre and gruesome special effects","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nowadays, a teens(Patricia Arquette, Jennifer Rubin, Eastman, Gregg, among them) jailed into a psychiatric hospital start to be haunted in their nightmares by scar-faced and dream-hunting Freddy Krueger(Robert Englund), a kind of spectre with horrible burns and large knives. He enters their dreams at will and again kill them. Nancy(Heather Langenkamp), the survivor from the original movie is a psychiatrist, and along with another medic(Craig Wasson) help the troubled adolescents to attempt to stop him . Furthermore, appears a nun who has a dark secret about those who originally burned him to death.This is a reworking upon first film's plot by screenwriters Wes Craven, Frank Darabont and Chuck Russell. It's one of the best sequels from successful original film by Craven. Special effects realized by Dream Quest are the spotlight and startling make up by Kevin Yagher. Young casting and special appearance by John Saxon, Zsa Zsa Gabor and Larry Fishburne. Creepy and imaginatively made musical score fitting to terror movie by Angel Badalamenti-Twin Peaks-. Colorful and atmospheric cinematography by Roy H. Wagner. Followed by a handful of sequels, as 'Dream master'(1988) by Renny Harlin, and 'The dream child'(1989) by Stephen Hopkins, besides a Television series 'The Freddy's nightmares'. The motion picture is professionally directed by Chuck Russell. He's a horror movies expert, such as proved in 'Bless the child',and 'The Blob' and action movies specialist,' Erased',and 'the Scorpion King' and in production, 'Mandrake' . "},{"Title":"Almost Better Than The Original","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I think I was around 6 when I first saw this movie and I can remember my parents watching it with me and they actually apologized to me after it ended because of the gratuitous nudity and the vulgarity. I particularly remember the scene when Philip gets his arteries torn out and becomes Freddy's puppet as he leads him down the halls of the mental hospital. That scene still stands out in my mind today and I still grimace when I watch my DVD copy of this movie from time to time. Patricia Arquette is excellent in this film and Heather Langenkamp is very good as well. It was pointed out in another review of this movie that each of the victims in the movie that Freddy kills have their own unique traits, and Freddy uses these to determine their nightmare atmospheres and their deaths (such as Taryn dying from Freddy giving her an overdose of drugs with multiple syringes). This is one of the things that makes the movie so good. I found that the scene where Freddy as the hot nurse seduces Joey was very amusing. The flying tongues were brilliant as well. The ending I thought wasn't the greatest but the audience needed to know there was going to be another sequel and the light coming on in the popsicle-stick Freddy house was one way to let everyone know Freddy would be back for more. I highly recommend this flick to anyone who doesn't mind bad dreams too much. "},{"Title":"The second best Elm Street movie","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" As many users have said, this is one of the best entries in the franchise, and in fact I'd go as far as to say its the best after the original. While subsequent movies would find Freddy becoming cartoonish and frankly, embarrassing, 'Dream Warriors' balances the dark, tense moments with the lighter-hearted slasher style humor very well.It also has its own merits, rather than regurgitating the original story. Having a team of kids fight Freddy would be done to a much lesser effect in Freddy Vs Jason - the difference here being the kids are likable, and can actually act. You really do find yourself rooting for them.The mental-hospital idea is great, as is each of the teenager's individual traits being used in their dream sequences - i.e. the nerdy kid is a wizard and so on. If you're into the elaborate death sequences, this movie has some of the best including a creepy-as-hell Freddy mannequin and the infamous 'Welcome to primetime, bitch!' head-through-the-TV scene.In fact, one of the only disappointments in this movie is the return of Heather Langenkamp as Nancy. Don't get me wrong, she's a fine actress and its great to see her face-off against Robert Englund once more. It just seems like what should have been one of the movie's highlights is underplayed to the point of anticlimax.'Dream Warriors' isn't without its flaws, but nor is any entry in the Elm Street series. All the same, this is a hugely enjoyable, not too gory horror/thriller flick that pretty much anyone from teens to adults will thoroughly enjoy. "},{"Title":"Not only a cool sequel, but a really good movie as well!","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors(1987) Director Chuck Russell (The Blob remake)***1/2outof****ReviewArguably considered the best of the entire series (excluding one), Dream Warriors takes the series into a more fantasy oriented extravaganza. It's loaded with bigger budget, more characters, more of everything actually. The Nightmare series was on the brink of its multi-.million dollar fame and before Freddy got watered down and basically shifted into his comedian phase we had this movie. The movie has no seemingly apparent interest in part 2 and could easily be the 2 of the series since it expands from 1's origins and never once mentions the events in 2. So this could actually be the REAL sequel to 1, I think 2 was to ahead of the mythology of the series and should have been made after Dream Child (5 in the series). The plot focuses on the remaining Elm Street children all rounded up in the local mental hospital, where the skeptical staff tends to them. It seems Freddy has been alive and kicking and has been still terrorizing dreams. The movie opens with one of the children Kristen (Patricia Arquette) trying desperately to stay awake (by spooning down coffee mix) and making models of the house she's been dreaming of. Well efforts aside, she has a dream and we are basically thrown into a much different approach then the proceeded. The movie is bombarded with SFX, the Elm street house is pimped up to one spooky setting, and the first stalk sequence is a good example of what's instore for the audience. Anyway, after barely getting killed by the Fredster, Kristen joins her fellow survivors in the asylum where quite conveniently joined up by part one's heroine Nancy. She is now a dream doctor (or something) and once realizing what the kids are up against she embarks them on a mission to fight back. It is discovered that Kristen also has a gift of pulling in people to her &#133;consciousness&#133;in order for everyone to dream the same dream. Alas, when doing this Nancy is able to have every dreamer obtain a certain power, which they use to battle Freddy. That is basically the premise as the last half of the movie is a series of event showing some do battle and fail, and some warriors team up to use their efforts while the only kind doctor tries to bury the bones of Freddy in order to stop his reign of terror.I admit I saw this movie at a young age, and doing so I easily invested a lot into the well rounded group of troubled teens. We have the easily likable Kristen, the uber cool tough Chick Taryn (Jennifer Rubin), the endearing mute guy Joey, the sympathetic chubby girl in hopes of seeking fame, the nerdy (but cool) War craft/fantasy obsessed Will(who looks like Waldo from Where's Waldo), and the bad ass Kincaid (who more or less spends most of the movie yelling), I'm missing some of the others but you get the idea. Ebert said in his review that he felt the movie gave him no sympathy for the characters and that was its biggest flaw, well I take that in stride. I had no trouble and it actually hurt when some of the kids died. Having that investment surly made the movie a much more personnel viewing. I cared. The movie also runs rampant with SFX, imagination, cool visuals, slick audio and some whacked out death scenes (with a bitter cruel streak). So many of the movies scenes stick out for me, the Freddy snake, the Freddy puppet, the Freddy TV., the Freddy needle scene, the hallway of mirrors, Freddy's basement and boiler room scenes, the Freddy demise. Any video game fanatic would appreciate the action that goes down (dreamers using skills to combat Freddy), and the mythology laid down in this entry certainly is very video game like. The mythology of Freddy is also more sketched out this time as we learn more of his origins and also discover what happens to the souls of the kids he kills (they are trapped in his chest and appear as a tormented screaming face).It seems the more souls Freddy obtains, the stronger he gets. Angelo Badalmenti (Mullholland Drive, Twin Peaks) is the composer this time around brings one of the most unique scores of the entire series. It's quirky and quite pleasing to the ears. I want it. It brings a touch of class to the movie and compliments the imagery quite nicely. The directing is quite inspiring (considering it's his first movie) and he succeeds in balancing the cheesy jokes with the movies menacing sense of hopelessness almost effortlessly. You can tell the makers must have had a blast with this. I know I would have. The movie has a hopeless and nihilistic vibe that makes the jokes more passable. Some flaws that I have to mention is that the warriors aren't never fully able to use their skills towards the end, whether this was time restraints, money, or intentional it's never clear, but it seems they could have had a bigger fight with Freddy, also after Freddy's eventual demise the movie basically ends to quickly, since I was 98% invested with the characters, I wanted to know the outcomes of all the survivors. It didn't happen, making the last frame somewhat tedious. All in all though, I consider this movie to be quite bad ass, and can proudly hold it's head up as not only a worthy sequel, but a highly entertainment movie in general. This is the sequel I show to unfamiliar Elm Street fans, and on that note dare I say we have a classic on our hands? I do. "},{"Title":"The gem of the series","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A redeeming movie to the Nightmare series is right here. This is my favorite in the whole series. I loved the storyline, characters, kills, you name it. The characters were all very good as misplaced, slightly crazy teenagers. The adults weren't half bad either. Freddy was back to being GOOD in this movie. He had no unknown powers in this film that go unexplained. Heather Langenkamp returns as Nancy. Patricia Arquette starts her acting career with this movie. Laurence Fishburn and John Saxon show up as well, however with not enough camera time. The only things about this movie I didn't like too much were how quickly some characters were killed off and how everyone seemed to know they were dead and didn't even bother to check up on them. I give this an 8/10, good horror/Nightmare movie. "},{"Title":"The best Nightmare sequel by far","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Chuck Russell(Eraser) directs this second sequel to A Nightmare on Elm Street, this time with a hand from the creator of the franchise Wes Craven. What results breathes fresh life into these films and turns into one of the most crowd pleasing sequels of all time.A group of teenagers, all children whose parents vigilantism created Freddy Kruger, are confined to a mental institution. The staff feel that their shared psychosis of 'Freddy Kruger' is all made up. But when the last Elm street children start dying off one by one, it's up to Nancy Thompson and Dr. Gordon to find the secret to Freddy and stop him once and for all.The wild card in this entry is that each of the survivors can use a dream 'power' against Freddy, making them Dream Warriors. Sounds a little corny but it comes off extremely entertaining and fulfilling.Also, a new Freddy-line is born Welcome to Prime Time, B****. "},{"Title":"Arguably the greatest horror sequel ever made ...","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" More often than not, making a sequel to a successful horror film ends up in tragedy. The word sequel got a bad name for itself by the huge amount of stupid and overly pointless horror films that were made to cash in on the success of the first film. But every now and then a sequel is made that does in fact give the impression of being an original and enjoyable movie rather than a blunt and tiresome duplicate. For the Halloween-series, the best sequels are Halloween II and H20. For the Friday the 13th-series, there is probably only one descent sequel and that's the first one namely Friday the 13th part 2. And of all Freddy Krueger-films, the best sequel is without a doubt this film over here A nightmare on Elm Street 3.Seeing as how the second Freddy Krueger-film was a pretty bad movie, the third one had to be a good one again in order to keep this otherwise unique series from dying off. To do that, inventor and director of the first film Wes Craven wrote a captivating story and also served as an executive producer on this movie. Whether its his influence and array of fresh ideas or the thrilling camera-work by director Chuck Russell (most famous for making movies like The mask and Eraser), the third Freddy Krueger-movie isn't just a good sequel ... it's also a great horror movie!The story forgets about the second film since it added nothing new or interesting. And that's why it picks up right where we left off in the first film. Freddy's main opponent and sole survivor Nancy Thompson returns to help out a couple of troubled youngsters at a psychiatric institution who are all having the same horrible nightmares as she once did. Nancy has become a psychiatrist specializing in dream therapy and this knowledge combined with her background will certainly do a lot of good to these teens, but of course other doctors are reluctant and want to stick to their more traditional approaches. One doctor in particular will eventually start thinking outside the box and follow through.Even though this movie is good, it is however slightly different from the first one. Freddy Krueger has started uttering funny one-liners in this movie which, unfortunately so, makes him a little more of a clown than a demon. Not to worry though, because the man with the hat and the claws is still quite terrifying. The murders are also much more inventive and elaborate than ever before. The special effects have improved and the manner in which they want to destroy Freddy for all eternity is by far the most plausible one. The big twist at the end of the movie is sad but satisfying.Virtually all characters in this movie are very entertaining to watch mainly because you get to know all of them pretty well. What's also very good is the acting. Heather Langenkamp and John Saxon both return from the first movie and pick up their characters again. Both have already gotten used to playing these and it shows. Heather looks really beautiful in this movie. The friendly doctor is played by Craig Wasson. He is not really a well-known actor, but his performance in this movie is really good. Then there's also Laurence Fishburne who is certainly most famous for playing Morpheus in the Matrix-movies. He plays the part of Max the janitor; a character who is bound by the rules of the hospital but definitely cares about the patients. Patricia Arquette plays the role of Kristen Parker; the most gifted of all plagued teenagers. Her acting is good. And naturally Robert Englund steals the show as Freddy Krueger! His performance is once again spot-on!In short A nightmare on Elm Street 3 is easily the best of all Freddy Krueger-sequels! Everything feels absolutely right about this movie! There are many colorful characters to be had as well as brutal yet fun-to-watch death sequences and most of all there is a story which guides all of this to its spectacular ending! For all I know, this great movie may very well be even better than the first one! "},{"Title":"Mildly scary","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Freddy just keeps on coming, while not really improving. Wes Craven returns as writer for our new director Chuck Russell this time around. This is once again quite an average movie made interesting only by the return of Heather Langenkamp as heroine Nancy Thompson, and the appearance of a very mysterious nun who begins to explain the myth of Freddy Krueger.Otherwise, A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors is only mildly scary (if that) and just a little gruesome. Sadly it fails to really resolve itself, which can mean only one thing there will be more. Oh please no!Wednesday, September 18, 1991 - Video "},{"Title":"Closer to the first film than all the others...but still not as good as the first","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Rated R for Strong Violence/Gore,Language and for Sex and Drug Content.The original Nightmare On Elm Street is in my Top 5 favorite horror films list.The movie is amazing.Though Freddy is not as cool as he was in the sequels, the movie was original,entertaining and great.The fourth one was pretty good but nowhere near as good as the first.The fifth was slightly better than the fourth.I saw this third film today and I must say.So far its the closest to being as good as the original.Both Nancy and her father from the first film return.Like the other sequels, this one has comedy, mostly from Freddy but it is a very entertaining and interesting sequel.This film is about Nancy who works in a mental hospital for suicidal teens.But really most of the teens have fallen victim to Freddy Kruger who has returned.Each person has a special power, something that they can do in their dreams.With the help of Nancy they are the Dream Warriors.Its up to them to stop Freddy.Nightmare On Elm Street 3 is a great sequel to a great horror film series. "},{"Title":"Freddy's Best! Welcome to prime time, bitch!","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I liked the original Elm Street film but let's face it, most of the sequels are cheap and stupid to the point of being dull. Dream Warriors is the shining exception - it's a brilliantly fun movie which actually has a solid plot and more than passable acting. DW's plot wisely ignores the laughfest Freddy's Revenge and starts off where the first movie ended. A collection of teens, plagued by nightmares all starring the same boogeyman (guess who?), are locked up at a mental hospital where clueless doctors try to get to the bottom of their situation. When Nancy Thompson (a very cute Heather Langenkamp) - the sole survivor of the original Elm Street film - shows up, the kids finally get to talk to someone who knows what they're going through. Too bad for them that Freddy's getting bored with just scaring the kids in their sleep - soon the bodies begin to pile up and our protagonists have to learn quickly how to bend their dreams to their advantage as one of the hospital's doctors learns more about Fred Krueger's dark history...This film is far from perfect but did you really expect a masterpiece? It is a fun, entertaining movie with imaginative death scenes and an awesome use of effects. The film was made by Chuck Russell, who went on to direct the hilarious and equally SFX-crazy Jim Carrey comedy The Mask seven years later, and he does a great job maintaining a consistent mood of humour and creepiness. The acting is the best in the entire series with Heather Langenkamp, Laurence Fishburne, John Saxon and a young Patricia Arquette in the leads. Craig Wasson is mediocre but watchable in his key role as Dr. Neil Gordon. Robert Englund is as deliciously demented as always and has a lot of fun in another over-the-top performance as Freddy.The previously mentioned death scenes are spectacular and hilarious and the dialogue has some truly great one-liners in store for Freddy. Not a movie to be overanalyzed or compared to Kubrick, yet despite a few corny moments, Dream Warriors is still an entertaining and surprisingly re-watchable, wonderfully tongue-in-cheek movie for the Freddy fan in all of us.What a rush! "}{"Title":"Dream Warriors come out and play.","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors 7 out of 10 Eighties nostalgia was in full bloom as I recently watched this third installment of the Freddy Krueger series. Freddy was always a more creative and witty horror icon and Dream Warriors is when he really began to shine. (He is certainly more fun than the grungy, torturing serial killers in today's movies)The dream sequences are fresh and creative and the kids fight back in fun ways. The two standout scenes are the deaf mute who is tongue tied and the sleepwalker who gets a little help from Freddie pulling his strings. (I also have a soft spot for the Harry Potter death scene) The movie reunites some of the original films cast and while Heather Lagenkamp really isn't that good an actress, B movie regular John Saxon who plays her father gives a solid performance.As for new cast members before they were famous stars Patricia Arquette and Lawrence Fishburne handle themselves well. Other cast members (except for Robert England's excellent portrayal of Freddie of course) are passable the only exception being the milquetoast zero charisma performance of Craig Wasson as Lagenkamp's love interest who seems to drag the movie down in every scene.The special effects are excellent (Yes Snake Freddie and the skeleton were a bit off but for 1987 they still outshine many large budget movies of today.) The hair, diet coke cans and music is pure eighties (Dokken? What were they thinking?) I think as a result the film has actually gotten better over time. Never boring, often creative and defiantly fun Dream Warriors (Yes that is a dumb title) is a surprisingly good time at the movies. "},{"Title":"Does Not Eclipse The Original","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the big disappointment of Freddy's Revenge, New Line managed to lure Craven back into the franchise to give the get it back on track. Bringing Nancy back makes this film eminently more watchable than number 2 and the introduction of Kristen was also a fine idea.The setting on this occasion is some type of juvenile centre for people who are deemed as being suicidal. At this particular centre, the roommates all have one thing in common. That's right, they're all being stalked by a disfigured homicidal bastard son of a hundred maniacs. The fact that there was Freddy's Revenge is completely ignored in this film and personally I think this is the right thing to do. The film is initially slow to start but it gathers momentum leading up to an interesting finale where the kids go to battle Freddy on his home turf. They can only defeat him, however, if the bones of his body-stashed away in a secret place-are buried in hallowed ground. What follows is a fight between the kids and Freddy Krueger-on his home turf.A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 isn't the strongest entry in the series but I have viewed it several times since the 80's and it gets a thumbs up from me. Unfortunately this movie also contains the series' penchant for terrible acting. The special effects are nice, and you can tell that they were starting to put some money into the production of these movies, but it still does not eclipse the original in terms of quality. "},{"Title":"Freddy's Back and has targeted kids in a mental hospital","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK A Nightmare on Elm street 3 The Dream Warriors is about Teenagers in a mental Hospital who are having nightmares. So Kristen parker is taken to the hospital because she made a suicide attempt which was really Freddy slicing her wrists with his claw. In comes Nancy Thompson Survivor from A Nightmare on Elm Street. A kid dies from jumping off the roof of the hospital so the doctor's think it is suicide but Nancy and the kids but the kids don't know his name. Next night another Teen is killed by Freddy smashing her head in a Television set. Lets skip to the end They kill Freddy with Holy water and a Cross and thats it now go rent or buy it. "},{"Title":"The Return Of Nancy.","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film is one of the best in the series because it has the return of Nancy Thompson played again and greatly by Heather Langenkamp. I was so excited to watch this one and see her return. This one is also cool because John Saxon returns to play her father and Wes Craven while not directing did write this one and that is why it delves into Freddy's background more than the other movies. I love how we get to see his mother and hear how he was conceived. His mother's back story for me is actually what scares me about this one, when I found out she was ghost I freaked out. I think Robert Englund did another stellar job reprising his main role, if anyone ever tries to fill in his shoes I will go insane. The Dream Warrior idea in this one was good to as it made it where the series could go on and make more movies and make sense. While part 2 is good it does not make any sense. I also enjoy the Dokken music video for this movie Dream Warriors and find it to be one of the best videos for a movie ever. Watch this and enjoy. "},{"Title":"The Imp Of The Perverse","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This marks Craven's writing comeback from the hiccup of Freddy's Revenge.By this time, the simple scares and gross outs were old, and the series had to find its center again; that is, the way Craven uses his writer 'ego' to terrorize us, while his 'alter ego', Freddy, terrorizes the victims within. The 'group' of troubled kids within is composed of exactly the sort of kids he intends to draw as a 'group' - the movie audience. The connection is much more overt than in part I. Poe's 'The Murders in the Rue Morgue' and 'The Pit and the Pendulum' are suggested.This time the movie borrowings include, obviously, ...Cuckoo's Nest. But note also Vertigo (the bell tower) and Jason and the Argonauts (the fight with the skeleton).In this installment, we see Freddy fully lit for the first time...his trademark one-liners are fully developed here, again to simultaneously play with the victims and to manipulate us through comic relief.Where it goes wrong, I think, is from the problem that arises when Craven brings in the doctor, an adult from 'outside the story' (the adult mind has to reject this movie) and repositions him irrevocably within the story through hypnosis. It spoils what could have been a good, ambiguous structure...the kind that part I achieved.But it does have one very clever feature, an expansion on the original idea and fully matured here -- the notion of parallel worlds, and specifically that a defeat in one world spells the character's doom in the other world. Think of it as one of the early movie ingredients for The Matrix series. "},{"Title":"New Life","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The third installment in the Elm Street series is one of the coolest in my opinion. Of course you cannot beat the original and by no means do I think it was better than the first. This one starts off with Kristin building a paper machea house of the original Elm Street house. After a failed suicidal attempt, Kristin is put into a mental hospital. Where she meets other teens that have struggled with nightmares. The hospital brings in Nancy, the girl from the original Nightmare, who helps the teens deal with their dreams. The coolest part of this when the teens enter their dreams they have special powers. The more to challenge Freddy with. There are plenty of great affects in this movie which are some of the greatest parts about viewing Nightmare movies. Plus, we have Freddy's great lines. He is a wise a$$. This movie also reveals many things about the overall story line, which is really cool.Sweet Dreams! "},{"Title":"Sick, disturbing, and completely Awesome!","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you want to see a happy movie about child heroes defeating evil and eating cookies, you're in the wrong place. Probably the best NOES movie out there, this movie picks up where #1 left off.Nancy, now a grown woman, visits a mental hospital in order to help a new batch of teens who are being tormented by Freddy. As is true in most of these movies, the first death is the best. Philip's puppet death is probably the highlight of the movie, so if you can't get hold of the DVD, at least watch it on youtube! Sadly, this movie contains only 1 other good death, involving a head exploding. Killings were very rushed, therefore less bloody.Guys will really like this Stacey Alden goes topless! Sadly, this is the movie in which Freddy starts spewing out crappy 1 liners. This, mixed with a nerd yelling I AM THE WIZARD MASTER! kind of makes the whole thing....... odd to say the least.I say 10/10, it kept me up all weekend! Worth watching, if not just for the puppet death and the boobs! "},{"Title":"A great idea ruined by the use of excessive fantasy","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK, I liked this movie. The acting is good and the plot is much better than part 2. But there was just too much fantasy.I know, Nightmare on Elm Street movies are all fantasy since you're dealing with people being killed in their dreams, but this has unnecessary fantasy. Like that magician guy, the tongue spitting girl, the toy turning into Freddy, the skeleton in the end or the worm-like Freddy that tries to eat Kristen. I found that too much.There were a few good deaths though. The part when he used that guy as a puppet, controlling him by his arteries was awesome!! So was the needle death.I still think that this is one of the stronger sequels, regardless of the fantasy. Avoid part 2, and go straight to this after the original "},{"Title":"Eighties horror at it's best","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" From the time NOES came out to the making of NOES 3 horror had started to change. Jason had hit his peak in Part 4, the TCM sequels had been horrible and Michael Myers had been gone for 7 years. In their place we had movies like Hellraiser, the Lost boys and the House movies. Horror was changing from brutal to supernatural, and New Line decided to add Freddy to that trend as well. So they filled in the blanks of the story by having these kids getting dream powers, so they had a chance to fight Freddy (why no one ever uses dream powers again in the rest of the series remains a mystery). This is the best of the sequels (along with New Nightmare) in my opinion. The cast is the best they had in the series at all, counting great actors and actresses like Larry Fishbourne and a very young Patricia Arquette. The effects are high-class for the time and the deaths we're both inventive and fit the characters perfectly. The loose ends from part one get tied up nicely and it's a fitting farewell to those characters as well. "},{"Title":"Not a good film per se, but fairly entertaining and imaginative.","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Six years after the original Nightmare, Nancy (Heather Langenkamp), now a psychologist, finds that the kids at her workplace are having Freddy (Robert Englund) visit them in their dreams. For a little variation, one of the kids (Patricia Arquette) has a strange ability to bring other people into her dreams. Dreams containing spectacular special effects and imagination --- but not enough.Wes Craven returned to the series as a co-writer, but direction was given to Chuck Russell. This is both a good thing and a bad thing. Good thing Russell has one heck of an imagination, and, in spite of a minuscule five million dollar budget, he got the special effects people to put some great visions on screen in a freaky fashion that's convincing in a comic-bookish way, which is right for the film. Bad thing Russell has no idea how to direct actors to give good dramatic performances or stage scenes where people actually talk to one another.Now, at this point in time, Craven's writing was a little weak dramatically, but that was okay when he directed, because he knew how to make it look good. Russell, however, was new at the whole directing thing, and the dramatic scenes are pretty darn stiff. And the actors don't help. Langenkamp isn't a bad actress, but she's very inconsistent here. In the dream sequences, she's fine, but outside of them, she's a little wooden. Sadly, she out-acts most of the rest of the cast. They all have energy and seem to be putting a little effort into it, but very few actors in this film do anything memorable. Craig Wasson, as another psychologist, is okay but kind of dull. The rest of the teen-agers are one-dimensional at best. Not all of them are bad. Of course, Robert Englund is wonderful as Freddy. John Saxon plays his return about right. And Laurence Fishburne is completely real and convincing. He plays the role with conviction and believability. It's too bad he's only in the film for about five minutes.But the acting isn't the real problem. None of it is bad enough to wreck or even seriously hurt the film. In spite of my complaining, the actors are at least adequate for what's needed. You don't really want any of them to die or anything. The problem is split between the writers (Craven, Russell, Frank Darabont in his pre-Shawshank days, and Bruce Wagner) and director Russell. Now Craven's basic story is good. In fact, it's a really good story that manages to be both a clever and fairly logical way to continue to series. Also, the decision to pretend Part 2 never happened was an excellent idea.However, even though Craven made up a good story, Russell throws his wild imagination into the script, and the writer of the Shawshank freaking Redemption was involved, the script is fairly predictable and two-dimensional in spite of some great ideas. And, as I said, Russell is lost when someone isn't having a nightmare or hallucination or anything like that.But then there are the nightmare scenes, some of which border on brilliant, all of which are pretty darn cool. The one with Freddy turning into a giant snake and slowly eating his prey is pretty intense, and most of the others are quite memorable (such as the guy puppeteer-ed with his own blood vessels, the Wizardmaster or whatever he was, the guy tied to a bed with cut off tongues, and the TV that comes to life very literally). The dreams aren't really scary, but they are atmospheric and freaky. And lots of fun to watch. They don't quite cross the line into truly great sequences, but they're pretty darn good.And for the most part, the special effects work. They aren't totally convincing in a literal sense, but in the context of the film, they work just fine. The skeleton at the end is the only truly failed effect.But good special effects aren't enough to rescue the film. It's still an obvious and wooden horror film that isn't scary. And yet, for some reason, I liked it anyway.It took me a while, but I finally figured out why. The answer is the same answer to many of the flaws in the film Chuck Russell. The atmosphere and energy and imagination of the film all combine to make it work on a B-rate comic book level. In fact, on that level, it works superbly.So, in the end, I guess I had a lot of fun watching the movie. I just had to keep reminding myself to turn my brain off. I probably should have done that in the first place, but I was hoping for an intelligent horror film. Go into this film with the right expectations and you'll love it. Just realize it isn't going to work on the same levels that the original (as well as Wes Craven's New Nightmare) worked. "}{"Title":"Good, but not the best","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This Nightmare on Elm Street movie is good but not the best one. There are many exciting scenes, for example the TV-scene, the bathroom scene or the scene when they try to find Freddy's oddments. But compared to the first Nightmare on Elm Street movie there is not much new. Freddy Krueger tries to kill adolescents while they are sleeping. This time the movie plays in a mental hospital for adolescents, which all have nightmares and are persecuted by Freddy in their dreams. As in One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest the nurse does not listen to her patients which is one positive element of the movie and criticizes society. The music has also been better in the first movie, the special NOES theme is only played twice. All in all you can say that it is exciting but the first movie is better. "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels in the series!","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors ranks right up there with the first film. Set 6 years after the first film, the Elm street Kids have been committed to a mental hospital since no one believes them about Freddy. After a new patient named Kristen (Patrica Arquette) is admitted to the ward from what appears to be a suicide attempt, we are re-introduced to the survivor of the first film, Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp). Nancy now works at the hospital as a dream therapist and knows that the kids are being tormented by Freddy. However the other doctors are skeptical, including Dr. Gordon (Craig Wasson). After several brutal deaths, Nancy finally convinces Dr. Gordon that Freddy is real and the kids are in real danger. Nancy explains to the kids who Freddy is and why he is after them and how she barely survived being killed by him several years before. Nancy also tells them that they all have a unique dream power among themselves and that if they enter the nightmare together and combine their powers, they can defeat Freddy. However, once they arrive, Freddy starts using their weaknesses against them and it looks like this is the last dream these kids will ever have.Let me just say that this is my favorite sequel in the NOES series. Apart from the first this is the scariest most creative film. The beautiful Heather Langenkamp reprises her role of Nancy and the one and only Robert Englund plays the diabolical Freddy Krueger. Although this film can drag at some points and marks the point of Freddy having one too many one-liners, I recommend this film to anyone who enjoyed the first film and likes to see movie characters die in morbid, yet creative ways. "},{"Title":"The Best Sequel In The Series","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare On Elm Street Part 3 Dream Warriors is about a group of sleep-deprived teenagers in a mental institution for minors. All of these kids claim that their dreams are being haunted by Freddy Kruger, and that they refuse to sleep because of it. When it gets to the point where some kids are killing themselves in order to keep from dreaming, they call in an expert on the subject, Nancy Thompson. When Nancy arrives, and realizes that Freddy is indeed still alive and attacking these kids in their dreams, she decides that it is up to them to stop this evil being once and for all.This is the movie that changed the Nightmare On Elm Street series completely, some feel that it was for the best, others think that it ruined it. This is the first Nightmare film to have a heavy mixture of both comedy and horror. I feel that adding comedy into the mix was the best thing for the series. The Halloween series proved that a slasher series can only stay scary for so long before it starts becoming old and annoying.Another advantage that this film had over Nightmare 2 was that it was co-written by Wes Craven, one of the masters of horror who wrote and directed the original Nightmare On Elm Street. When Craven wrote the screenplay he disregarded the second film to an extent and focused more on making it a sequel to the original Nightmare film. As much as I like the second one, I think that in the long run that was a good idea as well. Furthermore, this movie has a great cast. Heather Langencamp, Craig Wasson, Patricia Arquette, Lawrence Fishburne, and of course, Robert Englund as Freddy Kruger.This movie is without a doubt worth watching. It isn't as scary as the first two Nightmare films, but in my opinion it is a better movie than the second one. (And all of the other sequels) "},{"Title":"The best Nightmare on Elm Street sequel","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors is the best Nightmare sequel of all of the rest. It really explains nearly everything about Freddy, including bits of his background information.The special effects were pretty good for its time, and also alittle freaky. Freddy's makeup was almost as good as in the first film, and there is a great look at Freddy's hellish dream world.The actors & actresses were good, too. I particularly liked Patricia Arquette's performance as the troubled teenage patient at the mental ward. Fans of the first Nightmare film will love to see Heather Langencamp's return to this movie. John Saxon also returns, but has a smaller role than from the first movie.Best of all, there is no mention about the awful second Nightmare movie. I am very glad that the filmmakers of this movie didn't put in any reference to the 2nd movie (other than Freddy himself). That means this movie truly sticks to the first film's rules and ideology, and remained true to the first movie.That being said, this is the best Nightmare on Elm Street sequel. Although not as good as the original, this sequel makes use of referring to the first movie and not the messed-up second movie.I give this movie an 9/10.P.S Look out for the sexy Stacy Alden in this movie! "},{"Title":"Good if you like horror, Great if you love Freddy","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm a big Freddy fan, always have been, always will be, so I watch his films whenever I see there on. In Dream Warriors we are introduced to the Krueger we've all come to know and love. He's still a menace, still brutal, and finally he gets to make some pretty good bad guy off the cuff remarks, (Welcome to prime time bitch!) that are now his trademark.The movie itself, for when it was made, how much it was made for and every other aspect you need to take into consideration is pretty good. I wasn't expecting academy award winning performances from Patricia Arquette or Larry Fishburne by any means, but I was expecting a little more than what I got, still, good for what it is.The story itself is probably the smartest idea the series has come up with, and is now all but overdone. The Dream Warriors are the last of the Elm St. kids, and they've all ended up in an insane asylum being treated for what the doctor's call a group psychosis. Guess who just happens to be doing groundbreaking research in the field of psychiatry and dreaming? Heather Nancy Thompson Langenkamp. Yep, Freddy's first fling is back in the mix and she wants to train the kiddies to fight back in their dreams. Each child has a different personality, there's a stereotypical angry black youth. A dungeons and dragons type nerd in a wheel chair. The tough but confused crazy, ex-addict girl. The goody two shoes blonde that plays the part of the damsel in distress. The I want to be an actress in Hollywood girl, but I'm too chubby and not pretty enough. And of course your average everyday bad-boy with greaser haircut. Cookie Cutter stuff, I know, but it works.Each of them discovers they have a unique power in their dreams, one that they can use to fight Freddy. Yeah...The movie is formulaic and tired, but it gets the job done. I keep saying it gets the job done, or that it works, because it genuinely does. If you're a fan of the series at all you'll appreciate this. The most interesting aspect of the movie itself is the subplot between Dr. Neil Gordon (Craig Wasson) who is helped by a mysterious nun to come to terms with the existence of Freddy, and also how to destroy him. I won't say much more because I don't want to spoil anything for anyone.This film also answers some questions you may have. Where did Freddy come from? Why does he do what he does? etc. While in later installments these are expanded on, changed maybe, and easily misinterpreted, you'll enjoy the bastard son line, and the story regarding Freddy's birth.In Dream Warriors we have the first real Freddy-centric film. The kids play a big part in it, and it's supposedly uplifting, yadda yadda. Freddy really isn't on the screen that much, but everyone, and everything is revolving around his development. You can smell the creators of the series smiling at the soon to be cult icon they've created, and you feel how giddy they are that now he's got this almost lovable personality underneath all the burn damage and well, murder. I'm a Freddy guy, I am, I admit it. I think he can take out anyone in the horror world, including that retarded hockey mask wearing, machete wielding gorilla from Crystal Lake. In closing, if you're like me a devout Freddy guy who enjoys his movies no matter what, because you can't help but cheer for him, yeah, go rent it, go buy it, anything, something. Just watch it. If you don't like Freddy as much as I do, and if you kind of sort of watch horror films without much heart, go rent something like Friday the 13th part 8, it's just as funny as Dream Warriors, but for an entirely different reason. Sweet dreams everybody! "},{"Title":"Wes Craven doesn't have to be involved","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't think Wes craven needs to be involved. Sure the first and last nightmares were probably the best of the series, but all of the others were good in their own little ways. Well, maybe not 2 and 5 but for the most part each movie was just as fun for me to watch as the original. The fact that the kids all have dream powers in the third movie shouldn't be thought of as stupid, but you should see that as funny. it puts a different twist on the movie and makes it something else all together. kinda like a horror/comedy. And beings that this one was successful, it opened the door for the next highest grossing of the films. The series didn't go on the down slide until 5. so all in all, the whole series was excellent and i recommend them to everyone. "},{"Title":"Never kill the stories hero","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Overall, Nightmare 3 was a decent, if unremarkable entry into the Elm Street series. Freddy Kruger dispenses with the usual batch of teens with shift and cold heartedness. You even have to like some of the tongue in cheek humor in the film. It doesn't take itself too seriously, yet still provides enough chills and thrills to satisfy the horror film fan. Bringing back John Saxon and Heather LagenKamp was a brilliant move. How ever, Freddy needed a face character to feed off. Someone to be a foil to his grand schemes. Nightmare 3 had that going, and it helped the film. But, at the end, everything that was right about the film, suddenly went wrong. Killing off Nancy Thompson at the end was, without a doubt, perhaps one of the dumbest mistakes ever made in film history. No, it is THE dumbest mistake ever made. Sherlock Holmes needed his Professor Moriaty, Luke needed his Darth Vader. You need that clear battle between good and evil. Having a struggle between Nancy and Freddy take place over the next few films would have brought a justifiable end to the series. This all went out the window because some amateur, some Nimrod who does not understand what makes a strong story killed off the only character that should have had the last go around with Freddy. Hey, i wouldn't have mind if the series ended the way Sherlock Holmes did, with both Kruger and Thompson going to death with each other as Holmes and Moriaty did in the series. That would of been a better end to the series. Instead, we have to go over the top, and push implausibility with 4 and 5 until Freddy was dead. Alas, what should of been never was, and the heroine was killed off way before her time. "},{"Title":"Not Too Bad At All","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare On Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors isn't a bad sequel at all. After the atrocious Freddy's Revenge I didn't think this would be too good. I was wrong. Heather Langenkamp returns as Nancy Thompson and Patricia Arquette and Laurence Fishburne are some well known actors.This one follows Craven's a little more by returning to the original story. The last teenagers on Elm Street are now in a psychiatric hospital because everyone thinks their insane. The parents think their trying to commit suicide but they are actually having nightmares of Freddy Krueger. No one believes them but Nancy, the original survivor.This is a well done sequel. The acting is quite good for this horror movie, the dialogue interesting and the directing pretty good.The effects were a bit shoddy and the ending was a little cheesy with the skeleton fight but apart from that it was a pretty good sequel. Quite rare these days. 3/5. "},{"Title":"1,2 Freddy's comin' for YOU...","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was a great movie that kept me entertained the whole way through. This is the third installment of the Nightmare on Elm St(NoES) series. The basic plot of this movie is a child killer(Freddy Krueger), who was burnt alive by the parents of the town of Springwood comes back to get his revenge; by killing the remaining children of Springwood in their dreams. Some may think this is a stupid idea, but it made 6 sequels(with probably more to come) and 1 spin off, so Wes Craven(the original director and writer) must have done something right, because even to this day Freddy is loved and feared by many people all over the world. The amounts of scenes that didn't entertain me were slim to none.This most likely was the NoES that Freddy's comedy began. In this movie Freddy had heaps of hilarious one-liners. The kills were reasonably gruesome while still entertaining and interesting. The death scenes were quite suspenseful, and even though you thought that you knew that Freddy was going to attack his dreaming victims you were never quite sure...Welcome to Prime Time BITCH-Freddy Krueger-NoES 3 Dream Warriors. "},{"Title":"Okay, but cut the jokes Freddy.","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Noes 3 was a very good rental or even purchase if you so desire. I had seen Noes 1 first and rented 3 to be the second one that I watched. The beginning was great and even semi-scary with the sink coming alive and cutting Kristen. When I heard Freddy utter his first joke I realized that this movie was not going to be much like I thought. It was good but just not good enough because Fred talked way too much. The characters were not that likable, aside from Nancy. The nun plot was a little over played too. In closing you should see this movie if you are interested in the series like I am or wan't to watch a fun semi-scary flick that will just make you wan't to watch the first more then ever. "}{"Title":"Excellent Sequel, the best one","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't understand why users rated the movie like a medium one (5,8 out of 10), for me it's the best nightmare on elm street ever. First at all, Patricia Arquette is wonderful even at 17, she is perfect in her role of the poor little crazy girl chased by an awful and terrible killer. The story is really good and we learn who is freddy (even if the 4 is better for the origins) and who is her mother. (oh my god) Nancy returns (she was so good in the first one) and is now a kind of doctor who helps the kids in a psychiatric hospital. But the best one is still Robert Englund as Freddy, funny, psychotic and extremely entertaining. So watch it if you love the series or if you are just a rookie. "},{"Title":"I think you are gonna like it.","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It may not be as good as the original or Wes Craven's New Nightmare, but this is better than most in this series. This is where the series became what it is remembered as gory and funny. Freddy morphs into a much more one liner oriented, although the second nightmare did feature the You've got the body,(rips flesh of brain) I've got the brain! scene. The vague superhero aspect helps this movie stick out, but character and plot are a little lacking. I love the cheesy Bastard son of a thousand maniacs monologue. Robert Englund, Heather Langenkamp, and John Saxon are joined by a fair cast including young Patricia Arquette, Lawrence Fishburne, and Jennifer Rubin. The special effects, such as fairly phallic Freddy, PinochiFreddy, and the boob tubed are still very enjoyable. While this is a more franchise friendly Freddy, this movie is still faithful and fun. "},{"Title":"Sorry kid! I don't believe in fairy tales! A great Nightmare movie!","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The third installment of the popular Elm Street series is a great one and maybe the most entertaining of the series. 3 may or may not pick up where 2 left off. The characters from 2 are never mentioned and since 2 was not welcomed warmly by the Elm Street crowd it may be likely that they acted as if two had not happened. So viewing one you can go straight 3 and not miss anything, though 2 is one of the funniest movies you will ever see. Now a girl, Kristen Parker (Arquette) is being tormented by Freddy in her nightmares. Slitting her wrist she is put into a mental hospital where all the young patients have something in common ..... Krueger has been stalking them too. Soon Nancy (Langenkamp) from part one returns, but is now an assistant who is working on groundbreaking studies in dreams. Dr. Gordon is skeptical but has to deal with her. Kristen pulls her into her dreams and finds out that she was once stalked by Freddy. As the kids get knocked off one by one, Nancy brings them together and talks Kristen into bringing them all into her dream. In their dreams they are able to now poses powers that they only dreamed of. In my dreams I am the Wizard Master. Pure Cheese! To funny! Freddy breaks up the party and captures Joey. Nancy and Gordon are fired, but have to rescue the kids from Freddy. Dr. Gordon having talked with a nun finds that Freddy was the son of a hundred maniacs and that he must rest in peace if he is to be defeated. They track down Nancy's dad (John Saxon) so they can find the bones and bury him. Nancy takes the kids into the dreams to get Joey and find Krueger while Gordon her dad find dem bones. The battle ensues in the dreams some of the kids are killed, some in rather funny situations. Sorry kid! I don't believe in fairy tales! Freddy's bones come to life and kill Nancy's dad but the Dr. Manages to pour holy water on him and defeat him. Not before Nancy is killed.A Nightmare On Elm Street 3 is probably the best one to watch in the series. Part one may have better writing, but this one is great to watch with more action and better special effects. Freddy as a large worm and a puppet doll are great. This is also began Freddy's great one liners before he iced a person. Plenty of funny ones some that can't be mentioned here. Probably the best idea of the movie was bring back Langenkamp to play Nancy again and link here with the kids. Saxon is appreciated as well. Arquette is awesome and cute, it's to bad she didn't come back for part 4, but who could blame her? Special appearance by Dick Cavett and Zsa Zsa Gabor are funny, but are there for no reason. The story roles along with no boredom and great kills to boot. Especially the kid being played as a puppet by Freddy and with out a doubt when the lame Wizard Master getting his. Hahahah what a dork. For fans of heavy metal, me being one, the soundtrack is great. Dokken did the entire movie. Dream Warriors and Into The Fire are among their best songs. Overall as a horror movie goes this is a 10 big time, don't miss it, cause they don't make them like this anymore! "},{"Title":"DOKKEN rocks the soundtrack","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" There is no argument that this picture was the best sequel in the series. Chuck (Eraser) Russell sits in the directors chair and he gets assistance on the script by Wes Craven, Frank (Shawshank Redempiton) Darabont and Bruce Wagner. For the third installment, Freddy preys upon a group of dysfunctional teens who are all at a psychiatric ward. There, Freddy haunts these teens in their dreams. The kids then turn to help from previous survivor of the original Nancy (Heather Lagenkamp) Thompkins. Nancy, along with doctor Neil (Craig Wasson) Gordon show a genuine interest in helping these kids battle the evil Fred Kreuger. Dr. Gordon's character is really played by a believable Craig Wasson. This guy had me in awe the entire way throughout the movie. Nightmare 3 sets the precedent with all the Freddy humor and one-liners that follow throughout the series. It was something that was first implemented on this picture and it continued on with Freddy in the future killing sprees. There are also some real good fatalities on this picture, none of which I am about to spoil for you folks. Above all, Dokken cranks out the gem of Dream Warriors. This song still blows me away each and every time I hear it. George Lynch, who is the guitarist for Dokken, along with Jeff (bassist) Pilson, collaborated to write this song. And while all of Lynche's guitar solos are awesome, his work on Dream Warriors is particularly searing. Along with Dream Warriors, Dokken also adds Into the Fire on the soundtrack. This song is played while Patricia Arquette is building the paper house house in the beginning of the film. Arquette's mother yells at her to turn down that music or else she'll wake the entire neighborhood. Such a statement deserves the penalty of death. Hey, where do you keep the bourbon? Although Into the Fire was not originally composed for the Dream Warriors picture, this song can still crank with the best of 80's rock. For those that are interested, Into the Fire can be found on the Tooth and Nail album. All in all, this is one of the BEST horror films to emerge from the 80's horror genre. I'd surely put it on my top 10 list for the all the reasons I mentioned. Go and check it out, and if it's not for you too bad! 10/10 "},{"Title":"3rd nightmare the best?","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" nightmare on elm street part 3 is easily the best film in the series! the story is fresh and exciting and the acting is shockingly good for a horror film. after freddy 3 the others just got worse, boring story lines and poor acting, freddy became a joke and his killings were nothing new or shocking. freddy verses jason is a top quality film were the horror legend got to rule again, teasing his pray before killing them and mocking them before slashing them to pieces. not only is this nightmare the best for its story-line it also has some pretty good special effects, it also gave us a glimpse of how good larry fishburne is as an actor( even if his part is small ), patricia arquette also made her film break-thru. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!Definitely the second best in the series, part 3 brings back Nancy, the heroine of the first movie, and happily disregards the events of the awful part 2.Featuring a good cast- Langenkamp, Saxon, Fishburne, Arquette, and a good script by Frank Darabont, Part 3 should not be seen as a rubbish sequel as it has many good points and few bad ones.Nancy has become a therapist/social worker for disturbed kids, and strangelyspecialises in traumas brought around by nightmares and fantasies. The film is situated mostly in a home for these kids, and Nancy becomes a group leader to try to discuss there problems. At first they do not trust her, but she reveals that, unlike the rest of the doctors, she believes that they are not experiences some kind of group psychosis, and that she too has experienced what they have. It becomes apparent that Freddy is back, and is stalking more kids. The key to stopping Kruger this time lies with the gifts each kid has, a skillonly they can bring into the dream world with them whether it be great strength or magic powers. However, the most powerful gift belongs to Alice, who can bring outsiders into her dreams, and therefore they can all fight Freddy together. Meanwhile, another Doctor along with Nancy's estranged father are looking for Kruger's bones to give them a proper burial.Yes the plot is wildly imaginative, but that is what made the original original. Again the kids are alone and misunderstood, but it is Nancy who teaches them to have confidence in their own strengths and not be afraid. The film has many excellent effects, the series beginning to show a reliance on gore, with several of the deaths being wonderfully gruesome and effective. There are a decent amount of scares, some good tension is built up, and unlike the other films, we grow to care about these characters and want to see who, if any, will survive. Englund once again steals the show, but the one liners are starting to make an appearance-the more we get to know the bad guy, the less scary he becomes, and soon we are rooting for him and forgetting that he is a child killing paedophile. But luckily this film doesn't go too far down that road. Overall a very good horror film, but with so many ideas it could have been longer with those ideas and characters explored more.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Freddy got fingered","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" As a 5 year old was the first time I remember seeing 'Freddy' in a monstrous snake-like cinematic trailer appearing to be swallowing a girl on the box. Very rapidly those memories disappeared until a couple of years later I plucked the courage to rent 'Dream Warriors' from my local video store, I watched it but could not follow it.But after viewing it the second time round as an adult I came to a conclusion that its second in the series only to part 1.The film from start to finish sticks to its sub-heading 'Dream Warriors' and does not go astray.Set in the fictitious Springwood town of Ohio. A bunch of secluded and misunderstood 18 year olds have fallen prey to the wrath of child killer turned dream demon Freddy Krueger. The mental/psychiatric asylum backdrop oozes out of every scene. But this time round these tormented youngsters will be more than a match for 'Freddy' who loses his dark sinister image to bogeyman who is an idiot and will be ridiculed along the way. What follows is a series of cat-and-mouse encounters between Freddy VS united teenagers/sympathetic doctors/divine intervention.The movie has some very memorable fantasy/supernatural set-pieces,decent script,crisp editing and more importantly a very-very underrated star-cast i.e. Fishburne, Langenkamp,Arquette, Wasson and a welcome return of Heather Langenkamp(Nancy).The theme of Good v Evil and fighting for a cause enhance its universal appeal. Dare I say the film has a feel good factor especially if you suffered from Insomnia while you were in your teens.Not ground-breaking like part 1 but still an excellent horror film let alone one of the best in the series. Among my personal favourites 8/10!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the best in the series","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The third part of the Freddy Krueger's series is one of the best in it (with parts 1 and 7). The reason of this is the epic story and the character of Freddy, who is really cool in this part. For the first time in the series, there is real battle between Freddy and his victims. This time, the kids try to control their dreams and to become powerful in them, fighting with the demon, who is killing them. But Freddy is very sinister and hard to beat... I think that the best murders in the series are in this movie, they are both scary and funny. Also the film has an excellent ending, best in the series so far and it is a pity than the next movie actually ruins it.Overall, one of the best horrors ever made. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable sequel ***SPOILERS***","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After what appears to be a Suicide attempt,Kristien Parker(Patricia Arquette) is sent to a mental Hospital.Among her,There are other kids having similar Dreams,Joey(Rodney Eastman)Kincaid(Ken Sagoes)Taryn(Jennifer Rubin)Phil(Bradley Gregg)Will(Ira Heiden) And Jennifer(Penelope Sudrow).All the kids have the same problemFreddy Kruger.There doctors,Dr.Neil Gordan(Craig Wasson)Dr. Elizabeth Simms(Priscilla Pointer) And original Nightmare on Elm Street survivor,Nancy Thompson(Heather Langenkamp).She knows there have to use Kristiens Gift,The power to pull people into her dreams,Against Freddy.Alos,Neil is seeing a strange Nun,Who has to do with Freddys past...Great sequel has Amazing acting,Really cool Freddy scenes,And Great kills and gore.Plot is good enough,Some clever Freddy One Liners,And great dialog.I liked the wholeEverone has a dream Power concept,And the Dream scenes were great,And I really liked the end,And the opening scene.This movie really showed how mean Freddy is.  "},{"Title":"Great Sequel ***Possible Spoilers***","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Kristen Parker(Patricia Arquette) Is sent to a mental Hospital after what appears to be a Sucidie attempt.There,she's meets Other kids,Kincaid(Ken Sagoes),Joey(Rodney Eastman),Taryn(Jennifer Rubin),Phillip(Bradley Gregg),Will(Ira Heiden),And Jennifer(Penelope Sudrow) Who have the same problem as herFreddy Kruger(Robert Englund).There Docters,Neil Gordan(Craig Wasson),Elizabeth Simms(Priscilla Pointer) And Original survivor Nancy Thompson(Heather Langenkamp.It doesn't take Nancy long to find out about Kristien's strange gift,That she can haul people into her Dreams.As The murders begin,She knows that they must use this gift to try and defeat Freddy.Also,Neil is seeing a strange Nun,Sister Mary Helan(Nan Martin)Who may know Freddys secret...A Great sequel,With good special effects and awesome murders.Good direction,Plot,And Acting,And clever Freddy One liners.My favorite sequel,With some cool charters,and it was good to see Nancy again.The opening scene was really good,And Freddy seem's really mean in this one.Great Dream scenes to,And I also liked Freddy's background story.  "}{"Title":"Enjoyable Sequel","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After what appears to be a Suicide attempt,Kristien Parker(Patricia Arquette)Is sent to a mental Hospital.There are other kids like her there,Including Kincaid(Ken Sagoes)Joey(Rodney Eastman)Taryn(Jennifer Rubin)Phil(Bradley Gregg)Will(Ira Heiden)And Jennifer(Penelope Sudrow).There DoctersNeil Gordan(Craig Wasson)Dr. Elizabeth Simms(Priscilla Pointer) And Survivor of the Original,Nancy Thompson(Heather Langenkamp).She is the only one who know's That the man in there Dreams,Freddy Kruger(Robert Englund)Is real and can physically hurt them.Neil is also seeing a strange Nun,Sister Mary Helena(Nan Martin) around,Who also seems to disappear...Dream warriors is my favorite Nightmare on Elm Street sequel.The acting is good,Especially from Robert Englund,Nancy thompson,And Patricia Arquette ,The dialouge is good,The plot,Again good,And the murders are cool,And gory.I liked how it ended.It gave some good info on Freddy,And the liked Kirstiens gift,Which I will not reveal.The Dream scenes were also very imaginative,And the Special effects are good.  "},{"Title":"The bastard son of a hundred maniacs... is back!","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  IMDb mark 8Freddy Krueger, 6 years after having failed to terminate Nancy Thompson on his first attempt, comes back to kill the remaining children who lived on Elm Street, and finds more than he bargained for when Nancy comes back to help those poor, institutionalized kids. This is basically the plot of 'A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors', which is a very entertaining horror film, although not too scary for the connoisseur. I don't get why Freddy, who killed basically just little kids when he was alive, now only goes for teenagers, but, hey, what can you do?-Gore Pretty nice, I have to say. The way Freddy dealt with Phillip and his first attempt on Kristen were very cool. Starting with this film, however, Freddy's face isn't shown only sporadically and in dim light anymore, so its scary appearance had to be toned down. 27/30-Suspense The nightmare scenes are scary, to a certain extent, the film isn't. But the sound effects help build some tension. 11/15-Ending I liked the ending, very much. Of course, taste varies. 14/15-Death Scenes Freddy's count in this film is higher than in the previous two films. Of course, it could have easily been even higher. The endings for his victims are as ingenious as always. And I have two favourites from this one, not just one; I think both Phillip's and Jennifer's deaths are great. 11/11-Atmosphere The atmosphere in the regular scenes is much like a TV movie. But whenever Freddy gets involved, it really picks up. The dream world is great, as usual. 8/10-Nudity Marcie, one of the nurses, is briefly topless. 2/10-Cast This has, arguably, the best cast of all Nightmare on Elm Street movies. Patricia Arquette, Robert Englund, Craig Wasson, Laurence Fishburne, John Saxon, Heather Langenkamp and Jennifer Rubin are all in this film, and there is also a very brief cameo appearance by Zsa Zsa Gabor. Can you spot it? 5/5-Genre This is a horror film. 4/4-->Overall 82/100Starting with this sequel, Freddy began to show his face more. But, apparently, he got a good make-over before doing so, too. Could he have been shown for as much time as in this film, or any of the following ones, with the same face he had in the first movie? Sadly, I'll never know. From Swordlord, 3 swords up!  "},{"Title":"Incredibly Scary","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'll start by saying that I'm not easily scared by horror movies.  Very rarely do they scare me in the slightest, but I love them.  I'm either enjoying seeing kills in original ways or looking for one that may scare me. This movie is the only movie in history to scare the bejesus out of me.The movie focuses, of course, on Freddy Krueger, a madman who terrorizes and kills teenagers in their dreams.  He can control every little detail of the dreams, making him nearly invincible.  Freddy is easily one of the best horror movie villains ever; he even ranked all the way up at #51 on some magazine's 100 Greatest Movie Characters.  He's scary, he's got an awesome weapon, great one liners, and is truly a maniac.The movie takes place six years after the original.  Nightmare 2 took place a year before this, and wasn't great.  For Nightmare 3, they continue almost directly from the first one's story.  Teenagers start attempting suicide, with dreams of Freddy being their common link.  These teens are all checked into a mental asylum, where their doctors are clueless.  Then these teenagers start dying in their sleep.  Hope comes in the form of Nancy Thompson, the hero of the first movie returning as a dream analyst.  She knows Freddy all too well, and he recognizes her as well.  With help from Kristin, a girl with the gift to pull people into her dreams, Nancy leads a group of teens into a final battle with her old foe.I think this is the best movie in the series.  It's the scariest by far, as there are more and less predictable deaths.  The first death scene is one of the scariest and most disturbing you'll ever see.  Robert Englund really plays around with the Freddy character, making him more maniacal and terrifying than ever before.  It's also the darkest movie in a very dark series.  Several of the deaths are shockers, and the locations are grimier and creepier.  It was sadly, the last scary movie in the series, though I found them all entertaining enough.  But if you're a horror fan, give this a try.  And if you scoff at this being unscary, think about your dreams, and how many similar dreams you've had.  We've all dreamed we're falling.  Not everyone wakes up.  One character proves that.  Finally, if that's not enough for you skeptics, these movies were based on true events.Sweet Dreams. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good - Spoilers Possibly","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know if I was greatly impressed with it but I thought it was pretty good. Nancy makes a stunning return to Elm Street to help out the kids at Western Hills Mental Facility with dealing with their dreams. The other doctors seem to just think it is weird that they are dreaming about the same 'boogeyman' and that they are just taking one patients dreams way to far. It becomes a free for all whenever Nancy discovers that Kristens powers to drag other people into her dream could either mean death, or living through to the next night. As Nancy convinces another doctor about the kids dreams, they both get fired and have to let the kids fend for themselves until Kristen is thrown into the 'quiet room' where she is getting tireder by the second. Nancy runs to the resue and units them to fight Freddy. While Nancy is off playing General with the patients, the other doctor, Neil is making Nancys father show him where they put Freddys remains so they can buried on hollow ground. Nancys father, which is an alcoholic now but still is the sherriff in town, really could careless about her, since he blames his wifes death on her. Most of the patients die during the final battle with friend, including Nancy surprisingly, but Freddy gets whats coming to him with his remains being buried on hollow ground and a little splash of holy water can't do any wrong either. Suddenly, Freddy is killed along with the only survivor off Elm Street making you wonder, what can possibly top that?No the greatest but not the worst I have seen with Freddy. I thought number one and Freddys Dead was the best before Freddy vs Jason came along, but hey, I haven't been studying horror films for the past decade to know any better.5.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An HUGE improvement on part 2","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"      Now it's been two years and somehow FREDDY is more evil,the effects are more better,and Nancy is back.    The last of the Elm street kids are at psychiatric care for nonsleep.And FREDDY has an home avangtage of killing each kid,but guess who's back.Nacy,and she teaches the rest of the kids to fight FREDDY in thier dreams.Together they are the DREAM WARRIORS,who dare to dream and fight FREDDY in his own turf.    Because of this,FREDDY's fanbase has increased.This is also the begininning of the wise cracking FREDDY.This film not only has go effects for it's time,but has some great cameos byDick Cavett,Zsa Zsa Gabor and John Saxon.Chuck Russell(The Mask,Eraser,Bless the Child)did a perfect job at directing and bring the series to a new leaf with the help of Wes. "},{"Title":"Entertaining *Spoilers*","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The third installment of the Elm Street series is the third strongest out of the seven films (the original and new nightmare being the best).  The fact that Wes Craven and Frank Darabont helped write the story played a big part in this.  The direction is okay, however the scenes that should be extremely tense are only slightly so, despite the dark atmosphere (e.g. when Patricia Arquette is walking through the house at the start and the individual battles with Freddy).  Which leads nicely to my next point.  The encounters with Freddy are too brief, e.g. the knife fight in the back alley could have been a good sequence but Freddy wins too easily.  This and the lack of genuine scares taint the overall film, which, however is not without merit.  The atmosphere is dark, there are a few comical moments, (although Freddy had not yet become the comical caricature that he did in later NOES films) and the overall story is interesting.  All in all this is a good film but ultimately Freddy had already lost his ability to shock and scare.6/10  "},{"Title":"Not bad!","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nightmare 3 is a lot better than I had expected it to be. The plot idea is really quite clever. Nancy's return to help others fight off Freddy in their dreams is probably a better idea than a lot of people would ever give this movie credit for.I haven't seen all the Nightmare movies yet, but I'm guessing that Part 3 is one of the better sequels in the series, with the exception of the seventh film. I'm one that feels Wes Craven's New Nightmare is the best of the series overall. My rating for Nightmare 3 7/10 "},{"Title":"The best of the nightmare on elm street movies!!!","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing the original nightmare on elm street several times as well as the 3rd installment, I can safely say that this one is slightly better than the original, although many will disagree with me.  You have to appreciate and give credit where credit is due obviously to the creation of Nightmare on elm street by wes craven due to the fact that it was very cutting edge for its time and revolutionized the horror genre, great concept, but Nightmare on Elm Street 3 takes its to a whole other level by building and elaborating on the first one which I believe simply just layed the ground work.  First of all, Wes Craven wrote the third installment unlike the rest of the nightmare sequels which are all absolutely awful, thus explaining why this one picks up where part one left off bringing back the original cast of characters to once again do battle with Krueger.  This one has so much more to offer than the first in regards to the actual orgin of freddy krueger and why he is what he is.  The special effects are state of the art for the time and still hold up, the acting is superb from patricia arquette and the movie is the most entertaining from start to finish compared to the other nightmare installments, excellent and creative ways used to kill the children of elm street in this one, with a killer soundtrack by Dokken, great piece of nostalgia from the killer 80's metal era.  If youre a nightmare fan, this ones for you, see the original first, skip part 2, watch this one, and forget the ones after this one even exsist. 9 out of 10. Great!!! "},{"Title":"Sporting startling effects and a clever script, this is neck in neck with the first NIGHTMARE","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nightmare on Elm Street 3, A Dream Warriors (1987) Heather Langenkamp, Craig Wasson, Patricia Arquette, Robert England, Ken Sagoes, Rodney Eastman, Jennifer Rubin, Bradley Gregg, Ira Heiden, Larry Fishburne, John Saxon, D Chuck Russell. The sole survivor, Nancy (Langenkamp), of Elm Street teenagers (from first NIGHTMARE) returns as a psychiatrist who takes the position at a hospital specializing in dream therapy. She meets sleepless teen Arquette, who possesses a special gift, and a group of others enrolled there who face scar-faced boogeyman, Freddy Krueger in their dreams, and helps them discover their special abilities within the nightmare world. When Freddy starts up killing again, Nancy leads a rescue search into his domain, in hopes of putting his spirit to rest once and for all. Even as a sequel, this one's pretty good; it has some new-fangled ideas, effective special effects, and a clever script (if a tad slender).Running Time 96 minutes and rated R for gore/violence, nudity, and language. RATING *** (out of ****)   "},{"Title":"Third Elm is Third Best!!","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the original and New Nightmare, this is the best of the bunch.  While this has great humor (more so than either the original and New Nightmare), it also stocks up on a great idea -- (MINOR SPOILER) -- someone can drag U into their dreams.  Thusly pulling all the teens together to form the Dream Warriors.  I know that is a vague description of the plot, but you probably have seen it by now.Pros  Fun, Creative and Freddy at his best -- Cons  Not Much -- Bottom Line  7/10 -- See it NOW! "}{"Title":"Slick!","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"   I have read some other readers comments on this & they say the movie is like a fantasy, well I guess they have never dreamed. I mean come on, when you wake up a 230am from that wild dream, think about it; I'll bet it also was a fantasy. This is by far the best of all the freddy movies (BUT I have not seen Freddy VS Jason yet). 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"The Best of the series!","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Freddy continues to kill the Elm Street kids. But his nemesis from the first film Nancy is about to stop him. She teaches the kids to fight the monster. Englund gives a scary/hilarious performance. The rest of the cast is great. See it right away,it's great. Scary,and funny. And a great back story for Freddy4/4 "},{"Title":"A Well Done Sequel *Spoilers*","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  American horror movies usually have a terminal case of sequelitis, but the third installment of the Nightmare on Elm Street franchise is surprisingly refreshing and is able to stand on it's own in the crowded slasher subgenre.The remaining Elm Street kids are having nightmares, and are locked up in Westin Psychiatric hospital where they'll be killed off one by one. Nancy Thompson (from the original Nightmare) returns as a graduate student assigned to help these sleep-troubled youths survive against Freddy (unknown to those that hired her).  The movie also begins to show a bit of backstory to the child murderer Freddy (being born the bastard son of a hundred maniacs), but some may feel that this lessens the horror of him being a real man who became evil to something that was born evil.This movie features a Freddy Krueger that is in transition between the scary and dark Freddy from the first movie to the joke-spewing, one liner Freddy of Parts 4-6.  Although Freddy does have some dubious lines they seem a little more in character and a little less comedien than later movies. You just gotta love Welcome to Prime Time B**ch!Englund does a terrific job as Freddy and Laurence Fishburne and Patricia Arquette both make appearences early in their careers.  The group of kids isn't as annoying as some slasher-fodder can become and the special effects are quite good for 1987.All in all, A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 3 Dream Warriors is the one of the best in the Nightmare series (below the original and New Nightmare), and is also a good horror movie on its own merits.   "},{"Title":"Sorry, kid. I don't believe in fairy tales!","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  So now we move on to the third installment of the Nightmare on Elm Street series. Dream Warriors. Out of the bunch, I'd say it's one of the better ones. A big problem with this one is that Freddy comes out of the shadows and into plain view which effectively destroys whatever made this guy scary in the first place. Not only that but now he starts making jokes at the expense of these kids lives. Example before ramming a girl's head through a suspended t.v. (!), he says and I quote, Welcome to prime time, bitch!Sigh.Oh well. The movie itself is not that bad, though it is incredibly unbelievable the way the adults in this movie react to what goes on around them. Why is it adults never seem to understand what's going on in these kinds of movies? The characters are what they are but unlike other horror movies, they actually try to flesh them out a little bit. I actually grew fond of the main group of kids because they were presented, albeit clumsily, to be more than just salami for Freddy's knives to cut up. Also, I related to them in a couple of ways, now that I'm older but I'll save the sob stories for yo' mama!We also get to find out exactly how Freddy came to be and it always helps to know a little bit more than you should about child killers, no? It's also a pleasure to see Heather Lagenkamp and John Saxon reprising their roles from the first one. Heather comes off looking like she should've been doing soaps after this but that's just my opinion. There's also some cameos from people you wouldn't expect. (Dick Cavett?!) The dream sequences are a bit less claustrophobic than they were in the first two, which is kind of a drag. The story does add a bit of a fantastical element to them and they're pretty fun to watch. The movie is never really scary but thankfully it's never really boring. The special effects were pretty good for it's time and they still hold up for the most part.This is the Freddy that sticks out the rest of the series, the joking, obvious latex make-up Freddy. So from here on out, I think it's safe to say that my retrospective viewing of the Nightmare series is about to get painful. As for this installment, I'd say that it's definitely one of the better films of the series. And Freddy gets some good one liners in. Whether or not that's a good thing is up to you.Rating ***1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Should Have Been Called Scream!!!","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well ol Fred is back, and yes he still wants to kill teenagers. and no, nobody still belives he exsists, despite various sitings and numerous killings. Great eh? lol This time its set in sleep clinic, where a group of teenagers are dreaming about the same geeza (freddy). Nancy (from the original) comes back as dream expert, and uses the power possesed by the unit's patient, 'Kirsten' to combat freddy. This is a lot better than the previous film, but nowhere near as good as the first. Imaginative deaths, Freddy is kinda cool even if a tad too funny (Naff funny!). It has an impressive cast, bar one (see below)If you are wondering why in the title i put 'Should Have Been Called Scream', its because Kirsten (Patricia Arquette) does nothing in this film but Scream. Most of her scenes contain her screaming more than she talks, and i don't know if it's just me but it gets right on my nerves. Scream, Scream, Scream. Freddy PLEASE kill her and save my eardrums.Otherwise not a bad film at all. "},{"Title":"One of the better freddys","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not that I'm a die hard fan, but I've seen a few of them on the odd bored evening.This one was entertaining I thought, a little more technicolor than the original, but entertaining as has entertaining characters, methods of demise, and reality shifts "},{"Title":"This should have been the 2nd film","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film should have been the second film in the Nightmare on Elm Street serise. As the second film was trash. This film is brilliant because once again it stars Nancy Tompson, the person who fought Freddy in the first Nightmare. This is a good way of showing how she coped after the death of her mother. It shows you that her and her father do not have a very good relationship and that her family is broke up. She comes to work in a mental hospital were she meets pations with sleep disorders. Once again she finds herself battling Feddy and finally Freddy has his own back when she is killed. Brilliant film not to be missed, just as disturbing as the original!  "},{"Title":"This movie could have been age restricted higher","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen all of the sequels of A nightmare on Elm street, and they are all age restricted very high! I am surprized that this one wasn't age restricted very high!This movie is filled with very good scares, I found very few laughs in this one, not as many from the one Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare, that was hilarious!! Ha! Ha! Ha!This movie began well and ended well!I give this movie 8/10 "},{"Title":"Hmmmmm","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nightmare On Elm Street 3 is not a great film. It isn´t exactly a horror flick in my opinion but more like an adventure that has horror elements to it except maybe for the plot. The point is that this is a fantasy film which contains way to many special effects which overshadows the story and suspense. The acting was okay, The killings were not gruesome, bloody or gory for that matter. Freddie was with this film becoming like a cartoon character that every kid knew. overall grade 5/10.  "},{"Title":"3rd one still very watchable although unfortunately starting out to look like a fantasy film","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Part three of this rather interesting Fred Krueger saga isn't exactly the worst sequel I can certainly accept and admit that much. I reckon it's just as good as the second flick was. But still, one of the best features about the first and the best film was actually the cold fact that it was a very low budget movie and made with just a minimum special effects. Therefore filmmakers had to be more creative. A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream warriors has already way too many effects and it makes me wonder is the genre really horror because it looks more like a fantasy to me. Can't they make people frighten without televisions turning into Freddy? I'm not a violent nature but that bloody Harry Potter bloke was so extremely annoying that the whole time I wished Freddy would waste him as painfully as possible. The film itself is a watchable sequel. If this would've been the last one of them the end result could've been a terrific memorable trilogy. However there was this wise guy who once said Hey, this Freddy fellow is making us money, let's keep on making more as long as it sells. We all know how it ends. Or do we? "}{"Title":"EH, FUN!","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  not a bad flick, as a pre-teen my fave, grown up, still fun.  freddy takes on his comic character a little here, the film is a little too comic-book, but still has a little of the dark edge of the the first two... designed to end the series in a flashy hollywood way and is successful in that... brings back nancy, with a surprise ending, good effects for 1987, i suppose (c'mon, star wars was 10 years earlier)and nacy's father, explains freddy a little, as much, if not more, than we needed to know, but again in a design to end to series, very good.  the first two have a dark reality to them that makes them scary, that is painfully missing from films 4-6, but like i said, at least it maintains it's dark edge... for the series an 8/10 - you can't beat the brutality of the suprise near the end, fall offs are the happy let's go get 'em gang of the group and the wizard, if you're 12 it's awesome...of course, 1 is the best with new nightmare on it's heelswelcome to prime time...  "},{"Title":"A diverting film for fans of the slasher genre.","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is best described as pretty good.  I have never heard mention of it pioneering the horror genre, and it certainly isn't a catalyst for moral edification.  However, if you liked the other Freddy Krueger movies, or are a die hard fan of either Patricia Arquette or Lawrence Fishburne, it will probably provide you with a pretty entertaining hour and a half. "},{"Title":"Superior sequel","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie better than the original and its predecessor.  It's a very nifty, crafty premise and the plot is just as good as the nightmares.  Both the plot and well-developed characters kept me deeply engaged, and I like how Heather's character is written as a psychologist (the pupil has now become the teacher!).  The gore is not as bloody as it is in the past two films, and though the special f/x are great, it's not just the f/x I was impressed with.  The performances are good.  John Saxon makes a few appearances towards the end.  Patricia Arquette is great in her first major role.  And Laurence Fishburne is great as the likable orderly.  There's even a nice little nude scene/wet dream sequence to boot.  How many of us guys fantasize about doing the nasty with a hot-looking nurse?  Freddy's wisecracking sense of humor develops throughout the film.  Overall, this is a very fun experience and I consider it to be one of the best in the series!  My score  8 (out of 10)    "},{"Title":"Best Nightmare Movie","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was the best nightmare movie. I liked the tv scene, the mirror scene, The wizard master scene when Freddy says I don't believe in fairy tails. And the Beginning when the kids are outside the house singing the elm street song is great. This was very well made. You could not ask for a better nightmare movie. I give it a Big 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Fantasy Horror","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This NOES sequel started a downfall for the series. All though this one is not that bad, its still not extremely good. It has Freddy playing his usual role and has some comeback characters. This made sense and moved at a nice pace. They managed to show Freddy at the right times with a little comedy mixed in. All the characters have good development and the ending was unexpected. All in all a good movie. My rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Dream Warriors is the best of the sequels!","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I simply love this film.  The special effects are top-notch and the characters' problems allow you to build sympathy for them.  Part 3 is not all that scary, but still has the ability to thrill you with gross possibilities and new twists that work great with Freddy Kreuger. Oh yeah, and Dokken rules!!! "},{"Title":"The best of the sequels","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  How unfair can a movie rating be? If you looked at these scores you would never guess that Dream Warriors is the best movie of the Nightmare On Elm Street series. Although Freddy's Revenge, the second installment on the series, was a bit lame, Dream Warriors actually take Freddy's saga to a next level. Plotwise, this movie is also of extreme importance as it starts to unravel a few of Freddy's background and the emerging of his arch-enemy, Nancy. The legacy left from this movie is also noteworthy. Films like Scream have obviously taken their inspiration from Dream Warriors' plot. If you are a fan of the Nightmare On Elm Street series then this movie is a must. If you are looking for a thrill, or just tired of failed Screams sequels, watch this movie and you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Five, Six--Grab Your Crucifix.","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERSKristen Parker stayed awake late one night to finish a project. It was a model of a house she had seen in her dreams which closely resembled the Elm Street house that was occupied by Nancy Thompson 6 years ago. The house was now abandoned. Kristen went to sleep and dreamed she was in the house and was soon confronted by Freddy Krueger. She woke up screaming and went into the bathroom. She was still dreaming because the sink attacked her then Freddy appeared and sliced her wrists. Kristen's mom figured Kristen sliced her own wrists so she had her checked into a psychiatric clinic where Kristen freaked out and attacked doctors and orderlies in the examination room. Luckily she was brought down by a new colleague, dream researcher Nancy Thompson! Nancy then meets Dr. Neil Gordon who introduces her to all the patients Phillip, a sleepwalker, Roland Kincaid who was known for throwing violent fits so he spent most of his time in a padded room. Other patients were Will Stanton who was in a wheel chair, Joey who was unable to speak, Jennifer who dreamed one one day being an actress, and Taryn who is a street punk. She also met Max the head orderly and surly group doctor, Dr. Elizabeth Simms.That night, Freddy paid a visit to Phillip. He mutated from one of Phillip's clay dolls then slashed Phillip's arms and legs and tied strings around them and walked him around like a puppet. This didn't seem strange to anyone because Phillip was a sleepwalker. Freddy walked Phillip right off the edge of the chapel tower and he fell to his death. Dr. Gordon and Dr. Simms concluded it was suicide but Nancy and the other patients felt otherwise. The following night, Freddy visited Jennifer and gave her her big break in television. Literally. At Jennifer's funeral, Neil met a nun named Sister Mary Helena who he had seen around from time to time. Nancy wanted to put the patients on a dream supressant drug and Neil reluctantly agreed. She then wanted everyone to band together to go into their dreams and stop Freddy so they use group hypnosis. It appeared not to work but it must have because Will was able to walk. He did in his dreams and in their dreams, Kristen was a gymnist and Taryn was a beauty and a beast and Kincaid had super strength. Suddenly, Freddy appeared. He captured Joey just as Dr. Simms burst in and woke everybody up, except for Joey who was in a coma. Simms told the head doctor, Dr. Carver everything so he fired Neil and Nancy. Kristen threw a fit so she was thrown into the padded room. Neil met with Sister Helena again who told him of an inmate that was once locked within the tower over vacation and was raped by over a hundred maniacs and was found with child. The woman was named Amanda Krueger. Her son, Freddy, was the bastard son of over a hundred maniacs! That certainly explains alot. She also tells him that one way to destroy Freddy would be to bury his remains in hallowed ground. Neil raced off to find Freddy's bones with Nancy's father, Lt. Donald Thompson while Nancy raced back to the clinic to save the kids.Neil and Donald go to an auto yard and find Freddy's bones in an old car and are about to bury them when the cars came to life along with Freddy's skeleton. Donald is killed in the process. Back at the clinic, Nancy, Kristen, Kincaid, Taryn, and Will entered the dream realm. Freddy killed Will and Taryn. Then Joey came to the rescue and could talk! But Freddy reappeared and stabbed Nancy. Luckily in the real world, Neil successfully buried Freddy's remains so in the dream realm, Freddy glowed brightly and disappeared. At Nancy's funeral, Neil discovered that Sister Helena WAS in fact Amanda Krueger!Another good Nightmare on Elm Street movie. It's a little better than Part 2. Heather Lagenkamp, John Saxon and Robert Englund reprise their roles in Chapter 3 of the series that made people afraid to go to sleep. Chuck Russell takes over the director's chair in this one; There's some gory parts of the movie like when Freddy uses Phillip for a string puppet and more, but that's to be expected. Anyway, in conclusion, Nightmare fans, I recommend A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors!-  "},{"Title":"I want Wes back!!!","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, this movie was terrible. I hate when this happens. Friday the 13th, Child's Play, and others went in the comedic direction, and Puppet Master went for the (ugh!) comic book type movie. But those two awful elements in modern horror movies weren't combined... until now.You see, Freddy turned into Eddy (Murphy), and, to make it worse, there are DREAM WARRIORS? After Freddy Vs. Jason, will we see Freddy (or Eddy) vs. the Power Rangers?I don't need one liners. I don't want Dream Warriors. I want Freddy back to his form in no. 1, and, of course, we all remember New Nightmare, the best Freddy Film since the original.1, 2, and New Nightmare are the ONLY good ones. Eddy... err... Freddy is coming for you in 2003. Let's hope it isn't the Chris Rock routine. 3/10 for this... disgrace. "},{"Title":"I want Wes back!!!","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, this movie was terrible. I hate when this happens. Friday the 13th, Child's Play, and others went in the comedic direction, and Puppet Master went for the (ugh!) comic book type movie. But those two awful elements in modern horror movies weren't combined... until now.You see, Freddy turned into Eddy (Murphy), and, to make it worse, there are DREAM WARRIORS? After Freddy Vs. Jason, will we see Freddy (or Eddy) vs. the Power Rangers?I don't need one liners. I don't want Dream Warriors. I want Freddy back to his form in no. 1, and, of course, we all remember New Nightmare, the best Freddy Film since the original.1, 2, and New Nightmare are the ONLY good ones. Eddy... err... Freddy is coming for you in 2003. Let's hope it isn't the Chris Rock routine. 3/10 for this... disgrace. "}{"Title":"The Scariest, I SAY SCARIEST, NIGHTMARES of 'em all!","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was terryfying! I was scard by it. I loved Heather Lagenkamp and Patricia Arquette's performances. They were awesome!This movie did not let me sleep the night I watched it. The scene where ***SPOILER*** that kid goes to sleep and Freddy transforms from a rag doll to himself and appears under the bed is just terryfying.This movie punched out NIGHTMARE 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, and 7. It was the best of the series. It was just horryfying!Watch this movie if you haven't. You won't be able to sleep at night. And the tagline is freaky too! A PERFECT 10 OUTTA 10!  "},{"Title":"A very good and exiting sequel,I just love it!!!!!","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie took me for a ride when i saw it a long time ago, i was a little boy in love with the Krueger first 2 movies,when i noticed it had hit theaters here in my town i asked my dad to take me see this film and boy, I was the happiest kid on the planet,Freddy is a hero to me and this film combined action,horror and sci-fi so it really is a delight to the eye of the fan. In the begining there´s this girl Kristen who is having truble sleeping and she´s making a model of a house,it turns out to be Nancy´s old place (freddy´s home) so after a series of horrible nightmare´s her mom takes Kristen to a psychiatric hospital where we meeta lot of guys that have different disorders and we get to see that Nancy (From the originalA nightmare on elm street) is now a Doctor working there and wants to help this kids deal with their problems and knows Krueger is Back! This film brings back Lea Thompson (Nancy) and her dad (John Saxon) wich is a very good thing and we deepen into freddy´s domain on the dream world, The Dream Warior powers look very 80´s but they do really good bacuse not just to me but to a lot of people this is one or probably the best of the Freddy Krueger saga. I´ll give it a super-duper 10 out of 10 on Freddy´s Sequels. Ps I´m proud to have seen this baby on a movie theater,by the way, it doesn´t exist anymore, ¿Has it been that long? "},{"Title":"To each his own...","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *Contains some spoilers* I for one loathed this sequel. The original was wonderful, and really touched a cord in me. Although films like Halloween and Friday the thirteenth were scary because the victims were nobody, meaning you could be next, the Nightmare was about a set group of people, being stalked for a reason.Now where is the reason in this one? Admittedly it has been a long time since I saw it, but I remember the beginning as very good. However it quickly deteriorates as the kids become dream warriors... Super strength? Wizardry? Bad ass acrobatics and a leather bitch with knives? Get real! And the worst part is, it don't even work...I was very let down with this one, such a great start and then downhill. As a horror fan for over fifteen years I have seen a lot, and I think many camp movies are great but take my advice and avoid this one. "},{"Title":"Excellent sequel!","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you've never seen the Elm Street series, what I'd do is sit down and watch Craven's classic original Elm Street and then pop this one into your VCR as it completely dismisses anything that had to do with the 2nd Elm Street (which is great!).Craven comes back to re-write what the team had destroyed in the 2nd one and produce Freddy Krueger as he should be shown. A scary, laughing madman in your dreams, in your mind, with no defence. A burnt stalker with knives for fingers, red and green sweater and a dirty brown hat. To kill the last of the Elm Street children.Heather Langenkamp returns; although not the best actress, but she is Nancy. The first one who figured out how to beat Freddy's scheme as an intern to assist teens with the terrors that live within their dreams by the name of Freddy Krueger. The other doctors think meds and isolation can beat these dreams when she knows working as a team to beat him is the answer. John Saxon also returns as the now drunkard father of Nancy.And I guess I am of course a fan of Craven and Freddy (interestingly the only Freddy movies worth watching he had a major part of, because he knew how to bring Freddy to the screen).They should have made part 3 the last in the series, but instead they felt like grabbing millions rather than leaving the death of Freddy on a believable note. "},{"Title":"SUCH A HORROR CLASSIC!!","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film to me, is one of the best of all times, because of the music. DOKKEN, a rock band from Germany, are so good at providing the soundtrack that they made a masterpiece, Dream Warriors, the best song ever. It is a nice song, because it capters the film so well, which is stylish and very modern.The film? The best ever horror film. Not just maybe, it is. If you liked the citizen kane, watch this, its better. When you do, then you will buy the soundtrack. Watch it, and then you will see what I mean. "},{"Title":"Good sequel.","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Dream warriors without doubt is a great and very worthy sequel.It might go over the top at some points but other than that its ok. There is even more creativity and plenty more effects.It is set in an institution where teenagers go to relieve their nightmares.The teens are soon bumped off one by one and it turns out Freddy is haunting them.It isn't as predictable as it sounds and works brilliantly. The beginning of the movie had me in shivers on the opening. This is the third best in the series and I promise entertainment. I rate 4/5. "},{"Title":"I've said it before","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The idea of making Freddy Krueger out to be a lovable scamp with a sharp sense of humour just irritates me. He supposed to be the spirit of an evil child murderer not Casper the friendly ghost. The whole idea of the character, who originally in the first film was mysterious, sinister and creepy, as a 'funny guy' totally spoils the effect of being a clever, intelligent adult horror movie and turns it into just a rubbish teen slasher flick.Arquette, Lagenkamp, Saxon and the other cast members aren't bad actors at all and the idea of Freddy stalking disturbed kids in a mental home could have been a great idea but suffers from bad writing and naff effects.The television scene has to be one of the best Freddy scenes I've witnessed, but sadly the film is bad.  "},{"Title":"Thank God for Heather Langenkamp!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have only seen the Nightmares with Heather in them, and they seem to be the good ones. This one has a few decent scares but no real bouts of terror like the first one (Freddy coming out of the trellis? Fantastic.). That is, it kept me awake a little bit past my bedtime, but it didn't make me afraid to go to sleep like the first one. There's a fairly stimulating sex scene with a nurse, and Langenkamp is always hotter than the corona of the sun, so if you're into horror movies for the chicks, you'll find them here. All in all, an above-average horror movie with some rather overt messages (Don't do drugs! Don't have sex!). "},{"Title":"you can battle Freddy in dreams","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Freddy's 3rd. film is some heavy stuff. It has a mix of fantasy, horror, suspense, and sci-fi. It shows that dreams can come true, and that evil can be battled.Nancy is back and she's not alone, 'cause the dream warriors will battle to death with Freddy. Good special effects (the puppet like murder rocks!), nice acting, and Freddy make this a worth to watch horror movie.Not the best in the Nightmare films, but not the worst.  "},{"Title":"Ugh.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After watching this movie last Halloween, I had the distinct feeling of having drunk a quart of milk whose expiration date had been sometime during the Civil War. The fact that this a script like this was actually approved makes me somewhat nauseous.  The only thing that is scary about this piece of sh*t is that it was ever made. Bad acting, bad plot, bad special effects, bad movie. 0 out of 5 "}{"Title":"The Best sequel in the series","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those special horror flicks that makes you laughs, but also scares you.  When a horror flick can balance those two important aspects like that, you know you have something special.  This movie was the first in the series to give Freddy his patented one-liners after killing people, and the only movie of the series that used them well.  Every time I hear Freddy say Welcome to Prime-time, Bitch, I leap with excitement!  Check this out before any of the others.  I enjoyed watching this movie more than the first! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good sequel (possible spoiler)","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the disappointing Freddy's Revenge, the third Nightmare film offers a much-needed shot in the arm to the series. It's one of these rare sequels that actually match the original. Indeed, it could be argued which one is better. Part 2 is ignored in favor of directly tying in to the original. Nancy, the heroine from Part 1, returns as a psychology student attempting to aid traumatized teenagers, who are all being stalked by the infamous Freddy Krueger.Freddy himself is beginning to emerge as a wisecracking antihero, with the one-liners that would become his trademark in later entries. Nonetheless, there are several startling nightmare scenes. Each is imaginatively conceived, with ghoulishly clever special effects.Dream Master's most glaring flaw is Heather Langenkamp herself. Her performance is surprisingly wooden, given the spunk she displayed in the original. However, Craig Watson, as the sympathetic doctor, is quite good. And of course, Robert Englund steals every scene he's in. John Saxon makes a welcome return as Nancy's alcoholic father, and Laurence Fishburne is solid in one of his early film roles, although he's a bit underused.This is the only sequel Wes Craven was involved with. Taking on dual writer-producer roles, it's obvious he was trying to put the series to rest before it could become another Friday the 13th franchise. Alas, he failed. Nonetheless, NOES 3 deserves credit for actually providing a sense of closure at the end. For once the door is not left open for a sequel.*** (out of ****)Released by New Line Cinema  "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Impressive, stylish and very suspenseful.This movie was certainly one of the best, more grittier and gothic. The only slight flaw to this though was the idea of making Robert Englund's character of Freddy Krueger a comedian with short wise cracks before disposing his victims.It was very rewarding to see Wes Craven offering his writing expertise since the downfall of Part 2 (sorry, what Part II?). The lead performances of both Heather Langenkamp and Patricia Arquette are very convincing and well crafted (hence, the relationship developing between the two).Who could've dreamt a more scarier backdrop then that of a mental ward for a bunch of labeled suicidal teenagers all sharing the same nightmare? It was also nice seeing the likes of John Saxon again. This truly should've been the sequel to the first. 8/10 "},{"Title":"This is one of the better films","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the better films, but would not say the best.  Returning back to Elm Street is Nancy Thompson (played by Heather Langenkamp)  from the original Nightmare, which beats that kid Jesse from Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge (Which I would say is the scariest of all the Nightmare series, but NOT the best)  It's too bad that Freddy had to pick on a loser like Jesse, he could have easily gotten killed if his girlfriend didn't help himAs For Nightmare 3, it is awesome how all of the remaining Teens, and Nancy who returns as a young woman rather than a teenager and they go through Dream warps after 2 teens have already been killed, watch this one and see who survives the dream warp and who doesn't, because not everyone will survive "},{"Title":"This is one of the better films","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the better films, but would not say the best.  Returning back to Elm Street is Nancy Thompson (played by Heather Langenkamp)  from the original Nightmare, which beats that kid Jesse from Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge (Which I would say is the scariest of all the Nightmare series, but NOT the best)  It's too bad that Freddy had to pick on a loser like Jesse, he could have easily gotten killed if his girlfriend didn't help himAs For Nightmare 3, it is awesome how all of the remaining Teens, and Nancy who returns as a young woman rather than a teenager and they go through Dream warps after 2 teens have already been killed, watch this one and see who survives the dream warp and who doesn't, because not everyone will survive "},{"Title":"the start of a comedy franchise...","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  one of the most popular installments in the series of nightmare films is this one.freddy starts to become funny but he still is evil enough to be somewhat scary.wes craven has writing credits on it so thats why its still dark and not all out funny. i saw this movie when i was very young and i was hooked on the nightmare films(and horror in general) ever since. fun movie!!  "},{"Title":"Good Film in a great series","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The great elm street series...The 3rd film!! Story- Kids in a mentally disturbed youth group home are being invaded by Freddy Krueger.   Good special effects and awseome freddy wisecracks highlight this film.Rated R for Strong Violence, and Brief Nudity. "},{"Title":"The second best in the series","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Dream Warriors is one of my favorite in the series because Freedy finally met his match in these kids. Freddy's biggest nemesiss Nancy also returned to give him his just desserts which was cool. The film also has a great nude scene which is always cool. "},{"Title":"Superheroes & Monsters of a different sort...","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the kind of movie that mixes the concept of superheroes and their powers and other stuff that doesn't quite fit, but oddly, it works. Dream Powers, who besides Wes Craven could come up with a movie that makes Dream Powers something worth hearing/seeing in a horror movie? NOBODY, that's who. This movie takes a different turn from all the others, where the victims of the killer actually fend off the villain, for at least some time. It gives you the feeling that the kids could actually defeat Freddy, but he just doesn't quit, kinda like the fashion Michael Myers uses in the Halloween series. But Freddy does it a different way. A good example of that is the whole sequence when the Dream Warriors are all asleep, and they're using their Dream Powers against him, but HE STILL REFUSES TO DIE!!! Instead of using conventional methods, these people try a different approach, or maybe the only approach possible, of getting rid of the villain, and that originality is what makes this movie so great, at least an 8.6/10. "},{"Title":"Decent entry in the Freddy series","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is simple...Freddy is out to get the last surviving members of the Elm Street children. Like all of the other Nightmare... films, people bash the movies, & complain about the plot. It's a horror movie! What do you expect! This movie isn't bad, & has some cool effects to go with it. The character od Nancy Thompson returns to help the new batch of victims defeat Freddy in the 3rd 'Nightmare...' movie. It's entertaining, so sit back, & enjoy. "}{"Title":"The very last good one","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A Nightmare one Elm Street 3 was the last good movie in the Nightmare series. The acting is decent, and Nancy, from part 1 returns as well. The Movie takes place at an Institution for suicidal teens, who are  haunted by Freddy, while the rest of the staff ignores their situation. And so, Nancy comes to work with the clients at the institution and attempts to help them fight off Freddy. So, during their long fight, some are killed, like one girl who has her head shoved into a TV,( and its predicted to be suicide???? )one guy whos veins are ripped out of his body ( another one considdered suicide!!!! ) and one more that i cant explain to well. But theres one dissapointing part of the film. Nancy DIES!!!! That was the worst thing that ever could have happened to the series. But still, all in all this is a great film. 8/10. "},{"Title":"A good watch","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is pretty good.  I would bet that when this one came out that many wanted to see it.  Mainly because they wanted Freddy and the Nightmare creators to redeem themselves after that extremely bad Freddy's Revenge.  I know I was hoping for a little redemption.  Even though this one was far superior to Elm Street 2 this missed the mark of the first one.  Freddy became more of a clown than a boogeyman.Grade...5 "},{"Title":"This one is probably one of the best in the Series....","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ONE OF THE BEST!...Not the best. That would have to go to the First one. I think Dream Warriors is an excellent sequel in the Nightmare series written by Wes Craven. Theres some good scares in this one as well. The Deaths are creative but some parts of the movie CAN be a LITTLE corny (WizardMaster). But that doesnt get to me as much as it might to others. Ignore the second and watch the First then The Dream Warriors..its GREAT!!! ...and dont fall asleep after you read this... "},{"Title":"Lots of Missed Opportunities","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  By the mid-1980's, horror movies were back in style.  The explosion led by Halloween (1978), Friday the 13th (1980) and the original A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) was in full blossom by the time Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) returned to the screen for the third time in 1987's A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors.  And Nightmare 3 is the second highest grossing film in the storied Elm Street series... proving that horror was indeed hip.The remaining Elm Street kids have taken residence in a local Springwood hospital, seeking help for their sleep disorders.  But when survivor Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) comes on the scene, she knows who the real culprit is.  With the help of fellow doctor Neil Goldman (Craig Wasson) and teenager Kristen Parker (Patricia Arquette, Stigmata), Nancy transforms the group of teens into a group of Dream Warriors and leads them into battle with Freddy on his own turf.As far as the Nightmare series goes, this entry is one of the better ones, and is a favorite among fans.  But while it does re-energize the series, it does have many flaws that fans tend to overlook.The biggest fault involves the return of series heroine Heather Langenkamp as Nancy Thompson in what is perhaps the highest point of reference to Dream Warriors... but she is sorely underused here, losing the spunk and fighting spirit she inhibited in the original.  In what could have been a huge Freddy vs. Nancy rematch, she is rendered almost powerless here, and (as much as I love Heather) her wooden acting reflects that fact. (Thankfully, she redeems herself in the strong New Nightmare sequel in 1994).One of the other glaring flaws concerns the character of Freddy himself. Freddy has been accused of becoming less scary as the Nightmare series progressed, becoming less of a menacing figure he was in the original, but what most fans tend to overlook is that he became a wisecracking clown in this entry.  Nightmare 4 exploited this aspect of the character to montorous proportions, but it was here in Dream Warriors where the one-liners became popular, and the special effects took center stage over the scares.This is not to say that Nightmare 3 is totally without merit.  It is an exciting movie with some very innovative sequences.  But with the return of original stars (Heather Langenkamp, John Saxon and Robert Englund), and original creators (Wes Craven co-wrote the first version of this story), Dream Warriors is only a fourth of the movie it could have been. "},{"Title":"This should have been number two.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I would say this is what `Nightmare 2' should have been.  It picks up where the first one left off, although 6 years later, and it further explores Freddy's character as well as the dream world.  If a sequel is going to be made, this is the way it should be done.  It brings back Nancy and her father from the first one, and it also brought back Wes Craven as co-writer and executive producer.I most likely always like movies that take place in mental institutions and stuff, which this movie does.  Also, like the first one, the characters are real characters not chumps you'd just as soon see dead and that helps the movie a lot.  I'm assuming that might have been Craven's work but don't hold me to that cause I don't know for sure.  The acting was once again up to speed, and there were even two up and coming stars (Patricia Arquette and Larry Fishburne) that had excellent parts and played them really well.You can tell that New Line was putting more into the series by the number and quality of the special effects.  This movie had tons of really good effects from a barking pig's head to a giant Freddy-snake thing (which looks a lot like a male reproductive organ if you look at it).  There was one effect that was downright horrible, though, that involved a `Jason and the Argonauts'-like skeleton fighting with real actors.  Let's just say at least `Army of Darkness' had better effects than this or else the movie would have been ruined.Ah, Robert Englund, he really must like this part.  I don't blame him; it probably is one that comes around once in a lifetime.  He really sinks his teeth into playing Freddy Krueger and by the looks of it he enjoys it, too. This was the movie where Freddy got the reputation of being a wise-cracker (`Welcome to prime time, bitch!' Need I say more?), but I think it fits him. It sets Freddy apart from the more silent and slow paced killers (i.e. Michael and Jason).Great sequel and a great installment in the `Nightmare' series.  You could skip the second one and not miss much but you should definitely check this one out.  "},{"Title":"Dream Power of the Good vs. the Evil, Solid!!","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The best storytelling of all the Nightmare sequels! Creative! It's obvious that tremendous effort had been put into making this sequel to compensate for the story flaws & mistakes made in the 2nd one.The best part of the movie is having the good & the evil both possessing dream power for one fair duel, cool! Such concept brings about story improvement as well as creativity beyond the previous installments' story boundaries. It gives the audience a total fresh view of the Nightmare series. This is a must-see! "},{"Title":"This mud was tight!!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I strongly recommend this one. This is like the third best in the whole nightmare series.  It re-unites the stars from Nightmare one on a new mission to stop the evil Kruger.  If you love this movie you'll love Nightmare 4 "},{"Title":"Probably the best entertaining movie ever","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had everything some psyco killer, some kids in a mental place,and Laurence Fishberne. This movie was one of the funniest movies ever seen  i couldn`t stop laughing at the nerdy kid will who`s the wizard and says demon be gone then the cheap affects kick in. But i love the idea of the kids havng powers to take krueger out. THIS IS A MUST SEE "},{"Title":"My favorite of the series.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Sure, the first one has the most scares, but 3 is the most entertaining, and the best storyline of the series. The special effects are truly awesome. Dream Warriors doesn't skimp on the scares either The sleepwalker death, the chilling tale the nun tells the doctor and the junkyard scene. Plus, it ties up everything nicely. Overall, the most entertaining, and best storyline of the series. *** (out of four) "},{"Title":"The best!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors is the best film in the Elm Street series. It's funny, intelligent, entertaining and has some great characters which we get to know and love. The special effects are also great and I'm glad that Heather Langenkamp returned to the series. "}{"Title":"WOW! (BIG Spoiler Read At Own Risk.)","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What a great movie! This is actually on par with the 1st one, if not better!I'll not bore you by retelling the plot (which I don't do anyway), but I will say that this is a definite improvement over the 2nd one (but almost anything's an improvement on that disgrace). The film is quite different from the 1st 2, mainly in that it's a special effects extravaganza; whereas the 1st 2 used them somewhat sparingly & were OK, this 1 had them up the wazoo & were excellent. Nothing that would win an Oscar, but still excellent.The acting was also quite good. Langenkamp scored again as a woman (you heard me right) who came to know & care for these children as if they were her own; Arquette was equally good as a confused, terrified girl who had lost all hope & had to reclaim it in the face of total evil; Wasson was enjoyable as a man who became as much a father figure to the kids as Nancy became a mother figure (he even saved the day!); once again, Saxon was given little to do but did well with it; & once again, Englund just about walked off with the picture.Speaking of Englund, his portrayal of Freddy was quite different this time around. In the 1st 2, he mostly loomed ominously in the shadows; in this one, he took front & center. In the 1st 2, he was a terrifying, humorless demon straight from Hell; in this film, he was just as cruel, but he was also more of a joker. However, it worked well here, & like I did with the 2nd one, I often found myself laughing at what a cool, awesome character he was. But as much as I like the guy, I just couldn't help hating him a little when he killed Nancy, especially after seeing Kristen mourning her; in fact, I still get sad every time I see it. Without a doubt, the absolute saddest part of the series.All in all, a magnificent film that's on par with the original masterpiece. Like many others, I feel they should've made this the real sequel, but let's face it Would've, could've, should've-- DIDN'T. But we can all dream, heh heh.P.S. And what a great ending. Rare is the horror film that actually shuts the door & gives one the feeling that it's really & truly over. I just don't understand what the light coming on in the model house means; could someone please explain that? I also don't see how there could possibly be any more films, but I guess I'll just have to see the rest to find out.Rock on, Englund! "},{"Title":"Freddy returns in what should have been the second sequel","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film, one of my favorites in the series, I thought this movie was very clever in the way they projected Freddy as the intense evil that he was in the original i would have to say that this is one of the most original freddy movies in the series the whole mental hospital thing really interested i would also recommend Wes Cravens new nightmare based on originality alone. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best of the saga","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** OK the first one had a good and reliable lead actress Heather Langenkab as Nancy . It also had surrealistic and twillight zone -ish dream scenes so it is regarded as a classic . But I believe that part 3 is the best of the bunch because we have a whole group of kids so we see a massive terror , ,more dramatic instead of focusing to one character . The psychological horror backlashes here to give its place to action scenes. Dream Warriors is based on a kind of horror carnival feel with a bit added colour . It could have been a failure like part 4  ,but it did not since it had reliable characters who share not only their common nightmare but their own personal demon  the drag addiction , the sleepwalking torturing etc . What 's the story ? The 7 last kids of Elm Street are patients in a mental asylum after the sleep disorders they have had . Noone believes when they say that they are stalked by the infamous dream demon with the burned face and the knife-nailed glove. The main lead is Kristen (Patricia Arquette) who is the last to join the team . The basic supervising doctor is Neil who really finds this situation a dead end especially when Freddy Krueger starts murdering the children in gorey SFX sequences . Enter Nancy Tompson from the first film . 6 years after she barely escaped she has arrived to the scene to help the poor kids as a dream psychologist , with her valuable experience . The return of Nancy as a central character is very powerful and Arqutte has such a dynamic appearance to the point you can 't decide which one is the protagonist . The old generation meets the new one. A very clever idea was the new direction the series made  the method of dream manipulation . Kristen has the special gift of bringing other people in her dreams when in danger . So the patients start massive hypnosis in order to lure the monster and trap him . The SFX are cool and Charles Russell proves himself a gifted director with a dark vision . The acting is good from all the actors but the two leads steal the show . Freddy is less scary and starts to act like a teasing Gremlin. The dramatic element is inherent not only for the children but for Nancy 's father as well . The continuation of revelations from #1 and #2 goes on with information about the background of Krueger 's family history . The movie is very suspenseful with the team spirit plot and quite dramatic . Also Krueger is killed in a very logical manner so it definately is on the peak of the series . They should have stopped right here but the producers could not resist in milking the cow to the bone. The trilogy is self dependant and should have stopped hereNIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET III             8.5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Even better than the first","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was easily one of the more fun horror flicks I've ever seen.  Most of the Elm Street flicks sucked, but this and the first were great!  The special effects were just unbelievable, and Freddy was at his creepiest. Seeing as how the second kicked the series in the groin, it was nice to see it rebound strongly with the third.  (unfortunately, it fell again with 4,5 and 6 before the 7th redeemed it somewhat.)  Lots of fun!! "},{"Title":"Crap, but entertaining none the less","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is kind of a tease in that it was 20x's better than NoES2 but still a piece of crap. Also this was my first foray into the horror movie genre, so it will always have a place in my heart, but I acknowledge that it really needs work.  The first one did not have nearly the effects budget of this one, but it was still erie and creepy. this one had a few things going for it but my main problem would have to be*spoiler*Arquette Didn't die. Also, It gave me a bias against Dungeons and dragons that didn't go away until just recently.Good points As I've said, incredibly better than 2 or anything that came after it. A better horror movie than any Friday the thirteenth or any Halloween greater than 2. Zsa Zsa Gabor gets decapitated, and the horror movie sense of Black Comedy is introduced.Worth a look if you're flipping through Cinemax late on a Thursday, but I wouldn't recommend buying it6/10 "},{"Title":"Solid scary sequel, the first real sequel in the series.","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the big disappointment of Freddy's Revenge, NewLine managed to lure Craven back into the franchise to give the company an idea.  Bringing Nancy back makes this film eminently more watchable than number 2 and the introduction of Kristen (played with energy by the beautiful Patrica Arquette) was also a fine idea.  Add to this solid direction from Chuck Russell and scripting by Shawshank Redemption's Frank Darabont and you've got an exciting and thoroughly enjoyable movie.     This is the first one were Freddy cracks wise as it were, and while that added alot to the sequels it also caused a great problem.  None of the sequels are really funny enough to be comedy or scary enough to be horror.  Still this one balances the two paradigms nicely and also has quite a strong storyline.     Its good to see early stuff from Patricia Arquette and Laurence(Larry!) Fishburne.  The characters in this are well thought up and you do care about them, especially the mute Joey and tough-guy Kincaid.   A thoroughly enjoyable and generally good sequel that doen't manage to reprise the thrills and genius of the original, but is a good movie. "},{"Title":"The 2nd best of the Nightmare Series- A means to an end","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nightmare on Elm Street 3 is a horror classic. Different from what you might have read on this page it is the best of the Nightmare sequels. This ones about a bunch of teens locked in a physchiatric ward because of their dreams about Freddy. At first the Shrinks think the kids are hurting themselves but after some weird occurrences they begin to see differently. These same said kids are also the last of the elm street kids!!!! I wont go too much into the plot as to save you time. This entry however I will warn is the beginning of the Nightmare series as special effects extravaganza. The movie puts a huge deal of reliance on the fx unlike the first which was mainly just a standard slasher. Wes Craven scripted this one so I believe this is the movie he had in mind as the sequel to Nightmare 1 anyways Enjoy!!!!! "},{"Title":"Freddy done with a little ambition","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is definitely one of the best in the series.  I like how it took place in a mental hospital and how the use of dreams came back into the storyline. Although the dream power theme is something more reminiscent of Spiderman or other cartoon teams, I enjoyed it just the same.  Some of the lines in this from Freddy were great and appropriate for the scene and then other lines from other characters definitely needed some polishing.  I love the tv scene, the faucet fixtures from hell and the puppet scene.  This is definitely one of the best nightmare on Elm Streets. "},{"Title":"Better sequel is much more worth seeing than Part 2","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Third installment of the Nightmare series has the remaining children of the parents that killed Freddy committed into a psychiatric ward where each is terrorized by him.  However one of the girls (Arquette) has the power to bring people into her dreams.  Then comes Nancy from Part 1 as a graduate student, who realizes that Freddy is back and decides that they have to face Freddy down in order to beat him.  Much better sequel ignores the events of Part 2.   "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i have snapped alot on the Nightmare On Elm Street films other then the first and last, but Nightmare On Elm Street pt 3 Dream Warriors is a pretty cool movie, Wes Craven was one of the writters and producers, so it still had the Wes Craven feel to it, it would have been better if he directed as well. this time around Freddy has a few funny lines but not like he did in Nightmare 4-6, in those Freddy became the star and thats what hurt them, Robert England is a great actor but it's better when the killer is not the star, Nightmare 3 had good character developement and all around was a fun movie. i give Nightmare On Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors 7/10. the sequels were ok but i'd say stick to the Craven/Langenkamp trilogy that being the first, third, and last "}{"Title":"My favorite Freddy movie","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Freddy Krueger is the man. This is probobly my favorite Freddy movie in the series, next to part 4. This movie is just so great. I've watched this movie so many times in my life. This is the first Freddy movie I ever saw. I saw it back in 1987 on HBO or Cinemax. At the time I was like 6 years old. I remember how I felt the first time I saw this. How cool I thought it was. I just fell in love with Freddy, I thought he was so cool. I remember wanting to be just like Freddy. I was so obessed with him when I was little after seeing this movie. Watching it brings back so many good, fun memories. It make me wish it was 1988 again. Those were the best times. The spceal effects, acting and story are great in this movie. I really like the story. I thought how they put the kids in the hospital was a great idea.  But I think the best thing in this movie, besides Freddy, is the great Characters this movie has man. There all great. Kincaid and Kristen are the best. Thats When I think a movie really works, is when there are likable Characters. And thats what this movie has. You really care for them here, you really feel for them and what they go through. After all the years of watching this movie, I feel like I know them. I wish that they were my friends. C'mon Wouldn't be cool to hang out with Kincaid, man Hes dosen't take crap from anybody. He says the funniest things. He's Almost as funny as Freddy. This is one of those movies you can watch again and again. It never gets old. There something magical about this movie. It is one of my favorite movies of all time. Its in my top five. I love it. Long live Freddy!  "},{"Title":"Good follow up to the first","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay the first Nightmare On Elm Street film is a classic. And the second one sucked. As far as I'm concerned this part 2 should never have happened and this one part 3 should have taken its place for a sequel. This movie brings back Heather Langenkamp ,John Saxon,and of course Robert Englund, and was written by Wes Craven. Those 4 factors always seem to make a good Nightmare movie. Rent this or buy it because you'll want to see it over and over again. "},{"Title":"Dream Warriors.... Come out to play","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The middle chunk of the Nightmare on Elm Street series is kind of an agreeable little trilogy the Dream Trilogy, as it were, since The Dream Warriors, The Dream Master, and The Dream Child actual have returning characters and a continuing story line, unlike the other entries that came before & after them.This one is really good, with great characters and a story line that ignores the deplorable Freddy's Revenge. The dream parts are clever and look great, the effects are swell, and for the first time Freddy is really funny, wise-cracking whenever he gets a chance.  Good things about this sequel Zsa Zsa Gabor appears, one of the characters is a puppeteer, there's an awesome stop-motion animation skeleton fight, John Saxon returns, there's a Dungeons & Dragons playing character.Bad things Dick Cavett appears, one character has a ridiculous purple mowhawk that could never of been cool (not even in the eighties), the band Dokken is on the soundtrack, there's a Dungeons & Dragons playing character.I'd say this is one of the best Freddy movies- It looks classy, it has a wonderful cast (including Laurence Fishburne and Patricia Arquette), and Freddy and his dream-bending powers finally live up to their full potential.    "},{"Title":"Wes Craven brought back the quality to the series","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Dream Warriors is a very good sequel indeed. Everything got better compared to Part 2. It doesn't repeat the mistakes of #2 like bringing Freddy to daylight. It is obvious that Craven was involved with this one. The story is not a repetition of the predecessors but adds new ideas to the series.Freddy is again very sadistic (although he was a little too comical for my taste) and he uses the fears of the teenagers to torture them. It has more spooky scenes than Freddy's Revenge and the plot has no holes or weak points this time.Heather Langenkamp and John Saxon appear in this one and give the film a connection to the original. The fact that there was Freddy's Revenge is completely ignored in this film and personally I think this is the right thing to do. Beside Langenkamp and Saxon there are other good (young) actors and actresses with Patricia Arquette being the key to defeat Freddy Krueger.In addition there are some excellent special effects, good dialogues and the characters are not as one-dimensional as in most of the other films of the series.Overall one of the three best Nightmare-films.My rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Watchable sequel","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I think this is where the series went down hill. The special effects (which aren't that special) starting taking over the story and Freddy starts making with the crap jokes.The first film was a classic, though today looks cheaper than the Blair Witch Project and the second one was reasonable though it has no reason for existing as there is no story. This film which brings back Heather Lankenkamp (who acts Robert Englund off the screen every scene they are in, which is not exactly difficult)who though one of the better actors in this film is still pretty wooden.However the film is entertaining enough and contains just enough horror to offset the lousy comedy (something parts 4-6 never managed). This should have finished the series but there was still money to be made.Watch parts 1-3 and New Nightmare, if your really bored watch parts 4&5, but under NO circumstances put yourself through the hell of watching Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare!!! "},{"Title":"AN ACCEPTABLE SEQUEL!!","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay this was an acceptable sequel. At least this one kept to the story of the original one which was a bonus. Freddy was still a little menacing but still tried to be funny to many times. Star of the first returns which is another plus. Other than that an average movie. The story is Picking up where the original Nightmare left off, Nancy has grown up and become a psychiatrist specializing in dream therapy. She meets a group of children at a local hospital facing Freddy Krueger, the same demon she once encountered in her sleep. One of them is Kristen, who has the power to draw other people into her dreams. Working with a male doctor assigned to the case, Nancy helps the kids realize their special abilities within the nightmare world. When Freddy captures one of her charges, she leads a rescue attempt into Krueger's domain, in hopes of putting his spirit to rest once and for all.  This was a satisfying sequel, and well worth the watch, but don't epect anything like the greatness of the original. "},{"Title":"Nancy's back","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare On Elm Street was a masterpiece of horror cinema. Showing us the horrors of some spectacularly mysterious and eerie real life stories. Outta this film, Freddy Krueger, an instant HORROR GREAT was given to us, by Wes Craven, who had previously given us the sickening Last House On The Left and the mediocre Hills Have Eyes. Then came, A Nightmare On Elm Street Part 2  Freddy's Revenge....a horror film with wonderful images and wonderful settings. Part 2 is my 2nd favorite of the series, right behind Freddy's original blood-fest. Because Part 2 has such memorable and classic FX scenes like Freddy making his was outta Jesse's body. Also Freddy's death scene, which isn't a long-lasting death, but still very effective FX. It also had the wonderful NIGHTMARE DESERT as I call it. With this installment, Freddy's third venture....Freddy visits a psychiatric ward, where teens with his grim nightmares, live. You can pretty much feel sympathy for the teens...though not that much! Why? Freddy is lovable. A lot of horror fans have sympathy for Freddy instead. I mean who wants to see Freddy die? I like this installment a lot, it has great imagery. However, I suppose I rather see Freddy chasing teens around a neighborhood. I mean, the hospital is awesome and everything. But I just choose neighborhood boogeyman. This installment brings back Nancy, who skipped Part 2. This entry, was popular for having such future stars as....Patricia Arquette and Lawrence Fishburn. This movie, like all others, delivers wonderful FX. Including a  Jason And The Argonauts  like Freddy skeleton. It also, like all others, delivers a cool Freddy death, despite the fact no one wants to see Freddy die. A lot of spooky stuff put into this film. Still, I like Freddy's neighborhood nightmares. "},{"Title":"Pretty good for a sequel","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not a whole lot to say that everyone else hasn't already said, but I definitely liked this movie. Part 2 was awful, and it was nice to see the series restored to the splendor of the original. I happen to be in the extreme minority in the fact that I liked 4-6, and hated the last one, New Nightmare or whatever it's called. They may have something to do with the fact I am not a big horror fan, so the smart-aleck remarks made by Freddy in the sequels were pretty funny to me. All I know is, there are alot worse horror movies than any of these movies (Pet Semetary 2, anyone?) "},{"Title":"True to the Original","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nightmare 3 picks up a few years after the events of the first movie while basically ignoring the disaster of a second movie.  This picture is a big step up from the first sequel, but it still makes a lot of mistakes that also plagued the original movie.It's nice to see Heather Langenkamp and John Saxon reprising their roles from the original Nightmare.  They lend credibility to this sequel that was lacking in Part 2.  Revealing more of the backstory of Freddy Krueger is also a nice touch.  This one also contains, in my opinion, the most frightening nightmare of them all the kid who is led puppet-style to his death by his veins and tendons.Unfortunately, this movie also contains the series' penchant for terrible acting.  The special effects are nice, and you can tell that they were starting to put some money into the production of these movies, but it still doesn't eclipse the original in terms of quality.Still, this is a good entry in the series, and obviously enough people liked it to warrant producing a few more. "},{"Title":"Freddy's Home..!!","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well what could i say... A very good film,compared to part 2...And is also as good as part one.The acting was stable,i really liked Heather Langenkamps performance.Part 3 didnt have much humour into it,i admire that.Freddy is bad in this one. I think Patricia Arquettes performance was fair along with the rest of the cast.This film really is set in a dark concept,and was really enjoying to watch.This film had mediocore special FX compared to the sequels.I wouldnt call this film a classic,but i would call it one of the best of 87.This was where the Good freddy films ended,which is such a shame,as their are so many wasted sequels.Hopefully Freddy VS Jason may prove me wrong.Nightmare part 3 was a great film,spooky at times.Watch it. I rated this movie a 7 out of 10. ***1/2 / ***** "}{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was a great movie,the only part I don't like is Nancy gets killed and they bring her back in Wes Craven's New Nightmare.That makes absolutely no sense.Heather Langenkamp does a great job as Nancy,having graduated from college and studying pattern nightmares.She turns the patients into dream warriors,prepared to fight Freddy(and getting killed one by one.)They all have their own special power.I can't say this is the best of the series but it is very good.If you have'nt already seen it,rent it,you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"the BEST in the Series","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nightmare On Elm Street 3 is very good, it is a great sequel, it takes off in a mental hospital with kids who are having bad dreams of Freddy. Nancy (Heather Langenkamp) returns for the last time to help the kids, Kristen (Patricia Arquette) has the ability to bring people into her dreams and she brings Nancy into her dreams and Nancy knows its Freddy, she tries to help the kids but eventually they start getting killed and they have to fight Freddy. this movie has great Special Effects. The movie ends kinda sad and surprising but its still sad. "},{"Title":"Nancy Thompson--Queen of the Dream Warriors!!!!","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street ROCKS!!!!  It's easily the second best of the series, part 1 is and always will be the best.The movie picks up six years after the first (and one year after part 2 if you care).  Freddy is tormenting several troubled youths in Springwood. But what Freddy doesn't know is an old foe has returned to even the score...Nancy Thompson is back, having finished college and is now a grad-school superstar in the field of pattern nightmares.  She identifies with the kids, as she went through it all herself.  She eventually tells them that they (including her), are the last of the Elm Street Children...kids whos parents murdered Fred Krueger years before.After several kids die by the hands of Freddy, Nancy teaches the kids how to use their Dream Powers, and together they all form The Dream Warriors.An excellent battle ensues...and a shocking ending that totally made it clear that the story was done.  (4, 5, and 6 SUCKED and should NOT be considered part of the story).The film boasted the welcomed return of Nightmare 1's Heather Langenkamp and John Saxon, and of course Robert EnglundThe film itself was still dark, just with comedic undertones.  It certainly wasn't the rollar-coaster ride parts 4, 5, and 6 were....which is good, because they sucked!Anyways, I would highly recommend this movie to anyone who liked part 1...or any of the Freddy movies.IMHO, Parts 1 and 3 are the only worthy Nightmares.  Wes Craven's New Nightmare was also pretty phat as well.Heather Langenkamp RULES!  And Nancy Thompson will forever be remembered. "},{"Title":"Wes is back!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Mr. Craven, horror fans everywhere wish to thank you for saving Freddy from that awful second film. This is the second best of the series without a doubt. Who didnt get a chill when Freddy, seeing Nancy again, utters, the word YOOUUUU!!! Fantastic! Bravo Wes! An afterthoughtAm I the only one waiting for Wes Craven, Tom Savini(horror makeup wizard if you're wondering), and John Carpenter to team up and bing us the asskicker of all horror movies? Just imagine wha these three demented human beings could come up with! "},{"Title":"The best Elm Street movie EVER!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say? I just love that movie. It's much more colorful and funny than the first two, but it's still scary. The death scenes are much more inventive and stylish. It also have a clear ending that looked like this is it. The ending of the story... But nooooo... The other three movies screwed up everything. The best thing to do is just ignore them, but not the 7th one - that one is good! "},{"Title":"A good time to have stopped...","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film does provide a good feel for fans of the Nightmare on Elm Street series when reuniting Heather Langenkamp and John Saxon once again. And now with familiar faces and an exceptional new plot the recovery from Freddy's Revenge can begin. The film starts of good with enough suspense to hold us over through most of the movie. It then fastens you down with one of the must gruesome seen that I ever recall seeing with the puppet maker (I can't recall his name at the moment).This would have done the series good if it weren't for the terrible acting (mainly by the teen actors take for instance the Wizard Master?!?). But if you were able to overlook that this film would come off as rather enjoyable.But no matter how much you try to justify the rest of the films (4-7), it would have done them good to have just left off here, now with the original cast killed off.5/10 "},{"Title":"langenkamp vs kruger again!","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this is the third installment of the nightmare series this is one of the better ones the only ones that are worth seeing are the first ,third and seventh which wes craven did if you watch those ones you'll still get what you need to understand then all the second movie has no relevance to the first except that freddy is stalking some more people.... so if you have nothing to do on some rainy day watch the 1,3 and 7 moviesthey are the best trust me "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the best of the Freddy movies. It's not as good as the original Nightmare or Wes Craven's New Nightmare. But it is still good fun. It's way better then the second and Freddy's Dead. I still haven't seen part 4 and 5. There are 4 reasons why this is one of the best of the series. 1.) Wes Craven wrote the script and brings back some original characters Nancy played by Heather Langenkamp, and her father played by John Saxon.2.) Laurence Fishburne, one of my favorite actors, in a early role as the head security guard at the hospital were the movie takes place.3.) It tells us more about Freddy. Hes the bastard son of a 100 maniaces says one character. It seems a young nurse got lock in the hospital over the holiday and she was raped by the patients. 4.) There is a great fight scene near the end were John Saxon and another character fight a skeleton.I give it 8/10  "},{"Title":"best sequel","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Easily the best of the innumerable sequels in the series. Decent script, plot, and some surprisingly good performances (Patrica Arquette!) round out a good film. My only complaint is that it is pretty predictable. "},{"Title":"A LOT BETTER THEN THE FIRST ONE","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i think this movie is a lot better then the first one. the first one just HAS to go it completely SUCKED, anywayz i love this movie it gets your attention and keeps your attention for the entire film. Rodney Eastman gives the best performance, also patricia arquette and heather langencamp ( of course ) so take my advice and rent this its definitely worth it!  "}{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Lot's of people say this movie really blows.But I disagree I think it is the most entertaining out of all of them and it's pretty funny too,I suggest you check it out! "},{"Title":"One liners start here","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Here ladies and gentlemen, is where Freddy decides to become a comedian and say one liners here and there.  With the complaint down, let me say something.  This movie is awesome.  It has one of the greater plots of all the Nightmare movies.  It also has Nancy back in it, and a good slew of teens for good ol' Fred to mutilate.  Everything about this movie is great, except for the one thing that kills all horror movies, and that is acting. I give Nightmare 3 a 8/10.  Rated R for language, violence, drugs, sex, and nudity.  Still, I feel this movie is okay for mature teens, 15 and up.   "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  It was scary, cheesy, and Freddy had some funny lines in it, although I hear that they get worse along the line of freddy movies.  I've only seen two movies in the elm street series, and they are the first one and the 3rd.  Those are supposed to be the best along with New Nightmare but my video store doesn't have that one.  They don't have freddy's dead either.  If anyone wants to tell me which is the next best in the series, I'd appreciate it.  I don't want to waste my money on a movie that sucks.  But all in all, I liked this movie.  8/10  "},{"Title":"the 3rd best in the series","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  part 3 is the beginning of the end for this series. it was pretty good. freddy has wise cracks in this movie i think for the first time. but the wise cracks,and more talking take away him being scary. i give this one **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"A good one!","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This Nightmare is way better than parts 2,4,5,6. It's the only one that was sensible and the only one that had a good story. It brings Nancy back. Go from part 1 to 3 to 7. As for the others don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Freddy is scarier than ever","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This 3rd installment of the series is wonderful!  And Freddy is scarier than ever.  All the actors were great and it was good to see Heather Langenkamp back.  Good job New Line!!  "},{"Title":"The Greatest Freddy Flick!!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had everything in it.  Especially when Freddy was in Kristen's dream and Nancy went in to help her and Freddy saw her for the first time and said YOUUUUU!!!!  That was the coolest ever.  The part when he looked at the guy in the tunnel who was a wizard and he thought that he was hurting Freddy and he said Sorry Kid, I don't Believe in fairy tales.  This movie had a great plot, it was not ignorant, it was scary and hilarious.  Cool! If you haven't seen it, rent it or buy it.  "},{"Title":"I don´t think it´s THAT good...","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Since everyone likes this movie so much I thought I should express my thoughts on this one. First of all Freddy isn´t himself anymore (see my comments on ANOE 2 for explanation). He talks too much in this movie and isn´t nearly as scary as in the first and to some extent the second movie. And there isn´t another movie in the series where we see the good ol´ Freddy that we all know and love(?). That´s really a shame, but apart from Freddy this movie has a lot going for it, the SFX are great and there are some cool death scenes (the puppet anyone?). Overall I think that this is the best movie after the first one, but It´s not even close to the brilliance of ANOE 1. "},{"Title":"Back on Track!","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Wes Craven steps back in to apologise for the mess of Part 2 by co-writing a conclusion to the original movie and completely ignoring the fact that Part 2 ever existed.Add to that a bigger budget and impressive effects courtesy of Dream Quest (the more modestly budgeted movie's ILM) and you've got what should've been Freddy's big finale. Unfortunately New Line had other ideas...But this is definitely the second best in the series and the only worthy follow up to the original, proving one again that Wes Craven knows his way round a horror film. And Freddy still puts in a convincingly scary turn with some played straight one-liners which actually work.  "},{"Title":"NIGHTMARE 3","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors is the second best in the series.  How they managed to recover after that lukewarm second film, I don't know.  This story sees the return of Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) years after the first film's conclusion.  This time she has to protect a disturbed young girl (a surprisingly powerful and moving Patricia Arquette) and a group of teen outcasts from Freddy.  (Robert Englund looks even scarier than usual this time around.)Set in a state mental hospital, the gloomy atmosphere lends a lot to the fright factor of this horror film.  The performances are some of the best in the series.  Craig Wasson is a fine actor.  Larry Fishburne turns up as a hospital orderly.  Even part one's John Saxon appears for a few fleeting scenes.  Freddy gets more screen-time in this one and that's definitely a plus since he's so dark and scary!  Indeed, this is the last of the intense Freddy movies.  Luckily, they got in one last ode to the great clawed one before moving into lighter territory. "}{"Title":"Killer movie!","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought Dream Warriors was a killer movie!  This has to be one of the best Freddy's yet!  The special effects were cool, and was for sure, a good example of a low budget movie turned great "},{"Title":"They Should've Known When to Stop","Date":"1 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Dream Warriors (with the return of Langenkamp and Saxon) basically takes off where the first movie ended, and ignores the events of the third movie.  That's a good thing, as Heather's character is far more interesting than the kid in the second movie.  If they had ended with Part 3, they probably would have been best off quitting while they were ahead.  Instead, they continued to churn out lesser efforts.  There are plenty of chilling moments in this one, though, and probably the last grim, scary, Freedy we 'll see until Craven does Final Nightmare a few sequels down the road.  "},{"Title":"The best Nightmare on Elm Street film ever made! Dream Warriors is awesome!","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Disclaimer If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take the best slasher sequel horror film in the genre, ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors (1987) is definitely the best sequel horror slasher film in the series franchise! A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 is my second favorite best film in the franchise that I just love this film to death! I love A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984), this one A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors (1987) and New Nightmare (1994) to death! This one is the second best favorite film of mine and I just love everything they did in this film. My awesome favorite heroine Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) is back and better than ever! She is a bad ass! I love everything about this film everything and I love it to death!P Welcome to Prime time, Bitch!This was a MAJOR improvement over the disaster part 2, The Gore FX were excellent and the story was well written. It's too bad Nancy was killed off it would have been nice to see her in future sequels. I love this horror slasher film to death it is very imaginative, entertaining, a good set of characters, some fun catchphrases/dialogue, a great Dokken song aka Dream Warriors...a lot of awesome stuff is in this one. Why I love this film? Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) returns which you already know I love the main heroine so much in the series franchise. John Saxon also returns as Det. Donald Thompson. Wes Craven is back as writer in this film, the movie is a little longer than the first and the second film. This is Patricia Arquette's first movie. In my opinion it is her first best movie alongside with Stigmata (1999) in other films she made were just awful or some sucked! Anyway I love Patricia Arquette here She's beautiful, vibrant and has so much emotion in her lovely eyes. A really essential female lead for a film this big. This is how you correctly make a sequel. This one really felt like Part 2 to me because of the continuation from the 1st movie. The hospital setting fit the theme perfectly and this one contains one of my favorite death scenes in the whole series. Also, 80's band Dokken recorded a few songs for the movie which is another reason why this is a must-see for Nightmare fans.Chuck Russell is one of my favorite directors he directed The Mask (1994) with Jim Carrey that I love, Eraser with Arnold Schwarzenegger and The Blob (1988) a year later which I also love so much. I think he made great choose of casting the actors alongside with Wes Craven the idea and imaginative of the film flick were just really awesome, how they scramble in to making a movie! Robert England is pure gold in this film, seriously I just love his imaginative and portrayal of Freddy Krueger in this film! The man is the main legend as the villain in the series!, It has a cool premise and I really enjoy The characters. To me this is the 2nd best horror sequel ever made after A Nightmare on Elm Street which is my number 1. Love it so much!I only have one major problem with the film and that is Nancy dies on the end of the film here. Even tough she dies, the death scene was awesome because it was honorable death! She stopped Freddy for hurting anyone else and Kristen Parker. The death scene was honorable to me because Kristen ( Patricia Arquette) was crying over her death and just love how Kristen showed how of a heart she has and that she is a good wonderful person and a human been. Wes Craven did not wanted to kill Nancy off. He did not like the idea that they killed her off! Jason Saxon as Donald Thompson is also killed by the end of the film which that shouldn't be in here also! The idea for local psychiatric hospital for teens in this film was just very brilliant and very imaginative praise to Wes Craven. A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors, Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) who invades the minds of a new group of teens -- and the nightmares begin again. Local teenagers start dying and only Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) knows the truth. Now a doctor at the local psychiatric hospital, she is the lone survivor of one of Freddy's previous killing sprees. Now, it's a fight against her co-workers' disbelief and a race against time to stop Freddy before he kills again. That's your basic plot. It does involve travel and invading in to the minds of a teen's dreams. A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors is a 1987 American slasher fantasy film and the third film in the Nightmare on Elm Street series. The film was directed by Chuck Russell, written by original creator Wes Craven and co-written by Bruce Wagner, and starred Craig Wasson, Heather Langenkamp, Robert Englund as Freddy Krueger and Patricia Arquette in her first role.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio New Line Cinema Starring Heather Langenkamp, Patricia Arquette, Laurence Fishburne, Priscilla Pointer, Craig Wasson, Robert Englund Director Chuck Russell Producer Robert Shaye Screenplay Wes Craven, Bruce Wagner, Frank Darabont, Chuck Russell Story Wes Craven, Bruce Wagner Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 36 Mins. Budget $4.500.000 Box Office $44.793.200 "},{"Title":"Reinvigorating a franchise that went off course quickly","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors is a more complete and well-paced film than both of its predecessors, much more consistent in its narrative and its creation of the laws by which Freddy Krueger abides. The first Nightmare on Elm Street focused on a setting that was largely eerie and a slowburn narrative approach whilst the second film largely abandoned the logic of the previous film and had Freddy serve as a metaphor for an insecure, homosexual teen's repressed side. The third installment in the franchise continues playing musical directors and writers, switching up who occupies the director's chair and who holds the pen, for the better, this time allowing Chuck Russell to direct and a quartet of writers - among them the series' original creator Wes Craven and The Shawshank Redemption writer/director Frank Darabont - who finally emphasize the fear and vulnerability that Freddy places on each of his victims.Our new troubled protagonist is Kristen Parker (Patricia Arquette), who is haunted by the burnt-faced, sweater-clad figure Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) in her dreams, much to the dismay of her mother. Following an instance of alleged self-harm, however inflicted by Freddy while Kristen was in her sleep, Kristen is taken to a mental hospital, where she meets a slew of other troubled souls her own age Philip (Bradley Gregg), a marionette puppeteer, Kincaid (Ken Sagoes), a short-fuzed, humorous loudmouth, Jennifer (Penelope Sudrow), an aspiring actress, Taryn (Jennifer Rubin), a recovering drug addict, Joey (Rodney Eastman), who has taken a vow of silence due to the terror his nightmares have given him, and Will (Ira Heiden), who is wheelchair bound following a failed suicide attempt.The curious thing about these teens is all of them were haunted by dreams of Freddy before ever having met each other. As a result, they are counseled by Dr. Nancy Thompson (Heather Lagenkamp), who was haunted by prolific nightmares on Freddy in the first film. The film revolves around the teens being imprisoned, not only by a mental hospital and the faculty who don't take them seriously, everyone except for Nancy, in addition to being held captive their dreams and recurring nightmares. The rules of Freddy's game have reverted back to the rules of the first film that were abandoned and stretched in the second installment if you die in your dreams, you, in turn, die in real life.A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 has a plethora of interesting characters, even more-so than the original film. These characters carry personality and their frequent group meetings, where they talk about the previous events of the day and, specifically, their nightmares, further develop them as more than just young, fresh faces soon to be victims in a horror film. Their personalities shine through brightly and the screenwriters etch enough of a balance between comedy and humanity in these characters to make their deaths actually send meaningful pangs of shock and disappointment through the audience.This installment is also the point in the series where the dream sequences started to get much more elaborate and realized, in return, making them creepier and more effective. The specials effects give the feeling of being trapped within the endless boundaries of a frightening and unrelenting lucid dream, and Freddy remains a universally frightening presence that manipulates and slowly takes over. He doesn't work too fast in terms of killing his victims, nor does he spout endless quips and pop culture punchlines as if he's a standup comedian. He's pure, unadulterated evil, and the fantastic, decorated dream settings give him all the power and make us feel just as helpless as the innocent souls on screen.A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 is a lot of fun as a horror movie, not too self-serious or meta to be taken seriously, nor too bleak and dreary to be considered monotonous or uninteresting after an extended period of time. It reinvigorates the franchise with a commendable amount of emphasis on scares and set-decoration after a film that was too concerned with forming a metaphor and rejecting the fundamental rules of the series' newly instated playbook. We go back to the basics with Dream Warriors in a way that sets everything up anew in a thoroughly entertaining manner.Starring Patricia Arquette, Robert Englund, Heather Langenkamp, Larry Fishburne, Bradley Gregg, Ken Sagoes, Penelope Sudrow, Jennifer Rubin, Rodney Eastman, and Ira Heiden. Directed by Chuck Russell. "},{"Title":"More of what A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge (1985) should have been","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's a rare case when a sequel makes a comeback in a franchise that begins going downhill in quality. Unfortunately with the law of diminishing returns it's not easy for that to happen. When audiences start figuring out that the connections between stories are not being regarded and nothing new is being added to create a cohesive part by part saga, they begin to ignore and not support the cause. Once that happens, it becomes very difficult for the name to come back with something that'll make everyone forget the bad taste that was put in peoples' mouths. Yet for horror franchises, it's much harder for this issue to occur since many just went to view the picture for the kills. But this is a unique case where the third entry (which usually is the worst in a trilogy) ended up being better than the second.However, the only big problem this installment has is where it lies in the timeline. The title suggest that it takes place after A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge (1985) yet throughout the running time, nothing is mentioned about the events of this film's first predecessor (which also happened to acknowledge the original). Plus the original had a false ending so how did Nancy escape Krueger at the end of A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984)? This makes it confusing because many Krueger fans believe that Part 2 shouldn't exist, but it was made, so with this productions four writers, something could've been quickly added in to reference the last film. Besides this though, the rest of the writing works aggressively at making sure its audience will enjoy and care more about this set of characters than the last movie. When a bunch of kids start suffering from dangerous dreams at a mental ward headed by Neil Gordon (Craig Wasson), Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) returns to help the struggling fatigued youths fight back against Freddy Krueger using the powers of their dreams.The reason behind Krueger attacking these kids is that they are all that remain of the Elm Street kids of the parents that killed Freddy. This time, the motivation for Freddy is clear. Why not for Part 2? We'll never know. Making his directing debut and partially writing for this entry is the underrated Chuck Russell. Co-writing with Russell is the return of Wes Craven, Bruce Wagner and future 3 time Oscar nominated Frank Darabont. For this alone, it only feels right that the story has more substance this time around. Having John Saxon and Heather Langenkamp reprise their roles was a major plus and the new set of youth or dream warriors as they call themselves, are certainly more charismatic than the last bunch from Part 2. The dream warriors consist of Roland (Ken Sagoes) the tough guy, Joey (Rodney Eastman) the mute, Taryn (Jennifer Rubin) the punk, Phillip (Bradley Gregg) the geek, Kristen (Patricia Arquette) the believer and a couple others all of which have a distinct personalities. Heck even Laurence Fishburne has role in this movie!Veteran actress Nan Martin plays a specific role that is pretty creepy for the story. Again Langenkamp and Saxon provide just the right amount of nostalgia for the fans so that they have plenty to fall back on from the original film. Even Craig Wasson's character is quite useful through the story. Of course we can't forget Robert Englund as Freddy Krueger himself. Like every time before, Englund looks like he's having a blast and any line that he says is darkly funny in its own right. The writing also includes more interesting scenes whether it be the dream sequences or back story information to Freddy Krueger. It additionally doesn't follow the normal horror tropes either which is commendable. The dream sequences whether it be the kills or the act of fighting back go hand- in-hand with the special/practical effects and cinematography shot by Roy H. Wagner. This makes the dream scenes and kills much more creative, diverse and gruesome than the prior entry. Lastly, the only other element besides continuity that doesn't sit well with this sequel is the musical score composed by Angelo Badalamenti. Future horror composer Christopher Young composed the musical score from Part 2 and sadly it was a let down. This was due to Young omitting the original A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) theme composed by Charles Bernstein. For this score, Badalamenti reprises the creepy main theme that composer Bernstein created. except it feels rather shoehorned in a couple times than it is effectively put into the right places. Along with that are horror cues that sound even more synth keyboard emphasized that Bernstein's score. It might be more accurate to say that it resembled that of Richard and Charles Band production quality; it really sounds cheap. This is baffling considering everything else with this entry had such better quality, the music should have received a boost as well, but it didn't.The continuity is vague in its timeline placement and the musical score sounds cheaper than usual even with the return of the memorable creepy theme. However, with better dream sequences, kills, a cast of new dreamers, the return of original characters and a story with more clear motivations, this sequel gets very close to the original. "},{"Title":"What a rush!!!","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I watched this one numerous times in my early childhood and teen years. I haven't seen it recently, so when I sat down to watch it last night, I realized how good it actually is.The special effects don't hold up well to time, but the intentions are extremely creepy and scary. Despite knowing what was going to happen (but not remembering exactly how), I found myself still jumping at certain points in the movie, heart racing all the way to the end.Freddy keeps the campy dialogue down in this one in this one; he's still not the comedic villain that he becomes in the later movies. He appears dark, this face shrouded and only revealed at key moments in the movie. The lines are classic, as well as some of the killing methods.This one definitely holds its own against the first Nightmare. "},{"Title":"Cheesy kids adventure movie","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie starts the 80's child version of Ghostbusters or a some comic book hero team like kid Avengers in the A Nightmare On Elm Street series which is repeated also next sequels. I guess I've should known that from title(Dream Warriors...) which is like a kids adventure movie name and the content is also that too. There's some good elements like mental institution as an environment. Characters in the movie are so cliché that its incredibly generic 80's childish adventure movie; one black bad ass, one handicap, one shy girl, one loud girl etc. And the most stupid thing, they become superheroes in their dreams. Together they try to save their lives and/or dreams from Freddy Kruger. Many bad ideas are first time in this movie and repeated in other sequels. Recasting Heather Langenkamp to this movie was not a good idea, her character is unnecessary to the story. There's also quite stupid ways to die like to be smashed into TV and bad Freddy jokes. From here it goes even worse in next the sequels, more and more bad jokes and unnecessarily brutal, long and dull ways to kill. Unfortunately Wes Craven's presence in writing the story and screenplay doesn't make this film near as good as the original ANOES. If you ask me I recommend you to skip all these sequels to 6th and watch the first part and 6th. "},{"Title":"It's not an complete waste of time","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie years ago and was very annoyed by it. Then I came at IMDb where I read the comments on NOES 2. A lot of people thought it was bad, but I actually thought it was OK. The main reason that most people didn't like the second movie was Jessie, who seems to have a sexuality problem. I didn't have a problem with it. What the movie did was extend Freddy's power which could be logic because Jessie was so very afraid of Freddie.The power of Freddie in part one (and which made NOES 1 an instant Classic) was that he was real, and that made him so scary. He brought you so deep in your nightmare that it became real and is that not exactly why we are scared of nightmares. That they seem so real??? The second movie went on on that same line but this time, as said Freddie used Jessie. But still AFTER dreams. He had Jessie in his grip and he wasn't strong enough to fight him. That's why I liked the second movie also.But OK, a lot of people thought the third movie is THE sequel at the first so I gave it a try again and I still disagree. It goes way further down the line then the second. The story-line is OK. It goes further into the legend, I liked the plot of the Non and Nancy returned in the movie, Nothing wrong with that. But why is she suddenly so tame and hasn't she got the power to fight Freddie again. and when I saw Freddie appear as the snake again, I immediately remembered why I dislike this movie. What the hell is that??? Why does Freddie suddenly has to appear as a snake like were watching a fairytale. And then the Puppet Death! The scene was great till the end as Freddie appears as a giant and snaps the lines with a stupid grin on his face. That's where Freddie lost his strength for me an became a laughing joke. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Prime Time, Freddy!","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Oh, thank God someone had faith in Freddy.I mean we start with the great A Nightmare on Elm Street and follow that with an abomination, A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge. Not only did they believe there's more story and more depth they can explore, they made A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors much better than most of the other 1980s horror franchises.Usually in the said horror series, especially in the 1980s, a part 3, 4 through 10 was inevitable due to the low cost to produce and return, even if small, was enough for the big wigs (see Saw series of the 2000s.) So, this part 3 was probably going to be made anyways, but wow, did they make an actually good movie.Freddy's back to take the remaining Elm Street Children. He supposedly dies in both part 1 and 2 &#x96; though they ask you kindly, as any rational human would, to forget part 2 existed. I absolutely love it when series do that, when they made some bad sequels (Also see Superman Returns that said to heck with parts III and IV.) But due to some of the souls (explored more later in the series) gave him enough power to continue.Now, the remaining teens, coincidentally enough, are all sent to a psych hospital due to attempted suicides. One of them is (very high-pitched screeching) Kristen (Arquette) who has the power to bring people into her dreams and she starts with Nancy (Langenkamp,) the only teen survivor from the first movie, who begins to work there, apparently not coincidentally.Nancy rallies the rest of the team and a suspicious, but obvious love-interest doctor, to fight back in the dreams with their own special gifts before they are picked off one-by-one. Oh, and there's a mysterious nun that aids the good doc in their quest.The movie's not perfect; it does have its share of inconsistencies, such as Kristen is the only one with the power to bring people into her dream, yet, they all join her later on their own. On a side note, laughably, half the movie her name is Kirsten while the other half it's Kristen. Also, Langenkamp played the teen somewhat or fairly well (ok, just okay) in part one. Apparently, she does the teen role mucho better than the adult, because, I'm sorry; as much as I liked seeing a familiar face (after the dreadful part 2,) she was just plain awful here. (I'm talking about the acting, not to mention the disappearing & reappearing act of her white hair streak &#x96; it literally has a mind of its own.) And finally, even though 97% of the special effects and inventiveness was good, the claymation/Clash of the Titians skeleton in the climax was a bit laughable &#x96; especially the men's reactions.With that out of the way, I really, really liked this movie. Freddy, though not all the way out of his shell, came out mostly and was funny, actually scary and proved he was worth more visits in sequels to come. The dreams were good &#x96; not just the back alley way, or bedrooms, they actually took us places, namely to what would #1 scare the victims, but use their fears against themselves.The soundtrack was good, the depth they gave &#x96; finally some sort of Freddy background, was very interesting and the jokes were actually funny. Also, you never knew (if you haven't seen part 4) who was going to live or die, so the suspense was up, as well. For example, most of these horror sequels have bad tempered/mannered/villains that are sure to be offed due to making the audience reel in their demise, but this has plenty, yet they remain unharmed. That's part of its originality and showed the movie was focused on what it was &#x96; killing the teens of the parents who killed Freddy originally.Even if you're not a fan of the series, you should see this 1980s horror throwback. Though recommended to watch #1 first (always, ALWAYS skip #2) and then this, it gives you enough background to see this as a stand-alone feature. "},{"Title":"The last good one?","Date":"17 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the best of the sequels. A bunch of disturbed 'teens' are holed up in a psychiatric hospital, under the tender and less than tender care of doctors Gordon and Simms. All are complaining of bad dreams and all are taking desperate measures to ensure they do not sleep alone. Step in Nancy from the original movie as a councillor of some form or other, who convinces Dr Gordon to help her facilitate group dreams, a state that can be achieved by using the power of one of the inmates, Kristen, and together they aim to do battle with the be-clawed one. Listen, it doesn't stand up to even the vaguest scrutiny, but what horror film does? The enjoyment here comes from the genuine sense of kinship that the disturbed youngsters display, as well as the demented nature of some of the death scenes, Freddy as puppet master being my personal favourite, using a poor saps tendons as his strings. With reasonably strong performances from all, and early appearances from both Laurence 'Morpheus' Fishburne and Patricia Arquette, a reasonable level of gore and the best Freddy death sequence at the end of it all, what's not to like? It's downhill from here though, kids. "}{"Title":"the best movie ever","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I used to have insomnia before I ever saw any of the nightmare on elm street movies and one night I was flicking through the pay and watched the last half of the nightmare on elm street 3. I thought it was a fantastic movie. I didn't get some of it for I haven't seen the others but I still loved it. Since then I have been a nightmare on elm street freak. It was the best horror movie I have ever seen. Even though I haven't seen the other nightmare on elm street movies, I reckon buy what I have heard, that the nightmare on elm street 3 was the best of the lot, including Freddy vs Jason. Once again, it was the best movie ever!! "},{"Title":"Freddy's hooooome!","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 3 Dream Warriors is a good horror effort. If not for this film and the storyline of Part 5, I would say skip straight from Nightmare 1 to New Nightmare. One of the main reasons for that is Wes Craven's involvement. Yes, the man is back as co-writer and producer to breathe new life into his creation. A return of some of the original stars is also reason to celebrate. Heather Langenkamp and John Saxon continue their father/daughter roles very respectably. John Saxon is the man is what I'm trying to say. Nightmare 3 also has a couple of future stars. Patricia Arquette and Laurence Fishburne have both made good names for themselves. Some other people made good from this as well. Wes Craven had a little help on the screenplay from Chuck Russell and Frank Darabont. You might recognize that last name from such films as The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile. And then there's Robert Englund. I would say he's the only reason to watch parts 4-6. Let's not forget the theme song. Fortunately, I'm lucky enough to own a copy of this with the Dokken music video. Hell yeah. Sleep. Those little slices of death. How I loathe them. "},{"Title":"Very good horror film.","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Really cool horror movie. Has great special effects and some imaginative ways to deal with the gore. The script is also pretty good, and the performances are well thought-out. A must-see horror film. "},{"Title":"Kids Kick Freddy's Ass","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"                          ***POSSIBLE SPOILERS***In all honesty, A Nightmare on Elm Street 3Dream Warriors was not as strong as the excellent first film and the enjoyable sequel. This, I believe, is because it is hard for the third installment in a film series to ever be as good as the original. Also, given that A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 was such a good sequel, Part 3 had a lot to live up to.The star of the show Robert Englund is back as Freddy Krueger and we also welcome back Heather Langenkamp & John Saxon who were in the first movie. Whilst it would have been repetitive to have Langenkamp and Saxon in Part 2, it was good to see them back again.The story is set at an institute for kids with sleep disorders. Craig Wasson plays Dr. Neil Gordan who is attempting to get to the bottom of why the kids are trying to deprive themselves of sleep. The problem is that Freddy is back to butcher the kids because they are the sons and daughters of the parents who killed Krueger some years back. Problem is that no-one-apart from Gordan and Nancy Thompson (Langenkamp's character)believe the kids. There's also a kid called Kristin Parker played by Patricia Arquette and she may be the only one who can defeat Freddy because she has a talent that involves her bringing other people into her dreams. And of course, if you're facing a maniac like Freddy you want all the back-up you can get.There's also some interesting backstory on Freddy which you'll learn if you watch the film. Character development in a film series is always important even when it comes to boogeymen like Freddy.The film is initially slow to start but it gathers momentum leading up to an interesting finale where the kids go to battle Freddy on his home turf. They can only defeat him, however, if the bones of his body-stashed away in a secret place-are buried in hallowed ground. What follows is a fight between the kids and Freddy Krueger-on his home turf.A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 isn't the strongest entry in the series but I have viewed it several times since the 80's and it gets a thumbs up from me. Check it out.By the way, Freddy's mom makes an appearance. Look out for her. "},{"Title":"Continues the downward spiral","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  May contain spoilersI think sometimes, if you read enough of these reviews you may think that I sound like a record that skips all of the time.  You can probably sum up my like and dislike of horror films in the most rudimentary ways of analysis. Early horror movies good, latter horror movies bad.  And on the whole that is probably true, although there are exceptions to the rule ( Scream 1996, Blair Witch 1999, Sixth Sense 1999).  But films like Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Halloween and Nightmare On Elm Street are paradigms of what all horror should be.  They are the quintessential  boogyman under the bed  stories that we were all afraid of as kids.  Like Kevin Spacey says in The Usual Suspects, spook stories that you use to scare your kids....tell on your dad and Keyser Soze will come and get you.  Well that is what me and my friends dreamed about when we were kids.  If you did something wrong, it's not God ( or Keyser Soze) that will punish you, it's Jason, Michael, Leatherface or Freddy.  And Freddy was just a little more intransigent than some of the others.  It's not that Jason and the rest were pushovers but at least with them, you had a chance when you were on common ground.  But how do you beat a dream?  How do you destroy what is in your mind?  And the answer is that you can't.  Wes Craven created a monster that was born from events written about in the L.A. Times and he put his own spin on it.  According to Craven, the L.A. Times printed three non followed up articles about Korean or Asian boys dying in their sleep.  Many of these boys had complained to their parents that something in their dreams was haunting them and they begged for help, to no avail.  So in some strange way, Nightmare On Elm Street has some truth to it.  Doesn't that make it all the more surreal?  I begin the review with this long-winded tirade because this is what made A Nightmare On Elm Street the film that it was.  Nightmare 1 not only makes my list as one of the best horror films ever made but one of the best films ever made period. To watch a film which intrigues you that much is a treat.  It is films like this that create movie lovers.  1978, 1980, 1975 and 1984 were important years in my life because that is when the genesis of horror films began for me(Halloween, Friday the 13th, Jaws and Nightmare On Elm Street were the films released those years).Unfortunately, equally as frustrating as Nightmare One was dazzling is the fact that the rest of the series does not comply one iota to what the original started.  I am not quite sure how Robert Shaye slandered  this franchise to the point of it becoming nothing more than a circus act, but in his defence, this so-called circus that I so sanctimoniously refer to it as, has generated over a quarter of a billion dollars in grosses and propelled New Line from a small one roomed building into one of the giants of Hollywood.  Look no further than the studio behind Lord of the Rings.  Who is responsible for it's success?  New Line.  And who runs New Line? Bob Shaye.  And who made Bob Shaye famous?  Freddy Krueger.However, success comes with a price and the Nightmare Series is no exception.  Nightmare One was the pinnacle of greatness.  Nightmare Two is an abomination and Nightmare Three isn't much better.  Let's see if we can begin there.What is good about Dream Warriors is that it furthers the legend of Freddy Krueger.  We find out here that Freddy was fathered by 100 different maniacs who raped Amanda Krueger, his mother, while she was locked mistakenly in the psychiatric ward with the nuts over a weekend.  Being a nun, she was forced to have the baby and hence we have this monster that was born,  the bastard son of 100 maniacs. Wes Craven wrote the script and there are scenes of brilliance that tease the Nightmare on Elm Street purists.  The acting in here is quite good as well with famous names like Laurence Fishburn and Patricia Arquette.  But what ultimately stains this movie is the fact that it is just not scary. Not only is it not scary, it is not really that intriguing.  And to top it off, it continues the theme of not abiding to the rules that Wes set up in the first film.  Here Freddy can still get you while you are awake, he can still hurt you in different forms and he can metamorphisise into things that can get you in ways that he is supposed to be forbidden from doing.  And that is what disappointed me with this film and with the later films to come out of this series.  Also, if you are going to have different writers for each film, shouldn't they know about the other films that came before them? This is what makes the Nightmare series a sloppy one.Nightmare On Elm Street 3, Dream Warriors is not the worst of the series ( that in my opinion has to go to number 2 ) but it is certainly not far from that lofty honor.  But to be fair, many of the people that I know that like the series say that this is one of the best out of the seven that exist. I disagree and my reason is that if you like horror and not comedy, then you will look on any of the films after the first and before Wes' last, as being blasphemy.5 out of 10-- It rates a five simply because Craven and Frank Darabont ( of Shawshank fame ) have attempted to write some clever and eerie dialogue and plot twists.  Their presence gives it a passing grade....but nothing more. "},{"Title":"Freddy Vs. The Dream Warriors!!!","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Freddy's 3rd is better than the 2nd, because he is in it more, and Nancy is back! Nancy helps teens with their nightmares at Westin Hills. Kristen has the power to bring people into her dreams. She gets help from Nancy, Joey, Kincaid, and others. Dr. Neil Gordon tries to help by burying Freddy in holy ground and splashing his bones with holy water. This one hints about how Freddy came to be. (You find out more about that in 'A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child') This is also kind of sad because Nancy dies toward the end. If you love the Freddy series, hopefully, you'll love A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 3 DREAM WARRIORS!!! "},{"Title":"The best sequel in the series","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" WOW, JUST WOW, What a improvement from the second movie, this is a great movie, almost as good as A Nightmare on elm street.The movie start with Kristen, who is having nightmares of Freddy Krueger and them mother see her when she is trying to kill her self, The mother not knowing it really was Freddy.Then Kristen is taken to psychiatric institution, were a lot of other teenagers are having the same nightmare. Kristen is screaming as they are trying to put her sleep but then Nancy Thompson who returns and save the day. She tells teenagers why Freddy is going after them in the nightmare.The deaths scene in this movie were really good some, of them were really nasty and scary at the time,When the teenagers have the nightmare were really creepy and made Freddy really scary again.The acting from Heather Langenkamp, Patricia Arquette and Robert Englund were outstanding and rest of cast did great Job too. "},{"Title":"Dream slayers...","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Heather Langenkamp returns to the series (After not being in # 2) to help a group of elm street teenagers face off against Freddy Krueger once and for all. But how do you kill something that is already dead ?(Well you can't, being that it was very profitable) Nightmare On Elm Street 3Dream Warriors in many ways is the best of the series, it is the most fun of the series although it's not quite as suspenseful as the first movie. Of course the best thing about this particular sequel which of course never got expanded on was the fact that the teenagers fight back and the most interesting moments are of the teenagers facing their weaknesses, such as drug addiction, being in a wheel chair and having no voice. Freddy Krueger of course takes on a more mythological figure, in which he represents mainly depression, addiction and anything that will get you to kill yourself. In this light this sequel takes on an interesting light. Plus it was nice to see John Saxon again.* * * out of 4-(Good) "},{"Title":"Breaking point of the series. Should have stopped before this one.","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" First off, I have to admit I was deeply surprised to find myself really really liking the original movie. It set a premise to a great concept and a fascinating premise for a villain.. And I can perfectly understand that you'd WANT to make a sequel to the original movie.. because leaving the first movie somehow left mysteries behind and you'd want to dive into the universe to find out more about it.. The problem about the rest of the series is that they just don't work in my opinion. Elements do, but as a whole Nope. I felt number 2 kind of had a good idea, trying to follow up the original movie.. It was OK, the point and plot was there. It just wasn't as good of a movie as the original, but a nice try at least. A mediocre sequel, but with some highlights even though. This third installation here is a whole other story. It starts off well though, presenting us Patricia Arquette in an early role... an insomniac girl not daring to sleep, but does and has a nightmare about Freddy(good scene), going crazy and is then being put into a mental-constitution where a lot of kids seems to have the same problem with Freddy occurring in their nightmare. So far so good actually!Then its _straight_ downhill though. Steep downhill! For some reason they resurrect Nancy from the first movie and she becomes some sort of squadleader and makes some kind of dream-team to kill Freddy in their collective dream. The silly thing is how its done though. The acting is not convincing, and nobody makes any sense. It turns into some sort of adventure movie... and the clichés boils over with the kids high fiving each other all the time and learning to use special powers in their dreams to defeat Freddy together. Ugh. Few things are more embarrassing. Of course they overuse Freddy as well, too. He's not scary anymore, he's just mean and sadistic without any reason. He has some quite good moments though, as the TV-movie comment and such. Still, this is the point where the series already seems to have run out of gas. One thing that can be deemed a s good thing is that they in this movie reveal more about Freddy's past.. and to one point that is a good thing.. but then there's some serious plot holes that kind of ruins it as well. It makes no sense that when they find the real burnt body of Freddy Kreuger in reality and it suddenly becomes alive and is even murderous? Huh? Everything about this movie was just so stupid when added together. Elements was quite good, but they just drowns in the misery of the wholeness. So, if you are ever going to watch Nightmare On Elm Street and haven't already.. See number 1 and try not to see the others. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th with some creativity and a budget","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have always thought of the Nightmare on Elm Street series as a high class rent answer to the Friday the 13th saga and this third entry really showcases the idea. It incorporates just as much sleaze n cheese as Friday the 13th, yet it utilizes it better. Its slick just like any Friday the 13th, yet unlike Friday the 13th films it has impressive production values and the acting is appropriate to the material. The Teen Horror genre is supposed to jump start careers much in the same sense as teen comedies. I don't think I have to mention names, or.., this is where John Cusack, Kevin Bacon, Demi Moore, Jim Carrey,  Crispin Glover, Michael J. Fox, Sean Penn and Jamie Lee Curtis just to name a few (or a few dozen) have gotten their start in the teen comedy/horror genre, many having entries in both. The premise comprises the surviving Elm Street children, whose parents were the criminals who track down a child murderer (Freddy Krueger) and burned him alive. (Think about the neighborhood you live in, ask yourself Does this sound like the neighbors on my block?) I love looking at the demographics of suburbia, which is why I love these movies. One of the things that add character right off the back to this film is the title to this movie, A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 3 DREAM WARRIORS. In a day and age where everything is MIB II, M-I 2, X2 and everything to that sort it is nice to see a title like this. Now days Hollywood thinks the audience is too stupid to remember anything considered to be more than a syllable, so they dumb it down. Even films like Spider-Man drop `The Amazing' part and same with `The Incredible' for `Hulk' to shorten what the audience has to remember. Now this title is no Dr. Strangelove and How I Learn to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb, but it has the same idea. The first scene is great in this film. When Kristin (Patricia Arquette) sees those same kids jump roping and approaches the young little blonde girl, just the way the girl acts simply scares my lunch out of me. The reason, I do not know, we could get psychological, because the little blonde girl represents innocence much in the same style the girl in Poltergeist did, then turns evil resembling Linda Blair in Exorcist, combining elements of two terrifying movies.  However those movies didn't cross my mind till now. The way time has warped the film has made the FX look as cheesy as the acting in a Friday the 13th film, however for its day it was top of the line. Whenever I first watch a film, the first thing I consider is the year/era it was made. This was during the time movie companies were shoving horror movies out to the local drive inns to make a quick buck. However this movie was released by an independent film company (Media at the time, now a larger company, New Line) and actually had effort and money put into it with the FX and the cast (I will explain later). Overall the FX made for some killer nightmares, especially when one of the kids is seduced by a naked nurse, then strapped to a bed with human tongues and suspended above a fiery pit. Getting back to the title, with all the different characters and stars (Patricia Arquette Bringing Out the Dead, Stigmata and Ed Wood,  the star of the original Heather Langenkamp, The Outsiders, Nickel Mountain and Wes Craven's New Nightmare, Lawrence Fishburne The Matrix, Hoodlum, Matrix 2 & 3 and Higher Learning, Robert Englund NOES Series, Tobe Hooper's Night Terrors, The Mangler and Wish You Were Dead and John Saxon Enter The Dragon, Black Christmas and Joe Kidd ) Dream Warriors is almost the perfect title for the movie. I say `almost' because there is one better that comes from the dialogue in this film. Freddy Krueger, we learn, was conceived after his mother was held captive in a mad house; he is therefore, the bastard son of a hundred maniacs. Nightmare on Elm Street 3 The Bastard Son of a Hundred Maniacs. Now that would make a great title for a movie. Getting back to the cast, I thought the film was cast perfect. What the problem was involved the character development. Though it passed by most 80's movie tests and put in likeable characters, it never did anything with them. Unlike its predecessor, Nightmare on Elm Street, none of the characters were like Nancy, where she was struggling with whether or not she was crazy. In the original Nancy tussles over are the nightmares illusions or real? While dealing with the aftermath of her parents divorce and the notion her mother has a drinking problem. I have often thought that resembled Sigourney Weaver's performance in Alien, adding life to a film with some not so familiar creatures. However, I must say this film fits its purpose perfectly, which I stated at the beginning is high-rent answer to the Friday the 13th saga. This is, after all a great thriller, though not as classy or scary as the original or Wes Craven's New Nightmare, making it the 3rd best in the series.There will be one thing that will always stay with me from this film, the tag line. It is an Edgar Allan Poe quote, reading`Sleep. Those little slices of death. How I loathe them.'  "}{"Title":"Interesting Wrinkle in Series Still Falls Short","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 is about as close to the terror and tension of the original that the rest of the series ever got.  This time Freddy is attacking the young teens of a mental asylum (all from Elm Street) through their dreams.  Heather Langenkamp, the lone surviving teen from the original, returns as a sort of psychologist who teaches the helpless teens to become dream warriors.  The references to the original help out this film greatly.  We get a little bit of insight into Freddy's history and that adds a nice wrinkle to the film.  Unfortunately that wrinkle would be used to produce more Nightmare films.  Co-written by Frank Darabont (The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile), A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 over-achieves and is an interesting part of the long-running series.  2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Proves the theory!","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have a theory about the Nightmare films You can't make a good one without Wes Craven. This proves my theory because it was good. Wes Craven knows what he's doing. Instead of mindless gore and no story, Craven does almost the opposite. He puts together a great story that isn't filled with gore. Why? Because like smart people, Wes Craven knows gore doesn't equal scary. Having Heather Langenkamp back as Nancy helps this film greatly. Nightmare 3 has a lot or original stuff in it, most notable of all is the fight with Freddy's skeleton. Very good. Sadly, this movie's greatness began the movie series downfall. How? Well since this movie was a success, it's obvious a sequel would be made. Parts 4, 5 & 6 came along and almost destroyed Freddy and the Nightmare series. Thankfully, Wes Craven came back to make New Nightmare and saved the movie series. "},{"Title":"Part 3 is scarier then the first 2","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't get me wrong the first 2 A night on elm street movies are very scary. This one is scarier. This is one of the scariest movies made before 1988. There are scarier movies. A nightmare on elm street 4 the dream master is scarier. A nightmare on elm street 5 the dream child is also scarier. Freddy's dead the final nightmare is also scarier. W.e.s Craven's new nightmare is also scarier. But still this is a very scary movie. It has a great story line. It as great acting. It as great special effects. Freddy is a ghost so I consider this horror fantasy. If you do not get scared off this movie then No movie will scary you. This is a great movie. See it. "},{"Title":"The last of the Elm Street children...","Date":"18 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Born the bastard son of a hundred maniacs, demented killer Freddy Krueger is back to claim the last of the Elm Street children, children of the people who burned Freddy to a crisp and made him what he is. The children are in a psychiatric ward where Freddy haunts their dreams. Their only hope is dream researcher and fellow survivor Nancy Thompson, who must help them battle the psycho on his own hellish turf.This film starred Heather Langenkamp, Patricia Arquette & Robert EnglundA NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 3 was a very good entry in the series, much better than the number 2 and I would compare it to the original, I couldn't choose which one was better but this one is a strong opponent with the first film. One thing that this film has that sequels like 4 & 5 don't have is a strong plot. I like the idea of why he after these children and not just anybody. I do recommend this entry even if your hope in Freddy was dissolved with number 2, I promise this one is much better.****/***** Very Good "},{"Title":"the second best nightmare film for sure.","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" with this entry Wes Craven returns to write the story and Chuck Russell steps in to direct. this is one of my favorite films of the 80's because of the non stop 80's vibe given off by the film. Freddy is at his best, in both comedy and horror aspects. Freddy's one liners are hilarious and sometimes chilling. you can tell Robert had finally gotten comfortable in the role of Fred Kreuger. besides Freddy the rest of the cast are good performance wise, and likable. Heather Langenkamp returns as Nancy with an even stronger performance than the original. the story is well written and connects back to the events and mythos of the first film, steering the franchise back on track. all this plus some very ingenious kills and dream sequences topped off with some excellent special FX make this film a true gem of the 80's era of slashers. not much negative to say about this one other than the fact that it could have been a little darker in tone, like the original film.the verdict 9/10 a true gem of the 80's ) "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The film starts a hand ripping open a bag of starch. Kristen Parker is troubled by nightmares and tries to commit suicide, though it really was one of her nightmares. For this reason she's put into a hospital with other suicidal teens. All of the teens in the ward share similar nightmares, though they're unsure of to what extent. Nancy, from the first movie, is a promising psychology student who arrives to help calm Kristen. Nancy helps unite the patients against Freddy by working with Dr. Gordon. The patients unite and use their dream powers to fight Freddy, but only Kincaid, Kristen, and Joey will survive. Freddy is ultimately only defeated when his body is given a proper burial by Dr. Gordon thanks to the guidance of Nancy's dad and the ghost of Freddy's mom. The use of the dream powers and the collective fighting of the patients really inspire and evoke a response. I like the wizard power of Will was particularly cool, and Taryn's look as a punk was sexy and cool too. All of the effort in developing the powers came off well. I don't think these would be appreciated by someone who hadn't seen the first. This helps develop the Freddy myth, and I like the 80s touch to this too with the huge collar for the wizard and over the top hair for Taryn. Dr. Simms was a very good villain too. This, and the subplot with Freddy's mom's ghost really keep me riveted. It's the best of 1-5 and Freddy vs. Jason. I'm quite sure it will be better than 6 & 7 too. A recommend, but better for a party or a late night event. "},{"Title":"One of the best in the series.","Date":"15 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Thoroughly entertaining entry in the Nightmare on Elm Street franchise introduces new twists to the standard story, and gives us a larger than usual group of main characters to be tormented by the dream haunting psychopath Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund). The last of the Elm Street children are now confined to a psychiatric institution, but nobody will take their claims of a nightmare bogeyman seriously until original survivor Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) comes there to work. She works with nice guy doctor Neil Gordon (Craig Wasson) to help, and encourages the teens to band together in the fight against Freddy. Co- written by Frank Darabont and debuting director Chuck Russell, based on a story by series creator Wes Craven and Bruce Wagner, is appealing for giving our protagonists more hope than usual, and giving them each distinct personalities. There's the mute Joey (Rodney Eastman), the tough-talking Kincaid (Ken Sagoes), and the recovering drug addict Taryn (Jennifer Rubin), among others, while the vulnerable Kirsten (Patricia Arquette) takes centre stage as the girl who has the ability to pull other people into her dreams. The top notch cast also includes Laurence Fishburne as Max the orderly, Priscilla Pointer as hard headed doctor Elizabeth Simms, Nan Martin as a helpful nun who gives us some more back story on Freddy and his origins, Brooke Bundy as Kirstens' bitchy mother, John Saxon reprising his role of Lt. Donald Thompson, and Dick Cavett and Zsa Zsa Gabor in cameos as themselves. In this sequel, we can see Freddy was already being taken in the direction of being a one liner spewing anti hero (What's wrong, Joey? Feeling tongue tied?) and he's still a cool character but just not as scary. The set pieces and special effects are among the best for this series, with Freddy-as-snake, a living marionette manipulated by his ripped out veins, and a nifty stop motion skeleton standing out; Freddy's makeup this time around is the work of Kevin Yagher. The cast is fun to watch, with Wassons' doctor required to go through the biggest character arc as he's forced to put aside everything he's already learned and to open his mind. The iconic house is just one of a couple of excellent, stylized sets (gotta love that automobile junkyard), and Angelo Badalamentis' music score is quite good if not as memorable as the Charles Bernstein themes of the original. And it's impossible to knock any film with a theme song as kick ass as Dokkens' Dream Warriors. All in all, this is well worth watching and ranks up there with Nightmare 1 and New Nightmare as a highpoint in this succession of films. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Best of the Series","Date":"8 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" the A Nightmare on Elm Street series is by far my least favorite of the original 70's and 80's horror franchise (compared to Friday the 13th, Halloween, Amityville Horror, etc). The original film took me a couple of times to appreciate (Yes, I am surprisingly a fan of the remake over the original, though Robert Englund will always look better as Freddy...yes I was even surprised myself when it hit me).So that being said, in my opinion ANoEM 3 Dream Warriors is the best the series has to offer besides the original (and New Nightmare, though that isn't apart of the same name franchise).It has Patricia Arquette (darling she is) and Laurence Fishburne in this film, two strong actors who never fail to deliver their parts in a realistic or at least well played fashion (something not present in a lot of the sequels IMO). Also the kill scenes are quite innovative for the time, a few times the movie tricked me as well with the dream sequences. If you are interested in the series, this one should not disappoint you. "},{"Title":"In My Dreams I'm Beautiful And Bad!","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Belated Day 14 Of My 31 Days Of Horror.Director Chuck Russel gives us the 3rd Freddy movie with A Nightmare On Elm Street 3 The Dream Warriors. The film is about Kristen played by Patricia Arquette who has the ability to pull anyone into her dreams when ever she wants or whenever she needs help to fight off Freddy Kruger played by Robert Englund. The film is a major improvement from Part 2 the special effects are amazing the character are well developed and Heather Langenkamp returns as Nancy from the 1st one. I deviantly recommend it.Rated R For Strong Bloody Horror Violence And Gore, And Language.1hr 36min/96min.6 uses of the F-word.***1/2/**** "},{"Title":"Oh here is the sequel we actually wanted!","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nightmare On Elm Street created one of the greatest slasher killers of the modern era in Freddy Kreuger. Of course they were going to franchise the series and eventually remake it. They followed the first film with a deplorable sequel that was just a huge mistake. So thank goodness they actually came back and made a third film that was far more of a worthy sequel to the original. Is it as good as the original? No. But it does give us what we actually want from a good horror sequel. Bring back the original scream queen to fight the big bad, a new cast of young hot actors that are actually good in their roles, a decent story, some good deaths and some really great and gruesome special effects. This is what A Nightmare On Elm Street is known for and what we want to see. You could literally skip Part 2 entirely and jump to Part 3 and miss nothing. A Nightmare On Elm Street 3 is just entertaining and fun and gives us even more back story into Freddy. In fact we finally discover Freddy's horrifying origins and the story gets more interesting opening more doors for future sequels. If nothing else A Nightmare On Elm Street carries a better than average story for a slasher flick.Heather Langenkamp, our original heroine, returns for this instalment, a little older, a little wiser and a psychologist in the making. She is as campy as ever. Some of her expressions in the film are downright hilarious but in a good way because you believe that she is really trying to be serious and that makes it campy in a good way. I love when a hero returns to fight their killer enemy. Craig Wasson is the newcomer as a concerned doctor. Although there is never any actual romance between his character and Langenkamp's Nancy there is some chemistry there and it helps move the story along. He does play his character very seriously and you do relate to him. Patricia Arquette is probably the scene stealer of this film. In her very first performance she is terrific as the terrified Kristen Parker with a mysterious power to pull people into her dreams. Arquette is really good and its a shame she didn't come back for future sequels. Ken Sagoes, Rodney Eastman, Jennifer Rubin, Bradley Gregg, and Ira Heiden are the Dream Warriors. The last of the Elm Street kids who are mentally disturbed for various reasons. They are all decent and you'll be able to find your favourite warrior easily enough. Some of the scenes in this film are really kind of silly once they're in the dreams but they make it fun! Honorable mentions for Lawrence Fishburne who plays a hospital staff member that truly cares about the kids and also John Saxon returning as Nancy's Dad in a small but important role. I still think Saxon is one of the best actual performers in the series.Also in his first big screen job director Chuck Russell seems to do well behind the camera. He seems to have a good handle on the dream world and what we, as fans, want to see. As I said in my review of the first film the great thing about A Nightmare On Elm Street is that nothing is off limits because Freddy exists and attacks in the dream world. That's why we can suspend belief and watch the silly antics of the warriors in their dreams because anything can happen in dreams. This instalment also features, in my opinion, one of the best death scenes when Freddy leads Phillip to jump to his death by leading him like a puppet using his veins and inside guts like marionette, gross, creative and original. Another unique aspect of A Nightmare On Elm Street series is they never bother to explain how Freddy comes back. Freddy just is. They stop him for awhile but he's unstoppable. He's raised from hell. This is definitely worthwhile leading to a solid series of horror flicks. 7.5/10 "}{"Title":"Now this is a sequel","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Horror films can be really bad and a sequel even worse. When I first saw Nightmare on Elm Street it was at a drive in and we were pretty freaked out by it. When the sequels came along I wasn't interested. But when Dream Warriors came out I decided to give it a chance.I'm glad I did. The sequel has a dreamy hypnotic feel to it. It's hard to take your eyes off it. The acting by most everyone is very good considering this is a horror sequel. What really works well here are the actor's portrayals of their characters and how they pull together near the end. The setting at the mental hospital is good. The special effects, while nothing complicated or especially extravagant, are perfectly tailored to each scene where they are used. Very clever how the cars all start trying to start up at the junkyard. And I guess that is the word for this sequel-clever. I really enjoy this one. A little bit of the camp that was left behind in the 2nd sequel is back here as is Heather Langenkamp as Nancy. All in all a great sequel with some very good actors and very imaginative scenes. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm St. 3 is definitely a step up from part 2, and just as good as the original for different reasons. Some of the cast from the original return to face off against Freddy one more time. Heather Langenkamp reprises her role as Nancy and John Saxon once again plays her father, this time as an angry alcoholic. The film starts out with a young girl named Kristen (Patricia Arquette) who has a terrifying dream of Freddy. She gets committed to the town's psychiatric hospital where we learn that all of the kids in the place are having the same dreams that involve a burned man trying to kill them. After Nancy joins the hospital staff, a few of the teens start being murdered by Krueger, each death though looks like a suicide. Nancy of course knows exactly what's going on. With the help of fellow doctor Neil Gordon (Craig Wasson), Nancy takes the teenagers into the dream world to take on Freddy Krueger.Nightmare 3 is definitely the most imaginative and creative of all the Freddy sequels. The dreams the kids have are very well done. The kid in the wheelchair who likes magic and wizards is able to walk in his dreams. Kincaid has super human strength, so on and so forth. I love the fact that all the teens have a special power in their dreams which they can use against Freddy. Some of the deaths are very well done as well with regards to special effects. One of the more memorable kills is when Freddy shoves a young girls head into the television set with shouting welcome to prime time, bitch.The problem with Nightmare 2 was that it moved at such a slow pace. The characters were not interesting and had very little potential. Bringing back Nancy and her dad helped this sequel immensely. And most of the teens in the hospital are likable and have redeeming qualities, especially Kristen and Taryn (Jennifer Rubin). Freddy is also seen during much of the film, which was ANOES 2's downfall.A must see film for any horror/fantasy fan. One of the better sequels in the franchise if not the best.9/10 "},{"Title":"Little horror, lots of fantasy","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" From this entry on, the series just isn't remotely dark or scary anymore. Many have claimed that this is the one true sequel to the original, but apart from Nancy's return there are virtually no comparisons. Does that mean the movie's bad? Hell no, it's actually quite a lot of fun. The characters aren't complex but very sympathetic, which is what every genre film should probably be going for. The kills are also as creative as they've ever been, without having that annoying slapstick feel some of the kills from the later ones have. Krueger even has some non-terrible one-liners in this one, I thought I'd never see the day. The makers also try to keep things a bit occult, but to be frank that aspect doesn't really work out that well. The whole junk yard scene seems taken from some kid's movie, the makers really went overboard there. One more element I liked a lot though the nun! The outcome to her little B-plot isn't too surprising but still, what a welcome addition to the whole storyline and dare I say, mythology. The original is my favourite, but this is probably second. "},{"Title":"Freddy's just around the corner...","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In a medical facility, seven teenagers who have constant nightmares about child murderer Freddy Krueger undergo monitoring for sleep disorders. But nothing that anyone does seems to help them -- until Nancy Thompson, the heroine of the first movie, joins the medical staff. She suggests that they try a new drug, which inhibits dreaming, on the youngsters. The gullible doctor-in-charge opposes this treatment, forcing Nancy to fight both him and a suspicious nurse in order to save the teens. Meanwhile, Freddy gleefully unleashes one horror-filled image after another to traumatize the patients...until they fear that this is one nightmare they'll never wake up from again.ANOES 3 is one of the better sequels in this ever-so-popular franchise revolving around a man who kills teenagers in their dreams. And why is that? Part of it is due to Wes Craven returning to write the script, along with the soon to be successful Frank Darabont, and Heather Langenkamp returning as a lead (or supporting) role. Compared to the dreadful sequel before, ANOES 3 seems like a masterpiece. There is so much more focus on the characters themselves and some new things being explored that keeps this movie fresh.There is, no doubt, some more elaborate nightmare sequences, which help the movie. Freddy also spews a lot more witty one-liners that has become famous in the franchise. There's also an ensemble cast to root for because all of them are really great and unique in their own way. Heather Langenkamp does a great job as Nancy, as always, along with Robert Englund. Patricia Arquette and Laurence Fishburne are probably the most well known stars in the entire franchise and they both do a great job in their roles. Craig Wasson, Ken Sagoes, Rodney Eastman, Jennifer Rubin, Bradley Gregg, and Ira Heiden are all great in their respective roles.As said earlier, what makes this film so good is that it explores more in the mythology that branches out the franchise a little more. This is also a point in the franchise that has a distinctive look. All in all, ANOES 3 is said to be the best sequel in the franchise, although not for me. That would go to part 7. If you're a fan of this franchise, this is a must see. "},{"Title":"Certainly better then part II, but doesn't surpass the first one","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nightmare on Elm Street 3 was an enjoyable watch for me. I liked it they allowed Nancy to return. It gave the movie more continuity, unlike part II where no characters return; except Freddy.There were some creative (and nasty) deaths which could be seen as trademarks for the series. But you watch these movie usually for that, or for Freddy if you're a fan.I liked how the story developed. There was some strange hocus-pocus going on this time, but it wasn't really over-the-top. I liked the extra background story we got as well. It adds to the series' quality.In overall, I can say that Nightmare 3 is certainly a good part of the series. Go watch it if you liked the first one.7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Freddy goes Dokken and diving in the psychiatric unit.","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Freddy's back and this time the effects of his dream invading shenanigans sees a lot of kids bunched together in a place apparently better equipped to deal with the . . . . . reality challenged. However, the teens know, as do we, that the problem is not an overactive imagination or a delusional mind but a very real one. With a very sharp glove. Luckily, in their dreams they have powers that may just help them to survive and in their reality they may be helped by the appearance of Nancy (Heather Langenkamp returning to her most famous role) who is now a research scientist and has both the medical knowledge and the bitter experience to best figure out how to defeat their mutual enemy.Ignoring the woeful second movie, this outing sees a return by Wes Craven to the writing of the story and benefits immensely from it. Yes, Freddy becomes the killer jester in this movie but there's still a selection of wild horror moments on show here (the puppet scene remains a cringe-inducing experience for me thanks to some gloriously impressive special effects).Things are also helped by a much better selection of actors and actresses this time around. I still think that Heather Langenkamp is one of the lamest horror leads I have seen in a popular, mainstream horror but this time we also have the likes of Patricia Arquette (as Kristen, who can pull others into her dreams), Larry Fishburne (not yet Lawrence but enjoyable in his limited screen time), a returning John Saxon (again not on screen for long but great when he is) and a selection of people never really heard from since but who all do well enough with their roles.There are some stupid moments (the wizard stands out as something to make you groan) but there's also a little bit of everything here from those great, surrealistic nightmares to a fun fight with a skeleton to a cameo from Zsa Zsa Gabor to THAT song by the mighty Dokken (if you can then catch the music video with Dokken defeating Freddy through the power of sheer ROCK - it's hilarious).All in all, one of the more fun outings in the series (with all of the madness handled capably by Chuck Russell) and probably my third favourite behind the first movie and the New Nightmare.See this if you like A Nightmare On Elm Street, New Nightmare, Freddy Vs. Jason. "},{"Title":"Give me extra cheese with that !!!","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'll start by saying I am a fan of the series but this is probably the weakest of the series. This movie kind of strikes me as one of those films that could have been much better than it was. The film revolves around a group of kids in a psychiatric hospital, Nancy from the first film makes an appearance as she sees Freddy in a dream and realizes she has to protect the remaining children. Whilst there are some genuinely creepy moments (the puppet scene is brilliant) the problem with this film is that it is just plain cheesy , the idea that Freddy kills you in your dreams therefore because it is a dreamworld anything can happen is just stretched too thin, for example one of the kids turns into a wizard (complete with cloak and green fireballs), I mean this is meant to be a horror film not the black cauldron. Freddy has also become more like a game show host in this one. The characters are also very stereotypical in this film (moreso than in any other of the noes series) and some of the dialogue is pretty terrible. A real shame as this film showed potential "},{"Title":"Forget the revenge","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Forget that there was a Nightmare on Elm Street 2 ever made. I could say that I would watch the first Nightmare on Elm Street and skip right to the third. The second movie has nothing to do with anything and Nancy isn't even in the second one. She is in the third one and this movie is like going to where the first one left off. Nancy is now working in a mental hospital where the teens have nightmares about Freddy just like she did. It's a great movie and a great sequel to the first Nightmare on Elm Street. If only the second film were never made and the third takes its place. What a beautiful dream that would be. The downside to this movie is that Freddy really starts making the jokes. I personally did not like him as a comedian. In the first two, he just hung out in the darkness and laughed deeply. Despite that, this is still a good movie. It's not as good as the first but a huge relief from the second. "},{"Title":"Let's snuff the sucka.","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Writer/Director Chuck Russell did a really good job on Wes Craven's story and, although I have not seen but one other in the series, this was an enjoyable film and I could easily see why some think it the best in the series.Heather Langenkamp did a great job as Nancy and really made this more than just a slasher film. There was a good story behind it and you really wanted to see how it turned out, even though you knew that he would be unkillable.Seeing Patricia Arquette (Medium) in her first screen appearance was a real bonus. She also did a great job.Seeing Laurence Fishburne (What's Love Got to Do with It , The Matrix) was another bonus, as I always like him.And, who was that nurse! "},{"Title":"The Only Worthy Nightmare Sequel","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Chuck Russel's A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 The Dream Warriors of 1987 is the second, and only worthy sequel to Wes Craven's original Nightmare of 1984. This is creepy, atmospheric, and greatly set in a mental hospital which provides the eeriest ambiance of all Nightmare films. The third film in the series sets off several years after the events from the first film and Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp), the main character of the original, has become a psychologist, who tries to help teenagers with similar 'problems' at a mental Hospital. The kids who suffer from strange sleep/dream disorders are, of course, all haunted by none other than our favorite razor-clawed dream-stalker, Freddy Krueger... After a disappointing second, this third Nightmare film catches up on the creepiness of the original. The Dream Warriors is, eerie, morbid and scary from the beginning to the end and adds some clever twists to the story of Freddy Krueger. The mental hospital is a genuinely creepy place, and the film is easily the goriest and most brutal of all Nightmare films. In some aspects (like the setting) The Dream Warriors even exceeds the original (which, of course, has the bonus of originality). This film contains the nastiest and most frightening sequences in the series, and the camera-work and effects are excellent. Contrary to the first sequel, Robert Englund does not deliver the only good performance here. Heather Langencamp and (more memorably) John Saxon are back as the characters from the first film and the new cast includes Patricia Arquette in the female lead, and Laurence Fishburne in a security guy in the mental hospital. My only regret with the third part is that the (slight) beginning of annoying one-liners, that was expanded to an unbearable limit in the sequels to follow. This is yet only occasional, however, and otherwise The Dream Warriors is a great sequel. Long story short The Dream Warriors is the only worthy sequel to Nightmare on Elm Street and by far the best in the series besides the original. Highly Recommended! "}{"Title":"Creative entry thank marked a transition for Freddy","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A transitional film for the ELM STREET series, the third entry in the Krueger saga proves to be an entertaining yet somewhat uneven horror film. Featuring good performances, outstanding special effects and a surprisingly astute script this one stands out as the best of the ELM STREET sequels.The script (credited to Wes Craven, Bruce Wagner, Chuck Russell and Frank Darabont) wisely strays from the formula beginning to take shape with pt. 2. That entry featured Kruger haunting a young boy who moved into the old Elm Street house, pushing the series dangerously close to being nothing more than a stalk n' slash. Part 3 thankfully brings things back around, re-introducing main characters from the first film (Nancy and her father). More importantly, this entry advances the mythology behind Krueger with a back story pertaining to his mother (a nun) and his birth (she was raped by hundreds of mental patients). Sadly, some of the supporting characters are downright embarrassing. The two biggest offenders are dreamworld switchblade toting, mowhawked Taryn (In my dreams I'm beautiful. And bad ) and D&D geek turned dream wizard Will. I don't think Craven ever envisioned his monster being zapped by laser beams emanating from the finger tips of a boy dressed in a wizard's cloak.Regardless of the sometimes shameful characters, the teens are played by a rather strong troupe. There isn't a bad actor in the bunch. Patricia Arquette is very good as heroine Kristen, Ken Sagoes provides comic relief with his curse laden outbursts and Rodney Eastman emotes well as the mute Joey. Bradley Gregg, one of the best of the young actors, is sadly dispensed too early in the film (in the puppet scene, the film's murder highlight). On the adult side there is strong support from Priscilla Pointer, John Saxon, Craig Wasson and Larry Fishburne (a dead ringer for Laurence Fishburne **wink**). Wasson as Dr. Neil Gordon is really believable especially given that he spends most of his time talking to the ghost of a dead nun. John Saxon does a super turn as the now drunk Mr. Thompson. The finale featuring Saxon and Wasson finding (and battling!) Freddy's skeleton is perhaps the film's strongest scene. Returning Heather Langenkamp is still a bit stilted in her delivery but it is good to see her return from the franchise.Director Chuck Russell made his feature film debut with this sequel. He did a great job with some of the dream sequences, effectively creating visuals that have a dream like quality (Dali-esque melting tricycles, murderous tongues & puppets, large human swallowing snakes). Unfortunately a majority of the dreams are lit in a way that screams 1980s rock video with solid beams of light bursting through conveniently cracked walls. He also fails to maintain an even tone as the films jumps from horror to camp comedy without warning. Following this Russell went on to helm a much more consistent film with the remake of THE BLOB (he has since moved onto budgets big enough to allow him to go by Charles).One element where the ELM STREET films really shine is the effects work and this film is no exception. Featuring work from the teams of Kevin Yagher, Greg Cannom and Mark Shostrum, the effects range from the surreal to the gory and all are executed well. There is even an excellent bit of stop motion animation involving a puppet that becomes Freddy. With a budget of roughly $5 million dollars, the effects teams pulled off a lot of great big screen moments.Sadly, this films contrasting tone reflects where the ELM STREET series was heading. The first forty minutes maintain the mystique of Freddy Krueger being a menacing boogeyman. Then we arrive at Welcome to prime time bitch  It is a seemingly harmless punch line that symbolizes the point at which Freddy Krueger went from repulsive child killer to witty serial killer. After this point, all of the dark menace that Krueger displayed in the earlier film's is abandoned in favor of audience pleasing one liners. Krueger had jumped the shark as they say. Renny Harlin, who described Freddy as horror's James Bond, worked under even less demanding dramatic restraints in 1988 and turned Krueger into a full time comedy star with the fourth entry THE DREAM MASTER. Distributor New Line Cinema couldn't be happier as it was the highest grosser of the series (before FREDDY VS. JASON). "},{"Title":"One of the better sequels","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Kristen Parker is having nightmares and all of them are the same; a burned man in a dirty red and green sweater with razors on his fingers is trying to kill her. After emerging from one such nightmare with slashed wrists, Kristen's bitchy mother commits Kristen to a mental institution. There, Kristen meets several other teenagers who are all having the same nightmare she's been having. She also meets Nancy Thompson, a young psychiatrist who has her own history of troubled sleep. Nancy realizes that Freddy is back when Kristen pulls Nancy into one of her nightmares. Using Kristen's power, she and Nancy try to help the other kids develop their own dream powers so that they can battle Freddy and perhaps defeat him once and for all. This third installment in the Elm Street series is a huge improvement over the ghastly second film. The setting of a mental institution is claustrophobic and already quite scary enough even without Freddy's presence. The kids are all perfect simply because they're not perfect. The teens of recent movies are too often portrayed as flawlessly beautiful, taut bodied and fashion savvy with never a hair out of place. The kids in this film are real - awkward, pudgy, geeky, nerdy and totally believable. Watching them discover their powers and attempt to battle Freddy is a lot of fun. New subplots include dream suppressing medication and the icky story of Freddy's conception via one hundred maniacs and a most unfortunate young girl. A scene in a junkyard featuring a battle with Freddy's skeleton is really cool and very reminiscent of Ray Harryhausen's special effects.This is probably the best sequel to the original Nightmare On Elm Street, along with the fourth movie, The Dream Master. Skip the horrible 2nd film and go right on to this one. "},{"Title":"Dreams That Can Fight Back","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" While in no way a great or particularly good movie, Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors helps one easily forget that the dreadful Part 2 was even ever made. It is not nearly as innovative or suspenseful as the first film but leaps and bounds above the second installment. This time we go back to the original source material and characters from the first film. Pretty Heather Langenkamp is back as young psychiatry intern(did anyone really buy that?)Nancy Thompson. It seems that a group of troubled teens are in a mental hospital for various reasons - most dealing with attempts at killing themselves at some point. Doctors Craig Wasson(giving his standard performance) and officious Priscilla Pointer haven't been able to help these teens, but newcomer Langenkamp has just the right medicine. Or does she? No one was dying until she arrived which is exactly what starts to happen in the hospital. Anyhow, the film becomes rather predictable and pedestrian at this part but manages to stay above the material at times in terms of storytelling, direction, and even to a much lesser degree acting. Director Chuck Russell shows why he received lots of jobs after this(such as The Blob and Bless the Child). He is competent behind the camera. With the exceptions of one dream sequence with John Saxon and one with Zsa Zsa Gabor on the small screen, most of the dream sequences were creatively conceived - still silly but done with some flair. The special effects were much, much, much more realistic than those used in Part 2. The script actually brought home the meat, well, some meat. We get an explanation of why Freddy is the way Freddy is. I found this parallel plot interesting. We get a mysterious character - a nun who has some insights to Freddy. And yes, we get the obligatory death scenes, the tongues wrapped around bedposts, and Freddy cracking out one-liners like he is at the Improv. Before I make this sound too much like fillet mignon, let me make sure I am very clear that it is just a regular, somewhat over-done steak. On the other hand, it's not chopped liver either. As for the acting, Robert Englund does his usual serviceable job. Wasson, Pointer, and Nan Martin stand out as adults. John Saxon is back giving this film some credibility. Lovely Patricia Arquette is an important teen in the mental hospital, and Langenkamp cannot act.She floats through the whole film like a fallen timber. If you like Freddy Kruger, then Part 3 will please you. I was surprised - not because it was only an average film at best, but because it almost obliterated the sour taste in my mouth left by Part 2. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, and much much better than Freddy's Revenge","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge' is probably one of the worst movies I've ever seen. With that in mind, I thought that 'A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors' couldn't be any worse. Bam, 'Dream Warriors' was actually pretty good, probably due largely to Wes Craven returning as the writer and not having anything to do with 'Freddy's Revenge'.One by one, the teenagers of Elm Street have been committed to the Springwood psychiatric facility. All have been having nightmares, and all apparently attempted suicide. The senior doctors blame a mass psychosis on moral guilt and attention seeking, but the new intern is none other than Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp), the heroine of the first 'A Nightmare on Elm Street'. Nancy is now a psychology student specializing in dream therapy. When Nancy discovers that Kristen (Patrica Arquette) - one of the patients - can pull people into her dreams, Nancy resolves to take the Elm Street kids into Kristen's dream for one more stand against Freddy.'Dream Warriors' is easily one of the stronger entries in the Elm Street series. The story is far more involved in fantasy / horror than it is in horror. 'Dream Warriors' is well written, and much more engaging than the second Elm Street movie (Freddy's Revenge). Instead of attempting more of the same like 'Freddy's Revenge' did, 'Dream Warriors' is much more imaginative and expands on the Elm Street / Freddy Krueger story and explores new territory. We get new insight into Freddy's origin, and an interesting - but sometimes unsettling - new story as Nancy and the kids manipulate their dreams to fight back against Freddy. The characters in 'Dream Warriors' are far more likable and sympathetic than the characters in 'Freddy's Revenge'. I felt sorry the kids, unlike in the second film when I was hoping Freddy would off Jesse soon just so the movie would be over.Naturally, 'Dream Warriors' is filled with 80s cheese. Some of the SFX hold up today, but others are just incredibly cheesy. In between serious moments, we have dream moments in which the kids proclaim to be the Wizard Master or beautiful and bad. It is oh so very cheesy. Heather Langenkamp isn't as convincing as she was in the first, and doesn't even seem to be trying while John Saxon in a brief return as Nancy's father. The soundtrack even features several songs by 80s metal band Dokken - you know you love 80s metal.'Dream Warriors' is one of the better Elm Street movies. It isn't perfect, but anyone who wants to watch the series should skip part 2 and straight to this - 7/10 "},{"Title":"Solid sequel, way better than Part 2","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This time around, a bunch of kids in a hospital are dreaming of Freddy. Nancy, the first film's survivor, comes to their aid and helps them to unite in their fight against the finger-gloved burn victim.Miles ahead of Part 2, but not quite as effective as the original. This film in most parts mixes well state of the art special effects and some suspense. The visualization of the Freddy dreams are at times truly spectacular, but the lack of any real chills makes this one mostly a nice try but no cigar. The performances are mostly lacking, and it's pretty badly written at times. John Saxon makes a very welcome return (a little to brief though) and Laurence Fishburne is solid in a small role. A story concerning Freddy's origin here gives the film added weight and makes for a satisfying conclusion. "},{"Title":"Both well-written and visually good.","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Five years on from the events in the first Nightmare film (this film ignores Part 2), and Freddy is now invading the dreams of more teenagers, causing what are thought to be suicides by the outside world. The survivors, now in a mental institution, are visited by Nancy (survivor of Nightmare 1), who is now a psychic counsellor who tries to teach the kids how to control their dreams and thus fight back against Freddy. But the only real way to kill Freddy, it is revealed, is to give his remains a proper burial.Without doubt this is the best Nightmare sequel. It combines surreal, dream-like special effects with genuine suspense, characters we can care about and a clever, well-written storyline. "},{"Title":"A GREAT Comeback!!!!","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the disappointing NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 2FREDDY'S REVENGE, I was a little sakey about the next installment. When I heard Wes Craven was coming back to write it and Heather Langenkamp reprising her original role as Nancy. I was shell shock by this flick. With Chuck Russell directing and killer music by Dokken, expect no trouble from this comeback.Kristen(Patricia Arquette) been having dreams about a certain house on Elm Street and a disfigured man named FREDDY KRUEGER(Robert Englund). After a suicide attempt, she is sent to a psychiatric ward where the rest of the kids FREDDY haunts are. One by one the kids are dying, and one woman can help stop him, her name is Nancy Thompson(Heather Langenkamp). Ready to stop FREDDY once and for all with the help of the Dream Warriors.This is a fun installment that really shows the darkly funny side of FREDDY, still manage to steal every scene he was in. The special effects are amazing for it's budget and year it took place in. To me FREDDY is my favorite horror villain of all time. There is also a huge improvement over acting and scares in this than in the last one. The deaths are also brilliant in creating ways of shock mixed with terror & sometimes comedy. If PART 2 disappointed you big time, then this is the sequel for you. "},{"Title":"Good, but I liked the first two better.","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 3 DREAM WARRIORS is a bigger budgeted sequel than what the first two films budgets were & that shows up in almost all areas of production. One thing one can say about the earlier NIGHTMARE movies compared to the latter ones, is that they were made with heart, with keen attention paid to casting, effects, stories & direction, unlike other horror franchises at the time, that kept churning out sequel after sequel to make a quick buck (which sadly happened, as this series went on) And you can tell the makers of the film set out to make a good horror film. The film opens with a quote from Edgar Allan Poe & much like it's predecessors, has great directing & acting. Most notable about this third adventure, is how the original film had a young JOHNNY DEPP in it's cast, while this film actually has several soon to be A list Hollywood stars such as LAURENCE FISHBURNE, PATRICIA ARQUETTE etc. & crew with a pre- SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION, FRANK DARABONT co-writing the script & a talented crew of make-up artists, many of whom worked on several of the Friday The 13th films. ROBERT ENGLUND returns for his third go around as Freddy & does a wonderful job yet again. The rock score by DOKKEN is fantastic, as is the films musical score. In terms of story, the film is better than it's predecessors, since it explores many interesting concepts about dreams that no doubt due to lower budgets, the first two films couldn't explore. Many themes are touched upon, including dream hypnosis, the powers one can exhibit & take on in their dreams, pulling another person in you're dream & like the previous two films, the film plays on many terrifying scenarios one might find in a nightmare, a monster that can morph into a worm that wants to eat you. The elm street house from the first two is now abandon & dirty & dark. Creepy ghost kids that turn into rotting skeletons, bodies hanging from ceilings, taps that turn into clawed hands, you're feet are stuck in glops of blood as the monster fast approaches you, doors that lead into other worlds, dead animals springing to life, black tar oozing at you from all four sides of a room trapping you in the middle while fire & debris rain down on you & the walls closing in, razors slashing through the floors, ceiling & walls of a confined area a person is trapped in, sexual dreams of making love to a sexy nude person only to have them morph into a hideous monster that has you trapped, a monster jumping from a TV & grabbing you with biomechanical arms & circuitry, melting bicycles, fingers turning into needles full of heroine puncturing a victims arms, talking severed heads, falling through a chair & into another world. The filmmakers also show off some pretty good visual effects, such as Freddy morphing from a carved faceless doll, sprouting claws & cutting himself loose before growing to full size & then ripping a kids veins out to make him move like a marionette, then killing him by cutting the strings & watching him tumble from a roof, as Krugers face is visible in the night sky, the faces of Freddy's previous victims showing up in his chest, a moving skeleton that attacks two men, Freddy's face appearing in all sorts of mirrors. Moving chrome balls that can turn to butterfly's, bed's caving in revealing burning pits, moving tongue creatures, pin holes in peoples arm coming to life & growing bigger, people moving through walls, lasers coming from hands that circle Freddy, Freddy shooting full of holes & a cross appearing on his fo rehead, twirling around fast until he disappears in a bright light that swirls around him. Writings magically appearing on a comatose victims body on screen. Unfortunately moving the film from the streets of Elm Street & into a psychiatric hospital dampens the atmosphere & suspense & this time we see Freddy a lot more in the film & get a good look at his face as he whips out bad puns & cheesy one liners. The film also answers questions for fans who saw the first two like, who were Freddy's parents & where was he buried? We get a chilling confession from his mother, a nun to a doctor in an abandon insane asylum as to what happened to her after she was raped by Freddy's fathers which turned out to be 100 maniacs in an insane asylum! What's more at the end of the film he finds out she's a ghost! What's worth noting though is how there are no kills until half an hour into the film & how the film also uses many ideas from the catholic religion in order to dispel the evil. JOHN SAXON appears an hour in as Nancy's father. Want to see who would win between a HARRY POTTER look-a-like wizard with the same powers & Freddy? it's here! Not a great film, but not bad, I mean how many films can you name where you can see DICK CAVETTE turn into Freddy Kruger & kill ZSA ZSA GABOR with a razor bladed gloved hand? Recommended to fans of the series. Unfortuanntly despite it's great nightmare scenes, acting, directing & writing, the film fails to be as atmospheric or as scary as it's predecessors, true many fans have actually hailed this as the best sequel in the series with some even preferring this over Craven's original, but I can't say I'm one of them, in fact I'm one of the small few who actually prefers NIGHTMARE 2 over this one, don't get me wrong, I love the movie, but in my eyes, as good as it is, it's nowhere near as good as the first two. Followed by A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 4 THE DREAM MASTER*** stars "},{"Title":"THE BEST ONE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The best of the nightmare series sports introductory performances form up and coming stars Laurence Fishburne and Patricia Arquette while sporting fine supporting ones from Jennifer Rubin and Horror heroine Heather Lagenkamp. This one centers on the lone surviving kids of the elm st parents that murdered Freddy. Their resting up in a mental hospital. After freakish events and Nancy is appointed as their Psychologist. they learn how to deal with their nightmares and begin to fight back with dream powers! Filled some of the most imaginative dream sequences in any movie, the film once again sports creative death sequences which puts the other two to shame. Nail biting suspense and a few nice scares. Freddy is taken to the fantasy level in this one and from here on it's just gets to campy. but finding the right balance is key and this one has it in spades. A horror classic! 10/10 "},{"Title":"The good, the bad, and the just plain silly...","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  While there has never really been a rivalry or competition between the Friday The 13th and Nightmare On Elm Street series, sometimes one cannot help but compare the two, just from a presentation point of view. What separated the Nightmare franchise, essentially an ability to go in a more fantastic direction, also quickly became its literal Achilles Heel. In 1987, however, B-level horror films were all the rage, and the budget used to realize the incredibly silly concept was enough to make it work.One of Freddy's many advantages over Jason was that he was able to speak, and therefore more interactive. This advantage served him well in the previous two films, but this was sort of the beginning of the comic Freddy that couldn't kill something without making a quip. Thankfully, the more adult tone of the rest of the film keeps this comic side in check. The quips here are more appropriate to the character.The story, where do I begin with the story? The story has a literal epidemic of teens killing themselves after sleep, with the survivors having been moved into a psychiatric facility. Given the populace of the average American town, that must be one big psychiatric facility. To the film's credit, the procedures and routines of the facility are fairly realistically scripted. The group discussions and refusal to explore anything the patient might tell the staff are still staples of psychiatry today, in fact.The problem comes when the fantasy, super-hero element is brought into the story. Giving each character something extraordinary they can do in their dreams is one thing, but the whole soul-collection thing was just plain silly. A nice effect, for certain, but I don't think it was particularly horrifying to anyone above the age of ten. A lot of the film is like this, however the makers seem to expect the viewer to be impressed with the childish. One has to wonder if the screenwriters had to get copyright clearance from the makers of Dungeons & Dragons, in fact.Freddy's kills or shock moments here are certainly at a creative peak. It's also worth catching the film to see Patricia Arquette in a rather early role that I'm sure she pays her agent to not mention. Although the quality of the rest of the production makes one wonder, I guess every horror franchise has to have alumni who get work on a decent film, although the FT13 franchise has the Nightmare franchise beat simply because it has Kevin Bacon in episode one.While none of the Nightmare films could really be called great, this is certainly the last that could be called good. The next three episodes were an agnoising exercise in trying to make horror suitable for all ages. I gave this episode a five out of ten for at least being somewhat inventive.  "}{"Title":"Hey, what ever happened to that music video?","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Unless I'm sadly mistaken, I rented A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 several years ago and there was a music video, I'm pretty sure which was called Dream Warriors, at the end of it, and I rented this one on DVD hoping that the video would be there because it was one of the funniest things I've ever seen. It's amazing how stuff from the 80s is so funny now, but nothing is funnier than 80s rap videos. There was this rap group singing that song Dream Warriors on the VHS version of this movie after the credits, and they're all wearing like denim jackets with no shirt underneath and form fitting jean shorts that are all frayed at the bottoms like Daisy Dukes. What could make a rap group look more foolish I can't imagine.(spoilers) At any rate, I was disappointed in looking for that video on the DVD version, so all I had was this mediocre installment in the Freddy Krueger series. The movie sort of starts off with the same idea as part 2, with the main character witnessing all kinds of gruesome murders and then sort of coming out of a trance and finding himself with the bloody hands. Kristen Parker (Patricia Arquette) has a nightmare about the infamous house that Nancy Thompson used to live in, then runs to the bathroom, the sink's handles turn into Freddy's hands and attack her, and then she wakes up standing in her bathroom having slit her own wrists. From there, the movie turns into the usual mental hospital installment. `Larry' Fishburne, tired of always playing the bad guy in his roles, was happy to take on the role in this film as a nice-guy orderly, stern but accommodating when the patients want to bend the rules a little. Not surprisingly, he turns in what is by leaps and bounds the best performance in the movie. Arquette later goes on to become an accomplished actor, but had not perfected her acting skills when she starred in this film. The characters in the movie are mostly all patients at the mental hospital that Kristen is placed into after cutting her wrists. All of them are cynical and uncooperative, almost none believing that they really belong there at all. Eventually, they realize and are able to convince the staff that they are all having dreams about the same man and it's not just some kind of group hysteria.Heather Langenkamp has returned in her famous role as Nancy Thompson, this time grown up into a dream researcher as a result of her childhood experiences involving Freddy Krueger. Not surprisingly, she is able to quickly relate to the hysterical Kristen and the rest of the patients, since she had experienced exactly what they're going through. There are some interesting murders in this installment, and the technology used for the special effects have taken a huge jump. There is a gigantic, worm-like Freddy that tries to swallow Kristen whole, there is a scene where a television turns into Freddy and with mechanical arms he picks up one of the patients there for some late night entertainment and punishes her for sitting too close to the TV, but there is also an unconvincing go-motion scene where a couple guys have a fight with Freddy Krueger's skeleton, which has been rotting in the trunk of some car in a car junkyard. And one of the more groan-inducing scenes was one where Freddy attacks one of the patients in his dream (the one famous for sleepwalking), tearing the muscles and tendons out of his arms and legs and leading him around like a puppet. Ouch.We get a peek into Freddy's past in this installment. Not only do we meet his mother, but we also find out the circumstances that led to Freddy being fathered by more than 100 maniacs. In fighting Freddy, the patients all band together and, in their dreams, use their special powers (most of which reflect their shortcomings in real life) to fight him. One student, bound to a wheelchair, is able to walk in his dreams, another has the hilarious powers of what he calls the `Wizard Master,' another is `beautiful and bad' (she has lots of makeup, her hair stands up in a foot-high Mohawk, and she has knives). Clever, but the movie falters when it has only one of the patients, the one who can't speak, not have any powers in his dreams until the climax of the movie, when he suddenly realizes that he can talk in his dreams (at just the right moment to save the day). His dream power was a little too obvious to have been left out for that long, but collectively, now you see why the movie was subtitled Dream Warriors.Altogether, this is not an entirely weak entry into the series. The acting is pretty shoddy, but it's actually pretty good for a horror movie. Larry Fishburne vastly overshadows the rest of the cast, displaying wonderful acting skills early on in his career, and the movie is not simply a rehash of either of the first two &#150; a problem that plagues the Friday the 13th movies much more than the Elm Street films. The characters are never developed enough to allow for the later creation of much tension, which is why most of the deaths come across more as creative ways to kill off someone in a horror film than the tragic loss of the life of one of the characters that we've come to know and root for their triumph over evil. But then again, not a lot of horror movies take the time to really develop their characters to the point where you throw up your hands in defeat when they are killed, or are on the edge of your seat as they run for their lives. But it's important to note that the few horror films that actually do that are almost invariably the best ones&#133; "},{"Title":"Bleh","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Supposedly hospitals are scary so setting the Elm Street kids next film in one I guess seems like a good place for Freddy to haunt them.  Maybe I'm deprived having practically grown up in a hospital, the setting is like a second home to me.  Anyway, the whole hospital aspect comes off as something of a gimmick as does the dream `powers'.  Oh well, it's more than Freddy's revenge has going for it so what the heck?Fortunately for Elm Street 3, a few faces return from the first film so we have a grounds and reason to care about some of the characters again (well, in theory).  If Elm Street 2 didn't already start the trend, than 3 definitely did &#150; cliché and stereotyped characters.  Punks?  Geeks?  TV fanatics?  Oh yes, how I love when mankind gets reduced to one habit.  Freddy must be one bad dude to reduce everyone to such simplistic caricatures.Craven had a hand in the script, but it doesn't really show.  We learn a bunch of information about Freddy and his mommy dearest that we didn't need to know, but hey, it's your typical sequel's means of expanding a storyline by exploring to death the killer's roots.  To be repeated in 4, 5, 6, and to a lesser extent 7 and 8.  If we really needed this exposition, Wes would've written it into the first film.  Some details work better in shadows. Elm Street 3 can't decide whether it wants to make Krueger an intimidating killer or a funny stand up.  His one-liners are borderline cheese, not to mention predictable by now.  The deaths are a range of stupid, cartoony, and here really starts the trend of `ironic' to the character's interests/weaknesses death scenes.  Sort of a nod to F13, perhaps?  Oy, please tell me no.  In the first Nightmare, there was a good reason why Krueger stuck to his claw &#150; it was scarier.  Now it might as well be a microphone.Dream Warriors really paved the way for the silly comedic aspects of the later Elm Streets.  The only redemption would come years later with Freddy vs. Jason where Ronny Yu really nails the black comedy in such a way that it ranks just a few notches below Sam Raimi's infamous Evil Dead franchise. "},{"Title":"The 3rd Dreamers","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A nightmare on elm street part 3 was released in 1987, 2 years after the 2nd nightmare on elm street and 3 years after the first ever nightmare on elm street movie. This one is set in a mental hospital. The teenagers get bad dreams of the serial killer Freddy Kruger. Nancy, the girl who discovered about Freddy Kruger in the first nightmare on elm st part 1 (1984) she becomes a pchologist nurse to help the teenagers. to get them to sleep better and to destroy there bad dreams about freddy. "},{"Title":"Return to the dark of the first film.","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nightmare 3 is with difference the darkest film of the saga with the first film,there is not the comedy of the rest of the sequels for that could be the best sequel or the worst one.Could be the best for these reasons1-Wes Craven did a good screen2-It continuous with the first film (there is not anything about the second part)3-Nancy and his father are the best main roles in the saga.Could be the worst for these reasons1-If you like the comedy in Horror films and specially in The nightmares there is not here and in the first part.NIGHTMARE 3Good  "},{"Title":"Does The Title Make It Sound Like A Good Movie?","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A movie that is called Dream Warriors belongs in the FAMILY section of the video store. This movie was unbearably boring. The only enjoyment I received was a brief nude scene that gave me a taste for a large portion of Jell-O. Anyway, a Harry Potter prototype has a small role in this film and it makes the movie completely stupid. Laurence Fishburne was unable to add any interest to the film due to his subdued role. If you are watching the Freddy movies (in order) you should end HERE. You will end up hating yourself if you keep watching them. Watch this as a time killer, but not if you plan on seeing anything good. Thumbs down for me.  "},{"Title":"Close to if not Perfect","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Dream Warriors is better than 1,and 2. The plot is perfect. Robert Englund gives the performance of a lifetime. The film is greatly helped by the return of Part 1 cast members. The special effects are great. Chuck Russell is a great director. The plot needs no working on. Freddy does give his little jokes,but it makes it better. His sick sense of humor,makes some laugh,it made me,but I also have a sick sense of humor. You get to know more about Freddy's origin,and motives,which kind of held back the first,and second from being a great movie. This is an excellent example of a great horror movie. Not scary but full of fun.5/5A worthy Elm Street episode "},{"Title":"Terrifying special effects and Freddy's one-liners makes 'Elm Street 3' an improvement over part 2.","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Englund returns as Freddy Krueger, this time terrorizing the last of the Elm Street kids at a dream clinic.  His former victim (Heather Langenkamp), sole survivor of the original A Nightmare on Elm Street, works at the hospital and must help the kids destroy the steel-clawed maniac once and for all.  Suffers from weak performances, but terrifying special effects and Freddy's one-liners makes this installment an improvement over part 2.  Wes Craven, the writer/director of the original, serves as co-executive producer and co-writer in this one.  Directed by Chuck Russell (The Mask).  My evaluation ** out of ****. "},{"Title":" It's over","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Patricia Arquette is average in this naughty horror flick. The supporting cast is flawed. The costumes are radical. One of the fair farces in the genre, Nightmare On Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors serves hollow thrills. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Much better then part 2","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A Nightmare On Elm Street Part 3 The Dream Warriors is a solid sequel.It doesn't bring up the events of Part 2 it continues from the originalThe last of the Elm St. kids are in a psychiatric ward where Freddy(Robert Englund) haunts their dreams.Their only hope is Nancy(Heather Langenkamp) who in the original was able to defeat Freddy.Great characters make this movie alot of fun.Kristen(Patricia Arquette)  Ken Sagoes(Roland Kincaid) Joey(Rodney Eastman) team up with Nancy to try and defeat Freddy once and for all.Also in a small role is John Saxon back from the original playing Donald, Nancy's fatherWes Craven served as Writer/Producer and that helps the movieAnd Director Chuck Russell does a fine job here.I give A Nightmare On Elm Street 3 The Dream Warriors 7/10 "},{"Title":"Second Best of the series","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the second best Nightmare On Elm Street movie.  Number two should have been skipped and put the third one in it's place.  I loved when Kristen called Nancy in her dream and Nancy and to fall in the chair to get into the dream and when Freddy saw Nancy for the first time since the first episode was awesome.  I am a horror movie fanatic. "}{"Title":"best sequal of the series","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the dismal showing for part 2, New Line called back two of the key components of part 1's success from 3 years earlier.  Langenkamp, the lead sorely missed by everyone in part 2, and though not as director, they were able to rope Craven back in as writer at least.  He co-scripts along with (amazingly) Frank Darabont,  who go on to direct impacting stuff like The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile(!).  But as far as this 3rd entry into the huge series, they decide to have more than one lead character focused on, and killer Freddy is given a somewhat different personality.  Hardly heard from the first two films, he becomes sort of a stand-up comedian/slasher as he cracks one-liners to his victims before dispatching them.  This time it's a group of teens from a mental hospital who are being plagued by bad dreams.  Enter Langenkamp, who knows exactly what (and who) they're dealing with.  With the help of the kid's shrink, she helps them discover what capabilities they have in their sleep that can combat Freddy.  The performances all work, and the plot is a lot more engrossing than the last time around, plus a little surprise in the end.  Though four more films would follow, none would match this entry's quality in the sequal area, or top part 1 as the best Nightmare period. "},{"Title":"2nd Best!","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The 1st one is the best,the 7th one is the third best,the 4th one is the 4th best,the 5th is the 5th best,the 6th one is the 6th best,The 2nd one the 7th best, and this one,the 2nd best!It has great performances by the starsHeather Langenkamp,Patricia Arquette,Larry Fishburne,Jennifer Rubin,John Saxon,Pricilla Pointer,Zsa Zsa Gabor,and of course Robert Englund.Its got a great story and cast.It really proves it's genre!Buy it or rent it,its awsome! "},{"Title":"A big disappointment...","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Many horror fans consider this movie as the best sequel of Freddy series,so I was expecting to see something truly gruesome.But no,I've got another overrated piece of crap,only a little bit better than awful part two.Where is the scariness?Where is the gore?It seems to me,that creators of this cheese-fest want to make another polished horror movie to satisfy a mainstream audience.The acting ranks from acceptable to rotten,the special effects are mostly okay(Freddy,who becomes a big snake-Yeah,this sounds cheesy,but this movie is cheesy!)and nothing is scary here.If you've seen the original,you've seen them all.Really.Want some real horror?Check out some movies by Dario Argento,Mario Bava or even Lucio Fulci. "},{"Title":"The best of the NIGHTMARE flicks","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERSA huge comeback after the awful second film and also a little of improvement over the first. It's also good due to the fact Wes Craven, Heather Langenkamp, and John Saxon return from the first film.This time our fave psycho with knives for fingers terrorizes troubled teens in a rehabilitation center.Nancy, the heroine from part one returns as a psychiatrist studying sleep disorders. She helps the remaining kids band together to fight Freddy one last time(?). Exciting, suspenseful, great story, acting, effects, and music. ***** out of *****. "},{"Title":"A new Freddy is presented.","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  All the Elm street kids have been moved to a nearby mental ward, where Freddy continues to stalk them in their dreams. Direction and plotting are both rather creative, plus there is more startling special effects and there is some humor. But for some reason, this just isn't as entertaining or as fun as the first two were. Followed by more sequels. 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wes Craven and Heather Langenkamp Come Back For The Attack.","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I never thought of Wes Craven as the god of horror directing.  You could have fooled me though when I saw the difference between Nightmares I, II, and III!  Nightmare I of course was the original concept, II being some shoddy remake/sequel of the first (not made by Craven), and III is well basically a classic!Dream Warriors came out at the time when Heavy Metal music was popular to mix in with horror movies (i.e. Trick or Treat, Friday The Thirteenth, etc.).  The song Dream Warriors by Dokken became a hit and pushed the film in the theatres (the film helped Dokken's sales too), even though it wasn't really showcased in the movie much.  Nancy returns as a dream specialist (clever don't you think?) and runs into the Elm Street children.  Events begin occurring that look too familiar to her and she vows to help them.  The key part to this story is that each child has their own power in their dreams.  One is a Magician, another super strong and it goes from there.  Using all their skills combined together they try to fight Freddy...the Dream Warriors.Patricia Arquette, yet another unknown actress (remember Johnny Depp in Nightmare I?), is brilliant in her role.  Her power in the film makes her the most important child in the film.Freddy is at his best in this picture.  By now his fright has waned because of all the one-liners we have heard in the previous Nightmare film.  Unlike future films though, the balance of comedic relief and horror is never broken.  It fits like a glove!My favorite in this series, the music, actors, and story will always be a classic to me. "},{"Title":"the best film of the series and the true sequel to the first film.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this film reunites some of the main characters from the first film and wisely ignores the pile of crap that was the second film.this is set after the events of the first film and the heroine from that movie Heather is now a psychologist helping teenagers who suffer from bad dreams. her father is now an alcoholic and is still suffering from the experiences of the first film. freddy begins attacking her patients in their dreams one by one and they decide to unite and battle freddy since heather knows who he is and why he exists.the special effects in this film are superb (especially the giant freddy-snake and marionette sequences) and the film is basically the first movie redone with better characters, better effects, and a better script.while i enjoyed the 5th movie somewhat, mainly since it got back to the dark tone of the first film, the next elm street movie to watch after this one would definitely be the 7th one.rating8.5 "},{"Title":"ugh!","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Why do they have, like, ten of these movies? Judging from this one, which I had the unfortunate mispleasure of seeing at somebody's house, they probably should have stopped at one or two so this one did not have to be made. Not only was the violence grotesque and mindless, it was dull and a disappointment too. So why go on to make so many more films?Maybe I just...didn't understand, since I hadn't seen numbers one or two, but from what I gathered, an evil wisecracking villian with giant claws named Freddy Krueger goes around scaring teens(don't horror movie villians ever target adults?)in their dreams and has done so up to a point where these kids have been sent to a nuthouse! Of course, Freddy doesn't leave them alone but continues to torture them to a point of where such disasters result as Freddy tormenting a TV adict to a point of where she gets electrocuted by her set and a particularly disgusting sequence of a boy who likes puppets becoming Freddy's puppet as he sleepwalks and is led by strings of blood until he falls out of a window.Nice.Not only are scenes like that tasteless and scary to the young audiences these films are aimed at but this one can't even get by with redeeming forces. Take Freddy horror movie villians are at least known for being funny, if all else(see Pennywise the killer klown in It for a wonderful example), but Freddy's jokes quickly run stale and he just looks mean, not amusing. The heroes(Nancy, a character that I assumed appeared in earlier films is played by Just the Ten Of Us's Heather Langenkamp)aren't really much of an inspiration, though I suppose Nancy was semi-appealing and their dramatic conclusion was most certainly less than underwhelming. The third was certainly not the charm for that series so why make so many more? Don't films get worse with each sequal? I could just imagine how bad the last one must be! "},{"Title":"Despite Wes's involvement, it's still nothing special.","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know if it's just me, or the third Nightmare movie is yet again nothing special.  I just saw this today on television, and I found myself being a little annoyed.  Yes, I was glad to see Heather Lagenkamp return as Nancy, and John Saxon return as Donald, but they were not enough to save this movie.  Patricia Arquette did a good job, as did Laurence Fishburne, but the others were nothing to look at.  The story wasn't all that great, neither was the acting of the supporting characters, and the deaths were a little lame. The whole movie is a little lame, and this is probably where we see Freddy losing a little of his scariness and gain more comedy.  I felt he was more scarier in the first (his skin seemed to be gooey and dripping from his face, his smile was very sinister, and his teeth would make Austin Powers appreciate his more), and the seventh.  I don't know, maybe it's just one of those movies that will grow on you as you watch more and more, but for my first impression of it, I give it ** out of *****. "},{"Title":"My favorite sequel of the series.","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a very great movie. Craven returns after the disappointing Nightmare 2. My favorite character returns. NANCY (Langenkamp)!!!  I also like Kristen (Arquette) but I like Kincaid (Sagoes) better than Kristen, but too bad he plays an obviously slow adult who acts like a baby in a great movie that I have seen, ROSEWOOD.  But A Nightmare 3 has good special F/X for a movie back in the eighties and for a low budget movie.  The ending was great.  I like the part when they fight Freddy towards the end.  It wasn't much of a fight, but it got the job done. I rate this movie along with the original a 10/10.  It was great you should see it if you are a true horror fan.  "}{"Title":"A wonderful entry in a not so wonderful franchise","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare On Elm Street 3 The Dream Warriors In this film, Kristen Parker is attacked by Freddy in her dream(s). In the opening scene, upon waking up from being attacked, her mother mistakes her wounds to be that of a suicide attempt, and Kristen is sent to a mental hospital for young people located in Springwood, there she befriends the patients, Dr Gordon, and Nancy Thompson from the first film, the rest of the plot focuses on their struggle to survive and convincing the adults in the film that Freddy exists. For his directorial debut Chuck Russell does an amazing job, But this film in the series drifts away from the style that the first two films featured, instead of it being filled with suspense, it relies mostly on the amazing effects to shock the audience more so than scare them. Which in my opinion isn't really that much of a bad thing, the effects on their own might not terrify the audience, but they are handled in such a fantastic way that its still incredibly entertaining to see such amazing special effects. One aspect that is consisted with the first two films is the interesting characters, along with Kristen played by Patricia Arquette in her first film role, Dr Gordon played by Craig Wasson, Nancy Thompson returning from the first film, again played by Heather Langenkamp. What's interesting about most of these characters is the fact that even though this is a slasher film, the audience genuinely cares about them and they don't feel like cannon fodder that are only there so that they can be killed off in a creative way. Robert England delivers another great performance as Freddy Krueger, but with a lot more lines and screen time it feels distant from how we know him from the first two. Another aspect that it maintains is the amazing visuals, the production design is at its peak in this film, especially with the dream sequences. I don't have a lot of complaints about this film, the effects are great, the characters are good and the acting is good for the most part. My only complaints are that there is a bit of a lack of character devilment with a few of the characters, my other complaint is surprisingly Heather Langenkamp's performance, its good for the most part but with a few of her scenes, her performance comes across as a bit wooden and off. I was originally going to give this film a 6 out of 10, but when I watched it recently in preparation I realized its much better than I once thought, so I'm going to give A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 The Dream Warriors a 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Full of holes (but fun anyway!)","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I watched the Nightmare on Elm Street saga when it first came out. And I loved it. Now, some years later, I can see all the &#x96; many &#x96; things wrong with it. But I still love it anyway.It's fair to say that if you're into your horror movies then you probably enjoyed the first Nightmare film, about a child-killer who continues his deadly activities by invading the dreams of his young victims. However, most die-hards hated the first sequel (which had no input from the franchise's mastermind, Wes Craven). So, in Part III, Craven returns to take creative control. And it helps.We meet the last children from Elm Street, now traumatised and in a mental institution, still being picked off by Freddy Kruger. The title of 'Part III' is 'Dream Warriors.' This relates to how the kids are banding together to use their 'dream powers' to help defeat their nemesis. However, I find that title a little misleading. They aren't what I'd call 'warriors!' They're a bit useless really. And bland. In fact, the film's 'star' is easily Freddy himself, who steals every scene with his delicious evilness.You can either pick the film apart for its shortcomings, or just enjoy the imaginative dream scenes where Freddy pops up and 'offs' another teen. It's silly and fun &#x96; not scary, but there are a few 'yucky' moments (the 'puppet scene' still looks pretty grisly to this day!).http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"The third nightmare is the best dream!","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After watching the appalling A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge, I decided to brave it out and carry on with the series and to my surprise, this was actually a great sequel. The story is very good and is entertaining but it isn't really very scary although it probably was when it was released. The characters were done very good as we see our old favourite heroine Nancy return along with some 'suicidal' teenagers, one of which is Patricia Arquette who plays the troubled Kristen. The character development is well done as yet again you see the scared teenagers turn into&#x85;well&#x85;dream warriors. The acting was great as Heather Langenkamp returns as the tough Nancy and Robert Englund as the scary Freddy Krueger. Patricia Arquette should also be praised for her performance as Kristen as should the rest of the cast. The direction is done very well and the nightmare scenes were done brilliantly as this takes a more comedic turn to the previous Nightmares.I really did enjoy this one, it's definitely improved from the second one but, as expected, it doesn't beat the first one. This one isn't so scary but this is more of a dark horror comedy if anything because of the one-liners Freddy uses although the idea of Freddy Kruger is still quite a terrifying one. The special effects and the nightmare scenes were brilliantly executed and I loved how Robert Englund had truly left his mark as the only one who should be Freddy. Overall, this definitely beats the second and is very enjoyable but it's not on the same level as the first, which was to be expected.Read more reviews on www.dudedazzmoviereviews.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Best Krueger Movie of the lot","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have seen every Nightmare on Elm Street series, and this is the Best out of the lot. Many people say that the First was the Best, as usual the Original are preferred then the sequels. Perhaps because the first Freddy movie i saw at a young age was this movie. The First has many great scenes, the second was one the worst. The fourth and fifth were average. Freddy's Dead was very entertaining. New Nightmare was another ridiculous movie. Dream warriors has the most death, since it is set in a mental hospital. You know there will be many victims being killed, in a typical entertaining way. My favourite death scene is when Freddy turns into a Television. Overall, this is the Best Freddy Krueger movie out of the lot. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Why do they make sequels. There not as good as the original. Nightmare on elm street 2 through the last one all suck. This one is a little better than the rest. It still wasn't as good as the first one. It just wasn't as scary. I really don't care for the ending. But I do recommend this movie to anyone who liked the first one. You might like this one. BUT DON'T WATCH THE OTHER ONES.   "},{"Title":"Dream Worriors my ass.....","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" what kind of sh*t is this? Power rangers vs Freddy? It was watchable and as good as the first film in the beginning but from the part where the protagonists get super powers in theirs dreams, it started to become childish. This sh*t should have been rated PG or PG-13 rather than R. I expected to see some very mature stuff but it was only for the 1/3 of the film. The rest are for little kids. Plus it's focused too much on Christianity. I know Freddy's a demon but there are many religions that have different ways to fight demons. Why does it always have to be Christianity? This is total Orientalism and filled with white men/westerner's superiority. Don't' watch this, show it to little kids who loves power rangers. "},{"Title":"A pretty good movie,","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" For a third movie in an horror franchise, this movie is simply a surprisingly great one. Of course it's not as good as the first, mostly because of the reason that it doesn't has the same originality and freshness over it but the movie remains a perfectly watchable one.I have always liked A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors. It's perhaps the only sequel in the long running franchise that is actually solidly written and is also being original, along with the 7th part New Nightmare.The story also really works out due to its nice settings and also good characters involved. The movie isn't just simply written as an horror movie set at an haunted mansion, the horror is made more psychological, when the movie for most part gets set at a psychiatric institution. The horror mostly involves its characters and their fears for their dreams, in which Freddy Krueger shows up, at night. The writing doesn't simply rely on the standard shock and gore effects but actually spends more time on its story-telling and development, which works refreshing and effective.The movie also had the good fortune that it had some good casting involved. Heather Langenkamp reprises her role from the first movie and of course Robert Englund is also present again as Freddy Krueger, who's past and origin also gets developed more this time. Further more the movie also features some young yet-to-be-stars, such as Patricia Arquette and Laurence Fishburne. Patricia Arquette actually made her screen-debut with this movie.What makes the movie also great to watch are its effects. Normally special effects and horror don't blend in very well with each other but in this case it truly adds to the horror and overall feeling of the movie. For 1987 some of the effects are simply good looking, though by todays standards it's certainly a bit outdated to watch.Really a good movie within the series and its genre.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The nightmare kids fight back!","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the third film of the Elm Street series, but the story picks up where the first movie lefts off. Led by survivor Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp), who is now a dream therapy psychiatrist, she leads a charge with her patients into Freddy Kruger's world and attempts to rid him and his evil once and for all.This movie has a more in-tact plot that brings us a little more action, excitement and intrigue; just the plan by the protagonist to defeat Freddy already gives this film a suspenseful good vs. evil element. The human puppet scene was the most gruesome and gritty part in the movie, definitely might make you grind your teeth.This movie, though, still has those campy dialog acting as in the first two movies and still has that dreary feel; I know it's supposed to be dreamy since these are movies about nightmares, but I thought the cinematography and surrounding atmosphere could have been made a less dull and boring. The cheese factor is still there. Overall, it's an OK film. Good for a little scare, but there are more entertaining horror movies out there.Grade C "},{"Title":"Welcome to prime time, bitch!","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nightmare on Elm Street 3 The Dream Warriors revolves around disturbed teens at westin hills asylum and there encounter with Freddy. It also marks the return of the Nancy Thompson character from the first movie, this time around, she's a psychiatrist trying to help the kids defeat Freddy. In this movie, some more of Freddy's back story is explained, but it's not enough to make you sympathize with him in any way, he is still pure evil. The protagonists in this film are pretty likable, the acting overall isn't too bad, the dream sequences and kills are creative, and Freddy is funny but still menacing at the same time. I would strongly recommend this flick to Freddy fans. "},{"Title":"We Are Dream Warriors!","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Has anybody noticed that unlike Nightmares contemporaries like Halloween, Friday The 13th and Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Nightmare On Elm Street since Freddys Revenge has practically embodied the 80s in every way. The cheesy music, the clothes, the dreams, its all 80s. Dream Warriors is definitely in the top 3 Elm street films, alongside New Nightmare and the original. It sends off the old cast while bringing in new ones and strikes a perfect balance between the eerie creepiness of the first and the over the top comedy of the latter films.Kristen is our new hero who is being haunted by Freddy. She is put in a mental hospital after she refuses to sleep and is looked after by Larry Fishburne from The Matrix. She is joined by a cast off really troubled but really great and interesting teens who all go on to be... Dream Warriors! with the help of Nancy and Donald Thompson.The film is a joy to look at, the effects, the different ways they accomplished everything is really interesting. The different dream sequences are above anything else in the original, not better necessarily, but definitely more effects heavy. Freddy as clay animation, The puppet master dream where veins are used as strings, its all very creative and very enjoyable.The cast is all really strong here, you can tell they truly care about the film their making, especially Heather Langenkamp and John Saxon who arguably had their best roles in the original Nightmare. Its a slasher where the characters actually get to fight back in their own way and the ending is sure to tug a few heart strings.Freddy has some of his best lines here, he's still cunning, he's still creepy but by god he is hilarious at points. 'Welcome To Primetime, Bitch' has to be one of the best improvised lines in film history.Overall, problems are few and far between here, I love it for different reasons than the Original and New Nightmare but it is a damn good movie and maybe the most entertaining of the original Nightmare movies. "}{"Title":"The Victims Are Bogus Characters","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Though I thought Dream Warriors was infinitely better than the previous Elm Street movie, Freddy's Revenge, I still could not bring myself to fully like the film by the time it was over.The main problem I had with A Nightmare On Elm Street 3 is the same problem I've been having with slasher films since the first slasher film I can remember seeing the victims are bogus characters. I really didn't like them very much at all. Granted, there was a little more depth to them than in other films, but they were still run-of-the-mill characters that I, frankly, get tired of seeing.And the acting wasn't much to watch either. Heather Langenkamp thankfully returns as Nancy, the Final Girl from the original film. But her character really hasn't gone very far from the last time the audience saw her, so though her genuine performance was appreciated, her character's presence was a little lame. There just really wasn't a whole lot to her.The film takes place in a psychiatric ward, a complete turnaround from the house that was used for the first two movies. Actually, this film feels more like a continuation of Nightmare than Freddy's Revenge did, even though Freddy's Revenge took place entirely in the same house and Dream Warriors did not. Anyway, the psychiatric ward was an interesting place to send the series, and I was ultimately happy with that change. But the characters in the ward didn't do a whole lot to establish themselves. Again, they were all very basic and didn't have too many personality traits.Something interesting that this film does is expand on its title Dream Warriors. When the characters go into the dreams, they each have their own dream powers to fight Freddy with. They don't really make sense, and you would think the characters would be able to pretty much do anything they want in the dream if that was the direction the filmmakers were going to take, but no dice. And the whole deal with battling Freddy in the dreams did get really cheesy and really silly really fast.And then there were the puns. I hate movie puns (i.e., It's the chair for you, kid! Feeling tongue-tied?), mostly because NO ONE TALKS LIKE THAT! No one starts throwing out puns when they're really mad at someone. It's stupid, it's annoying, and they're not funny or clever. So what are they trying to be? The effects in this movie were clever, though. I have to give the film that. They weren't brilliant, but they were pretty interesting. But they couldn't distract me from some of the really bad dialogue and acting. But, still, all of that was better than the predecessor. I don't put much stock in Dream Warriors. It gives us new ideas, which I appreciated, but gave them to us in a very familiar way.But I will give this to the movie this is the first Freddy Krueger movie I have seen when I didn't completely hate the ending.5/10 "},{"Title":"4 out of 10","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I never thought of Wes Craven as the god of horror directing. You could have fooled me though when I saw the difference between Nightmares I, II, and III! Nightmare I of course was the original concept, II being some shoddy remake/sequel of the first (not made by Craven), and III is well basically a classic! Dream Warriors came out at the time when Heavy Metal music was popular to mix in with horror movies (i.e. Trick or Treat, Friday The Thirteenth, etc.). The song Dream Warriors by Dokken became a hit and pushed the film in the theaters (the film helped Dokken's sales too), even though it wasn't really showcased in the movie much.Nancy returns as a dream specialist (clever don't you think?) and runs into the Elm Street children. Events begin occurring that look too familiar to her and she vows to help them. The key part to this story is that each child has their own power in their dreams. One is a Magician, another super strong and it goes from there. Using all their skills combined together they try to fight Freddy...the Dream Warriors.Patricia Arquette, yet another unknown actress (remember Johnny Depp in Nightmare I?), is brilliant in her role. Her power in the film makes her the most important child in the film.Freddy is at his best in this picture. By now his fright has waned because of all the one-liners we have heard in the previous Nightmare film. Unlike future films though, the balance of comedic relief and horror is never broken. It fits like a glove! My favorite in this series, the music, actors, and story will always be a classic to me.Rated R for Nudity, Graphic Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Nightmare's best scripted film.","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Robert Englund, Heather Langenkamp, Craig Wasson, John Saxon, Lawerence Fishbourne, Rodnet Eastman, Jennifer Rubin, Zsa Zsa Gabor, Dick Cavett and others.Same plot in each film, Freddy comes back to kill kids that don't deserve it. The script to this outing is actually pretty funny and good and it's not even repetitive. The deaths in this film are numerous and this is the film where Freddy gets some humor. Dozens of one liners are said, some which are slightly amusing. It has an eighties feel to it, which is good for this one.my rating-3/4 stars(or a B). R for nudity, violence and language. 93 minutes. "},{"Title":"Craven's back!!","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, they obviously realized where they went wrong with NOES2 and brought back the wizard of weird, Horror Maven Wes Craven. And just in the nick of time. I don't think this franchise would have survived another screen play by David Chaskin.Dream Warriors original screenplay was written totally by Craven, and he was he executive producer this time.Dream Warriors definitely puts Freddy back on the right track with a solid story and innovatives in both effects and story ideas.Sleep. Those little slices of Death. How I loathe them. Edgar Allen Poe. This is how we are reintroduced to the Nightmare.A common element between the first and this chapter of the NOES franchise is that of distant mothers. Nancy's mother was distracted and detached from her child, as is Kristen's mother. I find that to be a particular contrivance, as it allows the story line to flow without a high level of interference from the parent gallery. Otherwise, these kids would have been restrained, sedated and institutionalized.Speaking of institutionalization. Just when it becomes apparent that there is no more story to keep this franchise going, Craven and the other writers pull the fat out of the fire, so to speak by introducing the Dream Warriors. Very nice premise which I won't spoil here, but this is the installment in which you begin to put together the why's and wherefore's. This chapter also has a purpose; a goal, if you will. As Craven begins the methodical rebuilding of the Freddy Bible, some rules are laid down, giving this segment the structure which was so sorely lacking in the second.Celebrate the return of both Heather Langencamp AND Wes Craven and return to the Nightmare the way it was meant to be with great performances, a hideous villain and a lovely dark story line. But this movie also offers some strong, convincing and realistic effects; not enough to overshadow the story, but just enough to properly enhance it. (I, personally, LOVED the barking pig!) While there are a few slow spots, they are few in number and brief in duration. All in all, I have to say that A Nightmare on Elm Street III Dream Warriors is a most worthy sequel in the Freddy Franchise. (Just forget they made a second one. They play very well 1-3. You never even miss the second one.) Did this one scare? This one actually had the jump on the first one a far as scares. Several seat jumps were experienced.It rates an 8.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"DREAM WARRIORS...DON'T WANT TO SLEEP NO MORE...","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, this was the first Nightmare on Elm St to have its own theme song if you do not count the one two Freddy's coming for you one.  This was also the start of a trend of Freddy becoming more of a comedian rather than a really creepy and spooky killer.  Despite that though, I still like it quite a bit.  He still maintains a bit of spookiness here and his kills are still rather good before they would become kind of goofy in the next installment (the roach motel).  Here a bunch of kids are in a ward because they believe Freddy is coming for them and for that reason they are really quite sleep deprived.  The girl from the first one returns too try and help them as she is one of the few who knows Freddy really exists and by golly he is going to kill them.  She and the kids plan...learn to manipulate the dreams and fight Freddy at his own game.  One guy turns into a wizard in the dream world, another gets super strong, and one gal turns into a punk rock girl.  Of course, no of these powers are really all that helpful and in the end it takes some guys out of the dream world to stop Freddy, or is he stopped.  Laurence Fisburne of The Matrix is apparently in this, but I don't remember him unless he was the strong guy, but I don't think he was.  Also, I always wondered if the guy who wouldn't talk was supposed to be the guy from part two.  Not a bad movie, but it was really kind of the beginning of the end. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Better then you would expect sequel finds Freddy killing teenagers at an asylum and facing off against part one's lone survivor (Heather Langenkamp) who is now a doctor there. Directed with flair. This installment features terrifying effects, good one liners, and a memorable apparance by Zsa Zsa Gabor. Rated R; Nudity, Graphic Violence, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Laurence Fishburne as the Porter","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In 1987, the craze was 'Friday the 13th' and 'A Nightmare on Elm Street'. Audiences wanted physical horror like 'House' and 'The Evil Dead', and Laurence Fishburne was caught up in this trend by being cast as a minor role in 'Dream Warriors'. His performance doesn't stand out, but he was moving along with the crest of the wave. "},{"Title":"One of the best of the whole series.","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors starts as a young girl named Kristen Parker (Patricia Arquette) has a horrifying nightmare involving the child killer Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) which ends up in her cutting her wrist with a razor, she is hospitalised at the 'Western Hills' psychiatric institute with various other teenagers with sleep problems. Run by Dr. Neil Gordon (Craid Wasson) the institute has a new employee, a certain Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) who immediately uses her own experiences of Freddy to try & comfort the kids, but Freddy is determined to take the last of the Elm street children...Co-written & directed by Chuck Russell this is one of the better entries in the A Nightmare on Elm Street franchise. The script by Russell, Wes Craven, Frank Darabont & Bruce Wagner completely ignores the events of A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge (1985), some would say wisely including me, & is more of a sequel to the original as it goes back to Freddy the boogie man stalking the Elm Street kids in their dreams, it's certainly an improvement over Part 2 & is a pretty decent film in it's own right. This one also introduced the extravagant set-piece murders & the jokey one-liners spoken by Freddy that would pretty much shape how the rest of the series & further sequels went, the kills are pretty imaginative & I loved the scene when Freddy uses a guys veins from his wrists & feet to control him like a string puppet. The film moves along at a decent pace & it also follows on from the original & explores Freddy's origins in some detail. On the down side there's a very modest body count of five & there are a couple of points where it does drag a bit.Director Russell does a fine job & there's some nice scenes here. The body count is low but the kills themselves are pretty cool & the special effects are impressive too. There's a nice atmosphere to it & there's some gore but not much, someones stomach is slashed, there's a decapitated head & the bloody vein death. There is also a cool stop motion animation skeleton that reminded me of the ones from Jason and the Argonauts (1963).With a healthy sounding budget of about $5,000,000 this looks good with pretty good & ambitious special effects, it's well made with decent enough production values. The acting was OK & it was nice to see John Saxon return.A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors is a good sequel that wisely forgets Part 2 & takes it's lead from the original A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984), well worth a watch. Followed by A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master (1988). "},{"Title":"Arguably the best.","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Arguably the best film in the series, inarguably a vast improvement over Freddy's Revenge. This one is less surreal than the first, but more entertaining and it has more interesting characters. Biggest assets some clever one-liners for Freddy (Your big break on TV!) and the often imaginative special effects.  "},{"Title":"Thoroughly entertaining third chapter in the Elm Street series.","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the totally awful crap-fest that was Freddy's Revenge, the only way was up for the next film in the series. Wisely dispensing with any notion of scaring the audience (Freddy had well and truly lost his aura of menace after Pt.2), director Chuck Russell amped up Freddy's mischievous wisecracking persona and pitted him against a group of teens who have learnt to master special powers within their dreams. The result is a pleasing popcorn horror laden with impressive special effects that, if anything, is certainly never boring.Patricia Arquette plays Kristen, a young girl who is suffering from horrific nightmares featuring you-know-who. Eventually, she winds up in a hospital with others who are also experiencing similar bad dreams. When the kids start to die, Dr. Neil Gordon (Craig Wasson), aided by Freddy's old adversary, Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp), sets out to defeat Krueger once and for all.Once again, the plot makes little sense if studied too closely, but fans of gory, inventive and tongue-in-cheek horror should have a great time as Robert Englund quips and slices away at the terrified teens. Victims die in a variety of silly ways, from being turned into human marionettes (controlled by the veins ripped from their arms and legs), to being pushed head first into a TV set, to having their arms pumped full of drugs via Freddy's special set of syringe-fingered gloves. There's even a welcome touch of T&A in one scene in which a young lad is seduced by a hot blonde nurse with a mighty fine rack, only for her to turn into Freddy during a torrid topless tonguing session!The daft ending sees Dr. Gordon and Nancy's dad (John Saxon) battling with Freddy's reanimated skeleton in a deserted junkyard, whilst the 'Dream Warriors' (Kristen and her pals) attempt to rescue one of their own (the aforementioned teen who gets it on with the 'nurse'), who is trapped in a nightmare.Only the most timid of movie-goers will find this instalment at all scary, but with its innovative visuals and constant action, most fans of the genre should have a great time with this one. After all, any film with a character described as 'the bastard son of a hundred maniacs' has got to be worth seeing!7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb. "}{"Title":"in dreams","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" More of Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) killing teenagers, but this time Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) returns to help fight him (John Saxon also returns as her father). Patricia Arquette appears in an early role, as does a still young Laurence Fishburne. No doubt you'll really like the TV scene - that'll teach 'em to watch too much TV - and the marionette scene. You gotta figure that they must have fun making these movies. I know that in Scream, they said that only the first Nightmare on Elm Street was good, but Dream Warriors is pretty harmless.Do you remember that time that Mother Goose and Grimm portrayed Freddy Krueger and Edward Scissorhands meeting? They made the mistake of shaking hands. "},{"Title":"Wisely pretends that the horrid part 2 ever existed","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Kirsten Parker (Patricia Arquette), after suffering a perceived suicide attempt, is sent to a institutionalized hospital where Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp reprising her role from the first film) is a new psychiatrist specializing in dream therapy at. It isn't long before everybody's favorite demonic pedophile (no not Victor Salva), Freddy Krueger is up to his old games. This film VERY wisely pretends that the homo-erotic part 2 never existed, instead opting to expand the mythos and personality of Freddy. I, of course, enjoyed the former while ignoring the fact that Krueger was slowly turning into a bad stand-up comedian and less a menacing force of Evil (this film isn't guilty as much as later entries would be, but you could see the seeds being sown). Almost as good as the first one and what it lacks in genuine scares, it makes up for in plot line and sheer inventiveness.Eye Candy Stacey Alden reveals her 'twin talents' My Grade B DVD Extras Cast and Crew Bios; and Jump to a Nightmare option (more extras for the film can be found on the seventh disc of The Nightmare Collection DVD set) DVD-Rom content Trivia game; Screenplay; and web link "},{"Title":"About as bad as I feared","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The original didn't need and shouldn't have had(just ask Wes Craven) any sequels. It was an excellent concept executed beautifully. The problem is that the idea behind it, when someone is desperate enough for a follow-up, can lead to... *this*. Yes, Krueger is terrorizing a new group of teens. By... scaring them. They go to sleep, he appears, and he doesn't kill them. No, that's what is apparently happening leading up to the beginning of this film. And he doesn't need to worry, because there are plenty of people who want to ensure that the kids, all placed in a hospital ward, sleep. Enter Nancy, who thankfully helps keep this from getting any more we don't know what we're dealing with(even though every member of the audience does) than it, well, does. Oh, and these guys have abilities in their dreams. No, you read that right. And if you ignore(as the makers of this did) that horror is best when the villain and the victims are *not* equal, the skills are stupid and exceedingly lame. How anyone thought this would be good is beyond me. Honestly, if it's straight fantasy/adventure, maybe, but don't bring supernatural stuff into it controlled by the protagonists when we're meant to be terrified. Unlike the first one, this doesn't evoke the feeling of being in a nightmare. It tries, on occasion, and awkwardness ensues. Freddy(who is now vocal, taunting, using cool one-liners) doesn't chase as much, and when he does, it's less effective. Like the second, it's bizarre at times when it attempts to be creepy. It manages to be eerie at times, and the FX tend to be well-done(especially the clay-mation), if the creative gags are few and far between. Actually, this seems to strain itself trying to produce them, with there being absurdly specific stuff based on who the toasted antagonist is going after. The characters are mostly obnoxious or dull; I didn't really care about any of them, they weren't developed enough. Fishburn delivers a solid performance, but he's just about the only one. The acting is decent for the rest, if no one is necessarily shockingly poor. This was Arquette's movie debut, and it shows. It's directed by Chuck Russell, of The Mask, Eraser and The Scorpion King. That list ought to tell you that he can do well at effect-laden flicks... as well as, you know, *not* well. Yeah, this is another case of the latter. Well, in his defense, in the three cases, the script is to blame. This provides backstory, and that part is OK. The climax is unexciting, and this has the weakest ending of these three. There is a moderate amount of bloody, gory violence and disturbing content, as well as a little nudity and strong language in this. The Ultimate Collector's Edition 7-Disc DVD set comes with the feature Jump To A Nightmare, the trailer, and the music video for the awful, inappropriate pop song of the same title as this picture. I recommend this to anyone that this sounds appealing to. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Nice Story and Execution","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nightmare on Elm Street 3, A (1987) *** (out of 4) Third film in the series has the original movie's hero Nancy (Heather Langenkamp) returning as a dream expert trying to help some teens suffering from nightmares, which of course are being brought on by Freddy (Robert Englund). It seems one of the kids (Patricia Arquette) has a special power that can pull other people into her dreams and this here might be the one way to destroy the burned maniac. Wes Craven, Bruce Wagner, Frank Darabont and Chuck Russell are all credited with the screenplay, although there's quite a bit of debate on how much of the Craven/Wagner story was kept here. Apparently the film suffered some production issues with the various story lines but that really doesn't show because of the story we do get, which is without question smart and certain stays clear from the dumb slasher clichés that was eating up horror films around this period. I do think there are times when the film is too smart for its own good but you have to give a horror film credit when it tries to deliver something than your typical run-of-the-mill tricks. The idea of mixing suicide, depression and other issues into the mix of Freddy was a good idea and it adds a few layers of drama to the film. It also doesn't hurt matters that we get some pretty good performances with Arquette doing the best work but we also have Jennifer Ruben, Rodney Eastman and Craig Wasson turning in good work. It's always fun seeing the young Laurence Fishburn and of course there's Langenkamp returning to the role of Nancy. Another good aspect is that John Saxon also returns and it's always nice seeing him show up. Englund is once again back as Freddy and there's no doubt that he's very comfortable in the role by now. He does a very good job bringing the character to life and this of course is where his joking started but it never crosses the line of being too silly. The make up work on Freddy is much better here than in the previous film and the rest of the effects dealing with his burned body are quite good. The murders are all pretty creative in their own right and most of the effects work except for a rather silly skeleton Freddy that comes up at the end. Russell's direction fits the material quite nicely and there's an overall fantasy-like atmosphere that works well. I wouldn't call this the greatest horror sequel of the decade but you have to respect what it was going for and especially since it did manage to pull most of it off. "},{"Title":"The bastard son of a 100 maniacs!","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This third installment in the Elm Street-saga immediately became my favorite, simply because the story ingeniously adds a whole lot to the Freddy Krueger mythology! Somewhere halfway into the film, we're informed about the tasteless and sickening details of Krueger's conception and it right away explains the nature of his violent persona! In case you too like your horror as morbid as possible, it's guaranteed that you'll consider this part 3 the best entry in the entire series. Arguably even better than (or at least as good as) the 1984 original, since the ultra-morbid twist definitely makes up for the surprise element of the original that, of course, no longer features here. Even without the better scenario, Dream Warriors is a vast improvement over the mediocre part two, since it has more tension, likable characters and more imaginative killing sequences. This time, Freddy Krueger terrorizes an institute of dream-disordered teenagers and he makes their deaths look like suicides. Nancy Thompson, the heroine of the original, stars as the only doctor who understands the teenagers' fear of falling asleep and even her father (the almighty John Saxon) helps with putting Freddy in his grave for good. The hospital/mental institution makes a great, atmospheric setting the visual gimmicks are quite impressive. Good acting performances by Patricia Arquette and Craig Wasson also contribute to the higher quality of this third chapter and Chuck Russell's surefooted directing is much better than Jack Sholder's. "},{"Title":"Not a great film by any means, but is vastly superior to the horrific film number 2.","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  NOES 3, penned by the now fairly famous Darabont, is perhaps one of the better entries I've seen in the series.I'm not going to suggest that in any way I really liked this film compared to the first film, and Wes Craven's New Nightmare this comes off rather shabbily. But, compared to the atrocious Freddy's Revenge (which suggested death lay just over the horizon for the NOES franchise) this film is practically gold dust.Instead of some shabby unrelated storyline ala 2, Dream Warriors concentrates on filling in plotholes and providing background information on Krueger's origins, aa well as building on the mutual hatred, fear and yet understanding between Freddy and his nemesis. The story takes place a fair ways after the events of the first as we are introduced to a group of Elm street kids who are haunted in their dreams by the murderous Krueger, and are under treatment in a mental institution. A short ways into the film, Nancy, the heroine of the first, and now a psychiatrist, is called to the institution to treat the kids, and soon realises what they are seeing is not some illusion of the mind. Under the tutorage of Nancy, the children learn the skills necessary to fight Krueger on his own battleground within their dreams.It's good to see Heather Langenkamp's character Nancy back, she is the strongest character of the series, as well as the focus of the first film, and it is a mystery as to why her character was not written into the second script (incidently enough, there is no reference to be seen in this film to the events of Part 2). Robert Englund, too, returns to playing Freddy as the character should be played, and though there are a few of the one liners that littered his character in many of the later films, these are rather sparse, and not too cringe worthy Englund still comes off as scary. We also see some rather nice special effects and makeup in this film, as one comes to expect from the series (Such as Freddy's syringe glove anyone with a fear of needles will crap themselves ) ).And yet, the film is far from without significant flaws. There is a rather abundant quantity of grotesque scenes in this film, but precious few that I found genuinely scary, as the first was. Personally, this doesn't do for me, I expect horror to be scary. Some of the acting too, is rather dud many of the children turn in performances either over the top or bland and dull. And then, there is the return of the father figure character from the first he turned in a bad performance in said film, and manages to usurp it in this, making in my opinion, the worst part of the piece.But hey, when looking at this film you've got to take it in context of it's competition. Certainly when compared to the abysmal 2, we can find much of value in this, and I've been told some of the later sequels are even worse (shudder....). Not, on the whole, a dreadful horror film then.And it's features Dokken singing 'Dream Warriors', a song so cheesy and over the top that it couldn't possibly be more out of place in a horror either you'll laugh or you'll cringe.5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Can we sayoverrated?!","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street 3Dream Warriors is actually the best part of A Nightmare on Elm Street series,but it is still quite overrated.Patricia Arquette stars as a Kristen,whose nightmare leads to a slashed wrist that looks suspiciously like a suicide attempt.She is placed in a hospital psychiatric ward with a group of six other troubled teens,who all dream about the same horribly burned man(Robert Englund)trying to kill them.The special effects are really good(gotta love especially this walking skeleton!),the acting is fine and the film manages to be quite creepy in the couple of scenes.Unfortunately the gore level is really low,and some of the characters are very annoying.Otherwise this is solid entry in overrated series and it deserves at least 7 out of 10,but don't be fooled-this is not the best horror film of 1987-Deliria/Aquarius(1987,Michele Soavi)is much better film. "}]