[{"Title":"Well done and realistic spy thriller!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"43 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Usually we get treated to one type of spy movie these days. This type is made up of good looking young agents with all sorts of high tech weapons and gear. There are beautiful women who are just lining up to sleep with the good guy. The Fourth Protocol is not one of these movies and thank goodness! It is one of the most realistic cold war spy movies out there. Despite it's age(1987) it is relevant to today's world. There is nuclear terrorism and real looking spies. Michael Cain plays a British agent and is too busy looking for Russian spies to be sexing up fine Russian female agents. In fact he has a family. He is excellent as the seasoned agent who uses his mind and not gadgets to track down the Russian spy played by Pierce Brosnan. For those of you who saw Brosnan in Tailor of Panama and found it refreshing to see him play a creep secret agent will be in for a real treat in The Fourth Protocol. Brosnan plays Petrofsky, a young hot shot KGB agent who tries to slice and dice his way to the top. I mean Petrofsky is a flat out cold blooded killer. He makes the guy in Tailor of Panama look like a saint. He has a conscience but he doesn't let it get in the way of his mission to explode a nuclear weapon on a US Air Force base in Great Britain in order to make it look like the US had a nuclear accident. Petrofsky was the right man for the job he would blow up two or three thousand people just like that. If he wasn't a KGB agent, he could surely find work as a serial killer.The story moves along quickly and sometimes a bit too quickly. However it doesn't detract from the movie. The movie looks more like a cop movie in the way the investigation unfolds. When they finally find out what's going on there is a good action sequence that doesn't go over the top. It just serves the purpose in this movie. Other things I liked was the scene where they constructed the bomb.I would recommend this one to anyone who likes spy movies and are tired of the James Bond rigmarole. Rayvyn  "},{"Title":"absorbing thriller","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"31 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I was quite surprised to see that this movie got a 5.9 rating. I think that it's a lot better than that. Brosnan is good, the plot is sufficiently tricky to be interesting, and Caine delivers the kind of reliable, excellent performance that you can count on (at least when the movie isn't total junk -- he only seems to phone it in when the movie is entirely hopeless). The ending is a little abrupt, but I can't find any fault with it other than that. (The cast is uniformly strong, too.) Maybe people underrate the movie because the movie is low-budget. It looks like a British TV-movie, and maybe it was, but I find it easy to get past the production values when the acting is good.I've seen it twice, and it holds up to a second viewing. "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"33 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The Fourth Protocol is a smart spy action/thriller flick based on a Frederick Forsyth novel. The film has a dark atmosphere and is just interesting enough. It's not the type film for a big audience because there are certainly many people who won't like this movie at all. Why? The one and only reason is because there is not a lot action in it. But the true film-fan will definitely enjoy this movie. Michael Caine's character; John Preston, makes the story more interesting. Pierce Brosnan is very convincing as the Russian spy, maybe it's because he plays a typical 'James Bond role'. This film can be described as a dark, smart and thrilling spy flick which has it's problems but certainly is worth to watch.RATING 7/10 "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"29 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" some comments on this film have stated that there are unnecessary killings of agents or witnesses, this is done to show the politics of the film and how there must be no trace back to those who planned the operation, whilst also portraying that petrofsky is a lethal killer, and as Caine says in the film the best. A great story, and very believable, spies that remain hidden from each other and no excruciating scene where the bad guy reveals his plot to the good guy. Would have been interesting to see what would have happened if the operation had turned out differently, or the ending for that matter!Of course one of the best things about this film is the acting as previously stated by other people. Caine brings his character to life and is very believable in the role of John Preston, the agent who cares, and will bend the rules to make sure things get down. Brosnan is similarly good, his character will stop at nothing to complete his mission, he is a stone cold killer and this is portrayed well, he doesn't let anything get in the way of the mission.All in all a very good little film, much better than some of the tripe we get from Hollywood and with one of the finest British casts i've seen in some time. "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure.","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I wouldn't consider this movie a classic or even particularly great, but for some reason I really enjoy watching this film.  I haven't read the book, however I used to own The Fourth Protocol computer game for the Commodore 64, and was vaguely familiar with the basic storyline.I can't pinpoint what exactly it is I like about this movie, but I did enjoy seeing Michael Caine as a British agent tracking down the nuclear bomb. I could probably watch a whole series of films based around his character. I also liked some of the other characters and I think it had a good cast of actors. The workings of government agents was very compelling to watch, but it was good to see that the film wasn't overwhelmed by ridiculous gadgets and stuck to the drama involved.The 80's technology in the film also had an element of nostalgia about it. This film reminds me of a bygone age of the BBC Micro and Ford transit vans. In fact, I love watching the film just to see the various parts of England as well.I liked the fact that its a rather 'quiet' movie, but I do think it needed to be re-edited. Some parts of the film just skimmed through major plot developments without giving them time to breath, and other times the film would show a character hopping from various locations in England without giving a sense of the travelling in between. Watching this film would give the impression that England is only about 10 miles wide! Some elements of the film really needed to be fleshed out a bit more.This isn't the sort of movie I would go to a cinema to see, its more of a Friday night in movie that I would watch on TV. I would only recommend it to someone if they were die-hard fans of this genre. "},{"Title":"Competently made and acted Cold War thriller, but terribly familiar.","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Frederick Forsyth's bestselling novel is here brought to the big screen with an all-star cast, but despite occasional moments of excitement it is not a film that genuinely gets the blood pumping. While the intricate build-up of detail and suspense made the book absorbing, in the film it merely creates a cold, dry and rather plodding atmosphere. The film has an old-hat feel to it, for it pursues a storyline that has been done to death over the years. If you think about it, we've seen stories like this countless times Rod Steiger plotting to blow up Parliament in Hennessy; Edward Fox plotting to assassinate De Gaulle in Day Of The Jackal; Bruce Dern planning a terrorist attack on the Superbowl in Black Sunday; Steven Berkoff wanting to decimate an American air base with an atomic bomb in Octopussy. This time, in The Fourth Protocol, it is the turn of Pierce Brosnan to carry out yet another despicable plan against the civilised world. Genre addicts will probably enjoy the film, but for the majority of us it's a tired case of more of the same.Secret agent John Preston (Michael Caine) leads a raid on the apartment of an idealistic government bureaucrat, George Berenson (Anton Rogers). In Berenson's safe, Preston discovers some top-secret documents containing sensitive information about NATO activities in Britain. When confronted, Berenson claims that he has been passing the information on to a South African contact, but to his horror his South African contact turns out to be a Russian spy who has been forwarding the information to Moscow. As high-ranking Secret Service official Sir Nigel Irvine (Ian Richardson) tells Berenson you've undermined NATO.... perhaps irretrievably. Meanwhile, in snowbound Russia, deadly and highly decorated soldier Major Valeri Petrofsky (Pierce Brosnan) is briefed to carry out an audacious mission that could bring NATO to its knees. Petrofsky comes to Britain posing as a hard-working, unmarried model citizen and promptly buys a house that backs onto an American air base. Gradually he sets into motion his chilling plan, which involves triggering a nuclear explosion from his house, disguising his act to appear like a terrible accident that occurred at the base, thus strengthening the calls for NATO to be disbanded. Preston races against the clock to stop Petrofsky before his deplorable plan becomes a devastating reality.The cast perform decently enough, though there seems to be a certain degree of indifference, or perhaps unenthusiasm, from some of the stars. Ian Richardson probably has the best of it (he has a suggestive, sinister tone of voice and shifty eyes that make him perfect for these cloak-and-dagger roles), while Caine makes an amiable enough hero and Brosnan a fairly believable villain. Others fare slightly worse, like Ned Beatty as a Russian official with an over-prominent American accent, and Julian Glover as a bad-tempered Secret Service bigwig whose attempts to evoke anger would barely trouble a child, let alone his adult colleagues. John Mackenzie directs adequately but unremarkably, allowing the jigsaw pieces of plot to slot into place in a by-the-numbers fashion. The very concept of a nuclear strike within Britain is quite disturbing and exciting on its own terms, but the film never really sets the pulse fluttering. Some might argue that this kind of low-key, realistic approach provides a worthwhile contrast to the extravagance and excesses of a James Bond movie, and they'd have a point, but there's something just a little too mechanical and familiar about The Fourth Protocol for my liking. "},{"Title":"The usual Caine, the better Brosnan","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Forget Brosnan's performance in the Bond movies or the recent excellent Tailor of Panama. His cold, calculative KGB agent in The Fourth Protocol should have told us what a wonderful actor he is. Made in 1987, the film is closer to its older brother (The Days of Jackal, also by Frederick Forsyth) than the spy films starring Michael Caine, as I originally thought it would be. The pace is slow, but thoughtful. Like Jackal, we get to see Brosnan making preparation to bring in the bomb and piecing it together. We also get to see Caine, 'the rebel' of M16 tracking him down. Great show! "},{"Title":"Good But Predictable","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Frederick Forsyth is one of the greatest thriller writers to have picked up a pen with THE DEVIL`S ALTERNATIVE probably his best book concerning Ukrainian dissidents , a hijacked supertanker , a Kremlin power struggle and a hero who`s a middle aged Scotsman . Sean Connery would have been perfect but many Forsyth novels probably wouldn`t make good movies since the plots are complex and there`s often a myriad of characters with long back stories , information overload on how the KGB operate etc . THE FOURTH PROTOCOL unlike THE DEVIL`S ALTERNATIVE has a fairly simplistic plot which makes it an ideal story to be adapated into a screenplay but there`s a drawback - The story is predictable !!!! MILD SPOILERS !!!! THE FOURTH PROTOCOL centres around a nasty Soviet plot to win the cold war by exploding an atomic bomb at an American base making it look like an accident caused by the Americans leading to unilateral nuclear disarmament and the break up of NATO leaving those dastardly commies to invade Europe . The plot had actually been used before in the James Bond movie OCTOPUSSY and in many ways this does feel like a mind bending spy movie with Harry Palmer ( Michael Caine )  taking on communist traitor James Bond ( Peirce Brosnan ) , bizarre to say the least but as strange as it seems it is somewhat compelling , even though the climax is very predictable with the good guy trying to stop the bad guy detonating the bomb There are a few problems with the screenplay though . We have several scenes that don`t really add anything to the plot like the scene where Caine`s character smacks a couple of skin heads  . Very admirable though it adds nothing to either plot or character development since we know he`s already a good guy , no need to prove it . I  also couldn`t help noticing a rather ridiculous scene where the baddie decides to cut the throat of a possible witness , wouldn`t this draw attention to himself ? Wouldn`t the victim`s blood splatter all over his clothes ? And why would the witness need to be killed ? It`s not like he`s going to run to police and say  I tried to get off with a man in the gents toilets and I saw him recieve a radio from an airline pilot . He must be a KGB agent or something  Like most Forsyth stories there`s a lot of characters ( Maybe too many ) and they`re played by familiar British character actors but few of them make an impact with the exception of Ian Richardson and Anton Rodgers who both appear in the best scene of the movie where an intelligence chief confronts a traitor . If you think acting is a doddle think how you`d react if a director said to you  Okay , you play a dogmatic patriot , you`d do anything to stop the world being over run by communist tyranny and you`ve done your level best to stop this happening . But then this character has found you out and worse he`s just told you that you`ve been helping these nasty evil reds all along  how would you play the scene ? Richardson and Rodgers are superb in this scene even if it doesn`t really have anything to do with the main plot A fairly good thriller even if it`s not tightly plotted and you know where it`s heading     "},{"Title":"Aged Well - Like Vintage Port","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I hadn't seen this for ages. Then it was given away free with the Daily Mail.It really has aged well. The plot is still believable. Just substitute Islamic terrorists for Russian ones. Caine was brilliant and doing his 'laser' style acting in all the close ups. Something he doesn't bother with in his many pot boilers. I have to agree with some of the other posters. It really should have been promoted as Harry Palmer's midlife crisis. He would have developed just like this. The hero in the book reads like an ex-Para version of Freddie Forsythe. Caine makes the role his own and adds his own interpretation. Another of my favourites Pierce Brosnan acts his heart out too, as the stone killer Petrofsky. The Ian Richardson and Anton Rogers scene has to be a career best for both of them. Only a side plot but absolutely brilliant. "},{"Title":"One of Caines best films to this point","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  My personal view is that Caines interpretation of the character made TFP one of his best films to date, it reflected the Forsythes hero very acurately and was easily the best performance of the film. Again, my view is that the film was grossly under rated by the critics at the time and even today stands up well among films of this type. Well worth watching even today. "}{"Title":"A Good Example Of The Cold War Spy Thriller","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Based on the bestselling novel by thriller writer Fredrick Forsyth, The Fourth Protocol stands out as one of the last of the breed of Cold War spy thrillers. Set amongst the issues of 1980's Cold War tensions, the film is the story of a KGB plot to detonate an atomic bomb in the UK near a US Air Force base, causing the deterioration of NATO as a result if UK security services don't stop it first. With good performances and a fine script that make up for some of the films shortcomings, The Fourth Protocol is a good example of the Cold War spy thriller.The films has good performances throughout. The cast is led by Micahel Caine and Pierce Brosnan. Caine is British agent John Preston, a bit of a loose cannon himself, who stumbles upon the plot and has to face his superiors skepticism before he can stop the plot. Brosnan is KGB agent Valeri Petrofsky who, masquerading as James Ross, is the man with the atomic bomb. The supporting cast is like a whose who of fine character actors including Joanna Cassidy, Ned Beatty, Julian Glover, Michael Gough, Ray McAnally and Ian Richardson. Sadly the actors playing Russian characters struggle with their accents at times but for the most part the performances work and help the film rather then hinder it. For the most part the film has good production values. The direction of John Mackenzie, coupled with the cinematography of Phil Meheux, the production design of Allan Cameron and the costumes of Tiny Nicholls mean the the film has a very realistic feel to it. For the most part the editing of Graham Walker helps as well, especially in the sequence where the bomb is assembled by the Brosnan and Cassidy characters. Unfortunately there's moments where the editing is rather hap-hazard with scenes of Petrofsky on his motorcycle, then packing his car, then on his motorcycle again. Another example is the sequences involving the McWhirter couple (played by Matt Frewer and Betsy Brantley) with Petrofsky which, while a fault of the script admittedly, should have been cut from the film as they serve no purpose and slow down the film's pace. Even with the issues with the film's editing, the production values hold up well.The film also has a fine script as well. Frederick Forsyth adapts his own best-selling novel, with help from writers George Axelrod and Richard Burridge. The script remains fairly faithful to the original novel though there are some significant differences (such as the amount of time spent investigating soviet agent Jan Marais at the beginning for example). This helps the film plot wise as it focuses the film more on the tense build-up to the possible detonation of an atomic bomb on British soil. The film nicely contrasts the arrival of the bomb's components from Petrofsky's side with Preston's attempts to derail the plot. The script also reveals a world of crosses, double-crosses and triple-crosses as the plot keeps getting more and more complicated as it goes on. The result is a well-written thriller.With good performances, good production values and a well-written script from noted thriller Fredrick Forsyth, The Fourth Protocol is a good example of the Cold War spy thriller. Even with editing issues, the film is a well-paced and tense story of Cold War intrigue and a story of how things might have bee. Even more surprising is that despite its being entrenched in 1980's Cold War politics the films dealing with the on-going threat of nuclear terrorism means it has relevance over two decades later. Thus the film remains a tense, if somewhat dated, thriller. "},{"Title":"Great thriller, first-rate cast","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Fascinating old-fashioned spy thriller with (for the 80s) new high tech elements. Pierce Brosnan is very good as the smiling sociopathic Russian deep cover agent. Michael Caine is, well, Michael Caine. Ian Richardson has a lot of WONDERFUL lines as Caine's superior. Ray McNally and Ned Beatty are fine as old Cold War veterans whose time is passing.  "},{"Title":"Not bad but almost getting there","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A good film, indeed, but not so much of an exciting experience to watch it and those who know Frederick Forsyth's works as novelist are highly familiar on how gripping and thrilling his characters and situations are. But the thing that disappointed me the most is that Forsyth wrote the film script and what I saw wasn't so interesting to make me feel great about it.Well, the story isn't news, again we have a plot where Soviets want to destroy the Capitalist/American system, this time the target is an American base in England. Now, the British intelligence has to find the terrorist before something bad happens. The villain, however, is one man and one man only, a deadly KGB spy (Pierce Brosnan) who has the mission of exploding an atomic bomb on a American military base. The man on his track is the charming agent John Preston (Michael Caine, very good), who has to fight the bureaucracy of his boss (Julian Glover) to finally solve this situation.The problem I had with the film is the awfully number of characters and tiny little situations where I couldn't understand clearly what was happening, some of the characters motivations as well wasn't good presented. The lack of some great action sequences also bothered me a little, but the ones developed were very interesting (the scene where Michael Caine jumps out of the car, then runs to a moving train; and Barry's crazy chase with the van almost hitting the people). The cat and mouse game of The Day of the Jackal is inexistent here except for the final moments (here's a writer making a copy of himself. The whole situation is so similar that is beyond belief). The appeal of The Fourth Protocol lies in the incredible cast assembled that not only includes Brosnan and Caine but also Ned Beatty, Ray McAnally, Joanna Cassidy (quite effective as Brosnan partner), Michael Gough and others.It's not a case of great performances but all of them have decent parts to play with. Surprisingly strange is the fact of a great director like John Mackenzie, specialist in creating thrilling moments in films like Deadly Voyage and Infiltrator (both TV movies) seemed a little lost with this script since it's hard to feel some thrill with everything presented (except when Pierce is killing his victims, he's a real stone cold kind of a guy). If the drama is quite hard to follow, the suspense only works for limited moments. But seeing the general picture as a whole you still can have a decent movie, with some good surprises. To me, one random moment that marked me in this film is when Michael Caine beats two racist punks on the subway, that was really awesome. I don't know why it's really in the film but it's a great moment to be seen. It could've been special but it also could've been way worst, just one step in false and this could be a reunion of wasted talents. Gladly, this didn't happened. Fans of Cold War flicks will enjoy it but be prepared for lots of confusing things. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty standard spy thriller with a good performance from Pierce Brosnan","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Rogue spies try to undermine the Fourth Protocol, which is a secret agreement between the USA, Britain and Russia to cease smuggling nuclear weapons into their respective countries. A Soviet agent is sent to the UK to stage a nuclear accident that could be blamed on the Americans and set off a chain reaction of events to unbalance this stand-off.The Fourth Protocol is based on a novel written by Frederick Forsyth. I have never read it but have read others by this author. His style focuses on the intricate detail of the spy/politics of his thrillers, while his characters contrastingly always seem to be really cardboard, with very little recognisably human about them. With this in mind it's not too surprising that The Day of the Jackal was his most successful book, seeing as the very blankness of the central character was an actual important plot point. But usually this weakness in characterisation is more noticeable. The Fourth Protocol is a quite typical Forsyth spy thriller, in that it has a fairly detailed plot and paper thin characters. Michael Caine phones it in as a Harry Palmer type spy who doesn't play by the rules. It's a quite weak and clichéd character and to be honest Caine doesn't bring much to the table with this one. Pierce Brosnan, on the other hand, is pretty good as the cold Soviet killer. Like in Day of the Jackal, it's this villain who is the more interesting when set alongside the dull heroes, meaning that its actually the bad guy whom we want to succeed, which I'm sure could not have exactly been the original intention. Unlike Caine, Brosnan is playing against type and certainly makes better work of what he is given and is certainly the best thing about the movie. On the whole, this is a pretty standard spy film, with nothing very distinctive about it. Despite its generic nature, it is quite enjoyable though. "},{"Title":"Solid adaptation of a brilliant novel","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The best Spy Thriller's have all sorts of twists and turns and good intrigue. They involve a flawed, but strong protagonist and a cold, devious antagonist for them to go up against. There's always some plot that will be the cause of the deaths of many and the destruction of something of extreme importance. Frederick Forsyth is one of the top writers of the genre, so it's no surprise that some of his works would be adapted into films. This is the third film based on one of his books and overall is a very good and highly enjoyable one, but definitely not perfect. It's tough to make a satisfying adaptation of a critically acclaimed novel, and the makers of this film succeeded for the most part.Pros Excellent performances all across the board. Beautifully scored by Lalo Schifrin. Engaging story. Suspenseful. Very well paced. Director John Mackenzie does a great job of mounting tension. Plenty of good twists and turns. Many liberties are taken with the novel, but regardless the script is very well written and does a pretty good job of condensing.Cons The actors playing the Russian agents do fine, but the lack of an accent in all cases is distracting. Aside from a few good shots, the film looks more like it was made for TV. Kind of a rushed resolution.Final thoughts Films based on books are so rarely as good as or even better than them. It's a really difficult task that comes with a lot of pressure and sometimes the result is worthy. Such is the case with the 'The Fourth Protocol.' There is certainly a lot from the book not covered here, but the competency of all involved mostly makes up for that. Fans of the book should find much to like here, just don't expect to be blown away at the same level.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"quite involving","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" At this stage of his career Pierce Brosnan was only known to me for his part in Remington Steele which was a fairly light role.In fact James Bond is a fairly harmless character compared to the ruthless agent he plays in this film. The urgency of his acting is the feature of this film.Caine's character is engaging but fails to keep pace with Brosnan's Petrofsky.I watched this on cable television in my hotel and was guessing throughout what year it might be by the devices used and cars driven.Another chilling role was the authoritative Sir Nigel Irvine played by the late Ian Richardson who dresses down the gormless character Anton Rogers plays a treat. As Richardson rates amongst my top 5 actors it was a very enjoyable part of the film for me.Out of interest John Hurt, Alan Bates, Humphrey Bogart and Edward Woodward would be the other four. "},{"Title":"Solid movie","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The Fourth Protocol may not be more than a basic thriller, but it's so engaging and impeccably executed that you hardly realize it. The film stands very well as a whole; it's elaborately paced, thoroughly well-acted and expertly directed by John MacKenzie. If there's one flaw, it's indeed the terribly abrupt ending which doesn't do the film justice. "},{"Title":"20% of the book, but still watchable","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" There is always a dilemma for the spectator who knows the literary work the book vs the film. I understand that it is almost impossible to convert the whole book with its complexity to the movie, but still some important moments from the Fosyth's novel are missing (and most of the story features are grossly simplified). However it's still an ordinary spy-game film, well directed, with good casting, not reaching over the other ones produced in late 80'. Violental and sexual content was added for effect. The female character (Irina) appeared in the story only for such purpose (but I'm not blaming the creators for that - there has to be at least one female in let's say bigger role, don't you think?).If you know the book, don't expect a bigger excitement. If you don't know the book, don't expect a bigger excitement either... "},{"Title":"Another underrated gem","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best cold war movies I have ever seen! Excellent cast (Pierce Brosnan surprised me, what a performance he delivers!), great novel by Forsyth, which works in many layers (an insightful look at the political games of the era, a character study of the top agents in both sides and some action, while this is not the primary goal of the movie), superb directing and the right pacing. The only problem I had was with the ending, I wanted something more intellectual. "},{"Title":"Title explanation","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It is a while since I this film but the title is explained at the start of the film,a voice over and text on the screen says something about a treaty signed by the major powers during the cold war and mentions a secret fourth protocol that forbids the planting of small scale nuclear weapons in each others countries. Iiked this film but at the time (1987) many people said that Forysth was a right wing nut,he is but we know know that the USSR had all sorts of crazy ideas about attacking the west because they thought that the west was going to attack them first.People who liked this fiom should also look out for THE WHILSTLEBLOWER ,another 1980s British spy movie with Michael Caine. "}{"Title":"Exciting and suspenseful, but unrealistic","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The film differs from the book in that the crazy right wing politics is left out. (The labour party is not filled with communists.)Both the book and the film postulate goings on in Moscow Centre, but it just doesn't work that way. Readers of Le Carre's spy novels would tell you for example, that Moscow Centre prides itself in always getting its agents back (alive.) There is a James Bond film, Octopussy, with a similar story, trying to nuke a circus near a Nato airbase in Germany, rather than Britain, but that detail was probably inspired by this story as much as the books of Ian Fleming, who worked for Naval Intelligence and would have known better. The Americans were terrified of the prospect that a nuke might explode accidentally anywhere in Europe, because the gamma rays would be detected by US satellites, and Nato Rapid Deployment Bombers would immediately head for Russia, as a reflex action--this could not be stopped. The concern then was what the Russians would do when the RDBs showed up on their radar and there were no Nato exercises scheduled for that day. They hoped that cool heads would prevail, and that the Russians would wait to see if the bombers halted at their fail safe points. For reasons like this, it seems unlikely that even a rogue Russian General would arrange for such a nuclear incident.There's now an official history of MI6, by the way, The Secret History of MI-6 1909-1949, and a rogue British agent is detailed there, but he was only a little crazy. "},{"Title":"Gripping cold war thriller","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" When this film was made nobody suspected that the Soviet Union would no longer exist in five years time; they were still the bad guys of choice for spy thrillers. Here a Soviet agent; Major Valeri Petrofsky has been tasked with a mission which if successful could spell the end of the North Atlantic alliance his mission is to assemble a small nuclear bomb inside the United Kingdom and detonate it next to a US airbase... with the intention that everybody will believe it was an accident involving weapons on the base. Against him there is John Preston, a British agent, who stumbles upon the plot when one of the people bringing in one of the bomb components is killed in an accident.While there are a few plot holes it is possible to suspend ones disbelief as this is a fine thriller with great performances from lead actors Michael Caine and Peirce Brosnon who play Preston and the ice cold Petrofsky respectively. The action keeps up throughout the film from the start when traitor Kim Philby is killed to the end where Preston struggles with Petrofsky to prevent him detonating the bomb. That first scene was a bit of a problem for me however as it involved the killing of a real person who was very much alive at the time of the film's release; I think it would have been better to have had a renamed fictionalised version of him. Having recently watch Michael Caine play a similar role in the 1965 thriller 'The Ipcress File' it is great seeing that he can still be believable in such a role twenty years later. "},{"Title":"How I Learned to Love the Bomb.","Date":"11 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Frederick Forsythe is always a reliable and successful writer, and many of his spy thriller novels have been made into movies. I would guess that Forsythe provided the inspiration for Tom Clancy and the people who wrote this script. There's quite a bit of technical stuff involved in this story of a KGB spy who is sent to England to detonate a nuclear device at the USAF base at Baywaters, England, the base I always thought was at Bayswater. No matter.The KGB man is Pearse Brosnan and the British counter-terrorism agent who tracks him is Michael Caine, redoing his Palmer number from The Ipcress File, only with more raucous animation.It's pretty involving. After all, the stakes are high. The explosion will devastate everything within a two-mile radius and kill upwards of 5,000 people.And there are exciting action scenes, especially a van in pursuit of a motorcycle and the inevitable final shoot out, with the wounded Brosnan's fingertip straining to reach the button that will detonate the fiendish device.There are a couple of types of villains in movies like this. One is the suave and debonair type -- George Sanders or James Mason, maybe, in North by Northwest. Then there's the jocular, almost likable type of killer, always a smile and a wisecrack, like John Travolta in Broken Arrow or Jack Nicholson as The Joker. Finally, there's the type that Brosnan fits into in this film -- determined, distant, touched by passions perhaps but only by selfish ones, and absolutely determined. It might be the assassin in The Day of the Jackal or Arnold in The Terminator. Brosnan is actually quite good. He has a pretty face and is capable of an icy demeanor, the kind that brushes away the caressing hand of a pretty neighbor because she doesn't fit into his plans. And there has never been a movie that was torpedoed by the presence of Michal Caine. Caine also gets a bonus point for doing a fine drunk. He's hilarious. He wobbles when he walks and his voice gets high and cracks.I've seen this twice. The first time made more of an impression. The second time, oddly, I found myself getting confused about some of the intricacies of the plot. But it was still enjoyable. "},{"Title":"An excellent thriller","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Doc Who has this all wrong.  This film is not about a KGB agent sent to destroy england and eliminate NATO, nor is it an action film.  It is instead a very well crafted thriller about the politics of the cold war and the continual power struggles within government, in this instance the Soviet government.  The nuclear device which would destroy about 2sq miles was merely designed to bring about the removal of US bases within England and destabilize NATO.  The film is more about political repercussions than it is about explosions, a point which some viewers obviously missed.Michael Caine gives his usual solid performance and Pierce Brosnan doesn't embarrass himself as the ruthless Soviet agent.  My only criticism of this film would be that the final few scenes fail to provide the conclusion that the story deserved.8/10 "},{"Title":"felt like a made for TV movie!!!, was very slow for an action movie!!!","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a bout a a KGB agent sent to destroy england and eliminate NATO. Pierce Bronsnan plays the agent who is sent to deliver the bomb. Micheal Caine is a member of the British Intelliegence ( another spy for england) whose mission is find the person with the bomb and get rid of it!This movie at times felt  like it was made for TV!!The action is slow placed though out the movie, so if slow movies  are the type for you , you might like this movie!!Other than that watch this movie if you want to see Pierce Bronsnan in a bad guy role way before he played James Bond!!!Otherwise avoid this movie and stick with Bronsnan James Bond movies,Dante's Peak , Mars Attacks or any recently made he was in!!!So watch only if you like Bronsnan or like slow movies "},{"Title":"Just not believable.","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" We all know Freric Forsyth supposedly wrote great thrillers. Sadly I'm not sure this is the case in this instance. There were too many moments in the film where I wanted to say what? that's never going to happen!! Point in fact would be expecting everyone to believe that there was a nuclear accident in a housing estate.At 1.5kTon, it's only a small bomb. They say in the film the crater will only be 2 mile across so investigators will rumble a rat strait up. Then assembling fissile material with out a containment or even protective clothing?? your kidding me right?Also the premise that an atom bomb will go off by mistake. Atom bombs are incredibly difficult to explode unless you get stuff to happen just right. So that is a plot fault for starters. Sheesh...I liked the ideas that all the agent managers were self serving prats, though Forsyth's portrayal of all the Russian characters as cold automatons is a bit dated, probably even by 1987 cold war standard. Michael Cain doing his best Micheal Cain is well worth a star or two though.A final thought... Mr Mackenzie, if you are going to show a woman with magnificent breasts topless, allow her to sit or stand in the shot. Large breasts prone do not do them selves any justice at all.a. "},{"Title":"Uneven, but satisfying...","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Michael Caine's Len Deighton films - 'The Ipcress File', 'Funeral in Berlin' and 'Billion Dollar Brain' - even *if* the films got worse as they went along.Even though it's based on a Forsyth book, it's practically a 'return to form' for Harry Palmer - a conceit that's easily swallowed if you allow that Sgt. Palmer might have to assume more than one paper identity over the course of his career. Sir Michael is in top form here, as is Pierce Brosnan and one of my favorite British actors, Ian Richardson of 'House of Cards' fame.In fact, it's an altogether plausible thriller - until you get to the American actors. Sure, Ned Beatty and Joanna Cassidy are great actors - but whoever thought that Russian Intelligence agents, save for Brosnan, should sport American accents should be forced to spend a month in some inarticulate American suburb. It almost ruined an otherwise good film. When the round and blustered vowels were rolling out of Mr. Beatty's mouth, I had to wonder if the film were meant to be a dig at American influence over the UK, much like those xenophobic Japanese monster movies - Godzilla, etc. It was just a bit of a stumbling block to try to paint these Americans as Russians, when they weren't *trying* very hard to be Russians.A plus for this film was that it tried, somewhat, to depict the preparations that Brosnan had to make as an enemy agent. Not as meticulous as 'The Day of the Jackal', mind you, but it was on course. I recommend it to fans of cerebral, non-glamourous spy films.Harry Palmer is back, sort of. "},{"Title":"Brit Style","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The British style might be mistaken for raw or badly made here, when the film merely lacks the ultra stylised form of Hollywood. A fine piece of work with messages that would be easily missed, but it's not a message film and stands up as a thriller as well.I especially liked the scenes between the lead character, played by Michael Caine and his son. His son answers me! when asked who is winning his war game. He plays the game with his father of looking through a list of suspects on a computer. The suggestions are clear when John Preston (Michael Caine) say's it's all a game to you to the political players at the end of the film. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" An adequate spy thriller of its type, the film has a number of predictable moments but a few well-filmed scenes too, such as the meticulous preparation of the bomb itself. The screenplay is generally sub-par and the characters are not developed any better than the story itself, plus the end is almost silly, not fitting in very well with everything else. Some have commented on Brosnan's performance in a positive way, and I suppose he does a reasonably good job. There is not much in this film that I would recommend it on myself though - it is okay to watch, but it does not really rise above the mark set by other similar films. "},{"Title":"This is a mess","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is a very poor film giving the impression of a director who has no idea what he is doing. The film is a mess without any suspense what so ever. All there is is confusion for the viewer, as if the film maker in some way thought that that would make up for the very poor story. Throughout the film you are waiting for something exiting to happen but the climax never goes as the ending is as bad as the rest of this mess. Just skip this one! "}{"Title":"Paranoia","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This film is a very enlightening glimpse into Britain's paranoid ideas during the Cold War.Right-wing English ultranationalist Frederick Forsyth makes it a point to have human rights activist Kim Philby brutally murdered in the beginning of the story, and voices of dissent against Thatcher's heavy handed regime painted as fools.The KGB is portrayed through silly stereotype and myth. KGB officers are shown killing each other, something that may happen in the UDA/UFF, but not the KGB.Essentially a nationalist propaganda piece, the film does have some strong points, including a superb cast. "},{"Title":"Kinks Go Fourth","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is the kind of film I watch if it comes free with a newspaper I buy anyway and if the choice on television is either Mr. Bean or Carry On Brain-dead. Those factors combined recently so I sat through it and managed not to fall asleep. Caine phones in a Harry Palmer-lite performance as the (surprise, surprise) insubordinate spy-catcher who lucks in to a fiendish Russian plot to detonate a nuclear device on a US Air Base in England thus making America the heavy who has flouted the 'no-WMD in our respective countries' rule. Essentially it's a thriller without any thrills, a jaded cat making half-hearted attempts to catch a badly run-down clockwork mouse. The acting is okay and about a third of the usual suspects are wheeled out to do a day's shoot and get the free lunch. No worse than most of the genre but no better than any. "}]