[{"Title":"This movie is timeless","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"96 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  &#145;Maurice' had a deep emotional impact on me when I first saw it in my early teens, more than ten years ago. I just saw it again for the first time since then and I was a bit worried that I would be disappointed, but then I was definitely not. It still had the same magic.To me, this is the #1 Merchant-Ivory work. I find this movie astoundingly profound compared to several other of their movies. This movie is above all accomplished by the excellent acting. It tells a pure and convincing story about struggling to be true to oneself in a world of not only prejudice and firm standards but even serious legal sanctions. I think &#145;Maurice' is far more romantic, and sexy, than most heterosexual love stories I have seen. The love and longing of these men seems so real and pure, especially by the fact that they are consistently being told that their inclination is `unspeakable', and their futures and careers are at stake.It is great to see Hugh Grant in an early role (his first real movie role?) that is so different from the mainstream comedy entertainer he has become. The ending is stunning. I love that the movie ended exactly where it did, although it is a dread to acknowledge that the war would break out soon after. The music score is enthralling. And Alec Scudder is so beautiful that it hurts.  "},{"Title":"Fabulous, Beautiful and Romantic","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"75 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The filmmakers did an incredible job of bringing E.M. Forster's touching novel to life -- and I suspect that was no easy task because so much of the novel involves the main character's innermost thoughts and feelings. However, Merchant and Ivory did a beautiful job conveying the loneliness, fear and desperation of the main character, Maurice Hall.The movie follows Maurice (James Wilby) down his road of self-discovery; from his embarrassing teen years to Cambridge (where he gets his first exhilarating taste of love) to his post-collegiate years as a young man struggling to come to terms with his sexuality in a time when homosexuals were mercilessly persecuted.The movie is also very much about class struggle. Maurice is a gentleman born and bred, with a penchant for snobbery. As he comes to terms with his sexuality, he is forced to deal with differences in class when he realizes he is in love with someone from the serving class.Readers of the novel will be delighted as much of the wonderful dialogue from the book appears in the film.The characters were perfectly cast, with Hugh Grant (before he was a mega star) as Clive Durham, the perfect young gentleman from Cambridge (and Maurice's first love), Rupert Graves as the smoldering, lower class hunk who wins Maurice's heart, and Ben Kingsley in a hilarious turn as Maurice's junk-psychologist. James Wilby was spot-on in the title role and he perfectly captures the isolation, sadness and ultimate joy of the conflicted Maurice.Maurice is a touching love story that anyone -- straight or gay -- can enjoy. Romance knows neither of these terms. And, the movie *is* unabashedly romantic and optimistic -- your heart will soar when Maurice finally gives in, casts societal conventions aside and visits his beloved at the boathouse. The hopeful ending is inspiring, though the close-up of Clive at the window at the end of the movie will break your heart.Beautifully filmed, superbly acted -- a must-see film. "},{"Title":"a closer look of gay life","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"77 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Before I watch Maurice, I almost had no idea of the life of gays. I used to hold the notion that homosexuality was unacceptable and disgusting, which was under the influence of some so-called orthodox thinking. As the time goes by, I gradually realized that you can't make a judgment before truly knowing something about it. Truth is not told by everybody but explored and medicated by yourself. And the movie Maurice has provided me with a good chance to have a better look at the true life of gays, to perceive their pure and pristine affections towards the same sex, to feel their struggle and desperation under public prejudice and pressure. Though my life is a far cry from that of Maurice and Clive portrayed in the movie, it seems that I can understand them perfectly and are quite empathetic with them. I think that is because what is expressed in the movie is undoubtedly part of human nature, which can strike a chord in the depth of every human being's heart. For that reason, one line in the movie stroke me deeply. When Maurice's psychological doctor advised him to emigrate to countries such as France and Italy where homosexuality was no longer criminal, he said England has always been disinclined to accept human nature.A great movie! "},{"Title":"Simply a must!!!!","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"68 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I ran into this movie a long, long time ago, watching the TV news one evening back in 1987. I felt as I couldn't miss it as soon as I realized it had been shot in Cambridge, my favorite place in the world, but all my feelings went much beyond that when I saw it. I didn't feel uneasy about homosexuality at all but it was with that movie that I finally realized it was only love, no matter whether it involved a man and a woman, or two men, or two women.... The set is magnificent, the actors at their best (a great Hugh Grant who was so great as to show how Mr E.M.Forster had become tired with Clive...), and I must say that Mr Ivory did a pretty good job with his version of the story, very well adapted. In fact I do believe the book is superior in many moments but, on the other hand, the film is far far superior in many other moments, and you can't really say this all the times. I suggest everybody should watch it and enjoy it, no matter what your sexual preferences are. A masterpiece, indeed!  "},{"Title":"Tender and romantic","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"40 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember I saw this movie I was about 17. I'd read the book and fell in love. It tells a love story between two men and the way they have to carry it out despite society rules (with some changes it still happens nowadays...).The general message would be love conquers all but is it really so? Are Maurice and Scudder able to live happily ever after? I doubt, and on the beginning of the XXth century it would be even worse.Despite all, it's lovely to watch the same kind of story we're used to watching in movies that portray society in different times, but now speaking about love between men! Although James Ivory's work is beyond criticism, in my point a view, there were some scenes in the book (the one when they are in London, sitting naked by the fire, for instance) that really should be in the movie.But it's a tender and romantic approach of of book (only published after E.M. Foster's death) that surely would have pleased it's author. "},{"Title":"An Impeccably Produced Adpatation","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"40 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  E. M. Forster's novel, Maurice, is given a first-rate screen adaptation by this British production.  James Ivory's direction is very cinematic, conveying the multi-layered story through a series of dramatic scenes, with just a bit of over-voice narration. Its impact comes through an incremental effect, reaching moving proportions by the end of the lengthy presentation.  James Wilby, Hugh Grant, Rupert Graves and Helena Bonham Carter are all excellent, heading a superior cast.  Every aspect of the production has been carefully prepared and executed.  What emerges for me is the tragedy of societal constraint, under the guise of virtue.  It is a tightrope to walk for the free-wheeling, independent thinker in this society he who steps outside the bounds of regularity is subject to scorn and persecution.  That the drama's heros do not fall into the mode of so-called normalcy leave them open to a lifestyle of tension and risk.  Forster beautifully conveys this in the novel, and Ivory transfers it to the screen with great skill.Certainly Maurice is one of the top motion pictures of the 80s.  Kudos to all who took part in bringing this poignant novel to the screen. "},{"Title":"An absolutely classic about 'the love that dare not speak its name'.","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"36 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A gay classic that is situated at the beginning of the twentieth century. 'Maurice' is the story of Maurice Hall, a student at the University of Cambridge, United Kingdom. There he meets Clive Durham. Both men develop a strong friendship, which to a certain level, becomes physical. Clive is gay, but Maurice doesn't want to know anything about it. Until he admits he also has feelings for persons of the same sex, even though in intellectual circles homosexuality is 'the love that dare not speak its name'.Maurice doesn't know how to behave. Of course he wants to be himself, but society doesn't accept gay people. When he more or less decides to live as a gay man bosom friend Clive changes his mind, frightened by a lawsuit against a gay man. According to Clive the physical friendship between Maurice and Clive must end and from that moment on he wants to experience real love the love of a woman. The relation between Maurice and Clive gets tense.Even Maurice tries to get his sexual preference changed by visiting a hypnotist, but the treatment fails. That becomes very clear when Maurice sleeps with Scudder, Clive's under gamekeeper. A passionate love develops between Scudder and Maurice, which makes Clive realize what kind of appearance he has to keep up as a 'converted' gay man.'Maurice' is based on the novel of the same name written by E.M. Forster. The film is beautiful and made with a feeling for historical notion. The actors playing the leading roles are straight in real life but act the gay roles in a beautiful way. Actually everything in the film is right image, usage of language, costumes and music. "},{"Title":"On Scudder and Maurice's future","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"32 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film gets better with repeated viewing. There is little to fault in it, as one might assume, given that there are no negative reviews posted here!I'd like to add my two cents' worth of speculation about what the impact of class differences would have been on Alec and Maurice as a couple. Maurice is middle class, not upper class, as Clive's mother makes clear when Maurice offers her his hand at their first meeting. The gaffe is surprising, because even here in America it was a rule that a man never offered his hand to a woman unless she extended hers first. Maurice seems not to know this, for he extends his hand to Clive's mother even though she has not offered it. We see a flash of surprise on her face as she tepidly accepts and shakes his hand. It's funny, and a little painful, if you understand what's happening. That little bit of business shows us that the gulf between upper class Clive and middle class Maurice is every bit as wide as that between Maurice and working class Alec. If we take it as a matter of fact that Maurice could survive in Clive's world--and we see him doing so--why should we be any less willing to admit that Alec could survive in Maurice's?We shouldn't. Maurice expects Clive to treat him as an equal just as Alec expects Maurice to treat him as an equal. In fact, Alec demonstrates repeatedly that he IS Maurice's equal, and he even tells Maurice so to his face. After they've shared Alec drops some of his deference to Maurice (but not entirely, after all, some of it is just automatic from habit), but he talks to him as an equal Ordering me about again--you would! and My people wouldn't take to you either, and I wouldn't blame them and, most effectively, What does your engagement matter?And, too, a lot of what might be thought of as their class difference is perhaps more about the differences in their environments. Alec is a country boy and Maurice is a suburban/urban boy. These are lifestyles that are very different but they are lifestyles that can become familiar, even comfortable, with exposure.Alec would make the relationship work. Alec has initiative (he climbed in the window, don't forget), and determination (he goes to London). We need to remember that when we express apprehension about the happy couple's future. Overall I had the impression that Alec would be a quick study, adapting easily to whatever joint lifestyle he chooses for them. After all, Alec will be the boss of the relationship, as made apparent when he delivers what is probably THE most romantic line in all of gay cinema, Now we shan't never be parted. It's finished.I too think they would have emigrated, to Canada or the U.S., or anyplace where the differences in their accents would not be so obvious. They would live someplace where they would be perceived as two Englishmen, rather than as two different kinds of Englishmen. After a couple years, Alec's eye would wander, and he would stray. But he'd be sure to be home every night with Maurice, snug as bugs in a rug. "},{"Title":"England has always been disinclined to accept human nature.","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maurice (prononced Morris) is the film adaption of the book by E.M. Forster and stated to be semi-autobiographical of his life. The book was banned for many years and it wasn't until 1987 that this visually splendid film was released from Merchant-Ivory - (A Room With A View, Howard's End). Set in early 19th century England, it details the coming of age story of Maurice Hall, an upper-class aristocrat who falls in love with fellow classmate Clive Durham (Hugh Grant). Shortly after their romance begins, a fellow student is entrapped and imprisoned for soliciting a military officer. Out of fear of losing his inheritance and political future, Clive decides to get married. Although hurt and feeling very alone, Maurice continues a close platonic relationship with Clive. After attempts to cure his homosexuality fail, Maurice finds himself falling in love with Clive's gamekeeper, Scudder. With the threat of exposure and blackmail always a real possibility, they must risk everything to build a future together. Supporting performances by Denholm Elliot, Helena Bonham Carter and Ben Kingsley help make this a true classic. The lush and elegant score is available as part a 3-disc set of Merchant-Ivory film scores. Guys, if you're looking for a great first-date video, it really doesn't get much better than Maurice! "},{"Title":"The real life story behind E.M. Forster's book","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Many viewers and critics have criticised the happy ending of this film as being 'unrealistic' or even 'impossible'. After all an upper class and working class man could never live as a couple in Edwardian England? In fact E.M. Forster's inspiration for writing the book Maurice was a real gay couple, one upper class and the other working class, who lived together openly in England for about 35 years until 1928. They are buried in the same grave.Edward Carpenter was a close friend of E.M.Forster, who named Carpenter's working class gay partner, George Merrill, as the inspiration for his novel Maurice. He had visited Carpenter and Merrill at Millthorpe in Derbyshire on several occasions once, in 1913, Merrill touched my backside - gently and just above the buttocks. I believe he touched most people's. The sensation was unusual and I still remember it, as I remember the position of a long vanished tooth. He made a profound impression on me and touched a creative spring That was the origin for the writing of Maurice. "}{"Title":"Tasteful, beautifully filmed British-style work...","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before Hugh Grant became a mega-star he appeared in this Merchant Ivory adaptation of an E.M. Forster novel about two Cambridge students who fall in love--and out of love--each going separate ways at the end. Hugh Grant, James Wilby and Rupert Graves give well crafted performances that show respect for their roles. Graves, in particular, is especially well cast as the dark-haired gamekeeper and gives the film its only real sense of sexual urgency. James Wilby is a bit too repressed--even in the sexual moments--to bring the character fully to life. Somehow one feels that of the three, he is the least convincing--but overall he is a more than competent actor. Grant is excellent in an unusual role for him--his sly charm displayed in a less obvious way than when he does comedy. If the film has one flaw, it's a bit overlong with the kind of story that could have been covered in two hours of running time. But everything about it is exquisite--the photography, the sets, the costumes, all in the impeccable style we're accustomed to from Merchant Ivory. A nice coming of age story of sexuality that cannot remain dormant when close chums are sharing close quarters.  "},{"Title":"A Gorgeous Adapation of a Very Personal Novel","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw MAURICE when it first appeared in theaters in the mid-80s and enjoyed it. I was surprised on a second viewing on DVD last night at how much I had forgotten about this film. This story of a thwarted love affair between two upper- class men during their years at Cambridge is a deeply absorbing and entertaining adaptation of Forster's posthumously published novel, which I read at in 1971. I thought the book rather dull. The movie seems anything but, which makes me wonder if I shouldn't pull it off my library shelves and give it another go. Though James Wilby's Maurice Hall is the main character, it is Hugh Grant young aristocrat that is most intriguing here. Clive Durham (Grant) is a spoiled and deeply entrenched member of Britain's snobbish ruling class. It is Durham who pursues Wilby (not the other way around as some of these reviews would have you believe). Initially spooked by Durham's admission of his love for Maurice, he pursues Durham with a naive passion. But that passion is ruined when a fellow classmate from Cambridge is set up by a soldier in a bar and arrested by the police. This young man's future in politics and society is ruined (horrified, Durham says no to him when he asks to testify on his behalf), and he is found guilty and sentenced to six months in jail and hard labor. His picture is splashed across the headlines of London's tabloids. The realization that this could happen to him forces Durham to reject Maurice, pursue and marry a young girl from his class and move himself deeply into the closet. So much for the politics of homosexuality in Britain, circa 1912. Maurice is devastated by his friend's rejection of him. Miserable, he seeks every avenue he can to reverse and cure his own homosexual longings. He even subjects himself to the quackery of a hypnotist-therapist (Ben Kinsley in a hilarious turn). Maurice finally gives in to his feelings when he finally falls deeply in love with the gamekeeper of Durham's estate (well played by the young and very handsome Rupert Graves). This Merchant-Ivory film is, typically, gorgeous to look at, its pacing is novelistic and deeply rewarding. Hugh Grant showed early star appeal as the superficial and ultimately defeated victim of his class and society. He would rarely get the chance at so fine a part in the future despite his great success as a light comedian in a string of international hit movies (ABOUT A BOY being one such terrific film performance from this very appealing actor). James Wilby is pitch perfect as the perplexed and emotional Maurice. The expert supporting cast under the commanding direction of James Ivory delivers this period piece superbly. It's period look is typical of Merchant-Ivory productions--detailed, richly appointed and very beautiful. Kudos also to Kit Hesketh-Harvey's excellent screenplay.One viewer here complained that ending was far too upbeat and unrealistic for its time, but I really didn't see it that way. There were many men and women who set up housekeeping in both London and New York, living their lives in discreet harmony under the noses of hostile societies. Still others preferred to move abroad to live their lives in discrete peace and tranquility. I prefer to think this is just what Maurice and Scudder do. If Maurice were as much of a snob as Durham, this might not have worked. But we see Maurice's slow understanding of the hypocrisy of his class in the aftermath of his affair with Durham, and he comes to realize that even he is somewhat constrained by his own upper-class upbringing in his initial interactions with Scudder's far lower standing. This is a deeply affecting movie and holds up superbly. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"I owe Hugh Grant an apology!!!","Date":"7 August 2009","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really liked this movie when I first saw it in 1987. I like it even more today. This is the story of two gay men in the early 20th Century, how they fall in love, how they fall apart, and how they eventually take very different paths. One that leads to a life of sadness and regret. The other to acceptance, love, and fulfillment. James Wilby gives a powerful performance as Maurice, a middle class gentleman who discovers his homosexuality while away for college at Cambridge University. It is there he meets and falls in love with Clive Durham, played brilliantly by Hugh Grant, an upper class gentleman who lives in a decaying English manor, called Pendersligh Park, that was built by his grandfather's grandfather. They enter into a passionate, albeit sexless, relationship that most viewers will see as doomed from the start. Maurice, once he overcomes his internal conflict over who and what he actually is, is drowning in love for Clive. Clive on the other hand, though he is in love with Maurice, is perhaps more in love with the idea of Maurice, than Maurice himself. When outside circumstances intervene, their world together comes crashing down, and the results are painful for both. One of the plot devices that I found intriguing, and not having read the book I don't know if it is part of the original story, is Simcox, Clive's butler, played menacingly and effectively by Patrick Godfrey. He informs the viewer of the disapproval and judgment directed at Maurice and Clive that IS Edwardian England. Simcox delivers even the most banal lines with an almost imperceptible sneer. Even when he has no lines he is lurking in the background of the scene with a stone cold gaze that says, I know what you're up to. He is the warden. Edwardian England is the prison. And Pendersleigh Park is Clives cell.I missed many of the finer points of this film the first time I saw it in 1987. Back then the ending disappointed me because I identified with Maurice and I felt like he waked away with the second prize, Alec Scudder. And Clive caved to the pressures of Edwardian England and entered into a marriage he was never suited for. All of that was true then, and is still true today. However, with 20 plus years of maturation behind me I now understand that when the credits role at the end of this film Clive is as deeply in love with Maurice as he ever was. The finale of the film is a window into the lifeless, hopeless, longing, that is Clive's future, contrasted with that of the fulfillment and joy that will be Maurice's. After Clive and Maurice have their final words, Clive returns to his waiting wife inside Pendersleigh. Simcox asks, will there will be anything else sir?, and then proceeds to close the house shutters for the night. You can almost hear the sound of cell doors closing for lights out in a penitentiary. Clive approaches his wife, who is seated in front of her vanity mirror. He leans in to kiss her cheek and they look up together into the mirror in front of them. They expect to see a happy couple. They don't. There is a sadness in Clive's eyes that they are both unprepared for. It is more shocking to Clive because now he is no longer fooling even himself. He pulls uncomfortably away from his wife and like a prisoner resigned to his confinement, he finishes closing the shutters, (the cell doors of Pendersleigh) one by one. As he comes to the last one he takes a final look out the window at freedom. Clive has chosen to accept society, and turn its turmoil toward him inward where he will always be conflicted and never know a moment of peace. Maurice has decided to accept who he is and deal with the turmoil in the world outside. It is heartbreaking. James Wilby carries this movie from start to finish. As Maurice it is his story to tell and tell it he does. From adolescent bewilderment, to revulsion with Clive's initial advances, to falling in love with Clive, then heartbreak, and finally to his own sunset to walk into. He never has a foot out of place. It is an honest and compelling performance. But it is Hugh Grant's complex and multi layered Clive that you're left with ricocheting around in your soul. When Clive says to Maurice, It's like the good blundering creature that you are to try and comfort me, but there are limits, Grant conveys a sense of defeat, resignation, and emptiness that is almost too difficult to watch. At times he stares very far away. Probably to the place where he wishes he could be, but seems impossible to reach. I think because initially I was so personally disappointed in his characters evolution throughout the course of the movie, that I missed what a brilliant performance this was. Forgive me Mr. Grant. You are a truly talented actor.This is a brilliant film. It's all there beautiful story, beautiful landscape cinematography, great script(small problem though with the editing and non-sequitur dialog when Scudder meets Maurice in London), great direction, perfect score, and above all two brilliant performances from James Wilby and Hugh Grant and many others in the supporting cast. This one is a must see. "},{"Title":"More Enlightened Times","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" E.M. Forster (1879-1970) as a gay man lived long enough to see the Stonewall Rebellion happen across the pond the year before his death at the age of 91. Though close friends knew he was gay, as prescribed by the mores of the times, Forster led a quiet, discreet, and circumspect life. He was not a political person, first and foremost he was a novelist, though in his writings you can some trenchant comments about the political, never more so in his A Passage To India.My guess is that if Stonewall didn't happen here and other developments such as the Wolfenden report recommending decriminalization of homosexuality in the United Kingdom hadn't happened, Maurice might never have seen the light of day. My guess is that Forster would have opted for a time capsule, hoping this novel of young same sex love would see the light of day in more enlightened times. He got to see those enlightened times come before he died, so Forster's novel Maurice was published in 1971 and came to the screen in 1987. Forster's protagonist is Maurice Hall a young man with some unwanted gay feelings, unwanted because at the time those things were not discussed. Young Maurice forms an attachment with school chum Clive Durham. To put it in more modern terms they're the British boarding school equivalent of Ennis Delmar and Jack Twist. And they view their relationship differently as did Jack and Ennis. Maurice truly hates the stifling conformity of Edwardian Great Britain, but Clive wants to put it behind him, get married and do as proper British society demands of him. James Wilby is Maurice and Hugh Grant in one of his earliest roles is the shallow Clive. Maurice takes a path that E.M. Forster took in life as a gay man, as open as he could be, but most discreet. I do wonder who the Clive character was based on. I also wonder if in the future, the proper Mr. Clive might have been giving the toe tapping signal in some bathroom stall looking to satisfy his real and closeted lusts.There is also a great performance by Rupert Graves as Alec Scudder the stable-hand at Clive's estate who Maurice eventually does establish a relationship and some measure of happiness. It will be a tough road for them, not very many places on the earth will be that hospitable in the years just before World War I.Maurice was written around 1910, a decade or so after the Oscar Wilde scandal and six years before Roger Casement's diaries were opened to the public to justify hanging him as a traitor in the Easter Rebellion. The gay baiting there was a deliberate tactic by the British government to shake popular support away from the rebels in Ireland. These were not good times for Gay/Lesbian/Bisexual/Transgendered people. E.M. Forster wrote the novel and tucked it away. It's a beautiful work and a beautiful film made from same. I'm glad in the final couple of years of life, Forster saw the more enlightened times come so we could have a glimpse of what life was like for a young gay male in Edwardian Great Britain. "},{"Title":"Hopelessy romantic","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When E M Forster wrote Maurice homosexuality was considered a mental illness, a criminal offence, an aberration, a sin against God, (it still is in some quarters). It wasn't so long since Oscar Wilde was jailed for sodomy and Forster, had his own homosexuality become public knowledge, would certainly have found himself in a similar predicament and would never have enjoyed the literary eminence that he did. So consequently, moved though he was to write the book, gave instructions that it should not be published until after his death, and Forster lived for a very long time. When Maurice eventually did see the light of day, it seemed terribly dated. 'I'm an unspeakable of the Oscar Wilde sort', Maurice tells his doctor in a feeble attempt to be 'cured' of his 'affliction', and a line which the movie retains. Gay literature had come a long way in the interim and homosexuality was no longer seen as an illness nor a crime.But Forster's view of homosexuality was, surprisingly, not a tortured, shame-filled one but touchingly, if ridiculously, romantic. When Maurice finally does find true love, it cuts across all barriers including class and has the lovers retreating, like some gay Adam and Eve, to 'the greenwood'. It seems unrealistic but at the same time liberating long before the term 'gay liberation' was ever coined.James Ivory's screen version is remarkably faithful to the original and consequently risks ridicule in this so-called more enlightened age. But Ivory's intelligence as a film-maker has long been over-looked in favour of an emphasis on his prettified recreations of the past. Yet he remains the pre-eminent chronicler in British cinema, (though American and consistently working with an Indian producer, Ismail Merchant), of a particular period in British history mostly through adaptations of novels by writers of the period or by contemporary authors writing about the period. But when Ivory did adapt 'classic' literature, he concentrated on the best and working mostly with the great writer Ruth Prawer Jhabvala, brought to bear on these adaptations a deeply felt and genuine appreciation of their worth.Hence Maurice is as fastidiously good as we have come to expect, the difference being that this time the script is not by Jhabvala but by Ivory himself and Kit Hesketh-Harvey. In every other respect it looks and feels typically 'Merchant-Ivory', a term some people believe stultified British cinema at a time when other directors were making edgy, contemporary 'new-wave' films. But that is like condemning well-acted, well-crafted Shakespeare just because it's old.Maurice is a superbly acted, visually gorgeous film, though at times its fidelity to its source means that sometimes certain scenes feel stilted, (you make want to give these people a good shaking). And did they need to cast actors as beautiful as James Wilby (Maurice), Hugh Grant, (his first great love, Clive Durham), and Rupert Graves, (the game-keeper Scudder, shades of a gay Lady Chatterly, the boy he finally falls for)? All three play wonderfully well and Ivory populates his film with a cast of wonderful character actors, (Simon Callow, Denholm Elliot, Billie Whitelaw, Judy Parfitt), all playing at the top of their form.Of course, both book and film have now largely been set aside as dated and irrelevant in the annals of gay literature and cinema. Surely not. The film remains as much an integral part of the history and consequential progress of main-stream gay movie-making as Brokeback Mountain, (though by no means as commercially successful), as it is an integral part of the Merchant-Ivory stable. Anyone remotely interested in either should seek it out. "},{"Title":"Now we shan't ne'er be parted...It's finished...","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the most emotional love story I have ever viewed.  I first saw the film when I was about 14, and I had no problem sitting through the entire two and a half hours of rich period drama.  Merchant and Ivory are two of the best filmmakers ever, and they treat this delicate subject with grace and tact.  It makes being a gay teenager a little more bearable, because it is one of the few movies in which the gay lead finds love, and survives.  An altogether edifying experience. "},{"Title":"A Major Milestone Movie","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw Maurice when it was in theatrical release a long time ago, and was absolutely captivated. I actually bought a VHS copy of it back when they cost something like $80, so I was really glad to be able to get the Special Edition DVD set, which includes several deleted scenes.However, back to the title of this review Maurice was a milestone or watershed movie because it has a happy ending. Before it was produced, almost all movies with a gay theme ended either tragically or without a conclusion. Following that old formula, it would have ended with Maurice standing on the dock as Alec's ship slowly moved away, his farewell gift having been refused, or Maurice would have found Alec hanging at the end of a rope in the boathouse. Instead, it ends with Maurice and Alec in each other's arms. It's easy to forget just how significant this was at the time.I would also like to address the subject of Maurice and Alec's future. The opinion that their affair would not last long is widely held, largely due to the huge difference in their social classes. I freely admit that they would face huge difficulties, but I don't think their situation was hopeless.Alec was uneducated, but he was not unintelligent. He was also ambitious and hard working. He had to have been very much in love with Maurice to change his plans at the last minute and stay in England. Maurice has already suffered the loss of someone he thought was his soul mate, and was unlikely to let another great love get away easily.So what did they do, and where did they go? My feeling is that their best chance at happiness would have been to emigrate to some location where nobody knew them, most likely the United States. Class differences certainly also existed in America, but they were not nearly as rigid as in Britain, and with a little education and polish Alec could easy have found a way to fit in.Most likely they would have ended up in someplace like San Francisco, which even then was famous for its Bohemians and people who lived unconventional lifestyles. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A few weeks ago here in sunny Los Angeles, it poured. An as usual my partner and I gave one of famous Sunday brunch's, which are normally held out by the pool with guest admiring the view. Such was not that Sunday. We hosted our brunch inside. We have an extensive DVD collection and one of the guest meandered into the library and pulled out  Maurice . What a great movie, for most of us had seen it years ago. But for those who had not, they enjoyed as the rest of us did. The music score is excellent and the camera shoots of the English country side are exquisite. The story line is so romantic, you really don't want it to end. It also deals with the class structure of its day in gentle way. All actors are brilliant in there roles. Dare I say, the ending brought a few tears............... A great movie rain or sun, but the rain brought that certain English charm to our gang......Marco "},{"Title":"a gay love story that feels like comfort food.","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first came across this movie last year I was hesitant to view it because I thought it would be fluff due to Hugh Grant (yep, i've yet to see a James-Ivory production) but after seeing it, I was enchanted by the serene treatment which is so unlike Hollywood. And for the better. It tells the story of a young snobbish gentleman Maurice (James Wilby) who falls in love with a fellow Cambridge undergrad, Clive (Hugh Grant) who acknowledges Maurice's feelings, but not truly returning the affection or love. Maurice realized he is fully capable of a passionate love affair with his own sex that he hangs on to the calcified Clive. Even after Clive married, he accepts Clive's invitation to stay in Clive's estate in the desperate hope of a requited love. This predictably increased his sufferings when Clive showed up very little and even ignored Maurice's birthday. He tried to be like Clive by consulting a doctor and a hypnotist in order to 'cure' his homosexuality. As it turned out, Clive's game keeper Scudder (Rupert Graves) has been observing and been trying to cozy up to him. Maurice of course never noticed this because Scudder is his social inferior. In a most memorable scene (one reviewer here wrote it as a gay man's dream) Scudder climbed up to Maurice's room and entered through the window to realize Maurice's pent up yearnings. Due to class difference, Maurice tried to ignore Scudder subsequently but realized that Scudder's love is true when the latter intentionally missed his boat to Argentina where a job and a 'normal' life awaits him. And now its up to Maurice to accept a 'friend to last his life time' as he had long dreamed, even if he is of a lower class. This movie reminds me of a beautiful stream that flows its course slowly. The performance is great and although Graves appeared only in the last half of the film, his presence provides the sexual energy that was implied in the first half. The lovemaking scenes are unabashed but not self gratifying. The final scene of Maurice in his undergrad days at Cambridge beckoning to Clive is heart breaking. And the music feeds the mental image of the film after the credit ends. Definitely one of my favorite films that warrants repeated watching. "},{"Title":"Hope in a film.","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The comments of author Rita Chang on the film Maurice sum it up truly quite nicely what I too believe this film is about. It is about the nature of the human animal God has or has not created and how in, love. can have a reverse yet true meaning if one can accept it as the Bible can say or if one must accept it. This beautiful yet heartbreaking film actually made me cry the first time I saw it. I will not say exactly what I was thinking but it had to do with my father. Maurice is said to be from the writings of author E.M. Forster, autobiographical it is thought in some aspects, but requested only to be published after his death. It is uncommon in being an unconventional period love story where two men are the subject and later a third of some importance. It has text and subtext of what one must do, cannot, or tries to do to get, hold, maybe even destroy love. Frankly, if one can suspend disgust for the protagonists of the subject and their love it may even be instructional where traditional love is concerned which often sometimes is not nearly valued enough and taken for granted. Please be aware the conservative may be horrified while the less conservative may be bored and feel a threat of their own. Wonderful film which I think of as a true achievement for the Merchant-Ivory-Jhabavala triumvirate team. I also like as an accompaniment Room With A View. Separately wonderful. Together a more fully blown story with either ending possible. "}{"Title":"Hard to be equaled","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is touching to see all these wonderful reviews of Maurice (1987) people have felt in their hearts to share with us others. I am of the same persuasion. This Merchant/Ivory production is without compare. I taped it when it was broadcast here in otherwise dull Iceland. Of course I had seen it a number of times in the theater, but that did not stop me. I would watch this film every time I felt out of sorts and it always improved my mood. In fact I am hooked on it. If I understand correctly this film was a debut for Wilby, Grant and Rupert Graves. These characters grow on you and they seem to become lifetime friends. I am especially partial to the all too seldom a truly happy ending. So friends out there lets rejoice.There is, however, a novel that has not caught the attention of the movie-makers. This is The Charioteer by the late Mary Renault. That book has given me even more comfort than Maurice has ever done. Why that is so can only be in the mind of the perspective reader. I fear that in our oh so sterile western societies where smoking and heavy drinking are frowned upon, to say the least that this particular book would not appeal to the general public, but from the kind words afforded by you on Maurice I wager that you would love to see The Charioteer in your favorite theater or in the privacy of your home. The Charioteer takes us back to World War II to a military hospital. To make a long story short the book portrays the love of a particular wounded soldier for two different young men and the soul-wrestling that tortures him, one of the beloved being a Quaker, the other someone he used to know and admire from school. The Oliver Stone film Alexander was mainly based on Ms.Renault trilogy, Fire From Heaven, The Persian Boy and Funeral Games. So without boring you further I suggest that if any person of consequence in the film business reads these words and takes a close look at this particular book, and think twice. The cast would of course have to be British but don't we all love the Brits anyway? Wouldn't Emma Thompson be the ideal producer? I'm all for it and Branagh the director? "},{"Title":"Love","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movies beautifully illustrates the love between 2 men and their struggle against selfacceptness, hatress and lack of freedom in a society that doesn't allow them to live, and to be free beings and be as they are. In a society, that would rather see men fight and kill each other, than to see them embraceing. Its about the misery, fear and mistrust it causes for all when you are forced to live a life that isn't right for you.Few movies understand how to bring the message and give a impression like its really happening. This one does. It succeeds in showing what love between 2 men can be.The scenery of the movie is like taking a glimpse into the past around 1910 in England and makes you feel right there. "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  it was extremely great to see a movie with 2 guys falling in love against the odds and have a HAPPY ending. the brits do it best! this is right up there with the more modern  a beautiful thing "},{"Title":"Surely one of the best of all time","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having arrived, belatedly, by some 20 years, on this Ivory/Merchant classic, it strikes me as the perfect bookend for the 2004? Brokeback Mountain. Both films are as close to perfection as humanly possible, and each is true and profound in its own right and style, nuance and subtexts, milieu and specifics. It will be difficult indeed for any future forays into the subject to come close to, much less equal, surpass?, not very likely, this pair of investigations of what some sociologists/psychologists in the past dubbed a paraphilia. Yes, both films have elevated both subject and contemplation into the realm of unblinking observation, authentic perception, AND art as well. Maurice is a worthy addition to the Merchant/Ivory canon. Frank Eng "},{"Title":"A lovely landmark","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was well-received when it was released in 1987, though I never saw it at the time for personal reasons.Seeing it now, almost twenty years after its release, it has all the Merchant/Ivory trademarks well-crafted, good production values, very fine ensemble acting and a straightforward compassionate treatment of its then-daring subject. It followed the Forster novel very well, as I remember it.But I found it long and oddly disjointed, with awkward pauses and strange, abrupt editing. It left out valuable bits of motivation and plot, which luckily I remembered from the novel.The DVD release contains a recently produced making of documentary and a surprising number of deleted scenes, some very long. And here, on the cutting room floor, were all the missing motivations and plot, all of the necessary detail! James Ivory in his narration hinted at an entirely different version of the film in its original form, a half-hour longer than the theatrical release, and says repeatedly I regret cutting this. But here, in its original form, is the truly great picture that this COULD have been, rather than the good but awkward one it is. It's as if those involved lost confidence in the material and fussed with it too much, resulting in this strange final product.One thing more about the DVD extras I am SO tired of actors who play gay characters on film, television and stage repeatedly telling everyone that they're NOT gay. They all three do this in the documentary, over and over, though Grant seems the most comfortable in his own skin now of the three of them. I've known too many actors in my time to believe any of their PR. It's just so insulting to hear them all saying this so defensively and repeatedly! Is the world they inhabit so homophobic? Are they so insecure in themselves? "},{"Title":"On Hugh Grant's acting","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Aside from the fact that I think Maurice is a stunning movie, I also think that Hugh Grant does by far his best performance of a character on any level and that he shows all sorts of potential here that is largely as yet untapped. I was impressed by the story, the visual impact, the script, etc. and was electrified by many parts of this film when I first saw it. Years have gone by and I've seen most of these actors in many other films (most recently Rupert Graves in V for Vendetta). I've enjoyed Hugh Grant in most of his films, but I believe this film shows the depth of his talent, which we rarely see. Anyone else think so? "},{"Title":"Greatest love story -- straight or gay","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must have watched the movie a few dozen times already and the ending always got me. It is a beautiful story about a English gentleman trying to find his way through life -- and trying to find love. The relationships between Maurce (James Wilby), Clive (Hugh Grant) and Scudder (Rupert Graves) are achingly real and touching. The slow-paced Edwardian drama culminates to a powerful ending that is both gratifying and sad. Maurice is one of the most underrated Merchant-Ivory films because of its subject matter, sitting mostly in the shadow of A Room with a View. But I believe it is also one of their most accomplished, romantic and beautiful films of date. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Ivory-Merchant Movies","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of the best gay films ever created, elegantly filmed by the Merchant Ivory team with a excellent cast and beautiful locations, Maurice is now a cult movie.This films tells the story of Maurice Hall, how this man falls in love with another guy,  but the unfortunate destiny changes the situation and Maurice suffers by his sexual preferences.One anthologic scene Maurice goes to the Doctor to ask if he could cure the homosexuality.The photography, the performances (very powerful), the intense drama make this one a definitely classic. "},{"Title":"Stunningly acted, visually splendid and insightful.","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the most under-rated of the Merchant-Ivory films, I suspect because of its gay content.  It is the equal of Room With A View and Howard's End.It is the best depiction I have seen of how a gay man can suppress his sexuality and the pain that that causes to himself and the men who love him. Hugh Grant and James Wilby are excellent as the troubled lovers - but the film is stolen by Rupert Graves as Scudder, the completely un-repressed gardener.  Who can forget Rupert crawling through Wilby's window in the night?  Every gay man's dream! "},{"Title":"Now Maurice has aged very well -)","Date":"26 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Similar to goldilocks-78, I watched Maurice again - I saw it when I was in my 20s, when it was first released. There is some very good acting, and a very good sociological recreation of the Edwardian period. Maurice, the novel, might well not be considered as EM Forster's finest work. But similar to Lady Chatterley's Lover (not considered among Lawrence's best), the work raises issues of class, gender, and sexuality. The three leads are good - Hugh Grant gives a plausible portrayal of a more refined, upper-class man, who denies his homosexual urgings and marries. He clearly shows (after this conversion of sorts) his ambivalence and almost forced denial. Hugh Grant, almost effortlessly, shows the two sides to this character. James Wilby,as Maurice, moves from self-disgust, despair and guilt, to self-acceptance. Rupert Graves as Scudder (similar to Mellors) is really good. The scenes he shares with James Wilby are not forced. The supporting cast are good - the women, Simon Callow (who introduces us to the Edwardian conformist ideology) are equally good. And Ben Kingsley, as the hypnotherapist nicely shows the push-pull in the then-British psyche. My favourite Merchant-Ivory film is Room with a view. Maurice is darker, but just as well filmed, with enough humour to balance the seriousness of the film. The naive, happily-ever-after ending (EM Forster's) doesn't quite work, but leads to good discussion. Of all the DVD-shown deleted scenes, the final 'confrontation' between Maurice and Durham should be, in my opinion, restored. It's a fine film, both engaging and unsettling. Sensitively adapted, directed, acted and shot. Kudos "}{"Title":"Profound, entertaining and charming.","Date":"18 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Quite simply one of the most exquisitely cinematic explorations of gay love that has ever created produced by Ismail Merchant, directed by James Ivory and adapted from the classic E. M. Forster novel, Maurice is a true masterpiece. A quintessentially English example of love between men in the early 20th century at a time when homosexuality was still illegal and persecution was everywhere. This delightfully considered and delicately fragrances tale starts with a windswept walk along the beach for an eleven-year-old Maurice Hall and his bumbling although well-meaning school master Mr Ducie, played by a darling of the British theatre scene and all round nice guy, Simon Callow. Mr Ducie tries to explain the rudimentary sacred mysteries of sexual intercourse with the aid of sand drawings to the fatherless young man on the very periphery of puberty. Years later, in 1909, Maurice Hall is attending Cambridge, striking up friendships with aristocratic Lord Risley and the jolly lip smacking lovely Clive Durham. Durham, played by a devilishly handsome and not yet type cast Hugh Grant who seems to fall quite madly in love with the long tall blonde Maurice Hall, and who could really blame him. He surprises Maurice by fessing up to his emotions, which take young Maurice on the hop a bit. At first, he is muddled and confused by the declaration, yet soon comes to realise and accept he has similar feelings for his friend. Maurice is sent down, leaves under a cloud from the academic hot seat of Cambridge and yet, he maintains a strong friendship with Clive Durham. Maurice, with a little help, finds work embarking on an unrewarding career as a London stockbroker. A big fat spanner is thrown well and truly into the workings of a 'happy ever after' life when our two platonic lovers get frightened as university chum Lord Risley is not only arrested, but also sentenced to six months hard labour. His crime was supposedly soliciting sex from dashing army soldier, who may well have been up for it at the time!Maurice is heartbroken he cant have Clive who is now set to marry, he seeks to rid himself of his gay feelings. Maurice and his aloof ways come to the attention of the supposedly uneducated under- gamekeeper working on Durham's country estate. How Maurice fails to notice the adorable Alec Scudder, played supremely by Rupert Graves is a mystery to all bar himself, yet the young handsome manly servant is not put off. One rainy evening a few nights later, Scudder risks everything and yet nothing by climbing a ladder and into Maurice's bedroom, they kiss and spend most of the night 'getting to know' each other.Long-term joys are not on the horizon, in just a couple of days Alec Scudder is booked on a passage to a new life in the new world. Somehow, Scudder misses the boat, confusion reigns supreme for a good long while. Maurice muddled by everything confesses all to Clive Durham who understands little and off Maurice trots to the boathouse. Oh, the rapture and the wonder then he find dear young Scudder there, waiting for him. It's bewilderingly romantic and powerfully affecting, Scudder apparently sent a telegram to Maurice, though it was never received, informing him that he'd left his family and the chance of a new life overseas to stay with Maurice and telling him to come to the boathouse. They melt into each other's arms and the effervescent glow of love surrounds them in a bubble of happiness as Scudder whispers Now we shan't never be parted.Oh, how I wanted my own Scudder, or indeed to be someone else's Scudder when I first saw Maurice back in 1987 or 88, such was the magnificence and beauty of the story. The stunning production qualities, wonderful photography and cinematography in plump richness, exuberant colour with the finest of details all ensure this is one of the finest costume period drama ever made. Gay or otherwise! Forster wrote this mainly between 1913 and 1914, yet it was only published for the first time in 1971 a full year after his death. Forster himself was reticent about its publication mainly because of the legal and public attitudes towards homosexuality at the time. Indeed, a handwritten note on the original manuscript allegedly said Publishable, but worth it? He wanted it to have a happy ending, not the one made up in the film version, but perhaps one of the Scudder and Maurice years later as a pair of woodcutters, having lived a long and happy life together, although this epilogue of sorts was discarded by Forster himself. Many academic types, including those at Kings College, believe Maurice to be a substandard Forster novel, compared with A Passage to India and Howards End. They very nearly did not give permission for the film to be made, or indeed shot on location at Kings. Thankfully, they relented, and the world could enjoy a cinematic masterpiece, filmed in part, where Forster himself would have walked during his days at Cambridge. James Wilby and Hugh Grant excel as Maurice and Clive; indeed many still believe this to be Grant's career best performance. Rupert Graves is magnificent as the beautiful Alec Scudder. In addition, there is a potent supporting cast including Denholm Elliott, Simon Callow, Billie Whitelaw and Ben Kingsley.This movie had a profound impact on my early teenage years, not only igniting a love of literature but also in my acceptance of sexuality, profoundly moving, entertaining and liberating. There are parts now, even after all these years, still make me swoon and moisten my eyes.Read more and find out where this film made it in the Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time book, search on Amazon for Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time, or visit - http//www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B007FU7HPO "},{"Title":"another Merchant-Ivory gem","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Growing up gay in puritan England circa 1920 could be a very dangerous enterprise, as two young college students discover in this adaptation of E.M. Forster's suppressed, confessional novel. Of course by now it's no secret how the cloistered male community and heady, highbrow atmosphere of England's best public schools drew out the unspeakable vice of the ancient Greeks from much of the country's youth, but this isn't the usual timid introduction to homosexual love. Beneath the typically lush Old World settings and handsome period dcor is a challenging story of one (sadly, rather bland) young man caught between the law and his libido. Platonic lover Hugh Grant has a much more interesting character; unfortunately, he all but disappears from the script after being frightened by the threat of exposure into a dull heterosexual marriage. It's up to Maurice (pronounced Morris) to carry the torch, in more ways than one, and his coming to terms with an errant (by British law) sexuality is conveyed with literate sympathy. "},{"Title":"Erratum about the book","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In the plot summary on the web about Maurice, it says that the book was banned for many years. I don't think this is true. In fact E.M. Forster refused to let it be published until after his death because of the subject matter. I believe it was published the same year as his death in 1970. Just wanted to set the record straight (the only thing straight about Maurice! 0) Forster DID show the book to many of his friends and other writers, some of who thought he should publish it while still alive, but he demurred. One of his friends, after reading it, commented something to the effect that Of course you realize that Scudder and Maurice would never have stayed together for more than a few months before their love for each other ended?. Forster admitted that this was probably true, but replied that he at least wanted to see a happy ending, even if it was only in a book, which is why he wrote the story in the first place. "},{"Title":"a one in a million chance as Maurice said to Alec.","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was an exceptional film and played with great sensitivity by James Wilby.  I have viewed it many times, and believe it to be one of the most romantic and beautiful stories of the last century. A one in a million chance in terms of finding one another. A rich and beautiful love story. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films ever made.","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maurice is a terrific book by Edward Morgan Forster which was so hot that it was published after his death.  The story is a simply superb tale of a young man who is finding his way in life as we all must do.  The cinematography is stunning; the music is divinely appropriate to set the mood; the acting is excellent in all categories.  The beautiful scenes in the countryside as well as in the city add lustre to the story which unfolds methodically and appropriately.  The background music by Robbins is enchanting from the very beginning to the very end.  The director and producer are both congratulated on a fine film.  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maurice is one of the finest films ever made. I was very moved by this emotional coming-of-age story. Hugh Grant was 26, James Wilby was 28, and Rupert Graves was only 23 at the time. The young actors brilliantly conveyed the agony and the ecstasy of first love, the excitement of that first touch, and the painful longing of youth. The cinematography, scenery, and period costumes were all perfect. The haunting musical score will bring you to tears. The superb supporting cast adds to the feeling of suspicion and tension. Maurice's sister, Clive's nosy butler, and the psychotherapist who tries to 'cure' Maurice all stand out. After I first saw this film on cable, I rushed out and bought a copy to add to my video collection- one of the best purchases I ever made. Maurice is the kind of movie that gives us all hope for beauty, romance, and true love in our own lives. A classic! "},{"Title":"My favourite movie!","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the rare times when a film is even better than the classic book it comes from. This is a delightful and beautifully made film, the production and acting are the very best I've seen and even Hugh Grant who appears to have now become the ultimate English idiot in Hollywood movies, is bearable and believable as the closeted Clive. However, it's James Wilby as the hauntingly fragile yet brave Maurice and Rupert Graves as the rough yet likeable Scudder who make the film so magical. This should not be classed as 'a gay movie', this is something everyone should see, it's British film making at its very best.  "},{"Title":"Exquisite adaptation of E.M. Forster's book!","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An excellent adaptation of E.M. Forster's book with brilliant performances by Wilby, Grant and especially Graves.  Exquisitely photographed. Merchant/Ivory capture the flavor of England mores at the time. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the best gay romance film ever","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a sweet little gem of a film, set in pre-WWI England (a Golden Age of sorts to the writer, Forster), and is, in addition to being a lovely period piece, one of the finest gay films ever.  The acting is first-rate, Hugh Grant is beguiling, and the courage of Maurice in an uncomprehending world is the stuff of heroes.  A must-see for anyone who loves romance, and a staple for any gay man's video library. See it with someone you want to fall in love with! "},{"Title":"Terrific, tender film","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a masterful adaptation of a great story of two men in Edwardian England struggling w/ their dawning homosexuality and how they each find solutions. As in all Merchant-Ivory productions, the cast is excellent, the writing wonderful, and the filming superb. This is one of my favorite films.  I could see it over and over again b/c of its depth and soul. "}{"Title":"Excellent Gay Film with Happy Ending","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this film, directed by James Ivory, in a theatre I joined many other gay guys in the darkened theater and cried for joy over love winning out.  So many times, gay-themed movies have such unhappy endings or their characters are way out and too much.  To see gay men being played with taste and quality is so encouraging.  If you haven't seen this little film, I encourage you all, gay or not, to view it.All the actors, you can tell, give much respect to their roles.Nice to see Hugh Grant in a role of substance before he became an ultra comedy mega-star.  James Wilbey and Rupert Graves as the lovers were fantastic.  Their nude scenes together in bed were tastefully well done. You believed them.  Two naked guys romping around in bed ain't easy.  Simon Callow as the young student friend who is disbarred and disgraced for attempting to seduce a young man in uniform is beautifully played.If I have any comment, it is to say I didn't want the picture to end.  I wanted to continue to follow the lives of all those involved.  To see Maurice and Scudder go on to share their lives with each other.  Oh, well, I guess no one wants to see happy endings continue, do they?  The opening scenes along the windy beach with the boys was splendid cinematography.Great musical background by Richard Robbins as well. "},{"Title":"one of the best films i have seen","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the best that I have seen. It is the love story of two very different men. Both Rupert Graves and James Wilby are sexy in dissimilar ways. Graves brings raw, unbridled passion to the screen, and Wilby beautifully illustrates a quiet passion. He presents a very graceful, elegant character that has so much inside that needs to be expressed. This film is unusual in that it is not only a faithful adaption of a great book but it also presents a happy ending to a gay love story. No suicides. No tragic ending. Absolutely wonderful! One of my favorite films!  "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful!!!","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I came upon this movie about six months ago because I am a fan of Rupert Graves (Alec Scudder). I watched the movie online and immediately fell in love with all of the characters. I think they are truly relatable, even Clive can be understood and isn't necessarily the bad guy. Scudder and Maurice have a surprisingly sweet romance that brings about thoughts of true love; that they can set aside their differences and accept each other is heart warming in its purity and sincerity. I have since read the book, and it has become one of my favorite pieces of literature. It is not only a dynamic and deep plot in its own right, but is visually beautiful and keeps ones attention. I suggest the movie/book to all of my friends who want something different to watch/read! "},{"Title":"It Did Work, Morris","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While I liked the first half of Maurice, I absolutely sat up with the second portion. If you can make it through the pompous, arrogant and snotty people of the first hour, you're in for a great all-around coming out story.Here's another movie I watched consistently when I was in my young, gay, formable years. Maybe once every 2-3 months. It's slow, yes. It's a period piece film, sure. And it's hard to get through at times&#x85;but if you can stick through to the end &#x96; hell, the second half, it's well worth it.Maybe because, when I was younger, I fell in love with Rupert Graves, due to this movie. Now, I liked his character in this movie, Alec Scudder, but physically&#x85;Again, this was in my impressionable years when I first started watching this. I even wanted to name my child &#x96; if I ever had one Alec. Love(d) that name.I digress, as I normally do. The movie is set in England, the early 1910s. It's based on an E.M. Forster (of A Room with a View fame) book that was set to be released only after Forster was deceased. (I read this book, by the way and loved it.) Poor Morris (James Wilby and that's how it was pronounced back then;) in his own formable years in college, he meets Hugh Grant's Clive Durham and they build a solid love affair in a time when someone caught doing homosexual acts could be imprisoned. Mercifully, England, unlike their child, the great U.S. of A., has turned it around since then. In fact, recently, they allow same-sex marriages. Kudos to them for being so advanced!Meanwhile, when another colleague of theirs is, in fact, imprisoned, Clive retreats and wrongfully marries a woman and ditches Maurice. He's distraught, definitely confused and seeks out change when he meets the man (of my own dreams following) who will prove to him NOTHING IS WRONG.This movie helped me through a lot back then. Sure, at the time I first discovered it, it was set in a time eight decades prior, and in another country, but it was absolutely relevant to me and my own story. For, I didn't come out until gays finally started to earn the slightest of respect, in the early 1990s. Me, like Maurice, both didn't understand what was happening to us. No one told me what to expect, if there were others out there like me or if I was right or wrong.Remember this was all pre-internet.This movie was well-made, had a great score and watching it from beginning to end, it's very touching and reminds me, with every viewing, of my youth. I'm glad I saw it back then, and look forward to seeing it again. "},{"Title":"The right proper film for free gay marriage","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is difficult to speak of a classic and this film is one. E.M. Forster is also an English writer who has tact and some natural nobility. He makes radiant any subject he touches. And this subject is delicate if not difficult. It was when the book came out and it still was when the film came out. Nowadays it has lost its smell of sulphur and hell and in spite of all the tricksters and mud-throwers around it smells of love and it carries a strong appeal for those who just have a mind.We cannot avoid thinking of Lady Chatterley's Lover but we are no longer dealing with a woman but with a man, with straight love but with gay love and it is necessary to give a general idea of the story for any commentary to make sense. It starts at Cambridge when two young men fall in love, Clive declaring his love to the other and this other, Maurice, being repulsed at first and then apologizing and accepting his attraction. The point is that the one who declared his love first is the aristocrat whereas the other is from a stock exchange family. And that's the latter's first loss. He is cleanly and immediately kicked out of Cambridge because he missed a few classes to spend the afternoon with Clive and refuses to apologize to the Dean.But another of their university mates, Viscount Risley, managed to get in some kind of fix in an East End pub one night when he buys some quick pleasure from a cadet in a back alley. He is captured by the police and dragged to court. This Viscount is a Parliamentary Private Secretary and is at the start of a political career. He is abandoned by every one, including Clive, and the judge condemns him lightly as for the prison term but ruins his political career forever with the clear mention that instead of setting an example to the people, he looked for favours from people who were his inferiors and he used his advantageous superiority in education to do so.This reveals the deeply social segregational attitude of England then. The social difference made such a relationship unacceptable to justice with a strong emphasis on this social barrier that the culprit dared cross.That makes Clive change his position entirely. He decides to drop Maurice, apart from a platonic friendship and to marry a girl who is full of love but not too subtle on the real emotions of her husband. This rebuff from Clive sends Maurice to hell and he tries to find a way out with doctors and even a hypnotist who comes up with the fair advice to move to a country like France where homosexuality is accepted. And his conclusion is final England has always been disinclined to accept human nature. But in the meantime Maurice falls in love with Clive's gamekeeper, Alec. In fact it seems the gamekeeper smelled the possible emotional opening in Maurice and Maurice did not rebuff him and then Alec moved forward and Maurice let him do so. The love is strong but Maurice is afraid of some blackmail, and yet he goes on as far as possible before Alec leaves England for Argentina. But Maurice will find out the ship leaves without Alec and he will run back to Clive's place and will subodorate that Alec is waiting for him in the boathouse and sure enough here he is.The first element is that E.M. Forster's novel was one essential milestone on the slow and long road that led England to two fundamental mental reforms. The first one has to do with gay love and England was not the first country to move on such a subject after WW2 but in fact they moved rather fast though they still have some way to go. But the second mental reform is far from being complete. It is social segregation. In 1910-1913 when the action takes place that social segregation is absolute the relation, between the aristocracy and the lower classes were absolutely not acceptable in any way, particularly of course emotionally, sentimentally or sexually. D.H. Lawrence had proved it with his above-quoted novel for women and E.M. Forster proved it with this here novel and film.The arguments emphasized by the judge are absolutely univocal a member of the nobility could not in any way have any kind of an affair with someone from a lower social station. The fact that at the same time the Anglican church and the society as a whole condemned gay love and gay sex as immoral and un-natural if not anti-natural, does not in anyway alleviate the horror of that social discrimination in people's sentimental, emotional and sexual private lives. And at the same time it is this very fact that this social discrimination is a lot more powerful than the moral condemnation that gives Maurice and Alec a possible choice, a possible chance.Alec could miss his ship because he wanted to stay with Maurice, that was his free choice, and Maurice could run after him blindly because he wanted Alec to stay and be part of his life, and that was also his free choice, and that is in a way possible for them both because Maurice is working at the Stock Exchange, in a brokerage house and he is not in anyway part of the nobility and aristocracy. That's their chance and Alec could become in a way or another some employee of Maurice's and then the rest was discretion and love. And eventually they could move to another country.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"A bit about Scudder","Date":"5 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all, I can't believe this movie was made in 1987!This has more passion, emotion and sensuality in it than most romance movies of the 2000's. This bittersweet but tender love story managed to get my attention all along (I didn't even notice that it's longer than an average movie-140 min.) and marvelously get's it's message across without being too explicit. This highly emotional love story is built around three characters and explores the problem of homosexuality in 19th century England. The main character is Maurice Hall,as the title suggests, who comes to terms with his sexuality, when love develops between him and his college best friend, Clive Durham. After rejection, deception and huge efforts to become what is considered normal, he finally finds comfort in the arms of the Durham household's gamekeeper. Although all the performances were excellent, it was Alec Scudder's character that I found the more interesting. Rupert Graves did an excellent job portraying this rough yet sensitive country boy, who's sincere love for a high class gentleman seems impossible at first. A bit brash, yet charming, this low class lad falls desperately in love with Mr. Durham's (almost) permanent guest, who initially, despite Scudder's numerous signals, doesn't seem to remark his more than obvious affection. His glances, the clumsy conversations, the overjoyed remark that Scudder makes after Mr. Hall's unexpectedly quick return to the estate, as well as the passionate love letters addressed to Maurice after their first sharing, show the honesty and depth of Scudder's affection, excluding any chance of blackmailing and desire for profit - as both the viewer and Maurice might have suspected. Compared to Clive Durham, who is unable to face his sexuality and hides behind a hollow marriage, Scudder stands as a vivid character, comfortable with who he is,and who's faithfulness and unconditional love manages to win Maurice's heart. "},{"Title":"Sexuality Vs. Status","Date":"3 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At Cambridge, two scholars become dear friends, and then one day in a gamble, one tells the other that he loves him. The man proclaiming his passion is Clive, an member of the aristocracy who can expect a life of affluence, advantage and maybe public office. The man he feels affection for is Maurice, also well bred, who may go into stocks. In the beginning, Maurice is stunned and revolted by what his friend says, but later that night he climbs through the window to give him a sudden, hot-blooded kiss and murmurs I love you. This film from James Ivory and Ismail Merchant, themselves both lovers and collaborators, is about the abyss between romantic idealism and urgent animal passion. Maurice, which was finished in 1914, was Forster's effort to confront in fiction his own homosexuality, and the novel was concealed until after his death. The story is set before WWI, when homosexuality was legally forbidden in Britain and being found out meant discredit and shame.Between Clive and Maurice, their views on love are contradictory. Clive is not that keen on the physical consummation of love. He feels it will lower them. His thinking is more spiritual and unrealistic. Maurice, once he has been familiarized with the concept of love between men, becomes a fervent romantic, and soon, Clive, the pursuer, becomes the pursued. Clive worries about publicity and scandal. He views homosexuality as something to be fought and conquered, and he ends it with Maurice to wed, take on his family duties and go into politics. Maurice is devastated, and there are bittersweet scenes in which he seeks out support from a hypnotist and the family doctor. Then he has a sexual episode of surprised fervor with Scudder, the coarse gamekeeper on Clive's land.Merchant and Ivory convey this story in a film so perfectly understated and so astutely acted that it almost merits seeing purely to look upon the production. Scene after scene is flawlessly constructed a sleepy afternoon drifting on the river behind the Cambridge campus, a haphazard cricket game between masters and servants, the everyday custom of college life, outings to country estates and town homes, the details of the rooms. Ben Kingsley, Simon Callow, Billie Whitelaw and Denholm Elliott are all compelling. While some find Wilby imprecise in the title role, I feel he makes proper choices, playing a guy whose most heartfelt thoughts were constantly elsewhere.The question at the heart of the movie is with the chasm between Maurice's decisions. His first love is a person with whom he has much in common. They share wits as well as flesh. The gamekeeper is bluntly depicted as a coarse blue-collar kid, good-looking but simple. In the unbending class boundaries of 1914 England, the two men have little in common at all. The true reason their relationship is bold is not owing to sexuality but to status.Will their love triumph over all? Maybe. Brute sexuality is a vital part of everybody, but particularly after that original passion has dampened down, it's not the most essential part. There comes a time when people need to basically relate to each other. Will that time ever come between Maurice and Scudder? If their choice to live together was a worthy and spirited thing, it would appear to contend that the most significant thing about them was their being gay. But because the story is about the internal strife of two young men confronting their homosexuality throughout times when it was criminal, the choices both Maurice and Clive make are based on survival, not ideal fulfillment. One may be happier than the other, but they'll always be running and hiding from how much they love each other. "},{"Title":"A beautiful tale of love","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is about a upper class English gentleman called Maurice, and his quest to find the love of his life beyond the societal constraints of Britain in early 1900's.Though the pacing of Maurice is very slow, it successfully engages the viewers and hence never feels boring. The main characters, Maurice Hall and Clive Durham are very well developed. Their words, emotions and actions are beautifully portrayed in much detail that I feel close to them. Maurice Hall's immense dedication to find love in Clive is intense, but their love does not come to fruition due to oppressive societal pressure. Though Maurice finally finds solace in Alec, the ending is bittersweet. "},{"Title":"One of first true, great gay films","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Based on E.M. Foster novel, this movie is typically Merchant-Ivory -- lush and romantic -- with a atypical plot. There are many great moments in the film the budding friendship between Clive and Maurice; Maurice's first time with Scudder, etc.   At the end, when Maurice found Scudder at the boathouse -- it was powerful, in contrast with the sad, tragic choice Clive made. This film is a must have in anyone's video library. "},{"Title":"This movie showcases the edge that European film-makers have over American ones.","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful little film that I just happened upon one day. It is an excellent film and is a fine example of that which distinguishes European films from most American ones taste, quality, and a tolerance and compassion in dealing with Controversial topics-or rather humanity at large. In what could be his best piece of acting to date, Hugh Grant does a brilliant job of portraying the homosexual lover of the title character. A very moving film with wonderful performances by all involved. "}{"Title":"Heart-warming","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found Maurice to be both heart-warming and cozy. As a gay man, it was wonderful to see this drama acted out in such an excellent way. Rupert Everett made me smile, in his adept handling of his character, both shy and giving. James Wilby gave his all, also, and the two of them made such an attractive couple. I cannot say too much about this film, except that I loved it! To those who have not seen it, please do.  "},{"Title":"A truly moving portrayal","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie portrays the relationship between two gay men in a truly moving, tragic fashion.  It shows you the true feeling these two men have for each other, rather than dwelling on the physical aspects of their relationship, or dealing with the issues involved in a detached, contrived manner.I had one technical quibble with the movie.  Many transitions between scenes involved fading or cutting to black -- a gesture which, to me at least, has become firmly associated with a commercial break on television.  Every time this movie faded or cut to black, I kept expecting to see a deodorant ad.  "},{"Title":"Gorgeous, breathtaking acting tour de force","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is certainly one of the most beautiful films I have ever seen, from an aesthetic point of view. I felt swept up by the scenery, the music, the costumes. But, aside from the surface beauty, there beats underneath the heart of a true classic. This is one of Merchant/Ivory's most under-rated films. It is the adaptation of the E.M. Forster novel, 'Maurice', which itself remained un-published until after his death. The film is completely faithful to the book, so faithful, in fact, that it stretches to two and a half hours what could have been told in under two hours. But, no matter. It never ceases to amaze me how the British can produce films of such breath-taking detail and clarity, and spend only a fraction of the budget that their American counterparts do.James Wilby stars as Maurice Hall, who falls in love with his classmate, Clive Durham, portrayed by Hugh Grant. They are both undergraduates at Cambridge. The time is the Edwardian era, and they must keep their feelings under wraps. Clive is much more reserved than Maurice, in the long run. Eventually Clive gives in to the pressures from his mother (an icily perfect Judy Parfitt) and marries the pretty but uninteresting Anne (Phoebe Nichols). Maurice and Clive never consummated their relationship, and from the looks of things, there isn't much of a sexual relationship between Clive and his wife.Maurice finds his solace and his savior in Alec Scudder, the gamekeeper on Clive's estate, played with ferociously understated sensuality by Rupert Graves. Indeed, the second half of this film belongs to Rupert Graves. He is young, baby-faced, but with a deep voice and a confident swagger, and the simmering sexuality about ready to explode. You can see his feelings in his eyes. It would be impossible for Maurice to turn him down. This is where the film received some criticism; since Maurice and Alec are from different classes, backgrounds and education, surely their relationship would wither and fade once the passion had ended? E.M. Forster received the same criticism when he shared his manuscript with a few select friends. But, part of the reason the book succeeds is because of the belief and fervent hope that the relationship between Maurice and Alec will work. It must work, against all the odds of society.The portrayal of the period's homophobia is exquisite. There is a heartbreaking scene where Maurice tries to confide in the family doctor, portrayed by Denholm Elliott. Dr. Barrie merely reacts to Maurice in disgust. Maurice turns to a quack hypnotist, played by Ben Kingsley, but finds he cannot deny his true nature.Since Hugh Grant has become mega famous in the 10 plus years since the film was made, it is often referred to as a Hugh Grant film. Grant is extremely reserved in the role, showing no signs of his future as a comic actor. I would have preferred him to portray Maurice Hall, however. James Wilby is sweet and believeable, but he lacks something in the role. Although he does balance well with the erotic Rupert Graves, as Maurice seems as confused and searching as he is intended to be.A breath-taking, entertaining and extremely intelligent film; I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"delicate delight","Date":"4 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" a love story in rigid society. a novel by Forster. a film by Ivory. and a brilliant cast. almost a picture. or page from a photo-album. because all is perfect. costumes, images, story. and actors... different as stones. charming Hugh Grant in a refined role who creates ideal shadow of model man, part of nice society. Rupert Graves as interesting-amazing Antinous , master of silhouette of his role - circle of precise nuances. Ben Kingsley in minor presence but as a gem. and, sure, James Wilby and his craft in which vulnerability, instinct, desire, fear, expectation, hope and surrounding are each full of beauty. it is a gay story. but only at first sigh. in fact, it is only a story. about freedom as basic rule. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"18 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love the films of Merchant Ivory, especially The Remains of the Day, and Maurice is no exception. It is not my favourite of theirs, there are one or two occasional dull spots for me, but I cannot deny that Maurice(adapted from EM Forster's autobiographical novel) is beautiful. As always, the production values are truly immaculate with the cinematography skillful and the scenery and, costumes and interiors/exteriors gorgeous. The music is also hypnotic and of real beauty, the film is lovingly directed, the script is superbly written and the story is compelling and resonates emotionally with me. Also I think Maurice deals with the theme of homosexuals very well. The acting is excellent, James Wilby especially is very powerful, but I shouldn't dismiss Simon Callow, Patrick Godfrey, Judy Parfitt, Hugh Grant and Rupert Graves either, they are all wonderful. So overall, Maurice is a beautiful film. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Deep waters","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  E.M. Forster's subtle novels have been a rich source of material for director James Ivory, including 'Maurice', in which Forster explored his own homosexuality with uncommon directness.  The first part of this film is lush and predictable, a story of beautiful young chums at Cambridge, but it takes on an edge as life in the real world forces choices upon its characters. A young Hugh Grant is unexpectedly good as Clive, who makes the transition from floppy haired boy to Edwardian moralist.  While it lacks the panache of 'A Room with a View', 'Maurice' grows to become a deeper work.  My only quibble is with the end, which suddenly swivels back to Clive's point of view, a viewpoint largely abandoned throughout the film's second half - the ending fits the synopsis, but somehow not the execution. Nonetheless, a good film. "},{"Title":"A clever movie that really makes you think","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER AHEAD Maurice is definitely one of my favourite films. The ending has really made an impression on me, since it's sort of happy and sad at the same time. I often wonder what happened to Clyde, did he ever regret choosing the easy way out? And I often think about how brave Maurice was.I also like the fact that Maurice actually fell in love with somebody else after Clyde turned him down. I've seen way too many love films were it seems as if it's only possible to love one single person in your entire life, which feels a bit unrealistic and tiresome at times. That's why I'm glad to see a romantic film where the main character moves on instead of just brooding for the rest of his life. "},{"Title":"Excellent!!!","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie a few times.  I've seen the PG version and also the R rated version.  I have to say that the R rated version is the best one to see, not just for the nude scenes (although work very well) but because to under what Maurice is going through you have to see it all through his eyes and the image of male youth and nakedness is part of that.  He's going through an awakening that happens to all of us when coming of age and discovering what we truly are.  I felt that Hugh Grant's part was excellent, but also typical of the british ways back in that period of time, but still remains vast till this day.  I was also very happy with Rupert Graves' part. I love the part with him in the motel room saying and what would your mum say about me, looking all rough and ugly looking.  I thought to myself, my God is blind or stupid, this guy is one beautiful guy, and believe me I don't use that word on just everyone. I was very happy for Maurice and Alec in the end, the final scene with them in the boathouse was almost ........ overflowing (if you get my meaning). Like others have said in the the reviews, this is a good first date movie to pop into the VCR.  You won't strike out with this one. "},{"Title":"A truly romantic gay story of the 1900s","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I honestly felt bad for Maurice that he lost Clive as his lover because they were just utterly in love but I had a funny feeling, throughout their relationship, he seemed very resistant. No man-to-man touching, only woman & man touching. I thought he was such a silly man to get involved with Maurice in the first place! Hugh Grant did a good job on playing a young man with a very strong posh accent!!I loved how the gatekeeper Alec Scudder just immediately fell in love with Maurice from the day he walked into Clives mansion. It just gives you that happy feeling that there will be always another light at the end of the tunnel. I'm so happy both reunited at the very end and lived happily ever after!I was so glad to see the two legends Simon Callow and Helena Bonham Carter appeared in this film. They hadn't changed a bit from then!Two hours watching this film was worth watching! "},{"Title":"nicely done","Date":"29 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a wonderfully put together movie. The actors were good, the writing and pacing was also well done. I also liked that the love story was presented as any other love story. I've seen movies, like for example Brokeback Mountain, where the homosexuality becomes a crutch and the movie expects you to like it solely based on that merit alone. Maurice, however, took the subject of homosexuality and used it to its advantage as a tool instead of a crutch. It used the sexuality of the characters to create more dramatic tension. It was a nice treatment. One quibble I had with the movie though was that the kissing scenes were rather more like face rolling scenes, very kind of funny when they probably should not have been. I have seen these types of kissing scenes between two men done much better in other films, but at the same time this film is dated 1987, so that might be part of it since kissing styles evolve each decade in movies. I'm glad that I took the time to watch this movie. It was a good story and gave me things to think about, which is something I enjoy about good movies. "}{"Title":"Slight mistakes in  England has always been disinclined to accept human nature., 12 October 1998","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" We all make mistakes, of course. But I felt it was my duty to point out at least two slight mistakes in Mr. Christopher Sullivan's (from New York City, USA) comment. I only do this so that readers won't be mislead. I mean the best to all, including Mr. Sullivan's overall accurate and well-written review ! He states (and I quote -- while making my own remarks in BOLD LETTERS) ***************************** Maurice (prononced Morris) -- PRONOUNCED -- is the film adaption of the book by E.M. Forster and stated to be semi-autobiographical of his life (OF A CERTAIN PART OF HIS LIFE, NOT HIS WHOLE LIFE, AS IT IS IMPLIED). The book was banned for many years (AND FORSTER HIMSELF WANTED HIS BOOK TO BE PUBLISHED AFTER HIS DEATH, WHICH OCCURRED IN 1970) and it wasn't until 1987 (YES, IT WASN'T UNTIL THEN BUT ONLY BECAUSE THE FILM PROJECT COULD NO BE PUT TOGETHER BEFORE -- OR AFTER CENSORSHIP STARTED TO BECOME MORE BROAD-MINDED IN THE LATE 1960's) that this visually splendid film was released from Merchant-Ivory - (A Room With A View, Howard's End). Set in early 19th century England (NO ! EARLY 20TH CENTURY !, etc. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A very good-looking film from Merchant-Ivory, it is well shot with excellent choices of lighting, and the sets and costumes are as good as would be expected. Once again Richard Robbins takes to writing the music for the film and he does an excellent job, composing music that fits the film and is also beautiful on its own. However, there is not much else that is noteworthy about this production other than the technical aspects. Sure, the film manages to say a few things on coping with homosexuality during a rigid, traditionalist period in the history of Britain, however the storyline is far too drawn out, making the film more than just slightly too long. It also injects a second romance that is underdeveloped and most of the supporting characters are only lightly developed themselves. There is an interesting small supporting role for Ben Kingsley, but otherwise the acting is a tad bland. Do not be mistaken though - this is certainly a good film, especially of its type - just not nearly as perfectly made as some of Merchant-Ivory's future films would turn out to be. "},{"Title":"moved on","Date":"2 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" it is a great story of moving on from their relationship and settled their lives with people to love... giving back their friendship on a tight bonding still... i saw Maurice how he handled his life with courage and will.. he had made his life more interesting when he had he's work and love life flows at the same time... the scene has its beautiful location. the movie gave significance to family values.. it also signifies signifies the sense of loving same sex.. I no longer believed in the idea of soul mates, or love at first sight. But I was beginning to believe that a very few times in your life, if you were lucky, you might meet someone who was exactly right for you. Not because he was perfect, or because you were, but because your combined flaws were arranged in a way that allowed two separate beings to hinge together. It hurts to let go. Sometimes it seems the harder you try to hold on to something or someone the more it wants to get away. You feel like some kind of criminal for having felt, for having wanted. For having wanted to be wanted. It confuses you, because you think that your feelings were wrong and it makes you feel so small because it's so hard to keep it inside when you let it out and it doesn't coma back. You're left so alone that you can't explain. Damn, there's nothing like that, is there? I've been there and you have too. You're nodding your head. "},{"Title":"Great book and movie, shame about the ending","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A brilliant book/film, but in my view, its thought-provoking themes are deeply marred by the ending.The implication is that Maurice, having come to terms with his homosexuality in a period when it was firmly outlawed, and having found true love, will now be happy, whereas his friend Clive, who has chosen a life of pretence is left looking wistfully out of the window. For sure, Maurice's happiness with the young gamekeeper will be short-lived, not just because of the impossibility of keeping such an affair secret, but also because of their diverse social classes. Once the initial euphoria has died down, their differences will become painfully obvious. It might make us feel warm and rosy contemplating a happy outcome, but it doesn't do the rest of the book justice. "},{"Title":"the only Merchant-Ivory film I've enjoyed","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought by the first 20 minutes I was going to press rewind because of boredom and the usual British snobbism. Then Hugh Grant (for once he didn't annoy me) James Wilby hit it off and I got pretty hooked. But the 2nd part with Maurice and Scuttles was pure melodramatic soap opera I was at the edge of my seat. I got this movie at the library and didn't know what to expect. I couldn't stand James Ivory's movies before like Remains of the Day and Room with a View (E.M. Forester novel as well) but it was strange enough he was filming a gay novel by Forester so I gave it a try surprisingly I liked it. It has a good ending. "},{"Title":"Maybe the book was better?","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I must be in the greater minority, but I disliked this movie overall. I honestly liked it up until about halfway, despite abrupt pacing. However, after Durham's decision to turn away from his sexuality --- and furthermore, his horrific enjoyment of his new life --- I just couldn't agree anymore. Everything felt unsettling and unnatural, and nothing seemed to make sense. There seemed to be so much left out that in the book ( which I haven't read so I'm assuming ) must have been expanded more fully. I feel pacing is a huge flaw in this movie, leaving out important detail and more importantly, LEAD-UP while extending seemingly unnecessary scenes and detours. I recommend reading the book instead, as I later found that the plot line was also changed in the screening. Hopefully these major issues were not present in the literary original. "},{"Title":"Ivory-Merchant production careful, astute, prestigious, and embalmed...","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Young British man in the early 1900s must come to terms with his homosexuality, a lifestyle which brought forth criminal charges in turn of the century England. Plodding, overlong, overly-sensitive piece from director James Ivory, who also co-adapted the script with Kit Hesketh-Harvey, based on E.M. Forster's novel. It is certainly pretty enough, and the performances by James Wilby and a very green Hugh Grant are commendable, but where are the roller-coaster highs and lows of living a taboo sexual life? Maurice is nurtured along in a tableaux style which gives us factual details but none of the emotion. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Very good but not great","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Literate, well-made drama of Maurice (James Wilby), a college student in the early 1900s in England, coming to grips with the fact that he's gay.  Unfortunately, it was against the law back then, but he falls in love with Clive Durham (Hugh Grant!!!) who loves him back.  But what can they do?Film looks beautiful and the script is good.  Grant is great and when Rupert Graves shows up as Scudder in the last section, his performance makes the film wonderful--he's so handsome, fun, full of life and giving one hell of a performance.  Still, I'm only giving this an 8.  There are two big problems with the film.First...it's too long (135 minutes).  At least half an hour could have been cut out.  I was fast-forwarding through a lot of scenes and found I missed nothing.  The second problem is James Wilby--he's horrible in this movie.  He's very bland and dull and gives unsure line readings constantly.  A scene where he has to cry was played so badly that I couldn't believe they kept it in the movie.  He drags the film down--I could have cared less about him or his character.Still, it's worth seeing.  Also there's a few fairly erotic love sequences that are just beautiful...and contain frontal male nudity.  A must see for gay men.  "},{"Title":"Simplistic, idiotic fantasy story","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" James Ivory's Maurice (1987) is an example of subtle British stories which always tend to focus on idiotic, buffoonish aristocrats who lead spoiled, idle lives and are a complete bore. In the case of this film, it deals with the forbidden relation between men, one of whom is an upper class snob. That's not at all offensive, but the way the film crams it's monotonous and unnecessary message into our sympathetic eyes, it becomes tedious and rather quickly. There's no enduring his plight because he is so arrogant, and set in his ways of rigid family conformity and he's about as human as a pile of Welsh corn husks.Maurice Hall (James Wilby) is the said character, who is not that bright but along with other British spoiled thugs, is attending Oxford, or some other chum school. He hangs out with a few other mugs, who guzzle beer, sing school songs and slap each other on the arse when in the shower. Eventually, he meets a new bore, Clive Durham (Hugh Grant) and his interest is ignited. They hang out, clasping each other and visiting quiet secluded lakes.All seems fine until there is a change in Clive Durham's behavior. Maurice Hall is crushed over some time by his friend's denial of their true love. It's obvious Clive Durham wants power and will marry a woman for fear of losing his land, titles, nobility, etc. so the story takes another turn, much in the way a soap opera would appear.We pass through Maurice Hall's life, which is far from any ordinary working man's dilemma, as he travels, eats well and is afforded the luxury of the upper classes but he longs for more. It's exasperating as one would wish he would visit India and die of the plague or tuberculosis.The film then strays further into the rubbish pit by placating Maurice Hall with an unbelievable love interest portrayed by an effeminate, no good, deceitful gardener, who I might add, looks quite clean and unburnt by the sun. Any intelligent viewer will probably either shudder or cringe at the simplistic derailment of the plot but it was obvious that James Ivory was tugging our emotional strings all along, following the clichd portrayal of social classes and making the love interest look like an underwear model.There's no clear protest message, except to follow your organ down below and you'll be happy. If you expect any critique of the hostile social climate, look elsewhere, this is muddy melodrama at its most dense form.See this film only if you want to believe in chimerical inspired fictional stories that are concocted and utterly delusional and preposterous. "}]