[{"Title":"Why isn't anyone else ripping their hair out at this movie?!","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"149 out of 183 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I had been debating with myself for years about watching this movie. Having been an avid fan of the entire series of Flowers in the Attic books, I knew there was a strong possibility the film would do nothing but irritate me by way of poor acting and even poorer script-writing. What I didn't realise, was how much of a massacre the film was going to make of such a beautifully written book.First off, and I'm sorry - but it is a shallow comment to make Those kids; Chris, Cathy, Carrie and Cory are supposed to be stunning. The Dresden dolls because they are *that* striking. Whoever cast the film seemed to have sorted through the Village of the Damned rejects in order to find the two youngest (scariest looking couple of children I have ever seen) Chris was, I'm sorry - just nothing like the original character and while Kristy Swansen is very pretty - she just didn't cut it as Cathy.Which brings me to my next point - Cathy's thing is ballet - she's an excellent dancer - and aside from a couple of pathetic scenes involving Swansen trying to get her leg higher than her hip-bone, they ignored the one thing that the entire character centres around.And just out of interest - where was the relationship between Cathy and Chris? I know having an incestuous relationship played out in film has got to be controversial - but don't bother even picking up a pen to write a script for a story if you have absolutely no intention of keeping the central story-lines. And if you do, don't have the audacity to pass it off as the film version of a highly acclaimed book just by giving it the same title.Flowers in the Attic was based on a true story. (As stated in the prologue of the copy I have anyway). How - HOW is it OK to just butcher such an awesome piece of work? It's like passing Pokemon off as the Mona-Lisa; sick and entirely wrong. They have completely missed the point of the story It wasn't about 4 kids sitting in an attic waiting to die or be let out; it was about four children adapting to a situation wherein they have to become adults long before their time. It was about how the relationships between the siblings evolved, and the psychological consequences of losing one parent through death and another through greed.For anyone who has watched the film and is ready to dismiss the books because of it - seriously; don't be fooled by such an obvious lacklustre attempt at a book adaptation. There are not enough words in the English language to explain how wrong this film is - how utterly and completely pathetic the script, setting, acting, casting, directing and the 101 other ways in which the movie sucks beyond belief.And just... just don't get me started on the ending. Every time I think about it I just want to do nasty things involving pointy objects to the script-writer.Please tell me someone agrees with me? "},{"Title":"So many ways to destroy a classic novel.","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Every great story has its own essence. And when it is stripped off that, it becomes a story that easily you and me or any John Doe could write. Flowers in the Attic, written by Virginia Andrews, is a gripping tale of broken trust, betrayal, and complex human relationships that seem so natural under the circumstances, however forbidden they were to be. It's such a pity that such a novel should fall in wrong hands for its screen adaptation. The movie horribly lacks the original soul of the story, its sinister twists, its surprises, its adventures in sociology.The story is like this after their father dies accidentally, Corrine, the mother, takes pre-pubertal Chris, Cathy and little twins Cory and Carrie to her own wealthy parents hoping she would inherit from his dying father. But there's a catch; her marriage had been earlier disapproved by the old man and he won't let her a penny if he finds out she has children. So she and the equally cruel grandmother lock the kids up in the attic... until the fine moment comes when she'd win the old man's heart back and tell her everything. But that day never comes while Corrine herself marries another man and eventually inherits the money... without telling her father about the children. In the meantime, Chris and Cathy grow up through teens and discover each other quite fruitfully, and eventually all four of them become a family, sharing a special bond made out of the feeling of being betrayed, and the longing to escape, which occurs not before three years.The movie changed a lot of it. Some I didn't mind, but some are really outrageous. The account of mental and physical growth of the children during the course of time is largely left out. The movie shows Chris and Cathy in late teens right from the start, which ruined the basic message behind their relationship. In the book the twins played an enormous role in building up that relationship between their older siblings. The movie did not treat them as characters, to put it flatly. And how the movie ends, it may look dramatic in a rather happy-ending manner, but comparing to the book, it is overtly exaggerated, giving the whole thing a cheap smell. The book's climax is not dramatic, yet far more thrilling than this crap about the kids meeting their new stepfather. And finally this sick hush-hush about the incest! Somebody who liked the movie considered the brilliant plot of the novel just an excuse to write about incest, and told me it's good how the movie avoided the details. Nonsense! incest in this story comes as the most natural thing on earth. And how wonderfully indifferent Andrews is when she writes about it, the storyteller being Cathy. The movie blandly leaves a large part of it out, making the whole movie seem, well, infertile.For the casting, only Louis Fletcher made a great grandmother. She is right there in her Oscar-winning standard. But besides her, it's all a bad casting throughout. Kristy Swanson as Cathy is just disgusting. How can she act so blunt when she's the central character? Jeb Adams as Chris may not look like he's described, but he acts not that bad. And Victoria Tennant as Corrine too, receives little screen time to be judged well.I wish there hadn't been a movie. You cannot make an art movie through three years, and you can't easily show a 13-year-old girl naked performing incest, both of which are absolutely necessary to make a good screen adaptation out of the story. But I don't want this crap to be remembered as the only movie out of Andrews' novel. I now want a remake, however controversial it may be, whatever ratings it may get. "},{"Title":"I Thought It Was Decent, Then Again I Haven't Read The Book...","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Flowers In The Attic, based on the controversial Gothic novel from V.C. Andrews, centers around a widowed mother (Victoria Tennant) who decides to whisk her four children off to live with their grandparents in their isolated mansion. The children consist of Chris, Cathy, and the two younger children, Cory and Carrie. Little do the children know, their mother has essentially given them over to their abusive, religiously-fanatical grandmother (played by Oscar winner Louise Fletcher), and they are locked away in the attic and kept there, while their health deteriorates and they are abused constantly. All the while, their evil mother conspires to receive the inheritance from her own dying father, and plans on starting a completely new life with another man - even if it means murder.A decent but semi-disturbing film, Flowers In The Attic is a strange movie. Keep in mind I haven't read the novel that the film was based upon, so I have no reference between the two (although I've heard numerous times that the film did the book not an ounce of justice). So, without comparing the film and the novel, I thought this movie was pretty effective. The storyline is nicely written here, it's an obscure plot for sure. The script was decent as well, and again I'm not sure how it correlates with the original book. Atmosphere and claustrophobia is consistent in the film as well, it isn't your typical bloody horror flick. Everything has a very Gothic, depressing tone, and the mood here fits everything very well. It's an eerie film, mainly because of the disturbing subject matter and the gloomy atmosphere that is present throughout. The film deals with some heavy issues as well (including incest, among other things), so you may want to be aware of that.As far as the acting goes here, I thought it was very good. Louise Fletcher (who garnered an Oscar for her stunning performance in the film classic One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest) is terrifying in her performance as the abusive, psychotic grandmother of the children. As if her character isn't scary enough, Fletcher is a very tall woman as well, and her stature and attitude adds to the menacing nature of her character. I thought she carried the film in way of the performances and more notable than the others, but everyone else was good here too. A young Kristy Swanson plays the eldest daughter Cathy, and Victoria Tennant plays the manipulative and evil mother of the four kids. The ending of the film consisted of some good old bittersweet revenge, it's definitely one of those endings that you're likely to remember.Overall, Flowers In The Attic is a good movie. I haven't read the novel, so I don't personally know how it compares to the book. Based on other reviews here, the book apparently blows the film away, but since I've yet to read it, I'm just judging my review on the film alone. It's a decent psychological Gothic horror story about abuse, abandonment, human relationships, and revenge. Personally I thought it was an alright film, and worth watching if it sounds like your cup of tea (although, judging from what I've heard, if you've read the novel, you may be disappointed with it). 6/10. "},{"Title":"Don't judge it by the book","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"29 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" An earlier review here, one of the few positive reviews of this movie on this site, had one thing wrong, saying that those who read the book would appreciate the movie, and vice-versa. In fact, the opposite seems to be true. Having not read the book, I first saw this movie unjaded, and so was able to appreciate it as the sad and tragic story that it is.The sudden death of a loving husband and father (it appears he may be a little too loving toward the oldest daughter, but the movie doesn't expand on that) leaves the family in despair, so the mother takes the children and herself to her filthy-rich parents' mansion, hoping to inherit the estate from her dying father. Just one little thing she was long-ago disinherited because she entered into a forbidden marriage, and her father will not grant her an inheritance if he knows the marriage resulted in children, so she and her mother, The Grandmother, keep the children hidden in an attic as they await the old man's death, and she tries to win back his approval. The Grandmother is like a cruel warden, treating the children, a teenage boy and girl, and two young twins, boy and girl, like convicted criminals, only worse. The waiting goes on and on, during which the mother is consumed by greed, and emerges as the real villain.Some readers of the book are indignant that the story was cleaned up for the movie, but that was necessary to make it more watchable to a wider audience. It is still a great and haunting story, reminiscent of the black and white horror flicks of the 1960's (Whatever Happened To Baby Jane, Hush Hush, Sweet Charlotte, etc.). Audiences of the 1980's were not so jaded as today's, and were not ready for incest, especially among sympathetic characters.Maybe the acting was not first-rate, and some elements, like the climactic ending, a bit campy, but the compelling storyline easily compensates for it, so long as you don't dwell on the few shortcomings, and can't see the forest for the trees.And the movie has one thing the book hasn't a memorably haunting, chilling musical score, a perfect compliment to an equally haunting, chilling story. "},{"Title":"feeble adaptation of a powerful book","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The original quartet of books (Flowers in the Attic; Petals on the Wind; Let There be Thorns; Seeds of Yesterday) combined to tell a controversial and powerful tale of abuse, incest, betrayal, murder, mental distress and collapse, and hidden family secrets.  The characters leapt off the page and the situations were memorable.This film, I'm sorry to say, is feeble and doesn't get even halfway near to doing justice to Virginia Andrews' work.  As the key character, Cathy, Kirsty Swanson is all wrong, while her siblings Chris, Carrie, and Cory (played by Jeb Stuart Adams, Lindsay Parker, and Ben Ryan Ganger) don't engage the interest.  Perhaps the most interesting character in the film is Corrine, their mother, played by Victoria Tennant, and given a bit of characterisation.I just think the material is pretty unfilmable without it veering into pseudo-porn or just becoming a catalogue of violence.  Stick to the books and avoid this. "},{"Title":"it was not that bad","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I completely disagree with the previous summary. Granted I have not read the book, however this movie is a good movie. It might not be the best adaptation of a book but it is a very interesting & scary thriller. I first saw this movie in 1988 when I was 8 & it was scary then. I have seen it since & though a bit sappy it is a scary movie. There are hundreds of other movies that came from the 80's that I would not suggest however this is a pretty good one. Keep in mind the era it was made, but overall it is NOT a bad movie. Maybe we should look at the movie for what it is a movie & not just an adaptation of a book. This movie is truly scary & worth a cheap rental on a rainy Saturday night. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The Lame book-to-film adaptation.","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Flowers in the Attic (1987) was a weak attempt to translate the twisted V.C. Andrews southern Gothic horror novel into a made-to-teens movie. A film like this cannot be a P.G. film. If you even read a part of the book you'll know why. That's why today I'm going to give you a brief run down of the movie so you wont be tempted to watch this piece of garbage. A hot mom and her four bratty kids have to leave their suburban home because the bread winner (i.e. Pop's) is killed in a traffic accident. Pop's and the daughter have a very bizarre relationship (shown briefly with Mum spying on the two). Pop's dies on his birthday leaving the family to fend for themselves. When the money runs out, the five of them move into a dreary mansion that's ran by a cruel grandmother, a butler who resembles a young and spry Ronald W. Reagan and a basket case on wheels who looks like Mr. Steptoe. After being cleansed of her sins the ancient way (involving a scourging bull whip). The mother has to put her kids into an attic room while Mister Steptoe eh.. the Grandfather dies. While they wait, the children must live chaste lives and live out the days inside a musty and moldy attic. Chirs and Cathy (the older kids in their budding years) must fight temptation and (oops that's the book) they must become the most stupid and obnoxious children they can become. Grandmother berates them and calls them sinners and what not. The youngest of the brood the twins Corey and Carrie are even more unsympathetic than the older sibs.Pretty soon the food stops coming and Mum only makes cameo appearances. The child have nothing to eat (expect when Chris plays Jesus and feeds the wee ones his blood. If you think the movie can't get more ridiculous, it does. While the children starve, Mum courts a middle aged mullet wearing suitor. When she finally visits the kids, the ungrateful children lash out at their benefactor and she makes a hasty exit. The day of judgment comes when they learn three things, one Corey is dead, two Gramps is dead and three Mum's gonna get married!After stealing enough money, the kids get the courage to leave their room in the attic. After Chris puts the smack down on grandma and avoid lurch err I mean Ronnie err the butler, they run right into the middle of the wedding ceremony. Daughter confronts the jealous mother and a brief chase turns into tragedy. Mum hangs herself with her long veil. How ironic she wore white. As the three leave the mansion, the narrator promises more to come!Thankfully this movie sank like the Bismark at the box office. No more book-to-film adaptations for V.C. Andrews (who died during the post production, probably due to watching the dailies whilst she was on the set). A shame about the movie because if it was done correctly, we could have saw the whole series on film. But when you cheap out and use a hack to write and direct, you get garbage on the screen.Not recommended.I wouldn't watch this movie again on a dare or a bet. Well, maybe if it was worth my while.xxx "},{"Title":"Four dumb children are imprisoned in an attic.","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Morons In The Attic. One of the all-time dumbest films. I have no idea what the novel is like, but if it's anything like this movie then it should have been burnt - with fanfare - before it got the chance to go into publishing.I've always hated the prisoners-in-the-house sub-genre of thriller (or drama, in this case) and some of the worst movies ever made stem from this type of film, and this film is yet another example why those movies shouldn't be made. Even worse, while in other movies of this sub-genre the prisoner(s) can't leave because they are well guarded, in this story the four kids could have left any time! And they don't, in spite of starvation, boredom, decreasing health and the hatred of the grandmother - all because they implicitly trust their mother and her plans. They are just oh-so naive... Their mother, without any explanation, becomes a psychopath who poisons her own children! This piece of garbage would have us believe that four beautiful children can be the result of a marriage between a woman and her blood-uncle! And then there is all that total naivety and innocence that this unrealistic foursome ooze out of their every pore - as if the two older ones had been raised in an attic before they ended up in the house of their grandmother/great-aunt. With every minute this piece of c*** gets worse, until the finale which is just too stupid for words. "},{"Title":"Just re-watched this the other day","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As a young child I remember my mother watching this movie and having the titles in book form. V.C. Andrews book, when I read it myself wasn't that bad, actually it was very good! Sadly as in most cases the movie just wasn't as good as the book.The story revolves around a family who at one time was very happy indeed. However as this movie shows they hit hard times. I won't say how because that would give away major plot points for you. After these unhappy turn of events they, I mean the four children and their mother, all have to return in poverty and destitution to their grandmother's home for help. The mother has a plan to win back her father's love to inherit a fortune the likes the kids had never dreamed. When the group enters the grounds of the ornate mansion we are treated to the main villain of the movie....Grandmother, and her bodyguard/servant John The Butler. Needless to say Grandmother is less than thrilled to see her daughter after umpteen years and bringing four unwanted Spawn of the Devil with her. This, sadly is what she refers to them as.Grandmother, as she is called is played wonderfully by Louise Fletcher. Granted I'm a fan of Kristy Swanson, but this is a movie made before she really got good roles such as Buffy. However this movie has only Mrs. Fletcher to lean back upon as the ONLY person who really CAN act.Grandmother makes life hell for the children, and punishes the mother for leaving with her husband years earlier. Eventually Mother as she is referred to tells the children of an attic above their room. For months they use this place to escape the harsh reality around them. As time continues pressing on they realize Mother doesn't love them as much as they had originally thought, and decide its time once and for all to make a break for it.The movie is very depressing, and I think this is what the film is supposed to do. I believe the director wanted you to feel as they did, hopeless and trapped in that attic as the kids were. For that I give it a 5/10, because in some areas it does succeed, and Mrs. Fletcher's acting really does get you angry at her character. Otherwise I count off for bad-acting, scenes which made no sense at times, and plot points which were utterly useless (the list of rules which was never expounded upon, certain other key moments as well) if you watch you'll understand what I mean. Also the time frame for which these events took place also seem out of order, which if I remember correctly were very detailed in the book.To me its good for a one time watch but there are better movies which succeed at doing what this one tries to do. I re-watched it the other day and remembered it being very good when I was younger. However now it seems more like a straight-to-video diatribe which I could've easily bypassed completely. "},{"Title":"It pales in comparison to the book, but is still pretty good","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" My mom had been wanting me to watch this movie ever since she had heard that I had never seen it. It seemed interesting enough and one day when it came on TV I recorded it and decided to watch it later that night. Now, maybe I was just not expecting much from it, but I absolutely loved it the first time I watched it. Then, I realized it was based on a book. Not long ago I finished the book, and when I look back this movie kind of did not do it justice at all. There was tons of material that was left out and though I like the ending in the movie better than the ending in the book, I thought the book was much more mystifying and eerie. The thing about the movie though is it's entertaining enough on it's own to where I still really enjoy it and the characters are well adapted and played out by the actors and actresses. The movie maintains some eeriness and has a nice, creepy atmosphere, but now I just wish that there was so much more they would've done with the movie.I guess since I'm not a huge fan of the book, it doesn't really upset me that the movie fails to do it justice, but I really do wish there would be another movie adaptation where it's rated R and they include tons of more important material. In any matter, Flowers in the Attic is enjoyable, entertaining and well executed. It's nothing like the book, so don't expect it to be if you haven't seen it and think you might like to. "}{"Title":"Flowers of the darkness","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I read Flowers in the Attic (under the Finnish title Flowers of the darkness)) as a teenager. I did not know it was supposedly scandalous in USA for it's content violence was melodramatic instead of hardhittingly realistic and the romantic(ized) incest fantasy was just that PG spice. There was no sleazy, trashy horror scum in this book - V C Andrews is not Jack Ketchum or even Stephen King - just Gothic romance melodrama. The movie kept the striking Old dark house setting and entertainingly villainous Christian fanatics, but took away the incest. Rats! Louise Fletcher, the depraved nurse torturing mentally ill in the socially critical One flew over cuckoo's nest, was again the source of evil - in all Andrews books everybody over 25 was the necessary evil - and Kirsty Swanson was blonde enough to play the innocent heroine Cathy. "},{"Title":"The movie was great!","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie way back in like 1989 and LOVED it. So much that my mom purchased me a copy for Christmas one year. I can't say how many times I've seen this film..at least 100...so much that my tape of it broke because the film inside was all worn out! Lol! I'm reading some of the posts and think that they are a bit harsh. I do understand that the movie wasn't as outlined off the book as it could have been, however, what they taped still made for a GREAT film. Along with the music and acting, I thought it was awesome. I'm watching the movie right now in fact on HBO and I must say after all these years I still get chills off the music..AAHH, AHHH, AHHH, AHHH, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah...I actually learned to play this song on my keyboard! "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies made from a book","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was so disappointed when i saw this movie. I had just read the book, and thought it portrayed the characters so well, and showed the bad sides of human nature. In this movie the acting was horrible. There was no emotion, and so much drama over too little drama..if that makes sense The movie also seemed like it was over the span of a couple months, rather than three years. It did not touch on a major issue of the book, how the brother and sister fell in love, which took up a lot of the actual story. It also added in a lot of weird characters and it had little or no detail in the scenes, making the kids seem like total brats. It seemed like everything happened for no reason. If you have read the book, don't watch the movie because you will be disappointed. I hope they make another adaptation, because I think flowers in the attic could be a great movie. "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"18 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I read the book back when I was in college. It was trash but it was GOOD trash. It involves a happy family--a mom, a dad and four kids. The father dies and the mother rapidly runs out of money. She has no choice to ask her parents (who disapproved of the marriage) for help. Her mother agrees but tells her that her children must stay up in the attic--her father doesn't know about them and, if he did, he wouldn't help her. The kids are in the attic for THREE YEARS. And, over time, one of the brothers discovers his sister...and the grandmother tortures them almost daily. Those were the big selling points of the book...the incest and kids being tortured. It does have a happy ending though (sort of).I was one of the lucky ones who actually saw this at a theatre back in 1987. The studio snuck it out quietly--I found out why. First, the story was changed. They wanted a PG-13 rating so there's no incest at all--not even suggested. The tortures their grandmother puts them through were softened or eliminated entirely. They aren't up there for three years. And they completely changed the ending (although it WAS great to see the mother get it at the end). All the changes drained the story of any impact it might have had. Acting didn't help--Louise Fletcher is LOUSY as the evil grandmother; Victoria Tennant was even worse as the mother; Kristy Swanson as the oldest daughter overplayed her role a LOT. Only Jeb Stuart Adams as her brother gave a halfway good performance. It was no great piece of acting but pretty OK.To be fair to the movie, a faithful adaptation of the book would probably be way too grim for a movie (and get an NC-17 rating) but diluting it completely AND adding lousy acting isn't the way to go! Boring, stupid, illogical...a total waste. This deserves a 0. I'm really surprised that some people LIKE this movie! "},{"Title":"Jeff Bloom did one right thing...he never made a sequel.","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"18 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  That might sound a little harsh.  It certainly wasn't the worst movie I have ever seen, but it's down there. The events that transpire throughout the course of the film stay true to V.C. Andrews' novel, in some ways.  Four siblings are locked in the northern wing of their grandparents' house by their selfish mother and sadistic grandmother after the death of their father has left the family in debt.  The movie does open up before Daddy's death, and there is even a scene where the oldest daughter, Cathy, is given a music box by her beloved father, just like in the book.  However, the relationship between Cathy and her father seems almost irrelevant to the whole feel of the movie, from what I can remember, because unlike in the book, their relationship is not developed well, not much beyond that one scene in fact.  And there were sequels to the book that were able to expand on the effects Chris Sr.'s death had on Cathy, especially seen through her incestuous relationship with her brother, which was cut out of the movie.  Then there is the night of the father's birthday party (only in the movie, there are no guests), and the family is waiting for him to come home from work.  He never does.  Instead, a couple of police officers show up at the door. Cathy screams. Cut to Cathy and Chris in a bus (was it a bus? In the book, they were in a train), on their way to their grandmother's house, or rather, mansion.  Blah blah blah.  The kids arrive, are locked away in a northern room, and that's where they stay for the next few years.  You have to pardon me.   I know all about the book.  I know it by heart.  But I haven't seen this movie for years so I don't remember exactly how long they were imprisoned in the film.  In the book, it was like 3 years, four months and 16 days.    In the closet of this sequestered room, there are stairs leading up to the attic where they often like to play, and where Cathy practices ballet.   Cathy and her brother Chris do not go on to have a love affair, though, like they did in the book.  Yet there is still plenty of abuse.  Besides the obvious fact that they are being locked away from the world, the grandmother also cuts Cathy's beautiful hair and slaps the children and stuff.  And Chris and Cathy do like to take baths with the other one watching.  The ending is the worst part of this movie.   It strays far from the book's conclusion.  It goes for sensation, unlike V.C. Andrews, whom I think knew what she was doing when she had the story end the way it did. She also left room for a sequel.  Jeff Bloom really didn't. I read that there was talk of a sequel, but they never got around to it.  I'm glad.  Petals on the Wind was my favorite in the series, and the rest were really good too, better than the original because the characters were more complex.  I shudder to think of what would have been done to them in a film adaptation.   Overall, this is not a movie worth seeing.  Fans of the book will most likely be disappointed, and those who haven't read it probably won't like it much either.  I don't know quite why the movie failed to live up to the book.  Well, no movie seems to, just by principle, with rare exceptions.  On top of that, the acting wasn't very good, though Kristy Swanson does look like Cathy would.  Though perhaps that's because I originally bought the movie tie-in copy of the book, and the kids on the cover were modeled after the actors.  There certainly was a vague resemblance between Cathy, Chris and their younger brother Cory, twin of Carrie, on the cover and the actors who played them.   On some of the movie covers, it shows the illustrated picture from the book cover.  It is cool.  It shows four kids standing in the attic doorway as if they are prepared to enter a dangerous other world, looking scared. The main failure though is probably that the way V.C. Andrews wrote the book cannot be duplicated by any director or screenwriter.  And the prologue was ten times better than Cathy's voice-over during the opening credits.  But mainly, this is the kind of story to be read, especially since I feel that V.C. Andrews was a much better writer than most people give her credit for being, most of all this movie, which by the way, she had a cameo in.  She was a window-washer. So if you want the story, read the book. Read the whole series, if you want.  I gave the first four books very high ratings on Amazon, though they disturbed me greatly, and in a way, I hate them for that.  And it takes a lot to disturb me. Forget this.  I give it a 3 out of ten.  "},{"Title":"Books into Movies","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" They really should make all the books starting with the beginning of Gardens of Shadows where the wicked grandmother was first a young lady. They should have went in order of the books.I didn't really like the movie Flowers in the Attic, they kept out so many important details that should have been in there. They should have kept to the plot and summary of the story.Even after Flowers in the Attic, it gets more interesting with Petals on the Wind, If There be Thorns and Seeds of Yesterday. I have read the series from the first book before Flowers in the Attic to the last book Seeds of Yesterday like many times and the movie Flowers in the Attic doesn't give you a good look at the Dresden Dolls.If they want to make a good movie follow the book and put in all the details. The movie could have been a little longer. "},{"Title":"the book is better but the film is worth a look if you are a fan of vca","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  basically, the film is a terrible interpretation of the book, there are changes which should have been left as they were, and even though Kristy Swanson was probably the best girl for the role of Cathy, the lines by jeffery bloom were not the best.  I wanted to see more of the relationship between them, more about the flowers, and the way Cathy descibed things so beautifully using colours and description in the book.  The good thing about this film is the music, Christopher Young truly captures the sad existence of the children in it.although i have negative thoughts above, the video and soundtrack are on my shelf and i watch and listen to them both on a regular basis.i only recommend this if you are a vca fan, or have read the book. "},{"Title":"A Very Sad, Yet Enchanting Film - Definitely A Must-See","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I first saw the film on Zone Horror (a horror movie channel), and of course I expected it to be a horror. As much as the content off the book and the film is quite disturbing, and some scenes were slightly graphic, it was not as much a horror as it was just a sad tale. A sad tale of four beautiful children kept from the world in a dingy attic. And although it wasn't frightening in the least (and horror's are the genre I watch the most and love), I absolutely loved the film.The basic storyline is the same for both the book and the film, although both are very different. However, both are just as enchanting as each other. The ending are very different, so do not get confused between the two. I prefer the film ending, but if the book had ended like that, then there couldn't be any more books in the series (and I haven't included the ending so that I don't spoil the movie for anyone).The acting in the movie was amazing I think, and was definitely the right choice for everyone. There is so much emotion in the film and moods to convey, so it would be a difficult job for anyone to play the children, mother or the harsh grandmother, but everyone portrayed their part fantastically.This is definitely a must-see film for anybody. "},{"Title":"Not the best interpretation of a GREAT novel","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  V.C. Andrews' novel Flowers in the Attic is a masterpiece.  I actually would consider teaching the novel in a college English class.  As an English major at UNC-Chapel Hill, I have studied a lot of great books and this is definitely an overlooked classic nowadays.  The tale is poignant and very naturalistic.  Anyone who has not read it should go to their local library and get a copy.The movie version is another story.  The movie tries to make the plot into something as non-controversial as possible (and ends up missing a lot of the main points of the novel).  If the film adaptation could have stayed along the same lines as the novel's plot, then perhaps this could have been a wonderful film.  The beautiful cast all did well in their roles, so that wasn't the problem...and the set was perfect.  The only thing that could have gone wrong was the script itself.  I hope that in years to come a new and improved version of the movie will be made.  I would suggest Reese Witherspoon and James Van Der Beek as the leads. -) "},{"Title":"Travesty","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie when it was first released and I was so excited about it because of the profound effect the books had had on me. Unfortunately, the movie was an absolute travesty and whoever passed the script as OK should be ashamed of themselves. It's the worst adaptation of a book I've ever seen! The only thing I really liked about the movie were the sets. The bedroom looked just as I imagined it would! However I felt that the movie had been totally miscast and the storyline had been butchered. I don't know whether I'd like a re-make or not - what if it was even worse? Just as an aside, one of my exam questions years ago was to compare a book and a movie adaptation and I chose this one because I felt so strongly about it. Just wish I had a copy of the essay lol - I'm sure it was a masterpiece D "}{"Title":"A dud from the word 'go'!","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Bears almost no resemblance to the book (unfortunately). Two of these kids are big enough to have jumped the grandmother AND the butler and gotten the hell out of there. They wander around like meek little mice and refuse to question their mothers sanity. They make half-hearted attempts to escape but not really. The boy is the worst when it comes to standing up for the kids. They let this bible-thumping crazy grandmother reek havoc on their lives and their mothers (who's already nuts). She's (the mother) already allowed the grandmother to pay her back for what she considers 17 years of sin. It just goes on and on till the writer and director have decided they're never going to get the book on film. They shrug their shoulders and walk away from the film at the end. This might be a great re-make in a few years with a well-thought-out script, a good director and especially a good cast. "},{"Title":"If you've read the book, you wont like this movie","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have to admit, I used to love this movie. I fist saw it when I was quite young and while my sister is a big Virginia Andrews fan and had read all the books, I am not one who reads much so I was happy to watch the film instead.Well, I just finished reading the book and I have to say, there is no comparison in any way. The movie is no where near as detailed. It misses many events, including the incestuous relationship between Cathy and Chris. It does not span the 3 years that they were locked away in the book. The grandmother cuts Cathy's hair, but in the book she pours tar on it.***SPOILER ALERT*** This movie ends with the mother dying at her wedding - in the book, the mother marries and ultimately leaves Foxworth Hall. Totally different. While the plot of her dying at her wedding isn't all that bad, it is completely different to the book which they are claiming this to be a film adaption of.The other thing is the actors. Now, it is my opinion that Virginia Andrews describes people more beautiful than possible, but they picked a mediocre bunch of people to portray them.Since I saw the movie first, then read the book, I expected I may dislike the book, but I have to tell you, if you are considering watching the movie - you'd be more entertained to read the book. Similarly if you have already read the book, don't watch this movie as it will only annoy you. "},{"Title":"Gemma I love hit the nail on the head","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I read the books as well and loved them. I saw this movie when it first came out and thought what a waste of my time and of the actors time as well. Too bad, this could have been an excellent 2 hour movie. I found this in a local used movie store and thought to myself, it has been a long time, so maybe I judged it to quickly. Sad to say, that time, while it has dulled the memory of the entire book, enough memory of the book remained to prove to me, I was correct the first time. Read the review from gemma I love from the UK. It is an excellent review and hits the nail square on it's round head. I would love to see the French do a remake of this movie and do it like it should be done. Of course, those of us in the U.S might never get to see it, but I believe they could do it justice. Gemma was correct in that the incest was central to the books, played little to no part in the movie, which left me wondering how a person that had not read the book would fare watching this film. Would they understand what the whole thing was really about? Somehow I doubt it. "},{"Title":"No real impact","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Virginia Andrews' immensely popular best selling novel must have been a sensational read, however as a movie it does not come off as well, mainly due to the lack of professionalism from those who brought it to the big screen.Jeffrey Bloom's (screenwriter and director) direction is stale as he merely tells the story, as though we've never heard it before, whilst the players do little but act out their parts. Louise Fletcher's grandmother character is sufficiently unnerving, but she is not able to do enough with it.Flowers in the Attic is a disturbing story, but it's told too 'matter of fact' to have any real impact.Monday, January 3, 1994 - Video "},{"Title":"A decent thriller!","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After the death of their father, four children leave home due to financial difficulties & along with their mother, move into their grandmothers place, however this is no warm welcome or family reunion as the miserable old lady locks them up in a room who's only other door leads to a very large attic, a place where the kids find their only real comfort to play & read, the kids are promised by their mother that they will leave as soon as she has found favor once again in the eyes of her father due to an incident that broke the family up 17 years prior & claims her inheritance, however as the months go by, the kids are fed less & less (same old meal everyday, sugar cookies, milk & juice) & even their mother comes to see them less, even though their living under the same roof, with time, the kids try to escape, but to no avail, as the place is tightly secured & eventually they are abused by the grandmother & when one of the children eventually gets sick & dies, the kids escape the room only to discover that their mother is planning on marrying a new man that she never told them about & may be even more wicked & deceitful as their grandmother, as they discover the horrifying truth that their mother's means for them to die up their (remember money is evil in movies like this!) & has no intentions of coming for them & she may also have been responsible for poisoning their little brother! but the kids are sick of it & are planning their revenge! FLOWERS IN THE ATTIC is a very well made thriller that is well shot & acted by a very talented cast & crew, there's a few suspenseful moments & a really good shock ending, the film probably won't please horror fans since their are no stabbings & such that occur or anything supernatural, but fans of really good thrillers are sure to love it & despite the fact that there's not that much that actually happens in the film you'll find yourself strangely engrossed all throughout the running time (trust me you won't be checking you're watch every few minutes!) Though be forewarned it's awfully mean spirited! PROLOX TRIVIA WES CRAVEN was originally scheduled to direct, but was busy elsewhere & so he was replaced by JEFFREY BLOOM.This is one of a series of books based on this families past, present & future.The ending is different from the book & when filming was finished & the product shown to a test audience, the director was pushed to include a more shock ending since the original ending was considered by many to be uninteresting & flat.***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Flowers in the attic","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Hello,To begin, about the novel Flowers in the Attic. In general every time I read a book and then watch the film to it, there are some things missing, like some of the major scenes people want to see. When I read flowers in the attic I was captured by the story and by the characters. I envisioned them to be almost doll like and beautiful and especially the mother.Usually when a woman is very beautiful she passes on her beautiful traits to her children. The movie was nothing compared to the book. Maybe a few scenes here and there to tell you that you are watching the movie version of flowers in the attic, but nothing major. It did not keep me on the edge of my seat at all. I loved the book so much that I wanted my younger brother and sister to see it, so I went out and searched for the movie at blockbuster and after they watched it they were not impressed at all. I also read a book called Garden of Shadows which leads up to the story of flowers in the attic. I would really love it if some really great director came out with the movie version of Garden of Shadows and as the follow up with a remake of Flowers in the Attic. And if the movie is recreated I would really like to see that the characters look as if they are described in the book and also they should at least be real blonde's and try not to leave out the most explosive scenes. People love drama and to leave out the most dramatic parts of the book makes no sense. I will continue to write about this until someone remakes the movie Flowers in the Attic. Anyone reading this who has any influence with any big directors please mention it. "},{"Title":"bad,bad,bad","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The book was a real page turner full of mind-numbing terror. The film however was a different kettle of fish. I read the book when I was a teenager and when I heard of the film I was really looking forward to it. all through the film I was waiting for some sort of terror but it didn't come. I felt no connection or sympathy for the characters. The acting was poor especially from Victoria tennant. The actors playing the children weren't good enough to make you want them to survive and all in all the film sucked. don't kill yourself in finding this film. watch it if you haven't read the book or you will be very disappointed. my vote -1 out of ten "},{"Title":"Good Movie, Great Book","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While not up to the book's par, the film version of Flowers in the Attic was well-written, and well acted out.  The actors portrayed their characters brilliantly, and the most obviously missing scene is understandable in that it's probably illegal or at least wrong to depict in the US.When watching this movie, you sympathize with the locked up, neglected and abused children, hating those torturing them so.  It makes you feel, and has you wondering what you might do in a similar situation. Realistic as it is, a lot of people, including me, were conviced it was based on a true story.  After seeing Flowers in the Attic, many viewers were probably thankful for their relatively normal families and lives.Want to know the rest of the story?  Read the other books.  Flowers in the attic was the first in a series which includes 3 sequels (what happened after the Cathy, Chris and Carrie left, and how did all this affect the next generation of Foxworths?), and a prequel (why was the Grandmother so crazy?).  The movie ending was nowhere near as interesting as the 2nd book in the series.The movie was good, but the books were even better.  They told the whole story and thus had more substance. "},{"Title":"So bad, makes Showgirls look good","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I loved the 'Flowers in the Attic' series by VC Andrews. I will admit that I had such a vivid picture of the story in my mind, that I was greatly disappointed by the movie's depiction. In fact, it is precisely because of this movie that I refuse to watch a movie adapted from a book that I like.But in an ironic twist, you had to have read the book to even make sense of the movie - it was so completely disjointed.Ultimately, what makes the movie so bad, is the absolutely *horrific* acting and ridiculous dialogue. If I hadn't paid to see it, I would have sworn it was a Lifetime made for TV movie.Given the readership of the series, this movie had cash cow written all over it...which was the problem. The studio obviously wanted to capitalize on the book's success, and figured the target audience (teenage to young adult women)would flock to the theaters regardless of the quality, so they threw together a shoddy movie. The really sad part, is that if it had been done well, it could have turned into a franchise.My advice, don't bother with this movie. It's a waste of time, if you've read the books or not. There are absolutely no redeeming qualities. "},{"Title":"Great Book, Mediocre Movie","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I loved V.C. Andrew's book version better.  However, the movie wasn't entirely awful.  Where the book was indeed more detailed; the movie enlighted us upon the solid characters and allowed us  to visualize their trials and tribulations.  I enjoyed the ending scene the best; the scene with Corrine's death.  I think anyone who actually enjoyed watching the film felt like that.  But in a nutshell, the book is definitely more enjoyable-maybe rent the movie on a rainy night or something. "}{"Title":"very effective Gothic style horror(in my opinion)","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" i think this is a very effective horror movie,but without blood and guts.the movie is filled with an air of dread and depression,and i found it hard to watch,but i did manage to get through it.the last time i tried to watch it,i had to stop it after about 15 minutes.to me,Louise Fletcher is absolutely terrifying as the wicked,evil grandmother.the movie doesn't go into as much depth as the novel(by V.C Andrews) on which it is based,but i think that would take at least a 2 part mini series.i wouldn't recommend this movie if you are feeling down.also just keep in my mind that they did leave quite a bit out compared to the novel.otherwise,i would recommend it,especially if you like Gothic style horror,which i think this is.for me,Flowers in the Attic is a 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"EAT THE COOKIE, MOTHER!","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has one of the strangest, classic climactic lines of any movie I've seen, with the old, dependable, wrap everything up in 15 seconds endings.I haven't read the book this is based on, but have to ask why readers find the theme of incest more appropriate in print than in a movie.  The plot revolves around a seemingly perfect family, two parents, four children (all of them unrealistically beautiful)and their happy life - until the father dies.  Instantly, they are destitute and all of their furniture is respossessed.  Why is it that every B movie follows the theme of instant poverty when someone dies?  Apparantly, concepts like having life insurance, owning furniture, etc, don't apply in filmland.  Whenever tragedy strikes in a film, we discover that every house is double-mortgaged to the hilt.  Maybe this is a subtle comment on American consumerism.  Mother's only recourse after this turn of events is to take her children back to her relatives she has alienated by marrying her own uncle.  She actually encourages her children to sleep in the same bed, as if normalizing her own act of incest by perpetuating it in her children who don't know any better.  Naturally, the relatives are evil and twisted, and lock the children in the attic, and we discover that mother is definitely from the same family stock.  There are too many reviews that give a blow by blow description of the plot for me to repeat them, but my main observation is that this is a typical copout provocative movie, with a sicker-than-usual theme;  it alludes to incest, without actually confronting it, which causes the story to fall between the cracks in a bad way. It becomes irrelevant to the story, and there isn't much of a story here to begin with. Either the incest theme should have been eliminated entirely, or dealt with frankly.  Instead, we are shown scenes of brother washing his sister's back in the tub, undressing in front of each other, etc.  Sex is never shown, though it is left up to our imaginations whether they are actually in a sexual relationship or just never taught that brothers and sisters don't undress in front of each other.  The only thing that works is the way the characters don't know that what they are doing is wrong, in fact are innocent to the implications.  The movie tries to have its cake and eat it too, i.e. imply incest and then chicken out, but gives us insulting implied scenes as if we are being nudged in the ribs by a pervert in the local porn shop, only not as subtle.  Implying incest without confronting it in an honest way makes us feel as if we are being manipulated into having perverted fantasies about these characters ourselves, which is the most disgusting aspect of this film, and is my biggest problem with it.  An intelligent script could have dealt with incest in a psychological way, as we understand these characters' relations with each other, and eliminated all the sudsy bath sequences (which true pervs will be dissappointed in, as they don't actually show anything) that makes us feel like we are peeking in someone's bathroom window.An intelligent script would also deal with the idea of family betrayal (by the mother) in an intelligent way; but this isn't an intelligent script.  It relies entirely on atmosphere and images of betrayal, which don't work or are extremely heavy-handed.  This is a very depressing movie about depressing ideas, depressingly presented.  Only the final line Eat the cookie, mother!  gives it a surreal hilarity for a moment. The saddest part of this movie is that the actors are all very good; but they are completely wasted, because the script and direction isn't there to support them.  Four out of ten stars. "},{"Title":"A Giant Middle Finger to Fans.","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Where to start. Lets start with the kids, for one Cathy and Chris are Way.... Older in the movie then the novel, and I found that to be a big disappointment because they start out so innocent in the Attic that after three and a half years, their innocence has been shattered to pieces. Plus Kristy Swanson and Jeb Stuart Adams were not at all how I pictured Cathy and Chris, don't know why that were chosen. And the grandmother! She is so evil, and I just do not like it one bit. In the novel it practically stated that she is evil, but there is a sense of humanity in her. Which the movie completely leaves out and just makes her so you wish her dead every minute. Changing the poison doughnuts to poison cookies was just ridiculous! Them changing the time in the Attic to one year instead of three I found unnecessary. The ending was the second biggest hit to the gut, because instead of just leaving they accidentally kill there mother, leaving absolutely no possibility for a sequel! They just screwed themselves over with that decision. And the last thing is they leave out the incest. I'm not stating that I enjoyed the incest cause I did not. I am stating that it was a huge part of the novel, which is what shocked and captured millions of people and when they take that out... The film is hollow. No passion. I find it to destroy the whole film all together. I am very disappointed by this adaption and give this a 1 out of 10, I do not recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Stems of my Past","Date":"20 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Truly, when I was very young, way back in the eighties&#x85;my older sister introduced me to this book, Flowers in the Attic by V.C. Andrews. Following my first read, I read it another 3 times along with the three follow-up books and one prequel book. I loved every minute of that series and remember the events and journey of Cathy, Chris, Cory and Carrie to this day.When the movie first came out in 1987, my sister &#x96; another huge influence on my childhood &#x96; just had to take me to the movie. Not that I was complaining; 1987 was just when I grew and fell in love with movies (my passion for cinema would only grow tenfold from there.)Since we were both familiar with the story of the flowers in the attic, we walked away disappointed and felt betrayed. So much had changed from novel to screen. Especially&#x85;.that ending. That horrible, terrible, misplaced, no good and actually laughable climax.I believe I saw the movie just shy of a handful of times later on home video, but not for twenty years would I watch it again. 2014 announced to me a Lifetime (TV) film version of this and it sparked my interest into seeing this again after two decades away from Foxworth Hall and the Four Cs.Okay, the movie was very 80s, and had some way overacting &#x96; namely by Kristy Swanson and that ending &#x96; Oh, dear God, that misleading, incorrect and unintentionally hilarious finale &#x96; was just as awful. But, I must say the movie still held true (for the most part) to the original idea behind the V.C. Andrews story.Yes, they changed details, events and made it, incredibly, less violent, claustrophobic and shorter than the events in the book, but the key plot points and motivations were present. And Director/Writer Jeffrey Bloom did all he could to bring a phenomenal book to about 90 minutes of footage. Still not sure how he came up with the last few minutes, though I suspect studio interference for that blunder.The story revolves around four young siblings who get locked up in a room/attic while their recently widowed mother fights for the love of her dying rich father from which she previously fell from grace. Mother's visits to her eventually neglected children become scarce as the weeks and months go by, but they have more to worry about as their hyper-religious and angry Grandmother's punishments increase.With that synopsis, I only touched on the tip of the iceberg with this tale of suspense, love, hope, horror, danger, yearning, greed, despair and future. As did this movie. Watching this should be like reading the back description of the book on the back cover. Then you should read the whole thing, and don't stop until you read all five books in the series. It's truly a great read and never lets the reader down.I digress. This movie, for any of its shortcomings, will always have a special place in my heart. From what it meant growing up, and being with my sister. No matter what they changed, I can still get that feeling, albeit summary, of the book I read nearly five times.* * * Final thoughts The first line, up to the &#x85; of my review is the first line of the book, though eighties replaced fifties for accuracy in my story. To this day, from all the countless books I read, this first book I ever read's first line will stay with me to my end days. I loved it as I did the rest of the book. I don't know why I remember it so well or fondly, but I always will. Think what you will of this movie, but if you had my experience with these&#x85; Flowers in the Attic&#x85;you might actually love this movie more than what it deserves. "},{"Title":"Another unfortunate victim of studio/producer interference","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A successful novel being adapted by a major studio can be risky. Sometimes there's a fight to retain what made people love it in the first place. Some filmmakers have won this fight and made the film they wanted. Sadly, there have been many who've disowned their film because of the damage done. 'Flowers in the Attic' by V.C. Andrews was never going to be an easy novel to adapt. The studio and producers behind it made it near impossible. The result isn't all bad, but not all it could've been either.Pros Well acted by all. Director Jeff Bloom has a great eye. Perfectly bleak vibe. Beautiful, haunting score. Gorgeous production design. Moves at a good pace. A few powerful dramatic moments.Cons Some weak dialogue. Plays it too safe. Some aspects rushed. Silly ending. Lacks nuance.Final thoughts Watching this movie, which is under 90 minutes, one feels it's incomplete. Some of the most powerful parts of the book were left out. Just what were the producers so afraid of? What could have been a classic Drama is only slightly above average. Worth a look, but don't have too high of expectations.My rating 3/5 "},{"Title":"Worst Adaptarion ever","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There are only a few book to movie adaptations, I hate and this was one of them. My lordy lord lord,VC Andrews must be spinning in her grave,this is an abomination to her fabulous Dollanganger series. Flowers in the Attic was the first of her books I read and I was watching the VH1 TV show I Love the 80's and they mentioned that this was made in 1984. So I went out and bought it. Wish I could get my money back,this is so not like the movie. It is so no like the book,they cut back so much. If you read her books do not see this movie .The acting is done horribly and they twisted the ending so badly,the mother doesn't die until the fourth book or something,I can't recall "},{"Title":"The Mother Deserved to be in Hell!","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A shocking story about a foolish woman who was foolish enough to return to her perverted father and bible bashing mother, she put her children through hell, she too was sick in the head, she wanted to starve her children in the attic and lake off with another man.It is true that there are people who are desperate for support and return to their cruel parents for it (if their parents are cruel). This is a lesson to us not to be desperate for support in order to survive and not disregard one's very own family as one will pay the cruel price! The novel, which this movie was based on shocked nearly a million readers worldwide and must've shocked a million viewers worldwide due to one wanting to start a new life and is desperate to! "},{"Title":"missing credits","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I owned half the rights with chuck Fries and produced an line produced the movie Flowers in the Attic. I feel that this site does not show my credits. I bought the book rights in 1980 from the writer V.C. Andrews and chuck fries bought into the project with me. It took eight years to finally get the project an okay. First was Universal with the president at the time was Ned Tanen. Bob Rehme was head of distribution at universal at the time of the green light on the project. Bob Rehme left Universal and started New World Pictures and that is were we made the deal for Flowers in the Attic. I have contracts and just look at the movie I have first credit above Chuck Fries son ///sy levin "},{"Title":"Take the Time...Read the Book","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I read the book first in fact I read the entire series. This book was awesome I couldn't put it down. It left plenty of room for suspense and anticipation, However the movie which in my area has been broadcasting back to back on cable is a shame. I will agree with most it is nothing like the book leaving out vital details leaving moviegoers & cable TV watchers with a bad taste in their mouths..Actually its pretty funny that I would leave a post as much as I dislike the movie I have and will actually sit down and watch it again! I don't know why I guess it kind of grew on me..In any event I can somewhat understand that movie production can be tedious and they do work on time constraints I suppose, but this movie did the book no justice. I would suggest to anyone to read the book first then you will get a clear understanding of what transpired with this family and although we all have very different opinions we all agree on one thing VC Andrews was a wonderful, and Gifted writer ( she and her books will be missed) because no one can do it like her not even the ghost writer... "},{"Title":"book was a lot better than the movie","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" i saw the movie first when i was younger and i thought it was a great movie . and just a couple of days ago i started reading the books and the books are so much better but not for young children . and i think they should have stayed true to the book and i mean all of the book and i think they should make movies about the rest of the Dollanger books . for people are not familiar with them. the name of the books are flowers in the attic , petals on the wind , if there be thorns seeds of yesterday and garden of shadows . the movie was good the books are better i could not put them down . if they do follow the rest of the book which would be wonderful they should stay true to the books. "}{"Title":"they changed the ending","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" in the book Flowers in the Attic, by Virginia Andrews, Cathy and Christopher slowly gain money by stealing into their mothers rooms for months, and Cathy experiences for Bartholomew Winslow and the story ends with the 3 children on a bus, heading for a new life, they just simply leftthere was also an extra room in the attic, with a school room, the desks had the names of past children carved into themi suppose in the film the makers wanted it to end, or else they'd have to make the other books from the series into filmsalthough if i disregard what i remember from the book, it is still a good film "},{"Title":"An OK film","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Before i watched the film i had read the whole Dollanganger series by Virginia Andrews, which included Flowers in the Attic. I felt that the film was a good interpretation on an amazing novel. although i feel it is not one of the better adaptations of a book i've watched it is good, because the storyline is not identical and has a twist at the end, which i didn't like, but many of my friends have felt differently and thought it was a good twist. I thought that soma of the acting was a bit lame and it felt to me whilst i was wathcing thta the film was very low budget and the producer couldn't afford decent actors. I did find it nice that the director thought to include the author Virgina Andrews in the film, if only a minor role. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as all that","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The movie isn't as lame as I thought it was. Don't get me wrong, its bad, but not THAT bad. And I'll have to admit that after the fifth time seeing it (God help me), I actually LIKE the movie now. They did a good job capturing the creepy, depressive spirit in the novel. At least, the mother and the kids look like they literally jumped out of the book and onto the screen. Their acting was terrible because the movie had a bad director. And poor Louise Fletcher was either miscast or so poorly directed that she almost ruined the film. Anyway, the movie works on a camp level (the scene when the grandmother lifts the little girl up by her hair is hi-LARIOUS). As bad as it is, it still manages to make you feel sorry for those kids, and angry at their evil mother. "},{"Title":"What COULD compare to the book?","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so the movie wasn't the greatest I've ever seen, but it certainly wasn't the worse.  The novel by V.C. Andrews is my favorite book of all time, and the movie does fall short of the expectations of die hard Flowers in the Attic fans, but the movie wasn't a total disaster.  I thought Ben Ganger and Lindsay Parker were perfect as the twins, Cory and Carrie, though Kristy Swanson and Jeb Adams weren't nearly as impressive as Cathy and Christopher.  The actress that played the mother, Corrine, lacked the physical and emotional characteristics the book possessed her with, but the actress that played the grandmother did a pretty good job at being evil and torturous.  The movie does have its moments when you feel sorry for the children, but it also has its moments when you wanna shake them and scream Just drop kick the psycho grandma and get out of there you idiots!  But it's just hard to capture all of the enchantment of a classic book such as this on film.  The book is a perfect 10 out of 10, but I give the movie a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A movie that touches the soul","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great drama, that brings you threw the story of four kids who have to fight for survival, and an evil grandmother that wishes they were never born.   This movie has great actors that pull you into the movie and keep you there. "},{"Title":"Why don't people like this movie?","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  i don't understand what most people have against this movie.  its true that ive never read the book, but i thought this movie was very entertaining.  the only two things that i did not like in this movie was that the grandmother never got justice done to her, and the two oldest siblings acted sometimes as if they were going to be interbreeders like their mother was.  the acting was good though, especially by the evil grandmother, and the twins were darlings.  all in all, i give this movie a 7.9 out of 10.p.s.  this is not a spoiler entry! "},{"Title":"Lucky number 6 for Bloom....","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of reviewers for this movie dismissed the screenplay claiming it was nothing like the book. Truth be told V.C. Andrews turned down 5 scripts before Blooms version. She was just as picky as we are until it came to a point when her film agent told her that they (the screenplay writers) want to do what she says. This was as close to a movie that V.C wanted. She even turned down a script penned by Wes Craven! So in essence, a true V.C. Andrews fan (pre-Andrew Neidermen) would be proud of this movie as it was her project more then Blooms. It was her vision in a way, she even told Kristy Swanson at a cast dinner You are exactly as I picture Cathy.I thought for the most part it was a decent retelling of the novel. It left out a lot of stuff, but I do not think the public wants to see a love bloom between a brother and sister as it did in the book. I would have liked the end to have been different as the sequels to the books were great. You would then be able to see Cathy's revenge. "},{"Title":"There's a reason for this film (sorry, it's a spoiler)","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is okay on it's own, but without the book there's no reason behind it. What was written in the book was completely different from what went on in the film. The acting was rubbish and i didn't believe what the actors were saying. The reason a lot of the scenes in the book were cut from the film, was because if the incest scenes were left in, a lot of the target audience wouldn't have been allowed to go and see it because of the censorship. I think whoever cast the actors were either new at their job or were very bad at it - none of the actors were believable enough for me (and most other people it seems). The main reason the film was made was for Victoria Andrews who unfortunately died before it was released in the cinema. I feel sorry for her and her family when this was released because it put her writing to shame.There should be a remake and the other books in the series for a tribute to the 16th anniversary of her death. Just this time, PLEASE, get a better cast and crew!!!! PLEASE!!! "},{"Title":"Let's say it was interesting!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have actually read the book by VC Andrews, and i'll say this movie was nothing compared the book. In fact, it was total rubbish compared to the book.It was nothing like the book, apart from the basic outline. Some of the things that happened in the film did not happen in the book, and some things happened in the book that did not happen in the movie.If you enjoyed the movie, then I urge you to read the book, it is so much better. The book is much more compelling than the film is. "},{"Title":"Okay, but could be better...perhaps a remake could be made?","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Great plot and summary (of course the book is awesome), but what happened to the movie? It was okay, but it could have been better. The music was pretty good, and the acting was okay, and Louise Fletcher was great, but the movie itself fell apart. Perhaps if it's remade, with much more horror, and maybe tell more of the story, it will be great! The whole book series was excellent! The movie...well, not so good. If they do a remake, and it does become much better, why not try to film the whole series? That'll be really good. But if the movie is remade, keep Louise Fletcher in there. She's wonderful! "}{"Title":"Watch it!!!!!","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think this film was brilliant I know people will disagree but people have different views on things and I think it is a must to watch about a girl (Cathy) a Boy (Chris) and the twins (Carrie & Cory) when they get locked in the attic when their father dies they are punished for the sins their parents committed and to top it off their Mother turns against them! Quite simply brilliant. "},{"Title":"Not Good at All Compared to the Book","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" *MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS* I read the book at thirteen and found it a great way to kind of hide away in my room and stay away from the world. When I had finished I rented the movie *in the year 2006* and it was very disappointing.I was shocked that all the incest was taken away from the movie, even if this would have made the movie R, it was a huge part of the book *in my opinion* and was most certainly a big part in the additional books. So when there wasn't any real relationship between Cathy and Chris I was disappointed. Also the mother's part seemed wrong to me. She was supposed to be married and on her honeymoon during the long period of time when she didn't visit. And she didn't die till a later book.I wish with all my heart I could re-make this movie! The book was so wonderful I'd hate to see it ruined. You'd think that the death of the author during the making of this film would have been a bad enough omen to tell them the kids weren't right for the parts.I really think it could be better if someone else attempted it! "},{"Title":"A beautiful flower in the darkness","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The V.C Andrew's Flowers in the attic is a thrilling story about four children's who lives in the horrible house of her aggressive and religious grandmother. This story of scape, fear, tears and violence was adapted to the movies at 1987. I see the movies, and i should confess that this title thrill me so much. I have not read the book yet, but i think the movie is very aggressive and clever, but of course with some falls and maybe a little of lost of the control of the monotony.With Louise Fletcher, Victoria Tennant and the beautiful Kristy Swanson, Flowers in the attic is a dark tale of family secrets and the encounter of the innocence and the greed. And now, in spite of the movie has a few good scape scenes, i think that scenes could be much, much, much better. But, after all, is a good movie that maybe can you find in any video store or in TV in a lonely night. Ah yes... you can see this movie in any part of the day... but i recommend that is better see it at night. Maybe you feel the cold of that creepy house... and the shades too. *Sorry, for the mistakes... well, if there any "},{"Title":"Fair Enough","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. I really don't see why it's being called a disgrace. Sure, I've read the Dollanganger series and the movie left the rest out. The movie was unique among some. A mother (Victoria Tennant) takes hr four children to Foxsworth Mansion and hides them in the attic so her dying father will never know. I liked that Louise Fletcher accepted this role. She was great as the evil grandmother and Victoria Tennant too. Her eyes made you feel sorrow for her at first and then hatred for her. I really didn't like the fact that Kristy Swanson played Cathy she was so whiny and overeacted. Most of why people hate this movie is because of the rape scene between Cathy and Christopher. I just have one thing to say I'm glad they cut it. It would be very disgraceful to the movie but it was better in the book. And for the climax when the mother dies and the confrontation was taken from Petals on the Wind but the mother does not die. Overall, I suggest this movie to anyone who would want to see a great move of betrayal but I suggest you should also read V.C. Andrews books which expand the story much more. "},{"Title":"Good film, easy not to like","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not sure that I liked this film. I think it's an excellent film, but it's not easy to like.I thought that it was well acted, directed and written. Characters were believable and easy to empathize with. The problem is that the film is INCREDIBLY dark. Even with a dark film, I like to walk away with a good feeling. I just couldn't do that this time. Even as they rolled the closing credits, it felt oppressive, with no hope of coming back up.Worth watching? Absolutely. I do suggest that you make it a double feature, though ... and have something happy to cap the evening. You're going to need it. "},{"Title":"Accolades stacked up in my attic","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Contrary to the people who have commented negatively about this movie , i have seen the movie FLOWERS IN THE ATTIC on 12th July and the movie haunts me even now...the movie was absolutely fantastic as per me with an amazing story writer .... although i do think whoever the grandmother was , no matter how big a celebrity she is i don't really care and don't mind daring to say ; she is a cold actress with absolutely notihing going for her .. the people who touched me is the girl and her brother Christopher ... both having acted extremely well . the blind faith of the boy in his mother was so well shown ........ it had me almost in tears each time .the girl Kristy Swanson was terrific in her play too.... very realistic no matter what any of the critics on this site say having drubbed her performance .... and yes the twins specially the boy haunts me with his terrific performance .. he is someone who without having a gr8 amount to do ... has won my heart completely ...GUYS Every time U TRY COMPARING AN AMAZING BOOK TO A MOVIE BASED ON IT ... U HAVE TO REALISE THTAT ITS NOT POSSIBLE TO IMBIBE EVERY WELL ETCHED DETAIL ABOUT IT AS THE TIME BARRIER HURDLES PERFECTION .......for me this is the perfect movie for a person with a brain and it works for me amazingly "},{"Title":"Oddly Compelling Despite Some Major Flaws","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Translating novels to the screen is a tricky business; most authors have been mistreated in one way or another by Hollywood, with the possible exception of Ira Levin, whose film adaptations are usually eerily close to the books.V C Andrews's first novel, FLOWERS IN THE ATTIC, notorious for its theme of incest, comes to the screen limping with half broken legs. One of the novel's major themes is incest. The Dollenganger family are the product of a vaguely incestuous union (Mother married her father's much younger half-brother), and during their imprisonment in the attic, the older brother and sister actually have sex once, but in the book this all has its own peculiar logic and actually makes sense.Director Jeffrey Bloom and the production team backed off of the incest; the mother's marriage is mentioned once and the two older siblings have a closeness that is vaguely suggestive but otherwise the theme of incest is never really developed.At the beginning of the film we meet the Dollanganger family Mom Corinne (Victoria Tennant), father Christopher (Marshall Colt), and their four children Christopher (Jeb Stuart Adams), Catherine (Kristy Swanson), and the twins Cory (Ben Ryan Ganger) and Carrie (Lindsay Parker). They are a close family; almost too close, but their world is shattered when the father is killed in an automobile accident.Mother, grief-stricken, is unable to cope with life, and eventually they find themselves penniless and on the street, so Mother decides to take the children to the home of her parents, grandparents the children have never seen. On the way there, Mother reveals that her father disinherited her for something she did years ago, and this pilgrimage is a mission to win back his love and reenter his good graces.We finally arrive at the Foxworth Mansion and are greeted by Grandmother, played by none other than Louise Fletcher. Fletcher is great here, as she always is when she plays a type of evil woman who wields power, but I did find myself thinking the poor woman should have had a word with her agent; ever since the 1976 Oscars Fletcher had been playing variations on the Nurse Ratched theme. But no matter. No one did it better than she.The other actors were savaged by the critics, but I thought they were quite good. Victoria Tennant and Kristy Swanson, who both took a major shellacking in the reviews, deliver in fact the two performances (along with Fletcher's) that drive the narrative forward. In fact, all four of the kids deliver fine work. No, the actors are not the problem; they work hard and are mostly effective. What cobbles them is an extremely awkward script; people simply do not speak the way these kids do most of the time (Cathy has a habit of constantly repeating her older brother's name, for example). And Tennant as their mother comes across as stilted and stiff most of the time, though this may be her way of indicating that Corinne is under the spell of her mother. Only Fletcher seems to have the gift of flinging about the rather purple dialogue; her character is a religious fanatic, half Nurse Ratched and half Margaret White from CARRIE, and she has a field day with her role.In the end, it is Kristy Swanson's Cathy who proves to be her grandmother's (AND mother's) nemesis. Swanson is fierce despite the awkwardness of some of what she has to say, and all four of the kids make a believable family.I am not going to reveal the plot. It's something that should be experienced. Some will probably hate it, but I was most impressed. They ripped half the guts out of what was a truly excellent book in the Gothic tradition, yet still managed to produce something eerie and frightening. In spite of what the film lacks, they managed to give it a somber and creepy mood that is not only impressive but hard to forget.But if you see the film, do read the novel as well; it's great. "},{"Title":"Powerful Child Actors","Date":"6 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I thought it was a good movie. The acting was flawless. I thought the children did a great job of portraying the characters very well. Louise Fletcher was strong but I just kept thinking that if she was that religious then the director should have developed her character a little more and show us why she became what she was. I wanted to know more about her character. Also the mother's character changes and we don't really get to understand why she became just like her mother. The story itself was strong and I could sympathize for the children who were really powerful and totally believable. Very few films like these are being made now. The sets were historic and cinematography beautiful. "},{"Title":"Not a decent adaption from the book series","Date":"4 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I too was a huge V.C. Andrew's series fan, during its day. It was fascinating to read such intensive, dark, and emasculating drama about an incestuous family's dysfunctional journey through future generations.However this film adaption is far from the book series' justice. Only Louise Fletcher as the cruel grandmother, delivers any real or decent performance. Now I've always liked Kristy Swanson during her teen years, in the many TV movies and smaller roles she's played, and Jeb Stuart pulled off some decent supporting roles himself, in some classic 80's teen movies. However, direction did not pull much justice of intensity for either one of their characters in this. At times their Chris and Cathy's are plain flat or just whiny. And their 'interaction' with the mother, also falls flat.And Victoria Tennant. Get me started on her. The former Mrs. Steve Martin (Yes, the famous comic actor who seasoned during SNL) is as bad or flat an actress is bad-acting can nose-dive. She always was noted as mediocre. And here, she is less than such. Barely believable as Corrine, in spite any proper direction she was allotted during shoot. Mostly she was down right boring, especially the attic scenes.Jeffrey Bloom's overall direction is just okay. Only Oscar-winner Louise Fletcher delivers any such notable performance. "},{"Title":"Angel in the Attic","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Currently watching this one. Half-way through. Let me just shout out that (a) this movie looks more than great even in this day and age, it has stood the test of time extremely well; (b) Kristy Swanson WOW!!Years ago, after seeing DEADLY FRIEND at the local drive-in theater, I wanted to see more of Kristy Swanson. I suppose it was the back of the VHS box that told me about FLOWERS IN THE ATTIC but there was no way I could find it - it still being The Dark Ages way back then in the late Eighties, think VCR and VHS. What cave-dwellers we were! Years go by, become decades, and DVD and online ordering brings some of that much vaunted space-age power my way, and last night I finally had FLOWERS IN THE ATTIC on my big screen.It is every bit worth the wait! My little heroine is every bit breathtakingly heartbreakingly deliriously beautiful, and the story is more than watchable, although I find it implausible that the four children would have stayed captive up there, they'd have easily gotten past that mean old witch and her nasty sour- faced old butler, I mean, youth would win out every time. Okay, time for me to go watch further...(I haven't read the book. I won't argue the cases of fans of the book, I myself know of movies that fell far short in comparison to the original book, and have posted such reviews as well. My interest lie however in actress Kristy Swanson, and I think she's just the most wonderful little thing in this movie)Addendum, 26 April 2015. ***SPOILER ALERT*** Unfortunately the second half of the movie is a total shambles. At the end, the whole movie is discredited with that weakly staged fall from the balcony. Gee, she practically walks over to the balcony and offers to be thrown over. No. Also, they wear those hideous deathly pallor makeup but remain moving fluently, they don't act sick and weak. And if Mother needed to get rid of them, why toy with them? Why the drawn- out fuss? Weakest link is Grandmother, who has a menacing presence in the first half, but shows petty jealousy and quenches her envy by cutting off most of Cathy's long hair. The hatred the old has for the young... Rest of the second half, Grandmother is oddly ineffectual, and Kristy is not entirely convincing in her vengeful mode. Nice try, but needed more practice. A promising set-up that was off to a good start but got a whole lot off track. I am not going to blast it, though. But the prose I wrote last week, was directed at the first half. I do understand that the story had to turn nasty, but the points I make are totally valid, and the script turned into a sinking ship. Gee, the haters are high-fiving themselves, this 'fan' is all of a sudden quite deluded, looking on his nose, the Home Team lost in the second half. No, haters! The movie is so promising in the first half that I would be focusing on that.By the way, towards the end of these compiled reviews, you'll find one by 'blackfirestars'. I have a bone to pick with this 'author' and the many unwarranted comments. I will not even allude to them here, except for one Suggesting that Cathy was masturbating in the bath. Wishful thinking on your part? Look, I myself admit to being naughtily inclined, but I would refrain from insinuating anything that cannot be proved. Cathy was daydreaming in the bath, as she was lifting her leg out of the water she is clearly thinking about being a ballerina. The title of 'blackfirestars' review is beneath contempt, I dearly wish to address it here, but it seems I might only give credibility to that dark comment if I protest it. An interesting viewing experience. Must say that the experience here at IMDb marred it more than just a bit. Would be interesting to see the remake. One day... "}{"Title":"neither thrilling nor scary","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After the death of their father, teenagers Chris (Jeb Stuart Adams) and Cathy (Kristy Swanson), the twins Cory and Carrie, and their mother Corrine Dollanganger (Victoria Tennant) are forced to return to her parents' home. Their religious grandparents Malcolm and Olivia Foxworth (Louise Fletcher) had disinherited their mother a long time ago but she intends to win back her inheritance. The kids are locked away in the attic. Olivia reveals that their father is actually their mother's uncle. Even their mother visits them less and less as time goes on.There are changes from the book but none of them actually makes the movie better. It's questionable that the book would make a great movie anyways. I think it's possible to turn it into a good horror movie. Also the movie probably needs a mystery to be revealed. Olivia reveals the secret right away. It's a bland telling that hints at something more sexualized. It isn't thrilling or scary. The dialog is a bit clunky. The actors seem able but the script just isn't willing. "},{"Title":"Another Horrifying Story","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie Flowers in the Attic in a way is similar to a film from 15 years earlier called Demons of the Mind (1972) - both films are good. If you like one then you might like the other.I have never read the book Flowers in the Attic so I cannot judge book vs movie - however I can judge the film on how well I liked it and this one I quite liked... yes it is a movie that is hard to watch but I still find it a good film nevertheless.Like most others who have seen the film, I too find Louise Fletcher's performance as the grandmother very good. I also quite liked Victoria Tennant's performance just as much. Both are outstanding in this film.9/10 "},{"Title":"An all time favourite of my childhood","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Although this adaptation of Virginia Andrew's dark series has not done justice to her writing, the film is still dark, eerie and captures the main essence of the book.Although it lagged action at times and drags, the story is unique and captivating. The acting of the Grandmother is freaky and it is definitely a film I would watch again.I am interested in the 2014 remake, I am sure with the quality of films made these days we are in for a treat.However, this is the classic adaptation and I think the children were conveyed well and their stories were told in this film.Even if you are not a V.A fan, still a good film to watch. "},{"Title":"This movie is ONLY FOR ADULTS.","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Flowers in the Attic is geared towards nobody, except horror movie buffs. However, it is not your typical horror movie. It is a film with an interesting story, totally unbelievable and extremely memorable. To me, it was virtually a horror movie. However, this horror is all too real to understand why such a situation would ever happen. This movie is ONLY FOR ADULTS. Children should NOT WATCH the movie. I still remember the movie and the feeling it game me even after several months of watching it. This is the only reason I give it a higher rating than normal. I was totally blown away by this movie. Flowers in the Attic is a movie that appears to move slow, however, don't let the pace deceive you. The movie draws you in and does not let you go. This is a movie that will haunt you for a long time. "},{"Title":"A bad summary of the book","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A bad summary of the book. Yes the book and that is what this movie is based upon the book! The Flowers in the Attic movie is a very poor take on the Dollanganger family story written by Virginia Andrews, period! It was massacred and summarized to produce a poor movie. So many things were changed and not to produce a better movie, the movie was stripped of the soul of the characters. I don't want to mention all the things that were butchered to make this ragged movie. Too many details missing. Was the movie that tight on budget that they couldn't afford to make the scenes flow more realistically? Like teaching the twins in the attic on those old desks in the attic and teaching them crafts with all the gifts Corrine would bring. Not once did I see her bring any gifts, they mentioned them, they mentioned many things but why weren't they portrayed in the movie? What happened to the Attic? It did not fit the description of the book in the least. Let me stress the title of the this story is Flowers in the Attic and that is where the young Dollangangers spent most of their days, where Cathy grew into puberty. They should of focused more about that. Not implement so many things in the movie that didn't exist in the book. I missed the twins sitting on the small desks and the blackboard, I miss Cathy impersonating the grandmother or dancing? All I saw was Cathy doing stretching exercises. I did not see her putting on old records and dancing, dancing, dancing. Oh and what about Cathy's hair that got cut off? Grandmother put tar in her hair, not cut it...the story is wrong beyond belief. I hope the next movie will pay tribute to the story because this one is a huge disappointment. "},{"Title":"Weak","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" They have come to a house where secrets are kept....where the future is haunted by the past.....where the innocent live in the shadow of sin.....where a dark legacy awaits to destroy all who defy it...While I have not read the book, I sincerely hope it is not as bad as this film (though, after reading Twilight, I know that you do not need to be a good writer to sell millions of copies). Absolutely terrible dialogue litters this film, and it is poorly delivered, only exacerbating this shortcoming.Another script was written by Wes Craven, but was turned down because of the violence and incest. I would much rather watch his version (this one all but removes the incest subplot that made the original novel so controversial). At least horror fans still have the music of Christopher Young (Hellraiser) to listen to.Apparently the sequel was to be all sex but never got off the ground. The bigger mystery is where is the remake? A book this successful that made a critically-failed movie? That is a perfect excuse to give it another go. By now, Kristy Swanson is old enough to play the mother... "},{"Title":"I cried so much.... Because it was absolutely TERRIBLE!!","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I can't believe how different the movie was to the book! I mean a twelve year old can probably make a better movie of the book! I'm a massive fan o fthe dollanganger series I know what happens in each book off my heart. I was so disappointed about the movie.I mean cathy and chris?! Zilch happened between them! That was honestly one of my favourite things about the book series them two. And I don't get how they thought they'd be able to make a second movie if the kids told everyone!!People who haven't read the book probably think that I am overreacting but I'm not. If you've seen the movie and haven't read the book, read the book and you'll see why I'm going mad! In the book I cry in nearly every chapter and in the movie I didn't cry at all except for the fact I cried because it was so bad. Anyway I recommend the book not the movie!! "},{"Title":"Nurse Ratched meets Steve Martin's ex meets the original Buffy","Date":"11 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It seems that about 90% of Louise Fletcher's roles after One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest were retreads of Nurse Ratched, and Jeffrey Bloom's Flowers in the Attic is no exception. She plays the psychotic grandmother of some children who move into her house with their mother after their father's death. But as time goes by, it starts looking as if the mom might not be much better.Fletcher makes her role chilling, but the presence of Victoria Tennant makes it hard to take this seriously as a thriller. You see, Tennant was married to Steve Martin for some years and co-starred with him in All of Me and LA Story. Even as her character grew more and more hostile, I kept expecting Steve Martin to enter the scene as the wild and crazy guy. The other main cast member is Kristy Swanson, whose best known movie role is the title character in the completely brainless Buffy the Vampire Slayer.And then there's the comparison to the book. Prior to watching the movie I had never even heard of V.C. Andrews, let alone known that she'd written a series of books about unpleasant families. I did read that they changed a number of things from the book. In the end, this mostly ends up looking like one of those movies only memorable for the bizarre cast that they assembled (others include Hurry Sundown and The Greatest Story Ever Told). "},{"Title":"The worst movie version of a book ever","Date":"25 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I just stumbled across this movie on demand and hadn't seen it since it came out in 1987. I don't know if I was more disappointed then or now. V. C. Andrews must be turning over in her grave daily, disgusted to what was done to her incredible series of books.This movie had so much potential to be a huge franchise and the idiot producers and directors killed it before it was ever released. Never have I anticipated a movie so much and been so disappointed at the same time.This movie should be destroyed and remade with the integrity and honor of the book. "},{"Title":"Okay as a movie.","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" To begin with, this viewer has to admit that he hasn't ever read the phenomenally successful novel on which this movie is based, and therefore can't judge it as an adaptation, although fans of the book make it quite clear that this utterly fails in that regard. I was aware that this movie, rated PG-13, waters down some of the elements of the novel such as incest and sadism. Taken on its own, I also have to admit I found this movie reasonably grim and compelling. The basic story is a good one a family is thrown into turmoil upon the death of the father, whereupon the mother must desperately turn to her own mother for food and shelter. Unfortunately, the four children eventually realize that they're trapped in the grandparents' opulent mansion, specifically the attic. Ugly truths and true natures come to the surface as the mother seems to stop caring about her kids at all. The movie does indeed get a lot out of the casting in the central roles. Louise Fletcher in particular is excellent in the kind of ice cold villainess part that became her stock in trade. I don't know about any other viewers out there, but *I* certainly wouldn't want Nurse Ratched for a grandmother. Victoria Tennant is good as the mother with a secret to hide; she initially earns some sympathy but loses it before too long. Kristy Swanson, Jeb Stuart Adams, Ben Ryan Ganger, and Lindsay Parker are all likable enough as the troubled kids. Once Flowers in the Attic approaches its finale, one can feel their blood turn cold when they see just how evil and selfish the people in this story can be. The material does hit a nerve. At the least, this has served to make me want to read the novel after which I too may very well seethe about what could / should have been. For now I see it as a halfway decent melodrama / thriller, that does benefit from beautiful music by Christopher Young and a sober enough tone. Author V.C. Andrews does a cameo as a window washer. Six out of 10. "}{"Title":"Skip the film and consider reading the books","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film knowing virtually nothing about it and until just now reading some of these reviews I didn't know about the books. So it's not a case of being disappointed after being familiar with the books, and I took the film on simply its own merits. I thought the film well done is some respects. A serious effort and nice location. The music was good. But quite frankly I found the storyline to be flimsy, utterly illogical, unbelievable, and downright boring. It is a matter of taste I suppose since I see most rated it much higher than I did, so maybe you might enjoy it if you are loose on logic and view it while eating pizza or something. However if you are a serious cinemaphile I suggest you read some of the reviews that I wish I had read before deciding to spend 90 minutes on it. I would rather have spent that time checking on the series of books. Based on the reviews here, apparently the books were much more successful. "},{"Title":"Flowers in the Attic Producer Sy Levin destroys a great novel.","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Flowers In The Attic could have been a great film, unfortunately it had several problems. First, is that it was written to be an x rated film, or an r....It was shot as an r rating. Then the producers fumbled around and cut the best footage out to release this to a general audience, leaving everybody confused. The writer was so upset, she wrote a scathing letter to producer Sy Levin. The second problem is that Sy Levin was involved. Sy no longer can show his face in Hollywood. He was a friend of O.J. Simpson's and was cut of the same cloth as O.J., his friends were involved in the distribution of hard drugs, and had bragged to me about how much fun it was to stab somebody... Sy was interested in producing the O.J. Simpson court documentary that would prove he was innocent. Meanwhile, I was threatened by them, and had to call the police hot line to save my life. Sy's friends got 25 to life for their other crimes, Sy always gets off without charges, but can no longer show his face in Hollywood. It's a shame that the best footage of some fine actors went on the cutting room floor. Gus Peters gave an excellent performance. This film should be re-edited as an x, although the footage is probably lost forever. I would look forward to the sequel, perhaps Fries can do it properly now that Sy Levin is no longer associated with anybody, and can no longer destroy anybody's life. "},{"Title":"Awful. Completely awful.","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After reading all of the Flowers in the Attic series, I decided to watch the movie. I had read it was terrible, but I thought well, I usually like movies that people hate so why not.. Regret! Wow!This movie does not do the book justice at all and leaves out a LOT of interesting and important details (especially if they were going to carry on doing the sequels as originally planned). The acting sucks and I cringed the whole time. Even if you haven't read the book, the movie still isn't good. The whole story/plot (what little there is of the plot) is completely rushed and there isn't enough character building for anyone to relate or understand any of the characters.Do yourself a favor, and read the book and stay away from the movie. I will never watch it again. "},{"Title":"the worst movie ever!!","Date":"15 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is not a movie. It is a travesty. Victoria Tenant gives one of the worst performances in movie history. And Louise Fletcher strips away any of the shine her Oscar might have given her. Honestly. The movie is about incest and fetishism and abuse which are, in capable hands, interesting subjects for artistic exploration. But this isn't it. The direction is laughable. I can't imagine what they were thinking while editing this film. The screenplay is a joke. Nothing makes sense. I saw this during a film night at a friend's house. We laughed, we yawned and finally I got so mad that I threw my shoe at the TV. I wish we could erase this film from the canon and pretend it never happened. Ugh! "},{"Title":"A complete travesty","Date":"9 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" How do I begin to describe how truly awful this movie is. At the beginning you have four children joyfully hiding behind a sofa to surprise their father when he comes home from work. The two oldest kids look to be in their twenties. The sight of them trying to hide behind the sofa looked ridiculous. None of the four children could act, they were very very bad. The mother couldn't act either. By the size of the two oldest kids they could easily have overpowered the grandmother and escape, but no, they didn't even try. The grandmother gives them a list of rules they have to obey whilst they live in her house but the rules are never revealed to the audience, so why even mention them? When the kids start to get sickly from their incarceration, powder is obviously rubbed into their faces, hilarious. My opinion is whoever made this movie stole the name of a novel and then proceeded to ignore said novel whilst making this dross. The incest in the book is not mentioned nor even hinted at and the ending is ridiculous. Avoid this so called movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"Louise Fletcher is the grandmother of mean","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Not a great movie but not a disaster, there is one redeeming element and that is the acting of Louise Fletcher as the malevolent grandmother, who is a God-fearing puritan with a burning desire to be as mean as her narrow world will permit. Her rigid, expressionless face never betrays a hint of happiness, let alone a smile. She imposes strict rules on the grandchildren who are forced to live in tight confinement in the otherwise large, rambling house that becomes their prison.In this endeavour she is aided and abetted by her daughter who is less convincing in her role as the penniless widow who returns home to mend fences with her parents and achieve her long-lost inheritance. As the movie progresses, we see little of the dysfunctional relationship that compels her to be as mean as her own mother must have been with her, with the exception of the lashes her mother administers for the 17 years of absence.The world of the children eventually forces them into action to try to extricate themselves from the evil that is throttling and endangering their lives. Things reach a climax with a family tragedy. Of the children, the elder daughter is the most convincing. I haven't read the book, which is usually just as well since films can seldom weave in the detail that a good book can achieve. On that basis, this is not a bad movie. "},{"Title":"Great Books can be made into Dreadful Movies.....this one stands alone as the No 1 Turkey of all time!","Date":"2 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I can't believe people have actually given this dreadful movie full marks. An abysmal adaptation of the book, with barely any resemblance to the original story. Dreadful direction, script and acting from Victoria Tennent and Louise Fletcher who must have been down on their luck to agree to appear in this monstrosity. Why on earth the writer agreed to make a brief appearance must be another wonder of the world! Whilst I was watching this - in the end just to see how much more of the storyline was going to be obliterated - I wondered why the children didn't get any older........only to realise that the whole episode takes place over a year rather than over 3 years in the book.Wherever he is today, I hope the Director is hanging his head in shame.Why doesn't someone make this movie again.......without the storyline being completely annihilated. It was a great story and could be a great movie given the proper direction and featuring credible actors. "},{"Title":"Not worth your time","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" First of all, I feel I should mention that I have never read any of Andrews' books, including the series that had its first entry made into this movie. So I have no idea how closely this movie follows the book. But even if this movie does more or less follow the book, I can't picture fans of the book liking this movie. The movie comes across like flat soda pop. The photography is murky-looking, and there are no visuals that catch the eye. The acting is utterly unconvincing, except maybe for the butler character, because he never says a word at any point in the movie. The story moves at an extremely slow pace, with no tension at any point, not even when the (subdued) music score blares. Also, the story at several points seems to be missing footage that was discarded during the editing process, leading to some confusion on some details. And the climax/ending is extremely unsatisfying. It's low-budget disappointments like this that explain why New World Pictures closed its doors a few years later. "},{"Title":"This Movie is so Bad","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie was a mockery to the wonderful books that VC Andrews wrote. I am surprised to have just read she actually appeared in the film. The acting was so heavy it was like plotting through concrete the whole time while viewing this film. The actors themselves seemed like they were reading dialog from books placed right in front of them. The major crux of the film was Chris and Cathy turning to one another during their formative years, it was completely omitted from the film. It wasn't just horrible acting, camera angles were a joke as well. I remember how excited I was when I heard this book was being made into a movie,then I saw it....and I could not wait for it to be over. "},{"Title":"they're supposed to be 17 and 14, not 27 and 18, anyhow, its not that bad cause its a challenge to put this book into film","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" they're supposed to be 17 and 14, not 27 and 18, anyhow, its not that bad cause its a challenge to put this book into film but they don't show -as others-the part where they scape the house for a night to the lake, I think it was silly for them not to have escaped on time, well, its Fiction anyhow , isn't it ?, the Sexual parts are suggested-implied as Erotism, so I believe that is Fine, as the music, it was a film that shocked me as I saw it when I was about 10, pretty interesting story, I have recently been checking on the book and its pretty nice although I believe some of the parts,like them climbing the mansion wall down and up or like them especially they passiveness (not being aggressive and escaping on time)is a bit unlikely ans phony for this kind of a situation , anyhow, its quite a inspiring and disturbing story "}{"Title":"oh no.","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I think in this case, it would be OK to watch the film before you read the book as the film bears hardly any resemblance to the film. Jeb Stuart Adams being 26, and Kirsty Swan being 18, they're both far too old to be pushed around by the grandma, and far too old to be 14 and 12. Also, irritating little alterations are made, like that the mother was married to the father for 17 years. Why 17? why not just say 15 like it is in the book? By all means, watch this film. I found it hilarious - Kristy Swan's over-dramatic acting had me in stitches - the way she screams every time someone stands in front of her and the nooooooooooo! she cries when her grandmother smashes her wind-up ballerina are the best bits. "},{"Title":"bad version","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" i liked it but i thought they could've done a better job i think Andrew Norman should rewrite the screen play and have some one re do this movie. Kristy Swanson did a good job as Cathy, as were the rest of the actors but the script was so badly written that i didn't believe in any of them, if they would have at least had one scene where the kids and the mean grandmother had a couple of conversations. Chris hated the grandmother and even picked up a chair in the book and threatened to hit her in the head you could see that he had no fear Cathy and the grandmother should have had another scene alone together the grandmother did bring them real flowers for there fake garden. and they could have shown the part where the kids tried to give the grandmother a Christmas present. and i don't believe that they should have killed their mother at the end when Corinne actually died in the third book saving Cathy's life "},{"Title":"Horrible rendition of a magnificent book","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Louise Fletcher was pretty decent as the Grandmother, but all of the other actors were terrible. Victoria Tennant was cold from the very beginning, whereas Corrine was warm and loving at first. Swanson overdid everything, and the kids who played the twins were like sticks. There was no need whatsoever to put John the Butler into such a starring role. Writing out the incest makes no sense at all, as it was a major part of the plot. Worse yet, killing off the mother at the end effectively negates the possibility of ever making any of the other books into movies. A movie flub Even after Cory dies, four cookies are sent up to the children with their daily food. "},{"Title":"Too far-fetched","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I gave this movie a five. It's interesting, but very far-fetched. I know crazy things happen in this world, crazier than in this movie, but I like more realistic films. The acting was horrible. Children between the ages of 10 and 17 might enjoy this due to their natural nature. But adults might think it's a waste of time. We have Andrea Yeager who killed her five kids, Susan Smith who drown her sons, the lady in New York who dropped her kids off a roof one by one, Michael Jackson dangling his adopted child from a balcony, and a lot more crazier things that have happened so this should seem a little bit easier to digest. Maybe if they had more convincing actors, it would not have seemed so far-fetched. "},{"Title":"Very very displeased","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I am an avid V.C. Andrews reader and had finished the book, Flowers in the Attic and then rented it that same night. I anticipated it would follow the story at least partially but it failed miserably. I do not know how any one who didn't read the book could possibly follow the movie. I did not expect the movie and book to be EXACTLY the same, because they never really are, however, there was such an immense amount of things that were changed and even more that were left out completely. I found the movie to be very empty. The acting was horrid and the ending even more so. I do not recall having been so disappointed in a movie, ever.A million thumbs DOWN.  "},{"Title":"Shameful Adaptation of a powerful, emotive novel","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was very disappointed watching this adaptation of Flowers in the Attic written by Virginia Andrews. After reading the novel I was curious as to how it had been dealt with on the big screen. This film basically ripped the original story apart and created a tacky B movie with it. It is a very powerful novel which would cause complications when writing the script such as tactful handling of controversial subjects such as incest but I believe another adaptation of the film should be made...if the book was edited carefully for the screen it could be one of these weird, emotive films which you can't keep thinking about after watching it. But definitely I would advise anyone to steer clear of this adaptation...especially if you're a fan of the novel...it will just infuriate you.  "},{"Title":"Simple mistakes","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Oh my gosh, I was a huge fan of of the books still am the only problem with making it into a film is you don't have time. The children spent 3 years in that attic and you can't fit everything in there. The other problem was the simple mistakes things that WERE amazingly simple. Little tiny things that they could have done to keep it close to the book like they were poisoned with arsinc covered doughnuts in the book NOT cookies  And like the book had the mouse named mickey(after you guess who). I hate that some big milestones in the book were skipped or altered so much that they were no longer the same event. They tried to change it to make it more suspenseful but the truth is the books events were WAY more suspenseful then whoever wrote this one. Over all it was silly mistakes and a lack of effort and loyalty to the book that made this movie sadly the worst movie I have ever seen(and I have seen alot). "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In my opinion, I thought this was a great movie. Everytime the grandmother did something bad to the grand kids you would hope she gets hers soon or you'd be wondering what shes gonna do next. I've never read the book but I plan to soon. All I can say is its a great movie and I always watch it whenever its on tv. "},{"Title":"A disgrace to the book","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The writer of the film has obviously not read the book, or if he has, he decided to re-write the whole plot. The whole of the book is based on the four children growing up together in one room, and learning of the hold money creates on their mother. This film completely blanks the fact they spent more than 3 years in the room, and disregards the relationship between Chris and Cathy -an important part of the book. After reading the book several times I could only watch the film once as it totally ruined a great novel. Anyone who has read the book, I recommend that they dont watch the film. Or if you haven't read the book before seeing this film I suggest that you do. It will make a lot of things clearer and show you that it isn't the pile of drivel this film suggests. "},{"Title":"Did not compare to the book","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  the movie did not compare to the book. the movie left out very important scenes and they changed a lot of things that were never supposed to happen. The director should have done better and not change so many important parts. "}{"Title":"PLEASE LET ME RE-MAKE THIS!!!","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The book has to be one of the best things I have ever read and when I finshed reading it I was shocked because it was so good. After watching the movie version I was again shocked but this time I was shocked at how awful it was! The film gives none of the love, deceit and pure greatness of the book! There are some things that really annoyed me, 1. The way the first section before the father dies is totally rushed I would make it with lots of outside shots with glowing radiant children in the sunlight! 2. The way they travel to the house - They should have travelled by a train at night, not a coach. 3. They didn't sneak upstairs in the dark. I would not of had any shots of the inner house and shown it totally through the childrens point of view and wait to show the inner shots when Cathy and Chris went exploring 4. It's totally the wrong era! Which in the book added a whole new atmosphere! 5. The rape scene was not included which I thought was one of the whole points of the book! 6. I was annoyed the tarring of Cathy's hair was not included. As it showed the true cruelty of the grandmother and I thought the ultimatum of your sister's hair or food was excellent. 7. The death of Corrine annoyed me it was really stupidly done and was pointless! and finally 8. The grandmother should have read out the rules to the children so the audience gets an idea of how strict she actually is.I would love to make this film again as someone who wants to be a director! What a waste of a good storyline! Please someone give me the funds! "},{"Title":"it was horrible compared to the book","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  this movie didn't do any justice to the book. i have read this book and i loved it when i watched the movie i was very disappointed the book has many more details and the movie lacked a lot of them. i am a very big fan of VC Andrews and was very disappointed that the movie was not as good as the book "},{"Title":"The worst","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say for those of you who have seen this movie and have never read the book, You are missing a great deal.  This movie sucked.  The ending really sucked.  And the acting was...very poor.  This was not a very good inturpritation of the book....I have to give this 1/10.  "},{"Title":"A poor adaption of a great book","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Flowers In the Attic, the movie, rates about a four on my scale of one to ten, whereas the book rates a ten. I know that if you leave everything from the book in the movie then it will be well over three hours long, but they left so many things out of the movie I was very disappointed. The end was what disappointed me most of all, I was furious when they killed the mother. I'm sure everyone knows that in the book she did not die and that made for several other volumes in the dollanganger series. I wish that screenwriters would stick more to the original plan when they write a book into a movie, sometimes the things they leave out could have helped to really turn people onto the movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is awful! (Possible spoilers)","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  They used the basic concept of the book- 4 children are locked away in the attic and their mother grows more and more selfish and greedy and eventually abandons them, and they are treated cruelly by their grandmother. Also, both the book and the movie are very disturbing, so they got that right.However, after that, there are many discrepancies. First off, almost every main character except for the grandmother is miscast. The actress who played the grandmother could have been the inspiration for the character in the novel; she was excellent. However, the mother, Corrine, Cathy, and Chris could have all been played by different actors to make the movie more plausible. The actress who played the mother was neither attractive nor charismatic-2 things necessary to understand the feelings her children have towards her. Kristy Swanson did okay, but to put it kindly, she makes a much better Buffy the Vampire Slayer than a character from a V.C. Andrews novel. The actor who plays Chris matches the physical description of the novel character, but is too stiff and humorless. I think better casted actors would have improved this movie, but then again, I only saw this movie cause I liked Buffy the Vampire Slayer-with Kristy Swanson. And then, a lot is missing from the novel. Not just certain events or dialouge, but some of the major themes. Some of the most haunting concepts about this book (and the whole series) is Chris's obsessive love for Cathy, the grandmother's bitter jealousy of her daughter and her young grand daughter, and Cathy's obsession with measuring up to her mother is all unmentioned in this movie. We don't understand why the Grandmother hates the mother and children so much. We learn later that the mother and her half brother(the children's father, who's mother was raped by the grandmother's husband, which consequently produced Corrine) fell in love when they were young (and both living with Corrine's parents) and abandoned the grandmother. She saw the 2 of them falling in love as a betrayal to her, as did Corrine's father(who was secretly in love with his daughter) and swore she would never love them or their offspring again. She refuses to love her grandchildren cause she doesn't want to be hurt by them.I was especially disappointed with the way they left out Chris's unbrotherly love for Cathy and the rape. Yes, it's kind of icky. But it's what makes V.C. Andrews' novels stand out. Chris doesn't declare his love for Cathy or rape her until the end of the novel, but you can see it building up to that throughout the novel-one thing that I think captivates the readers. I know a movie can't transcribe everything a novel does, but this was a very poor adaptation. After such an impressive novel, it was a disppointment. "},{"Title":"Not at all as great as the book","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After their father dies, four children and their mother go to live with her rich parents. The children are happy until they meet their grandmother. She treats them coldly and tells them that they will stay in one room until their grandfather dies. Seems as though their grandfather never knew they were born and Momma was disinheirited for marrying her half uncle.I am sooooo sorry to whoever butchered this movie. If people see the movie, I don't know if they will want to read the book. People that have read the book are going to be very disappointed. I know that I was.  "},{"Title":"How about a Remake???? (Does Contain Spoilers)","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, this is one movie that badly needs to be re done. When I saw the movie I had not read the book, and admittedly the characters were intriguing enough to prompt me to go out and buy the novel. When I did read it, I was stunned! The book was NOTHING like the movie. It didn't even end the same way! I guess that for some reason the producers needed to make sure there would be no sequels, because the death of one of the main book characters killed any chance of the other books in the series being made into movies. I was very disappointed that they did that.I would suggest perhaps someone might consider making this again, only this time not letting Mommie dearest die, since she lived through 2 more of the books in the series. Perhaps the now much older Kristy Swanson could play her, although Victoria Tennant was great. Grandmother is a tough call, since Louise Fletcher was Brilliant!!! I would only hope she is still acting and could reprise the role. If not, perhaps they could get Tyne Daly, an expert at playing mean mothers. For Cathy and Chris, the perfect duo would be Reese Witherspoon and her husband Ryan Phillipe.Well, I guess since I do own the movie I have to say it was OK, but believe me, the books are much much better. I would love to see all of them made into movies, not just this one. "},{"Title":"scary","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have read Flowers in the attic along with most other V.C. Andrews books. This movie had the basics of the movie but i have compared the book to the movie and of course the book is much better, the movie misses out on a lot of small things that are essential to the story.  It scared me because i didnt think anyone could play such a mean grandmother but she did an awsome job!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Don't let the movie make up your mind about reading the book...","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As a very big fan of all books V.C. Andrews, I was particularly disturbed by the movie version of Flowers in the Attic. The book captivated me and I wasn't able to put it down. It brought me to a world where the unthinkable was made real - the movie didn't. Certain details in the book that made it so unique and unlike any other book I've ever read were either changed, horribly distorted, or left out all together. Am I glad I rented the movie? As a die-hard V.C. Andrews fan, yeah, I guess so. Would I recommend it to other fans as well? Probably. Would I give them a disclaimer not to expect too much? Definitely. Most importantly - would I recommend THE BOOK to everyone who saw the movie and was disappointed? Y-E-S. "},{"Title":"no where near as good as the book","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie wasn't nearly as good as the book. First off, the plot was totally rearranged, the characters were portrayed rather horribly, and the most important part of the plot was taken out - Chris and Cathy's relationship with each other. I know, you're thinking, gross, sick, ew, brothers and sisters in love with each other! But the story doesn't make much sense unless that's there. In fact, it wasn't really that gross at all - it was romantic and sweet, but founded on a need for some human contact. And I hated the way they portrayed the twins. John (the butler) didn't even know about them. The grandmother doesn't strike me as the type who'd wear makeup, and the things added in made it worse. They totally gave away the arsenic poisoning (which was on doughnuts to let you know, not cookies), Cathy did not wear a bra (she was not that well developed in the beginning of the story) and the mouse's name was MICKEY!!!!! That bothered me a lot. But mostly Chris's and Cathy's relationship omittance annoyed - that doesn't even begin to describe it - me. In general, the movie sucked. But the book was excellent. The writer of the screenplay obviously didn't know what the hell he was doing, nor could he get into Cathy's mind. She was psychic, for God's sake! And there was never a hint of that! It's a sacrilege of the book. I recommend the book to everyone - it has a moral point to it - and is beautiful. I cried from a sick pain while watching the movie and cried from emotional sadness during the book. "}{"Title":"the movie was alright","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have read the book several times since I was ten years old and have seen the movie several times (i own a copy) and I would like to say that you should read the book first before seeing the movie even though the movie makes no sense whatsoever "},{"Title":"Flower's in the Attic is a hint of more to come.","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you've read the book, then this movie is much more enjoyable. The movie gives fans of the book something to put in their imagination. A facial picture to go along with the detailed descriptions of the characters in the VC Andrew's series. The acting is good, I feel that all the characters fit the parts very well. Both in physical descriptions and in actions and voice.IF you are just seeing the movie, then you'll probably find the lack of real suspense, and a not-so-defined plot a little boring. Even in scenes where there is dramatics, viewers are likely to be left with disappointing feeling that something has been left out. Like you're watching the cut version when your not. This is because a lot was in the book that, at the time of the movies making, probably couldn't be put in a movie without major controversy.  Especially where the relationship between Christopher and Cathy are concerned.The movie hints a lot, but doesn't really give you a good sense of being in the attic with them.I suggest you read the book. Then go back and watch the movie. Or, watch the movie, then have fun discovering what really occured after some of those scenes that are in the movie.  "},{"Title":"If you have read the book, the movie is nothing like it","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie yesterday , and it extremely dissappointed me. I actually shut it off.    It was basically nothing like the book.  If V.C. Andrews was still alive.  I'm sure she would have been revolted.  Come on now, if you do a movie after a book, I expected it to be like the book. Thank goodness I never saw the movie before I read the book.  Now for all you who saw the movie and never read the book.   READ the BOOK.   There are many more surprises in store.    "},{"Title":"Read the book, leave this on the shelf!","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so maybe its because I read V.C Andrew's book first that I am not keen on the film, but in my view its a shoddy imitation, but it does have some redeeming factors.  Louise Fletcher is indeed a formidable figure, and takes on the role of the grandmother with her usual excellance, but the child actors (an oxymoron in terms!) can't perform at all and let the film, which focus' on the children, right down.  Kristy Swanson does a fine job though as Cathy.  My advice is READ THE BOOK FIRST.  Not only do you get a better grasp for the characters but you get a better ending, and story line!  At only 1h 30m, in length the film is over before its begun, which actually happens to be a blessing! "},{"Title":"so-so","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  i watched the movie before i read the book. the movie was ok for what it was, but it left out some important details of the book. it left out the incest between cathy and chris-but it did mention corrine (cathy and chris' mom) married her half uncle. that's only partly true. carrie didn't play that big a part in the movie, but she was really an important character. i found some other differences between the book and the movie-which made the movie worse. the thing with the mom dying at the end-nope. didn't happen. she had to live for the second and third books. i suggest you read the book instead of the movie-much more worth it than to rent a movie you won't enjoy. "},{"Title":"The book is better","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is actually pretty good.  Well, it is good enough to want to read the book.  I think this movie was more entertaining actually the times I've watched it repeatedly.  There are some spots where the acting is so poor, mostly by the mother and by the little kids.  So it is fun to point out the dumb stuff.  But I think it's a good movie overall because it got me interested in the book.  And the book is part of a 5 book series and I read the whole thing and really enjoyed it.   "},{"Title":"This movie should be remade!!!!","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have read all of V.C. Andrews' books ever since I was a little girl and I only recently saw the movie. This movie was a complete joke. The only great performance in this movie was Louise Fletcher who played the Grandmother. I was so disappointed in the movie.A good movie project for someone who is looking for one would be to remake this one. "},{"Title":"Read the books!","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I was nine or ten years old, I first saw this movie.  I considered it a good movie at the time, and although I find it to be very disappointing after reading the series of books, it was okay.  It was okay for a movie, if there hadn't been so many intricate things which were left out of it.... if the plot had been atleast explained a little bit.. ahhh!  This movie is worth seeing after you read the books, but only to suffice a curiosity.I agree with another viewer who said we should band together and release a movie devoted to the truth of the Dollanganger family. Even at it's weakest, it would have to be better than this movie.A Loyal V.C. Andrews Fan,  "},{"Title":"A tragic shadow of the book.","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm quite suprised Virginia Andrews allowed this poor excuse for a movie to even be released, much less let her name be on the writing credits. The book was a spellbinding story of family love, betrayal and injustice. The movie, however, was a poorly-acted, not very well written string of events that had nothing whatsoever to do with each other and having not read the book yet, I had no idea what was going on, and who anyone was. When I obtained the book to find out what the plot actually was (as the movie failed to inspire me), I found the story to be chilling and worthwhile, as I did the other 4 books. If you too were appalled by the movie, don't let that deter you from reading the book and the rest of the series as they are, quite frankly the most interesting books I have ever read. "},{"Title":"ABSOLUTELY AMAZING!!","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have always loved V.C. Andrews books, I have many of them, but was particularly astounded by the book and wanted to see the movie. When I saw the movie...I felt like I was locked up with them. Louise Fletcher again was once again ABSOLUTELY AMAZING!! Louise Fletcher is one of *THE* best actresses, which I truly admire. Victoria Tennant was riveting. And the teenagers were very talented and I thought Kristy Swanson was wonderful. Jeb Stuart Adams was very good at being the adopted parent of his siblings  "}{"Title":"If you see the movie first, you'll never wanna read the book and that's a shame.","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Parts of this movie were casted perfectly.  Well, ok, only the Grandmother, the twins, and the actual mansion.  The house was a perfect replica of how it was explained in the book and I think Louise Fletcher was the only cast member who actually READ the book it was based on, an excellent novel by V.C. Andrews.  Actually, I read somewhere awhile back that Kristy Swanson said she didn't read the book because she wanted to put her OWN spirit into the character, a shame, cauz she's a pretty good actress and very pretty, but her whiny, frightened protrayl of Cathy was way off base.   What's worse is, V.C. Andrews was alive for much of the filming of the movie.  I think she died before it was officially released, but if I were her, I woulda rolled some heads, cauz they really took a wonderful book and butchered it.  Read the book guys, then check it out for yourself.  People who have read the book can at least appreciate parts of the movie and enjoy the few things that drew wonderfully from the book.  It's worth seeing, but I doubt any die hard V.C. fans will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Not really bad, but  seemed to be more music than talking.","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have never read the book but my sister has and she said that compared to the book, this movie could be rated G. She says that the movie is nothing compared to the book.I'm not sure how good this movie is if you compared to the book but I didn't think it was that bad. The story is OK and the mansion fits the movie well, but a lot of the acting is stiff and there is so much music! The actors hardly  even talk until about the last 45 minutes. 7/10  "},{"Title":"it sucked","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I began reading V> C> Andrews I was spellbound. I had never seen the movie until recently after I read the book. I was so disappointed by this movie. Disappointed really isn't a strong enough word. It didn't go by the book very well and if you had never read the book I doubt very seriously that you could even have understood what was going on. It was not explained well at all. Whoever did the screenplay should quit their day job. I say let all the hardcore Andrews fans get together and let us do the screenplay for a movie on the whole dollanganger series. The movie should be redone and a lot more attention to detail should be made.  "},{"Title":"Hmmmmm.....","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Fine to watch if your bored on a Sunday afternoon!OK, so it's not fine as in fine, leaves a lot to be desired... the older kids could have taken out both the mother and grandmother so many times and just walked away. The oldest girl..Cathy? yeah... UGLY!! sorry, couldn't act to save her life and was almost wooden! The obvious wig scene well... enough please!The oldest boy, Christopher could have easily ruled the house, big strong, wuss... pussy... sorry can't get that excited over it. The other two kids, cute, boring, pathetic! Slightly badly written for movie. Could have been much better. Waste of both my time and energy! "},{"Title":"They had a go, but they should have made a miniseries instead","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I only saw the last hour of Flowers in the Attic - having read the book as a teenager, I found the narrative entertaining at the time but slightly over-dramatic as I got older, although it is a decent novel for the teenager/young adult market. I have, however, also read less than flattering reviews of this film and now I can see why. It reduced the storyline a little too much - the drama is never really at any sort of peak. You feel as though they filmed a longer version but cut out the most dramatic turning points to fit the estimated running time. Strange choice too, to feature the wedding considering that - at the point in the novel where Chris revealed the fate of his grandfather - all they really wanted to do was get away. The last thing the siblings wanted in the book (and, I thought, in the film - up to this moment) was to be around their mother.Chris is oddly cast - he talks like a teenager but he looks about 27, I presume they substituted him calling her Momma for Mom because the first name sounds too old-fashioned, given the date when the film was released but it doesn't give the film any sense of time. Cathy looks very 80s in the second hour - she could almost look like the girl in the Take On Me video by a-Ha with her hair cut (at least in the earlier part of the film, her hair is a convincing 1950s type of style) but she has got that self-preservation ethos and manner of asking the very questions that a teenager would ask and which a mother like hers wouldn't want to have to answer, so the personality is captured quite well. She seems a bit whiny at times, but then, so was the Cathy in the book. The grandmother's dresses are very like they are described in the book and they have got some continuity with Carrie's hair getting longer and longer.The twins aren't badly cast, but the mother seems moronic (I know she was in the book, but she is always talking in this breathy excited whisper, although her tantrums when the kids get fed up with her show at least one other emotion and she is a very spoilt brat - very like in the book, in fact). The wardrobe department must have had a massive stock of white material that they had to use up, though. In the book Cathy is always describing her mother as wearing richly coloured clothes yet in the evening ball or dance (or whatever it was) scene, all the extras are in white - it seems odd.The dramatic bits seemed too obvious - darkness, people hiding behind doors, thumping piano music that somebody obviously equated with scary. The nearly-escape scene contains every clich going - guard dogs barking, man with a gun on patrol (he was slow to react, given that the dogs had been barking for about five minutes), rope breaking. It's almost Sylvester and Tweety Pie.The vocal, semi-Gregorian chanting gets annoying - I think it's supposed to be creepy. The shot of Cory's grave being filled in looked convincing enough to start with but the idea of a further three graves being dug out and waiting to be filled seems contrived and frankly stupid - if you're going to kill somebody (especially if you're trying to keep it a secret) I don't think most intelligent killers would have ready-made graves on standby to be filled in as the body count rose. We are then supposed to believe that Corrine's new husband had no idea that she had children with her first husband! (In the book this is true.) Had he gone for a walk around the estate shown in this film, he couldn't have failed to note three gaping holes in the earth! Overall, I suppose the film makers made an attempt at telling the story, but they didn't seem to have a clear vision of its purpose. Too dramatic and eerie in parts for little children yet the more adult themes from the novel (obviously, the incestuous relationship between Chris and Cathy, and the violent beatings and/or whippings inflicted on Corrine Foxworth and her children - which are, to my mind, memorable events from the original novel) are ignored so completely that it is becomes just another dysfunctional family film.The real problem, though, is that you can't effectively dramatise Flowers In The Attic in the two-hour time frame of the average film. You need a miniseries for that - perhaps the film makers recognised this here and that was why they cut out so much of the content? "},{"Title":"Oh Dear...","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'll begin by warning anyone who has read the books in the Dollanganger series - that this film is BAD. Badly acted, badly set out, terrible soundtrack and with most of the decent plot removed in a cowardly way.I read the books when I was a teenager, and fell in love with the whole series - Flowers in the Attic being my favourite. So when I found out there was a film, I was so excited. It was entirely wasted though because this film is just SO terrible.The only redeeming feature, I thought, was Jeb Stuart Adams who did his best and played the part of Chris as well as he could, sometimes even well enough to keep you in the story. Similarly, the parts of Cory and Carrie were reasonably well played - but sadly, any and all decent acting in this 'film' were ruined by Kristy Swanson who completely obliterated the main part of Cathy. So many other people, no-name actresses, could have played this role with astounding ability - but instead I was left violently despising her.Also, I am sure I am not the only one who was highly annoyed at the fact that the film was utterly void of the entire Chris/Cathy relationship. I'm sure it was done on purpose due to cowardice on the directors part, and can understand why they would want to remove the whole bother/sister relationship aspect from it....but it was this decision that removed the film from all recognition of its former book self. So now instead of the tense, complex relationship between Chris and Cathy, we have an annoying sister who whines all over the good looking Jeb Stuart Adams as we sit there and cross our arms in revulsion.Cathy in the books was fiery, helplessly manipulative and loving to the family. Sure at times you get annoyed at her, but you absolutely sympathised with her. She was you as you read the book, and you fell in love with Chris along with her. In this film I kept hoping that another dramatic plot alteration would involve Cathy dying early. No such luck, but if you were disappointed by that - don't worry - the ending is so far removed from the original you would ever recognise it.To conclude, if you want a lukewarm film, with tepid acting, an annoying female lead, a lot of choral whining in the background and large chunks of good plot missing - this is your movie. I won't say bypass it completely because of how much I love Chris and was pleased with Jeb, but don't have fantastic expectations - you'll be as sad as I was.I give it 4/10 - the 4 is for Jeb and the twins. "},{"Title":"I so loved the books...and I so hated the film","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The acting is horrendous and the film basically has nothing to do with the novel. The books weren't fantastically written, but at least they did move you somehow. The story this atrocious film is trying to develop has nothing to do with the book plot. It even ignores what was probably the interesting part of the book the incestuous love between Cris and Cathy. Actually, after seeing this film, you get the feeling the incestuous relationship would be between Cathy and her father (who gives her a weird look when he gives her 12 year old favourite daughter who looks 20), Cris and his mum, and the grandfather and mum. Just terrible, can't believe they destroyed such a best selling book like this. "},{"Title":"i agree with the past comment","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I completely agree with the comment said earlier. When it first began, i knew i hated it since their home wasn't even close to what was described in the book. I am extremely glad to know finally that the tragic story of Flowers in the Attic is true. Something described so beautifully yet upsettingly tragic as that could only be told from some sort of experience. If they were supposed to be making a movie based on a book, why wasn't it based on the book? At least they made a nice effort in providing a similar broach for the grandmother, although her hair style didn't seem right, especially since it wasn't gray and her face wasn't nearly as stern as it probably should have been.Although I'm sure I can complain forever about this horrible attempt to bring to life a wonderfully written book, i would just like to say that if anyone out there ( possibly Tim Burton, Rob Marshall, or even Guillermo del Toro ) ever needs a movie to make, you would be the people to do it, especially since you can make movies based on novels extremely close so if you decide to watch the movie or read the book, the only possible difference would be the clothing or even an accent, but not even that if you go and look back in the book.Please somebody, remake this film so that future viewers aren't as disappointed as I have become and vow not to ever watch it again as I have. "},{"Title":"All i can say is wow....and awfully wow!!","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Have you ever seen a Movie or Television show that was so bad that you were still compelled to watch it just to see what could have been done to make that movie or TV show good or even better well this is one of those movies. Flowers in the attic is the adaptive movie based on the V.C. Andrews bestseller (and to this day is a very controversial and deeply haunting, moving book); the story is about the Dollanganger family and their kids Christopher, Cathy (or Kathy), Carrie, and Cory four kids who had to suffer the loss of their father in a car accident and had to deal with a quick realization of a grandmother they didn't know about who was very wealthy and might be able to help them and their mother only to come with a lot of shocking truths and had to depend on each other in their darkest moments of their lives that would change them.Right off the bat, you'll noticed that not everything was kept in the movie which they should have done right up to Christopher and Cathy (or Kathy) somewhat romantic kindling; you can tell that bits and pieces of the book fell into the cracks of the film but only few and the rest never showed up, on top of that it was added by bad acting on the parts of the actors...I'm sure its not their fault that would go to the bad script writing that was fused into this movie...being that Wes craven was suppose to direct this movie I'm sure it would of been a great adaptation but since it wasn't him and was directed by Jeffery bloom he somewhat hacked this movie and again it fell short of what a good movie could of been if stuck to the novel. I've seen this many times before a book that is really good and very eerie at the same time becomes a victim of becoming a movie and suddenly had to deal with rushed time, rushed scenes, and no direction to make this movie as deep and squeamish as the book ever was and still is and I still read the book more than the movie.I can say the only saving grace of this movie was the sense of foreboding in the characters which was a good thing being they were stuck in a part of the house that not many people would dare to go too and they had to deal with this and the torture of what's to come; Also the locations were really good and also put the feel of being where they were and trying to enjoy the aspects of their surroundings that was going to be their home. And finally I have to give it to the composer Christopher Young he put the feel of sadness and emotion into the movie and if there ever was a remake of this film I would say bring him back with the original theme to this movie because it was really beautiful and also haunting. But for most part this movie could have been a really good product but came short in a lot of areas no thanks to the director and screenplay writing...more should of been added and it should of been left up to the people watching how much they could take of the abuse that was giving to the kids but that was never done and the results was a low grade movie based off a book that could have been! But nether less, you still want to watch it just to see what they could have done and hope if a remake was made it would be a whole lot different, and maybe a whole lot better.4/10 "},{"Title":"Geeze I want my time back....","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I seriously feel for the person that mentioned in his review of this film that he paid to see this in the theatre in 1987 (he bought two tickets which at the time totaled $10.50). Not only was he subjected to a severe test of his patience as a film-goer, but had to lose money in the process. Ironically, this is the same year that Evil Dead 2 came out starring Bruce Campbell, a movie that was most likely playing at the very same theatre (which would have been a far better choice even on the whim of a guess over FITA). What a bad stroke of luck this guy had.This film is not only bad, but it is not even laughably bad. Laughably bad are the following films The Core, The Hills Have Eyes (the original), Troma's War, Class of Nuke Em' High, Class of 1999, Bad Taste (although entertaining for its gross-out quotient). These films have merit for the sake of knowing they are bad. They make us laugh because it's self-parody.Flowers in the Attic somehow finds a new low in cinema (or found one I should say). I feel disgust for not only myself since I cannot have the 90 minutes of my life I wasted watching this garbage, but for every single person involved in the making of this film except for the director (he is solely responsible for its fruition). As a crew, I'm sure they had to smile a lot around the director during production so as not to look dumbfounded and disgusted. My guess is when the director yelled cut!, the crew let out a not-so-obvious sigh of relief. Even more so when he announced, that's a wrap! The acting is very bad, the photography is uninteresting, the locations are mundane, the role of the Grandmother played by Louis Fletcher is not convincing whatsoever, and the list goes on and on. The main thing to attack really is the script itself, which from what I hear from fans of the novel it was adapted from is one of the most tragically altered renditions that they know of. What else could top these things on the list of bad other than the fact that two lead actors have us not at all concerned of their plight or unease. They are not physically tortured in the film (which brings me to ask, why is this movie PG-13?), but in one scene when the grandmother knocks over the daughters beloved (and highly fragile) music box, the daughter screams in agony and twitches her face as if she is enduring 15 lashes across her front torso.You might be curious to see this film just to see how bad it really is, but that would be a mistake. You will almost find yourself feeling unclean and your stomach will assuredly churn. Worst of all, much like the poor guy that remembers his experience in the theatre some 19 years ago, you will unfortunately remember this film for a long time as the most horrific of traumatic film experience ever to take place and be recorded in one's memory bank. The young ons in South Park have inspired me to take a road trip across wherever to track the director down and ask not for monetary compensation, but simply for 90 minutes of my life back. "}{"Title":"Decent film","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Though the movie was a decent one, there are parts in it that are not the same as the book as with most movies that come from books. I did not like the film for the purposes on which it did not stick with the book but that is understood due to budgets. Though I do believe that if they would have changed the ending to the one in the book, it would have made a good sequel. I did like the movie because it shows that the world is not all caring and that many children do face similar circumstances in their lifetime. I am neutral on recommending the movie but it would make for decent entertainment for younger generations. (teen wise I mean) "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" An incredibly nasty tale, with little at all to like in it, Louise Fletcher grossly over-acts her stereotype character, the whole thing is given an inappropriately melodramatic touch, and the direction is driven by clichs. Admittedly the film has a sort of intriguing plot, with interesting hints at incest, and the set dcor is fairly fitting, but otherwise is there anything to like? The film arguably has some half-baked messages about greediness and vicious circles, but all of these ideas are overshadowed by the film's overall general nastiness. This is a hard film to want to recommend for any purpose, to say the very least. "},{"Title":"where is the sex?????","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Because this film is based on a much-better book its rating drops from maybe a 2 star to a 1 star. On its own,it might be able to carry itself a little better, but since it is based on a notorious book, it is sanitized SO much that the point of even making it into a movie was null and void. What made this book such a shocker was that WHILE living in the attic Christopher and his sister Catherine had an incestuos relationship which included SEX. This movie makes no mention of them having sex, kissing, or even looking at eachother funny! The acting is pretty bad, especially the two smallest children, even more so the little boy. Kristy Swanson goes from poor to mediocre and never truly shines in the lead. Also disappointing is Victoria Tenant as the mother,who I feel really didnt emote as much as she could. In early scenes of grief she just sort of snivels and looks pathetic, where a normal person would've been in near hysteria in this sort of situation. The one person I think did a capable job was Louise Fleischer(sp?) as the Grandma, she was evil and scarey and had a fierce presence. This movie came over ten years ago and I believe a re-make is due. Rated R or NC17 or whatever, put the sex back in and bring Grandmas evil up a few notches and the movie might pass muster. "},{"Title":"Absolutely the pits...","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I read and absolutely loved the V.C. Andrews book (and the others in this series) on which this movie was based.  For that reason I admit I might tend to judge it a bit more harshly than someone who hasn't read the books.This is a book that simply NEVER should have been made into a movie.  It was fantastically written and very detailed.  There was absolutely no way to fit it all into a two hour movie and to anyone who knows the whole story, the movie was seriously lacking. Further, the results of a young, impressionable brother and sister being forced to live in such circumstances during their formative years led, in the book, to a situation that would have been very hard to get past the censors at that time and had to be left out.  Then, matters were made worse by the absolutely stupid ending (although the way the filmakers chose to end the movie eliminates any possibility at an equally painful to watch sequel!).  The acting was also pretty awful, and the ONLY thing about the casting of the children that was right was their hair color.The house was appropriately spooky looking, and that is about the best thing I can say about the whole experienece.  I'd like to give it less than one starI have two suggestions.  The first is for anyone who might consider trying again at making this book into a movie.  DON'T do it unless you are willing to stick to the real story, no matter how unpleasant some of the details might be.  And find someone who can act.  The second is for anyone who saw this movie without reading the books.  READ Flowers in the Attic.  If you didn't like this movie, you'll like it even less after reading the book, and if you did like it you'll wonder why!And just to clarify something in the synopsis--this was NOT based on a true story--not that it couldn't happen.  But this time it didn't. "},{"Title":"Short but sweet","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Fans of the book will enjoy this film, but if you haven't read the book, you'll undoubtedly hate it.  One of the best parts is the soundtrack, its so haunting and moving though I know some people wouldn't agree with me. Read the book first and you'll enjoy the film much more. "},{"Title":"Poor film, one great scene.","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say this is a very poor movie. The acting by the two oldest children (Kathy and Chris) was bad. The book ive not read but i heard its a lot more detailed and the grandmother is a lot crueller than what she is in the film. There are some scenes that drag, and are quite boring at times. The only scene that really grabbed me was when Carrie screams in her grandmothers face and the grandmother picks her up by her hair, and slaps the little boy who tries to help his sister. The movie is worth watching for this scene alone. But overall i would'nt recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Movie is so so","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have loved the flowers in the attic movie since i was little. At the beginning of the year i decided to read the books. Great books but they make the movie look like a window showing  an accually very small part to the story.Which might i add is based on a true story.My personal opinion is forget the movie and read the books..or if you must see the movie watch it before you read the books...That way you might enjoy it for a brief moment!!! "},{"Title":"Complete rubbish from start to finish!","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was about 7 and I really quite enjoyed it! How wrong was I?! After reading the books last year and loving every single 1, I watched the movie again and was horrified! Why anyone would waste money making such tat is beyond me! The film differs so much from the book its quite unbelievable. Why they would waste time filming scenes which had absolutely no consequence at all to the plot and missing out important features such as the relationship between Cathy and Chris is pathetic! It is clear that whoever made this rubbish never went anywhere near the book let alone read it and should be ashamed. The ending... what on earth happened there? Corrine doesn't die until 'If there be Thornes' which is the third book in the series and even then she is allowed to redeem herself a little by saving Cathy. Also, in the book Cathy and Chris are meant to only be 12 and 14 but in the film they both look at least 25. I don't know about anyone else but I wasn't amazed by the beauty of these children at all, they were supposed to be striking! The acting was terrible and extremely overdone, this film is nothing but a complete mockery of an amazing piece of literature. Another thing, why on earth did Jonn Amos no about the children? Why was the mouse called Fred not Mickey? Why only 17 lashes on Corrines back, it was 33 wasn't it? Why cookies, not donuts? Why was Cory buried in the woods and not his remains not concealed within the house? The list of wrongs is endless, the only thing I can advise is don't waste your time watching this movie if you love the books, you will only be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Unbelievably bad...exactly why books should NOT be made into movies!","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Let me start off by saying that the book Flowers in the Attic was absolutely incredible.  Perhaps because of how much I enjoyed the book, I absolutely hated the movie.  Yes, I mean hated.  Abhorred. Despised.First off, the acting was...oooh how do I put this?  CRAP!  And that's putting it mildly.  Victoria Tennant (Mother) was just purely awful.  Not a single line portrayed any realism whatsoever.  Louise Fletcher (as Grandmother) is normally quite menacing in her roles, but this time, she was absolutely laughable.  Perhaps she simply didn't have much to work with. Kristy Swanson (Kathy)...how on EARTH did they choose her?  Every single line was over the top, overly dramatic, and just so plain ridiculously delivered it made me wonder if I was watching an Ed Wood film.  Umm, yeah, it was that bad.  Jeb Stuart Adams (Chris) was, well, ok I suppose.  He wasn't *as* bad as the others, but still had his moments of Can someone please buy me some acting lessons?    Thankfully, the children playing the twins had few lines as they were already difficult to deal with WITHOUT words.The screenplay was just downright awful.  Now I understand that books cannot always be *perfectly* translated into a movie, but c'mon...FAR TOO MANY changes took place that completely took away from the story itself. Well, at least for those of us that read the book.  The dialogue was excrement, to state it lightly.About the only thing this movie had going for it was the setting.  The huge mansion and grounds would have been fantastic for the movie had not the rest of it been so darn awful.  It's a shame, this really could have been a great one.  Unfortunately, it was nothing but a major dud that left little to enjoy.Flowers in the Attic (the movie) earns 2 out of 10 stars (and that's for the ability to pick a great setting).The book, however, earns 10 out of 10 stars and I HIGHLY recommend it to anyone who loves reading. "},{"Title":"Book not suited for a movie.","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well of coarse the movie wasn't good! Under the best of circumstances it's tough to do a movie adaptation from a book, partuclarly a great book and get outstanding results. I also think there are some books that should just never become movies and this is one of them. VC Andrews' work was amazing and there is so much in the books that would be close to impossible to capture in the movie even with the best writers/directors behind it.I can't imagine this story ever having worked as a movie, there's simply to much to tell.. Maybe it could have been done as a miniseries but even that is pushing it. And of coarse the books(Flowers in the attic and the continuations, petals on the wind etc etc) were highly controversial in some of their material so that was a factor too.I saw the movie and didn't think much of it, it came across as cold and dismal while lacking 90 percent of the complexity and interesting character development present in the book. Still, all in all this was pretty much what I expected. Some books are just better off left alone.  "}{"Title":"a scale of 1 to 10...","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Flowers in the attic is somewhat of a disapointment, but pays off with effective casting. All the characters (except for the poor infant twin Carrie) all do a good job. Yet the film goes way down hill here and there. They also try to make the film scary by adding spooky music. Which they try to full fill but fail. The book tells of everything that the children went through. I guess they thought the film didn't need all of that. When really,that's what kept the book going. Anyway, Louis Fletcher and Kristy Swanson are great. (If not too dramatic) On a scale of 1 to 10a 6. "},{"Title":"Even worse the second time around","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I must've been around 9 years old.  I sat there about as riveted as a 9 year old can be.  And when it went off, I thought to myself that was a pretty good movie.  And I took that thinking with me, all through these years...until today, when I saw it for the second time.  This time I watched the movie through the eyes of the 17-year-old, and thought to myself, This movie sucks Can anyone explain to me what movie Kristy Swanson was acting in when she did this...or did she think it was still auditions?  She seemed to through out every cliche in the book from her character.  THe classics like, You only care about yourself to Everything's gonna be OKAlthough the idea of the movie is interesting, the scripting is weak, and the plot was on life-support. It was just a little strange how the children were able to figure out their entire situation and kill their mother within one day. How did the brother find out about arsenic from reading on the bathroom floor?  Where were the lab tests?  Also, what about the trial?  I mean, they did kill their mother. And how was the grandmother able to stay in the house if she was an accessory? These are the questions I left with after watching this movie 8 years later. In short,it sucks now...and it probably sucked just as much back then "},{"Title":"this movie is too fake and should have remained a book","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  i was so disappointed when i watched this movie. having read the entire series of the flowers of the attic, i expected some kind of following the novel to get a decent idea about what v.c. andrews wanted us to receive while reading.  the movie was a total stinkbomb and had nothing at all to do with anything.  you were better off just reading the series and interpret that from your own imagination.. the actors that were supposed to portray cathy and chris appeared to be in their late 20's at didnt give the effect of being young, as they were supposed to be teenagers.  grandmother filled some of what i thought that she would be, but not to the highest extent.  i give a warning to all that read this and have an interest in watching this horrible movie.... DONT WATCH THIS MOVIE!  (F-) "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Flowers in the Attic (1987)One of the most off-putting experiences you could ever have is attending a V.C. Andrews Family Reunion.And after watching this drama based on the author's infamous bestseller, you'll know why.When their father dies, Cathy (Kristy Swanson), Chris (Jeb Stuart Adams), Cory (Ben Ryan Ganger) and Carrie (Lindsay Parker) are uprooted and moved to their mother's (Victoria Tennant) childhood home.While she smooths things over with her parents for marrying her half-uncle, her incestuous offspring are locked away in an unoccupied bedroom.As they mature, they follow their parents' bad example.Eventually, they learn of their mother's engagement, and of the nefarious plans to rid the family tree of her sinful seeds. A poorly executed adaptation of the twisted teen lit classic, this version omits much of the story for the sake of sensationalism.Besides, a secluded attic is the ideal place for two siblings to raise their mutant.Yellow Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Have drink before you watch this...not my kind of movie","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Never read the book and now that I'm in the middle of the film I felt that I had to put my 2 cents in. Everyone seems to knock the film and I understand why. It seems all the characters are wimps...that is the bottom line here, except for the grandmother who seems to carry her twisted ways out well. The servant and caretaker have no dimensions and are just tools to help throughout the movie. The oldest son after many months finally concludes that they should leave...duh... The mother is mostly out of most scenes and pops in every now and she is then unconcerned about the children's pleas and their ragged looks. What's a mother to do...? I haven't seen the ending yet and the movie gets weirder and weirder. At this time I can say that the movie can be enjoyed... if one will put up with the lack of backbones,brains and the greed for an inheritance "},{"Title":"Nice movie","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cool movie. I saw this movie on TBS when I was little I finally rented it again from Hollywood Video This movie really disturbed me,I really felt for those poor kids. All the actors are brilliant,in particular Louise Fletcher,who scared the hell out of me. I haven't seen her in anything else but she is absolutely brilliant and a perfect choice for the role of the Grandmother.I would hate to be one of her grandchildren.Victoria Tennant also is extremely convincing as the tormented mother and daughter of Fletcher,and is also very pretty.When she was revealed to be the one slowly poisoning the children,I hated her and felt betrayed (I hadn't read the book yet,though I intend to) and cheered when she got her comeuppance at the end of that bridal train.Kristy Swanson I felt overacted at times and was a bit too childlike for her age but I felt she did okay.Jeb Adams was easily the best of the children and the most natural.The twins were certainly cute but they were much too simpering and couldn't act at all. And now my rambling comes to an end "},{"Title":"Craptacular Movie","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" OH MY GOD! I totally agree with what the first comment said!!!! I was horrified by this movie. The books are so wonderfully written. My boyfriend and I watched the movie together last winter and all I could do was say that's not like the book what happened to this part. That's crap! I hated it!!!! I wasn't impressed at all by the way they looked. I was expecting some wonderfully beautiful children just short of being angels on Earth. I was wondering how they were going to show you the beautiful bed that is supposed to be in Corrin's bedroom!I remember several people telling me how great this movie was and I should really see it ASAP! I was so disappointed. They really shouldn't have tried to rip off the title. "},{"Title":"Lacks character development","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is mediocre at best. The plot has potential, but it is ruined by lack of character interest. The acting is absolutely horrendous with the exception of Grandma, Louise Fletcher. I found myself rooting for Grandma, and I have to say that her punishments should have been far more severe considering the revolting spinelessness exhibited by the incestuous elder children. I totally understand why she had such resentment for the pathetic bastards. A fitting end comes to the mother, but I really wished that all of the children would have experienced the same fate as punishment for their terrible, terrible acting. "},{"Title":"OK, Can We Say Dumb?","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I swear, If I ever consented to acting in this movie, I would punish myself by watching only this movie in my lifetime, then I would proceed to shoot myself in all my toes, eliciting pain and agony... And you know what? It still wouldn't compare to the Horror of having to sit through 93 minutes of pointless innuendos and neoclassic betrayal and incest and starvation. Louise Flectcher has the true shining performance here as the diabolical, domineering grandmother. But the rest... Good Lord! Victoria Tennant, the actress playing the mother, Corinne, is so stiff in her acting, atypical of her British bearing. Okay, okay! It may not be nice for me to say that. I mean, look at Miss Meryl Streep. Oscar material. (Did I say that?) Anyway, the boy Chris looks like he is twenty years old. And Cathy doesn't look much younger. So the situation they were in was almost laughable because they could have done something about it from day one. I know, the book says they had to stay there and put up with the family crap, but keep in mind (those of you who read the book) Chris was 14 and Cathy was 12, not old enough to predict and prevent their situation, so naturally the book made more sense. But one look at the movie version of Chris and Cathy prompts you to say, Aw, come on!!!!!! And please don't get me started on the Cyborg Children (The twins Cory and Carrie)! It is clear that someone told them that they were getting paid to do these roles. If I was a kid again and someone said they were paying me 10,000 dollars to be an overactive little brat in need of Ritalin, I'd be shouting, Momma! Momma! Momma!.. at the top of my lungs with no direction, too. But that is beside the point. These kids don't ooze resilience; they spill bratty annoyance and blow chunks in the process. Of course there are others in the cast (But Do we know who they are?) Overall, Flowers in the Attic needed more fertilizer, and that is exactly what they did not get! "},{"Title":"I haven't seen the film!","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" i have not seen the film!!! someone help. i never even knew there was a film out about the family, i am a big fan of Virginia Andrews, and would appreciate it if someone would be so kind as to lend it to me! Please?! I have just been told to add another seven lines to my comments! I am a big fan of V.C.A and i have 21 of her books so far and am aiming for the whole collection! But my mother told me about the film and tonight i am researching to see if i can buy it anywhere but i can't and i am really down about it, but i would be most grateful if anyone would lend it 2 me or even give it 2 me. Oh god another 1.3 lines to go! and i don't have a clue what 2 say, but never mind because its up now. Thanks "}{"Title":"Love the book? Avoid the movie like the plague","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Like most of the people who went to see the movie in the theater, I read the series voraciously, in junior high (my sister had read it years earlier, but said I was too young for it, which, in retrospect, was true, but at the time I was livid). One of VC's first series, it had a wonderfully twisted plot, and unfortunately, much of that plot was left out of the film version. Plus, a major plot point was destroyed in the movie, preventing any sequels (not that I really wanted to see another one, after the wreck made of the first). I thought the actors were okay, for the lines they were given, of course, in high school I was not as discriminating as I would probably be now.I'd also like to note that VC over-used the same general storyline for many of her other book quartets incest, a controlling grandparent, a vain and detached mother, and tortured kids. "},{"Title":"Horrified","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I know that this is supposed to be a frightening movie, and if it had been written, directed and cast properly then that may well have been the case. Unfortunately in the case of this particular film that was not the way it went.The book was intense, full of plot points and written in such detail that even the least imaginative among us would have been able to see the story being acted out.When I heard that they were making a film of one of my favourite novels of the time (I admit that I was just 10 when I first snuck into the library and read it), I was overjoyed.  It's such a pity that by the time I was old enough to go and rent the film I was also old enough to judge what was good and bad in the world of film-making, at least by my standards.This pile of garbage doesn't even rate a -100 on my scale of films, and that list includes films like 'Crossroads' with Britney Spears and 'Mighty Morphin Power Rangers'.How they managed to make such a dire film when the material they had been provided with originally (the book) was so good.  They missed out the most important parts of the book, killed off the mother before her time, and ignored the fact that the children spent their formative years in an attic...they would have physically changed in that time, yet in the world of the film it was as though only seconds had passed...I just ask that if there is a remake ever made, please please please don't make the mistakes that were made with this one.  Don't ignore the parts that perhaps will cause a few problems with the censors...even incest will be, if not overlooked, only watered down rather than completely written/cut out. "},{"Title":"Not good, not bad.","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had its moments, and then it had its moments of pure boredom.  Apparently, this was based on a book...and from what I have read in the comments there was a lot more to the books.  This one has a family who has recently lost a dad moving in with the most evil grandma ever.  She apparently hates the four kids of this family very much...you learn why, so I won't spoil anything.  The kids get locked away in a room that has access to an attic (hence the title).  The mother occasionally visits them, but seems not to care for them too much.  Why the kids wait till they are very sick to try and escape is beyond me as it would be apparent to anyone that the mother didn't care for them too much.  This movie for the most part is very depressing and dark and has minimal scenery or sets...it is interesting though in some aspects.  Watching them pass away time in the attic, getting more and more antsy as they spend their days waiting for the mother to return.  In the end though it isn't anything great, so you may want to skip this one. "},{"Title":"OUTSTANDING","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  wow wow wow this movie is amazing its so weird and exciting. and the twists in the story as the film progreses are amazing. based on V.C. andrews bestseller, flowers in the attic is a shocking tale of greed, depravation, incest and cruelty. a tale of a familys desire to survive following the tragic death of the father. where the only option for the mother is to take her four childern to her family home where a bizarre and disturbing future awaits them. flowers in the attic will leave you stunned it did me9/10    "},{"Title":"Many flaws in the movie!!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie has characters whose roles seem to be not well defined. Why do you need the grandma and whats she supposed to do?! Is not the mother's sudden turn away from her children to the extent to do away with them too weird. Such feelings do come into ones mind when watching this movie. Even though the story has a ending that is not bad but certainly this ending required a better movie. On the whole 3/10 and just dont bother to see this one, specially!! "},{"Title":"creepy.","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The first and only time I saw this film, I was about 8 or 9 years old. Like someone else said, the movie gave me a sick feeling to my stomach. I just couldn't get over the fact that these kids really looked like they were slowly 'powdering' up to dust and dying right in front of the camera. It scared me then, and frankly, I'm sure it would creep me out today.I've never read the book, but according to Attic book fans, the film probably ruined the book for me. The story itself, however, doesn't seem to appeal to me, book or movie.  "},{"Title":"help immesurably by Louise Fletcher's performance.","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sluggish adaption of VC Andrews incest-drenched novel isn't very compelling, until Louise Fletcher, as the evil grandmother, shows up.  She IS this movie, without her it would surely deteriorate into a total abomintation of Andrew's work.  Fletcher should have gotten an Oscar nomination for this role, her meanest since ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOOS NEST (for which she took home a Best Actress Academy Award). "},{"Title":"I probably should've read the books instead.","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I recently sat through this arduous ordeal of a movie, which was both depressing and in some ways, weird.  From what I've heard, this was a MAJOR disappointment to people who read the books.  I haven't read them yet, but I'm sure that they are better and have more story and character development. I got very annoyed after the older son said everything's gonna be alright for the fifteen hundredth time!  Louise Fletcher is good, as the evil grandmother who does everything in her power to make her daughter's children's lives a living hell.  The whole story seems inconclusive, other than it's a mere look at fascism in a person's home with a family. However, I didn't get much out of it, other than a real taste of agony and something to watch for 2 hours.  Although I haven't read the V.C. Andrews books yet, I strongly recommend them instead of this.  You and I might have a better experience reading them.     "},{"Title":"wrong, wrong, Wrong!!!!!!!","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have loved the book series since it came out in '79. it is, in fact, my very favorite novel Ever! my advice if you've never read the books, you'll like the movie. if, instead, you have read and loved the series, stay far, far, far away from the film. you will be disappointed, don't go there! I had, admittedly, high hopes Before the flick premiered. my best friend and I walked out, at the end, muttering why in the name of God, would TPTB do That?!?!?!?! it's not a bad film, per say, it's just not my cup of tea. does, I suspect, work as a thriller or horror story. the acting is okay by most involved. music's not bad. FYI does not show, in my opinion, or hint at the incestuous relationship between Cathy and Chris. which, as we all know, is the cornerstone to the book mythology. ending is also markedly different than the novel. "},{"Title":"what's up with the cookies?","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" OK the actress is nice looking don't get me wrong but she so did not strike me as Cathy striking beautiful like she should have been, they killed the movie especially Cathy they butchered her character, and being my favorite book i was extremely critical and how can you mess up cookies and donuts it's not a huge thing why cookies? well i hate this movie it sucks and should be done with justice to the book!! and no wonder they didn't do the whole series they killed off Corrine which is something nobody can do without getting endless venting, i think all of the loyal vca fans were outraged at this atrocious excuse for a book-based movie!!! but hey i heard the original script (was turned down, you can see the guy's name still on the inside) it was R rated which sadly means it was probably correct, and they could have inserted a little of Chris and Cathy's relationship, right? i love them together and it sucks they didn't include that!!! "}{"Title":"brilliant!!","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  i found the film really fascinating i simply adored it. The cast of the film were selected brilliantly and each character was portrayed perfectly, just as i had imagined them to be like from reading the book. I found the film really emotional and unsettling and i would recommend people to read the book before viewing the film. I found the film brilliant and i would recommend it to anybody with a thirst for drama! The film is not for the weak hearted and it is not really suitable for those i feel under ten because they might find some of the films unsuitable for young eyes! The grandmother was portrayed brilliantly and she came across perfectly as the cold hearted bitch that i imagined her as being in the book! "},{"Title":"What a piece of CRAP!","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Just watched this piece of crap on the Mystery channel and I am blown away at how bad it was! Before this The Bostonians with Christopher Reeve was the worst film I had seen...now Flowers in the Attic wins by a long shot! I have never seen worse acting in a movie I just can't understand how a film like this was even released!All actors (if that's what you want to call them) were equally terrible. The story was so unbelievable that nobody could even try for 90 minutes of escapism. I never read the book but after seeing this travesty I don't really have any desire to.If you haven't seen this film PLEASE do not waste your time. We are only on this earth for a short time and to waste almost two hours on this garbage would truly be sad. "},{"Title":"Some One Please Make it Stop!!!!!","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers?? I will give you a spoiler?? The person responsible for making this piece of dreck should die a torturous and painful death. And that would be too good for him or her considering the torture I had to endure sitting through this movie. I had never seen it when it originally came out, but I had the opportunity to catch it today on Showtime. The plot ladies and gentleman (and I use the word plot loosely because porn movies have a better plot than this nightmare and at least they are funny to watch!) is that a woman and her four precious children come home to her mother after her husband passes away. As soon as the butler opens the door you know it is all downhill from there. As a matter of fact I am thinking the reason why the butler looked so depressed is because he was thinking what horrible set of circumstances got him to this phase in his acting career, but I am just guessing. You soon learn that the relationship between the mother and husband was one of incest!! OOOOOOHHHHHHHHHHH Pinch Me!!! Which is why the evil grandmother played by the usually talented Louise Fletcher (what was she thinking when she took this role. I am hoping that she was drugged and made this film against her will.) is scornful and hateful towards the children. Ten minutes later the children are starting to feel ill and when they learn they are being slowly poisoned by their mother and grandmother, they plan their escape. Nothing about the characters were believeable or sympathetic not to mention that the four of them could have taken out psycho granny in ten minutes, but I guess then it would not have been the academy-award winning film that it turned out to be (place sarcasm here).Ummm, is this a movie about religion going horribly awry or is this about a hollywood couple. Who knows?? Who cares?? This movie was equivalent to chinese water torture. The acting was the worst I have ever seen and I have seen really bad acting before. Stiff is an understatement to describe the acting. Even the narration was horrible, kind of like listening to golf announcers. These actors in this film were literally screaming, Please get me to the nearest acting school and get me a coach quick. This was not even a stupid movie that you could laugh at. At least, that would have been a compromise. If this was the director's way of lambasting incest and promoting religious values, he failed miserably. All he made me want to do was put my foot through the television and write a hate letter to Reverend Falwell. My only regret in watching this film is that is about 2 hours of my life that I will never get back. "},{"Title":"Awful film from a much talked about novel","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" First let's talk about the movie and its many problems, to be succinct it sucks. The screenplay is the first major flaw in this movie; it didn't fleshed out the characters into believable human beings. Not even the character of Cathy and she's the narrator. The closest to a multidimensional character in the movie is the oldest brother Chris. Everyone else seems to be just mannequins standing around waiting for the next plot twist to fall on them. The acting for the most part is stiff from just about everyone with the exception of Louise Fletcher, she was the only one who seemed to bother to act and she wasn't that good either. Her performance paled in comparison to another deranged religious fanatic, Piper Laurie's Margaret White, 'Carrie' 's mother. How about just plain quietly deranged? Judith Anderson's Mrs. Danvers from the Hitchcock version of 'Rebecca' comes to mind. Everyone else seems to be just mouthing the words without understanding the circumstances around them. The movie moved at a snail's pace, which is an insult to snails, they move faster than this flick. And there doesn't seem to be any imagination to the directions in terms of camera angles and movement. The set decoration and designs are just plain awful, did they have to use floodlights in every scene? That has got to be the brightest attic I've ever seen. By the way when was the story set? I saw the oldest boy wearing Nikes and jeans in one scene, yet when they finally left the house they were wearing clothes that have been outdated 50 years earlier than 1987 when the film was made. Finally, back to the story line, the final confrontation with the mother was not the least bit believable. No self-respecting daytime soap opera would allow such a contrived and awkward confrontation to occur. I've never read the V.C. Andrews novels, and from other people's comments in Amazon.com, thank god! They were favorable comments but the novels seem to be filled with deceit, betrayal, revenge, and incest. Is everybody sure that V.C. Andrews wasn't a pseudonym used by Jackie Collins? Maybe some executive from Lifetime or Oxygen would turn the whole book series into a Maxi-miniseries. If they do please do not blame me for imparting that lack of wisdom to them. "},{"Title":"Poke My Eyeballs Out Please","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you grew up in Las Vegas, Nevada in the early 80s, chances are you flipped out over VC Andrews books, particularly Flowers in the Attic and is sequels.  I know that at my junior high, the reading teachers all got together and banned book reports on any title in the series.  That's how sick and tired they were of hearing about them.  So, as a freshman in college, you can imagine how excited I was to see the film of Flowers in the Attic come to the multiplex. I knew I was in trouble two minutes into the film and it went downhill from there.  I wished that I had an evil grandmother to abuse me and lock me in an attic.  That way I wouldn't have to watch this movie, which I consider to be the most utterly worthless film of all time.  Previous comments on this website have expressed relief that a sequel was never made.  About half-way through the movie, something happens that makes it impossible the for the rest of the series to continue anyway.  They took the one thing upon which the rest of the books hinged and did away with it.  This movie is so terrible, that about ten minutes before it ended, I started to weep.  I know that the few other people in the theatre, for this was a well-deserved flop, were wondering who that stupid guy was, crying in the second row, but I couldn't help it.  I don't know if what I'm about to say is going to be accepted for publication here but I really wish I could have a bowel movement on a print of this movie.  Why doesn't the IMDB offer the 0 stars option? "},{"Title":"Should Easily Be in Bottom 100","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  How does this film even approach the 5.0 mark? How anyone could consider this picture *above average* or even a neutral viewing experience simply astounds me. I, myself, watched it in its televised entirety, while compelled by what I can now only describe as a state of masochistic curiosity - a need to know how low the craft of cinema can go, and how much I could endure.I can imagine some of you envisioning this movie as a sort of recreational bad movie that has a sort of hokey fun sense about it. Allow me to emphatically refute that notion this movie is a negative viewing experience under any conditions and should only be watched by hard-core punishment gluttons. Not only does it feature atrocious acting, pacing, and dialog, but it --for no discernable reason other than the discomfort of the viewer -- (Dare I call them Spoilers?) gradually introduces incest into the story, first cruelly hinting at it, then finally confirming it. When you aren't being repulsed by the creepy-but-not-in-a-way-ness, the sheer tedium of the movie drives the you to attempt to engage the story. You wonder What Would I do in this situation? forgetting that the situation is a psychotic grandmother imprisoning two able-bodied teenagers, and you would, of course, beat the bejeezus out of the granny, and leave the house and get on with your life. This would've happened, like, day one, thus conveniently eliminating the need for the rest of the movie.I can honestly say that this movie is in serious contention for -- and this is coming from a MST3K fan who has full knowledge that the following phrase is too often tossed around lightly -- The Worst Movie I've Ever Seen. If you have any clue as to why this movie is liked by anyone, anywhere, I'd be interested in hearing from you. "},{"Title":"the most depressing god awful film i have ever seen","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe that this film was from 1987, it is very badly written, acted and directed. It was more of the early 1960s type dark depressing tripe. The childrens make up was amauterish (Quite obviously white powder on faces in their illness scenes)and with a very dour music score and even more dour commentry throughout the film,it amazes me how it ever got to DVD. Don't watch, you'll be bored total senseless! "},{"Title":"Does the word crap mean anything to you?","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, this movie has to be one of the worst movies that I have ever seen! I have read many V.C. Andrews books, and i like her writing, and this screenplay is an embarrassment!!!!  The acting in this movie made soap opera stars seem like they deserve acadamy awards!!!  There was absolutely no feeling or emotion in the acting.  It sounded like the actors were reading their scripts for the first time.  Man, am i surprised this hasn't made the bottom hundred list! "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie I've Ever Seen!","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My mother and grandmother dragged me kicking and screaming to see this movie when it was first released in theaters. I had heard about the books, but never read them. The movie is absolutely hilarious! I laughed all the way through it. I particularly liked how the actress playing the mother looked like she was about 4 years older than her kids. Also a very funny touch was how the kids sometimes had white makeup on their faces to make them look sickly from one camera angle and not in another one. By the end of the movie tears were rolling down my face I was laughing so hard. Then they told me it wasn't supposed to be a comedy.... Ooops... "},{"Title":"a mess","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have not actually read the book for Flowers in the Attic, but seeing the movie was certainly...an experience. The book certainly has a great deal of acclaim, but after a viewing of its film adaption, one must either assume it is either a poor telling, or else wonder just what makes the book so loved?Flowers in the Attic is, I assume, intended to be a thriller/dramatic mix, but mainly comes off as a horror film, and not too good of one. The story centers upon four siblings, two teenagers(Chris and Cathy) and a two young twins(Carrie and Corey), who, along with their mother, are forced to live at their wealthy grandparents after their father passes away. Unfortunately, when they arrive, they are not, to say the least, warmly received by their grandmother. Much to the children's surprise, she tells them a shocking family secret that their father is well... Great Uncle Dad might be an appropriate name. Because their grandmother happens to be very religious (even though it becomes easy to see through her lines that the writer must not know the slightest thing about the Christian religion), she deems the children unfit and decides to keep them hidden from their ailing grandfather, who has never known that they are born. Though her house is as big as a palace, she forbids the children to leave their room, though they are allowed to enter an attic that their room leads to. Their mother is allowed to visit, but as her mother and father grow to accept her(even though she's only the one that married her uncle), the visits become fewer and far between and the children realize that they are now prisoners with no chance of escape...While the storyline may be rife with potential, what results is not. While Chris and Cathy come off as semi-appealing characters, the twins, particularly Carrie(Lindsay Parker), simply do not HAVE much character, and poor little Carrie ends up having almost no point, either. The mother, who goes from caring to disconcerned with her children is interesting at first, but becomes tired, and as for the rest of the characters, well they really make the film go downhill. As the grandmother, Louise Fletcher gives a decent performance for a lousy role. For whatever importance the grandmother held in the book, she's nothing but a cliched, horror movie-esque villian who terrorizes Chris and Cathy by slapping them around, setting rules(which are really just carefully disguised punishments, Cathy tells us), and occasionally bugs them by sneaking up on them and hissing sinners, without even telling them how they are sinning. She epitomizes the cliched religious villain, though the religious aspects are so poorly done they should have been cut. Finally, about half way through the film they are, but grandmother only gets worse by poisoning the children's food. Yet another potentially interesting film aspect ruined, as we soon see that Grandmother's poisoning involves her carefully sprinkling arsenic onto doughnuts, and the arsenic is pouring from a beautiful silver jar. Would people really go through the trouble of making poison look pretty? Logic is not a strong factor to this film, and it makes it pretty hard to taking this one seriously, though it is entertaining in a bad way. I'm sure the book is not, or if it is, why is it acclaimed? I must read it. "}{"Title":"If the director a registered sex offender??","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" First of all, this movie is painful. Downright painful. It's really nothing more than an incest sex story soft-core porn. First, the Dad brings home the daughter a special gift and let's her know she's extra special. Then they kill him off (5 minutes in to the film) and the family moves back with the crazy grandparents in a Transylvanian-type mansion where the grandmother strips the mother down to her panties and whips her in front of the grandfather... the reason?? Her husband was her uncle. Yes folks, the kids are inbred. Then, the grandmother makes a big deal about the kids sleeping in the same bed. Finally the girl (who's supposed to be like 11 or 12 or something) practically masturbates in the bathtub while the brother sponges her down. Creeeeepy.... Oh, and the acting on a porno would be a step up from this travesty of a film. "}]