[{"Title":"Fun Summer Camp B-Movie","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I don't understand why Meatballs III ranks in the bottom 100.  It isn't a Kubrick film nor is it Star Wars, but it never intended to be.  Meatballs III is, very simply, a summer camp B-movie infused with a dose of teenage humor.  I enjoy it and even own it on videotape because the film's premise is hilarious and it plays out well.  (I didn't pay much for the used tape, though.)  In fact, I think it is more entertaining than half of what makes it into the movie theaters from Hollywood.The movie is entertaining because the premise is so outrageous you can't believe anyone made a film out of it.  Also, I enjoy the antics of the outrageous, ogre-ish Mean Gene who owns the marina.If you just want to relax with a few beers and don't mind drek if its done decently and doesn't pretend to be anything other than drek, then you might enjoy this movie.I voted a 7 for it because it is pretty decent as far as B-movies go.  I did not rank it on the same scale that I would use for a more serious movie or a big budget Hollywood film.   "},{"Title":"Meat-headed....","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Sally Kellerman has been in some good stuff (Serial, Foxes, The Boston Strangler).  Then there's Meatballs III...and this stuff ain't good.You see, Kellerman plays a deceased porn star whose only ticket into heaven is to help a hopeless nerd (Dempsey) lose his virginity at summer camp. This is a Canadian tax write-off (as if you couldn't tell from Waxman in the credits) and it shows from the writing right down to the witless sight gags (dropping trou here is as sophisticated as it gets).  Don't get all huffy, now I like Canadian movies as much as the next guy, but not when they're this stupid.What else can you say about a movie that under-utilizes Shannon Tweed as much as this one does?Nothing good, that's for sure.No stars for this one.  Maybe someone should write Jason Voorhees to move to this camp....  Anyone got his address? "},{"Title":"Sophomoric in a good way","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe the myriad of negative comments and reviews I've seen for Meatballs III.  It, like most other Canadian summer-camp movies, are meant to provide cheap laughs in a stupid way and weren't really made for people to analyze the plot, character development, etc.  If you don't like sophomoric humor, then you should have known better than to watch it in the first place.  Not everybody likes the trite, dry, boring humor of typical big-production films.  Movies like Meatballs III provide relief from such ennui.I remember seeing Meatballs III on USA back around 1990, and have loved it since, especially because back then I was still a teenager and this is the kind of movie that a teenage boy would probably like.  I remember while watching it my mom came downstairs and told me to turn off that garbage, and I liked it even more.On a side note, there was an episode of SNL (when Jeff Goldblum hosted) in 1993 where David Spade, as Karl the video store clerk, recommends Meatballs III to Rob Schneider.  Of course I had to laugh at that. "},{"Title":"The best of the series; an honest trashy film","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  In this film, Sally Kellerman plays wonderfully a porno star who have to help Patrick Dempsey to lose his virginity. This is an attractive premise if you are looking for new experiences... and this movie won´t disapoint you, it have the enough trash, bad- acting, sense of humour and nudity to surprise everybody. If you like beach films and teen comedies, a definitive must-see!!!  "},{"Title":"This meatball is off by three years","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" You know how many actors start off in their crappy first movie. This is Patrick Dempsey's first crappy movie. This is strictly for the undemanding comedy viewer or the undemanding viewer of any genre. He really started off in this bomb of embarrassment. Here's the plot, where's girls raise Dempsey's anatomy more than laughs in a fizzer of a film. Dempsey is a nerd, going to work on his summer break, heading to a popular seaside spot, which is anything but glamorous. You should check out his living arrangements, for this mean owner, Gene, has taken over this pub and gas business, where Dempsey's pumping more than boat fuel. At the start where he's p...k teased by a couple of girls, we see this laughing stock later on re-invents himself thanks to a magical force, Sally Kellerman, only visible to Dempsey of course. She has to him improve his chances with girls otherwise her wish won't be granted at the pearly gates on heaven. So, dressed the part and a confidence man, he ends up with these hot babes and sends other guys flying through the room or busting tables without hardly laying a finger on them. As if? But in the end he realizes his real love was there in front of him all the time. This is a very corny Meatballs that hit video shelves in back 87, where it should of hit the back of cars or trucks. It's a lame comedy, guaranteed hardly any laughs, but I guess if your a Dempsey fan, who followed a string of similar teen sex films that were way indeed, better, this might be worth the watch to see how this good actor started off. And if you don't like it, there's always the remote nearby. A little joke, Gene's wife, (no not Gene Simmons, the character Gene) Shannon Tweed who's kept like a prisoner upstairs, has a faux intercourse scene with Dempsey, the only redeeming moment of this trash. "},{"Title":"Well it is the summer I guess.","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Yes, it being the summer is the only thing that remotely ties this film to the first two movies. That being said I did enjoy this movie more than part two, however, you can see by my score of four that I still did not like this movie overall. It had potential and I think its low score here of 2.8 has a lot to do with the fact it tries to pass itself off as a sequel to a set of movies it has nothing remotely in common with. However, that being said overall it was still a poor comedy with the typical teen sex comedy plot...guy wants to lose virginity. The twist, a ghost of a porn star must try and help him. Of course, my question is why does he need help? He is pals with a cute girl who would obviously be more than willing to have sex with him, I mean she is watching a porno with him. Still, if it were that easy there would be no movie. However, that may have been a good thing in this case. Still, it has a couple of good comedy moments and far less groan inducing humor than part two (though it has its fair share as well). So there you have it, we go from family oriented comedy to a teen sex romp in three films. "},{"Title":"Not the worst of the series, but far from the best.","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In yet another unconnected entry to this usually not very good movie series, a summer camp nerd is turned from wimp to dream boat by the ghost of a porn star who coaches him on how to get girls. MEATBALLS 3 (in my view anyways) isn't the worst film in the series (Part 4 holds the honor) but it definitely makes the first two look like classics, when held in comparison. While the actors are talented & the direction pretty good, MEATBALLS 3 is just a sad teen sex comedy that only gets more ridiculous as the film progresses, while some of the jokes are pretty funny, a lot of them fall flat on their face, now I knew before hand that a film with a plot line like this wouldn't be Oscar winning material, but I saw & liked the second one & the first one wasn't to bad neither, (though I can't see why everyone is so crazy about it) plus I wanted to keep up in my film reviews of the series, so I rented this & it's sequel, but really it's not worth the rental unless there's nothing better to rent or you have nothing better to do, or it's a rainy day, I mean it's not a horrible film, it's just not very funny, except for a few spots here & there. Better yet just wait for it to come on TV & save you're money for a better movie or just rent the first two again & avoid 3 & 4. Followed by MEATBALLS 4.** stars "},{"Title":"Continuing the Meatballs tradition?    Not really","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" If you are a fan of the classic, funny Meatballs films, then avoid this one. Overall, it is not a bad film. If you are a Patrick Dempsey fan (Dr. McDreamy from the ABC drama Grey's Anatomy) then you should check out this film. It is Mr. Dempsey as a horny young teenager and he looks every bit the part. Actually the only good part of this film overall is Patrick's performance. He is good as the young and very horny 15-year-old, Rudy. Remember Rudy from Meatballs the first movie with Bill Murrary? Well he's back. This time his summer mission is to finally lose his virginity. Not an easy task for a geeky teenager. But, thanks to a little porn-star fairy godmother, Rudy gets some tips to help him clean up his geeky act which should finally get him some action. It doesn't get him the action but it does clean him up. Overall this movies is not terrible. It is a little limited in the script. It is kind of predictable in the plot and subject. However, if you are interested, I suggest checking out this film. It is good, just don't expect too much. It is not done like the classic Meatballs films, but it is still watchable. Like I said, if you like Patrick Dempsey, check it out. He gives a good performance and makes this film more watchable. If nothing else, enjoy him as a younger kid! "},{"Title":"Taking the plunge!","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I used to think Meatballs III was the best in the series. But after a while, I realized I was wrong. None of the films are actually all that funny, save Bill Murray's humor as head camp counselor in the first film with much of the funniest lines being that which he calls over the loud speakers.Part II involved some kind of Martian thing hiding among the campers. It was hardly funny at all, and possibly the only saving grace was Paul Rubens.Part IV stars Corey Feldman, and well, you know what a horrible movie that turns out to be right there.Part III was never like a camp counselor movie. Dempsey plays a hopeless teenager working at a summer hot spot. As a nerdy kid, he's desperate for a girlfriend, which requires the guide of a ghost woman played by Sally Kellerman. Poor Dempsey, he falls in love with the beautiful wife of a giant biker with a knack for tossing guys out of the window. In fact, it starts up a contest among the locals--how long would it take for brave young contender making his way to the wife's bedroom before that monster biker tosses him out of the window. This is more like a movie that could be, if at all, appreciated by fans of Patrick Dempsey's 80s work. Although, I'd consider myself a fan of his earlier work and still don't enjoy this movie. It's not really all that funny outside of a few minor antics and the quirky attitude of Sally Kellerman. "},{"Title":"CO-OPTED","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Tell me no one in this great big world of ours recognized MEATBALLS 3 for what it is, a steal of an earlier comedy called MAXIE, starring Glenn Close as a flapper-era star who comes back from the beyond. That's all MEATBALLS 3 is. Poor Sally Kellerman deserved better, playing a poor-man's Glenn Close. Did no one catch the similarities in names as well? Maxie and Roxie. Pull-eeze! "}{"Title":"Aye Carumba!","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A wicked case of insomnia had me watching this movie on TV. Suffice to say that there would have been more entertainment value had I turned the TV off and watched nothing. Beyond bad from every angle. You don't expect much from a movie like this but this one fails to meet even the lowest standards. 1/2* out of ****. "},{"Title":"I guess im one of only a few people in the world that likes this movie","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I think this is a good movie. it's funny, and entertaining. When I first saw this movie back in the late 80s I never thought about the plot I just liked it.  Now I do think about the plot.  The plot is very silly, but I'm able to look past it.  This movie doesn't pack the great one-liners that part 1 had, but it's still funny, and entertaining, and close to being as good as part 1.  It is better than 2 and 4. There isn't a doubt in my mind that Meatballs III is for  laid-back people only.  I give Meatballs III *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"A movie that makes us all smile...","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Howdy! Now this movie is really cool, really fun, and, despite its age, is fun and frenzy for my peers, even to this day! Forget some of the recent movies and shows that are very popular among us college students, and forget some of the older ones like Animal House, too; Meatballs III Summer Job has it all! But do you know what goes terrific with this movie? The past two Meatballs movies, of course? Now, back to what I said about what college kids today like I'm sure a majority of them may not be familiar with these movies, but since there's some lady action going on here (thus the reason for a 10), I think everyone here should see it...and smile! "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It didn't take long for me to get bored with this movie, thanks to a stupid plot and humor that is a notch below sophomoric.  There was absolutely nothing to like about this film.  Worse yet, there was actually some talent in this film.  What were they thinking?  How financially-strapped would you have to be to sign up for a film where a dead porn star tries to help someone lose his virginity?  This is as bad as the plot would suggest. "},{"Title":"Oh the humanity...","Date":"28 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Sally Kellerman manages to totally debase herself, but nobody really shines in this movie that demonstrates they should have stopped at #1.  "}]