[{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A terribly silly but awfully amusing little sequel, it may be a touch predictable, and it is missing Thomas Newman's excellent theme song, but having the same likable characters on hand helps it to be equally as fun as the first film. Some of the jokes are really hilarious, and arguably I would say that it is funnier than the first film. I would not definitely call it better, but it is certainly at least on the same level, with an interesting charm radiating from the nerdy characters. And there is another song to take the place of Tom Newman's ditty an amusing little number called No on Fifteen. The film seems to get a lot of negative feedback, but I cannot agree - it may not be a great film, like the first, but it is by all means amusing, like the first. "},{"Title":"not nearly as good as the first one,but still not bad","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love the first revenge of the nerds. The second one is not nearly as good as the first one, but still pretty good. The nerds are still funny in this movie. Booger is once again the funniest of them all. The second one is also entertaining at times. They could've make this movie better if they would've kept the nerds at Adam's college, but the second one is still watchable, and funny. I give revenge of the nerds II nerds in paradise **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"OK it's not as good as the original, but it's a fun 90 minutes anyway","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The 1984 comedy 'Revenge of the Nerds' was a hit in it's time and has had a much deserved following for decades. It's no surprise that a sequel, let alone 3, was produced a few years later. Though it didn't do nearly as well as it's predecessor, this sequel is still a fun way to kill an hour and a half.Pros A funny 'Star Wars' style opening. A still very appealing original cast and some great newcomers. Some good humor and sight gags. Plenty of beautiful Florida scenery. A quick pace. The datedness adds to the overall fun and feel of the movie. Like the original there's plenty memorable scenes.Cons Some of the humor falls flat. The plot is pretty thin. They try to recreate some things from the original, for example the music performance, but with lesser results.Final thoughts None of the sequels to the original 'Nerds' film will ever be mistaken for comedy gems, but you could certainly do much worse. At least they didn't make as many sequels as were made to 'Police Academy.' My rating 3/5 "},{"Title":"* * Out Of Five","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This time the nerds led by Robert Carradine and Anthonny Edwards go to Florida where there they meet a new breed of jocks who they face off against and basically destroy in the end, the problem with this entry is that the nerds this time are too cool to really be considered nerds and they even get a girlfriend sympathetic to their cause, this undermines all the humor, not to mention that away from the college dorm setting, there really isn't much the nerds can do that they didn't in the original. As a sequel this is all disappointing stuff, but aside from James Hong who gives an inspired performance as well as maybe a few vaguely amusing moments, Revenge Of The Nerds II is a big disappointment. "},{"Title":"Nerds gone Awful!","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Revenge of the Nerds 2 Nerds in Paradise is a horrible sequel. The only redeeming qualities is the sound track featuring Pseudo Echo's cover of Funky Town, and .38 Special's Take Me Back To Paradise. And though it was fun and somewhat nostalgic to see our favorite nerds again, the script was just awful, and the plot exceedingly thin.This was clearly made for the sake of making the studio money. I had thought that it was a rushed sequel, as the script was so bad. However, this film was put out three years after the original, allowing for plenty of time for a quality plot and script to be developed. Like its contemporaries such as the Police Academy series, this sequel just lets the audience down and was unfortunately continued after this horrible train wreck. "},{"Title":"Medicore sequel but still provides the laughs","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Revenge of the Nerds II Nerds in Paradise isn't as good as the first film mainly because the film wasn't rated R. Robert Caradine is back in proper form as Lewis his character really grows this time. Curtis Armstrong as Booger steals the sequel he's funnier here in some scenes then in the first. If the film had been rated R and had nudity then it could have been good as the first but the PG-13 rating is what maily hurts the film. "},{"Title":"The somewhat watchable sequel , but still a bad one","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you didn't like the first one , you wont like this one too. If you liked the first , you should get a couple of laughs from this one too, but not too many. It obviously borrows some elements of the story from the original (love story , party , motivation speech) . It also doesn't have so much heart , because we've all seen this story before. Gone is also the satire of high school life.Not all characters are back for this sequel . Some nerds are missing . Anthony Edwards appears here only in few scenes . There is new villain , but I missed Ted McGinley. First movie had Queen song We are the champions . This one has two great songs &#x96; Take me back to paradise  by 38 Special and Funky town by Pseudo Echo. There are also two new interesting characters &#x96; hotel owner and disgusting China man .It's not a quality movie , but certainly better than those made-for-TV crap sequels. Still , no reason to watch it. I give it 2/10. "},{"Title":"Not As Good As The Original But Provides Some Laughs","Date":"26 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Revenge Of The Nerds II Nerds In Paradise may not a comedy classic like it's predecessor Revenge Of The Nerds but it's still an enjoyable movie to watch.This time our nerd heroes must once again fight back against their most hated enemy. Robert Carradine's character Lewis grows up quite a bit and stands up for his fraternity brothers.Curtis Armstrong is as always his funny self when playing nose picker Booger his character is more hilarious, he says some great lines in the film. A year has passed since a group of intelligent and awkward young men banded together to form a fraternity to fight back against the Alpha Betas. They succeeded in their battle of brains vs. brawn guaranteeing nerd freedom, Now Lewis (Carradine) and his friends Wormser (Cassese), Pointdexter (Busfield), Lamar (Scott) & Booger (Armstrong) are about to represent Adams College at a united fraternity conference in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.Once there they are prosecuted and picked on again by another chapter of the Alpha Betas run by Roger Latimore (Whitford). Sunny Carstairs (Smith) a hotel employee befriends the nerdy gang and falls in love with Lewis.Towards the end after being marooned on an island the boys find military equipment and using an army tank they head back to the conference to confront Roger and his group with the help of Ogre (Gibb) who becomes a member of the Lambda Lambdas after being kicked out of the Alphas.This film may not be a laugh fest but certainly provides very little humour and memorable quotes. "},{"Title":"Incoherent","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was a disappointment compared to the original. Why is it that sequels often try to do similar things, similar plots, similar jokes? Not necessary! A sequel to me must be original to some degree, too. The beginning was promising, the middle part had enormous lengths and very bad scripting and the end was bland. I loved the characters though. Believable like the original. However, Poindexter seemed much too talkative and sometimes even made sense, almost as if Milton Waddams went to a speech-therapist. I did not like the setting at all and the hotel scenes were very far fetched.All in all rather disappointing. Too bad. "},{"Title":"The Nerds Are Back & They're Bad!","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Robert Carradine, Curtis Armstrong, Timothy Busfield, Larry B. Scott, Courteney Thorne-Smith, Donald Gibb, Bradley Whitford and Anthony Edwards star in this 1987 comedy sequel. This entry has nerds, Lewis (Carradine), Booger (Armstrong), Poindexter (Busfield) and Lamar (Scott) traveling to Fort Lauderdale, Florida for a convention to represent Adams College fraternity, Lambda Lambda Lambda. Whitford (Billy Madison) plays Roger, the Chapter President of the Alpha Beta fraternity who tries to get them expelled by framing them, but underestimates them when they decide to fight back. Smith (Summer School) plays Sunny, a hotel clerk who finds romance with Lewis, Gibb (Bloodsport) returns as Alpha Beta member, Ogre who eventually joins the Nerds and Edwards (Top Gun) also returns briefly as Lewis' pal, Gilbert. I grew up watching this sequel and always enjoyed it almost as much as the original. The cast is great and I recommend this. "}{"Title":"Lost the comedy","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Tri-Lambs of Adams College goes to the United Fraternity Conference in Fort Lauderdale. Lewis Skolnick (Robert Carradine), Dudley Booger Dawson (Curtis Armstrong), Lamar Latrelle (Larry B. Scott), Arnold Poindexter (Timothy Busfield), and Harold Wormser (Andrew Cassese) find that they are picked on once again. Gilbert Lowell (Anthony Edwards) has a broken leg and has to stay home. Sunny Carstairs (Courtney Thorne-Smith) is the nice hotel clerk. Ogre (Donald Gibb) follows the guys down to Florida. The acting manager Buzz Mussinger (Ed Lauter) cancels the nerds' reservation and they are left with a rundown hotel. Roger (Bradley Whitford) is the new douche leader.There are some missing nerds. Anthony Edwards was probably busy and could only be in a cameo. It would also have been great to have the girls back. Some lost is to be expected but the movie starts off at a lower level. Bradley Whitford isn't jock enough to be their nemesis. Again I wish Ted McGinley would come back to take revenge. As for the nerds, it's strange to have them be confident. It's not as funny. The charm of the original is that they discovered their individual powers. This one has none of the charm and lost the comedy to boot. "},{"Title":"A boring, unwarranted catastrophe","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" (Credit IMDb) Get out your white socks! This time our suave college heroes hit the road for fun and fraternity in Florida. Another opportunity for brains to triumph over brawn. How can the girls possibly resist their geeky charms?What a poor excuse for a sequel! I liked the first one, but it wasn't exactly clamoring for a sequel. This one screams laziness and forgets what made the first one successful. Anthony Edwards is reduced to a glorified cameo in this one, Robert Carradine is forced to carry much of the crappy material that he can't do much with. Betty Childs (Julia Montgomery) The girl Lewis gets together with at the end of the first movie doesn't appear in this one. As a matter of fact, Courtney Thorne- Smith becomes his love interest in this one. I like her as an actress, but she lacks the spunk to be that interesting. Ostensibly, Julia Montgomery turned down to reprise her role because she was supposed to have dumped Lewis and she felt it would have negated all the changes her character made in this movie. It was a wise choice. Followed by two more sequels that went STV. I would skip this one if I were you, it provides you with no laughs and it's dull3.6/10 "},{"Title":"Pulls out some moments.","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Revenge of the Nerds II Nerds in Paradise oddly enough, pulls out some memorable moments. Such as when they find a bunch of old army tanks, etc. Booger (Curtis Armstrong) yellin' out WE GOT BUSH! is f'n hilarious. Although, the storyline is pretty much the same. The nerds arrive in a hotel, the manager doesn't want them there because they are nerds, so they gotta stay in some cheap hotel with chickens runnin' 'round wild. Probably the worst thing about this movie is that, the nerd to first stand-up for nerd persecution in Gilbert (Anthony Edwards) has a small role. I can't really say I can recommend jus' goin' out to BLOCKBUSTER or Hollywood Video and renting this, but it's obviously a perfect time waster. Umm, I guess it pulls off a solid six. "},{"Title":"A step down from the original","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As with many sequels, this one is, alas, a definite step down from the original Nerds film. The nerds are back, for the most part, the originals, but the story is written so differently from the first. This film attempts to be a bit more humorous than the first, but it falls flat. The humor is this one is the lowbrow type of humor so common today. It is either sophomoric sexual innuendo, slapstick or scatological in nature and it's just not funny. I loved the first flick and, expecting this not to be quite as good, was nonetheless quite disappointed in it. The story line in this is also somewhat similar to the first film and didn't seem very original to me. The acting is just as good as it was in the original film but the writing and storyline are just not up to par with the original, so not even decent acting can save it. A 5 only. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable!!","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I may be in the minority, but I loved this film. I loved the original as well. The sequel has plenty of laughs, and many occur during understated moments. The nerds' arrival at their one-star hotel, the Hotel Coral Essex, was hilarious to me. Who among us hasn't found ourselves in less-than-desirable accommodations at one time or another? From the chickens roaming inside, to the un-swimmable pool, to the Peep Show establishment sharing the building, this is the embodiment of everyone's vacation nightmare, a la National Lampoon's Vacation, but even more so. The Cuban-American front desk clerk-- and her fervent love of Ricky Ricardo-- was a real treat. Those who did not laugh at these moments are likely those who are less experienced in life. I enjoyed the Florida stereotypes (which were not all insulting -- Sunny was a nice, typical Florida girl), having traveled there myself, as well as the blast-from-the-past 1980s setting/filming. The stereotype of the flamboyantly gay man in Lamar's character was enjoyable and humorous to me, and I hope other viewers saw it in the light way that it was meant to be taken, as well. I also hope that other viewers were not offended in any way by the portrayal of the African American chapter of Tri-Lambda, because I found them to be the *most* upstanding characters in both this film and the original. I would have liked to see those characters featured in even more scenes. While the absence of Gilbert on the trip was a little disappointing, it was great to see him for a few moments here and there. Lewis carried the other scenes perfectly well by himself. With his sensitive nature and good looks beneath his nerd costuming, it is not too much of a stretch to imagine beautiful yet emotionally mature and smart ladies like Sunny falling in love with Lewis. Finally (POSSIBLE SPOILER? ALERT!), I couldn't have asked for a happier ending than the conversion of one of the Alpha Betas. Some extra features on the DVD (such as outtakes, interviews, cast biographies, etc.) would have been welcomed / appreciated, but one can't have everything, I guess!  "},{"Title":"Very Silly","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  We all know that this was not as good as the first nerds, how can it be when the first one was so original?. The sequel is more of the same, but not as funny, although many will find humor in the master, particularly if you are an advocate of toilet humor. Interesting to see Courtney Thorne Smith in an early role, pre Melrose and Ally McBeal. And we all get to see the original nerds again, even Anthony Edwards makes a few guest appearances. Probably a good film to watch when you are not functioning that well, because then you will not really have the opportunity to realise just how bad this film is in comparison to the many great films out there. Yet still there are many that are worse, and let us not forget this film was made in 1987, when comedies in the same vein as Nerds were immensely popular. Its not a good film, but its still watchable, I guess some of us find pleasure in juvenile campus comedies- even if we don't admit it to that many people.  "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's  The obligatory financial sequel.","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Revenge of the Nerds II (1987) was a useless sequel. There was no reason (except for monetary motives) for this movie to have ever been made. First of all they have obviously ran out of ideas, secondly only a third of the cast was available and last but not least they made it into a P.G. movie. Why on earth would you try and market a raunchy comedy as a P.G. movie. Well, this didn't make any money. Not only did the product stink but it did like wise at the box office.A bad movie that shouldn't have been made in the first place. Not only the film-makers didn't learn the first time around, two more made-for-t.v. sequels were produced during the 90's (I guess FOX didn't learn from that abortion Omen IV). Not worth watching (unless you are a HUGE Revenge of the Nerds fan). Take my word, ignore this one.Bad movie. "},{"Title":"Another Case of an Unnecessary Sequel","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Revenge of the Nerds was far from a great film, but its enormous box office success led to this dud of a sequel. The major players are back and attend a conference in Fort Lauderdale only to be bullied again by the dreaded Alpha Betas. Robert Carradine is back, but Anthony Edwards only makes a token appearance and is sorely missed here. The same is true with James Cromwell who has about the same length of screen-time as before, but does not make his presence known as well as before. In all the film is nearly a total waste. There are some good looking women in bit parts and that may be the greatest attraction. A young Courtney Thorne-Smith sizzles as Carradine's love interest. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly disappointing sequel","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Revenge of the Nerds was described as the ultimate nerd revenge fantasy movie and what Louis says near the end is true there are a lot more of us nerds than the beautiful people. This is what made it such an enjoyable movie.Revenge of the nerds II could have had so many possibilities but was clearly delayed in production and hampered by the fact that most of the original cast seemed to have opted out for the second go-round. Anthony Edwards phoned in a cameo at the beginning. Three years after the first movie, he had already been in the popular movies Top Gun and Gotcha, and probably did the cameo as a compromise.Only Gilbert, Booger, Wormser, Lamar, and Poindexter are around for part two and the entire movie takes place in Fort Lauderdale spring break, where the boys attend a fraternity conference. Shockingly, only Ogre is around from the Alpha Betas this time.Lots of predictably stupid yuks come from Poindexter's bottle bottom glasses and overall clumsiness and Booger's extreme lack of couth. Lamar and Wormser are mostly just there with Lamar glittering himself up more than he did in the first movie.Of course the Alpha Betas manage to get the tri Lambs kicked out of their desirable hotel reservation and of course they end up at the only other hotel available, a horrendous, fallen-down fleabag. There is also a weird scene at a zoo park/bar.The best part of the movie happens in the opening credits, where 38 Special plays a snappy tune Take me back to paradise. From there it's all downhill, including some embarrassingly bad camera work for a major feature. In too many scenes there is a proscenium arch camera angle with no other cuts or edits, as if a college kid on an iPad filmed every scene in one take and said editing? What's that?As a sequel, it's almost fascinatingly bad but not really worth the trouble. "},{"Title":"Typical sequel of the 80's, virtually the same movie with only minor differences and fewer laughs.","Date":"6 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is very typical of sequels of earlier years. Back in the day sequels would typically do less business than the original film so for the sequel not much effort is really taken to build upon the films. This film has the nerds going to an event in a nice resort town and of course they are once again picked on, because the popular people just have nothing better to do than harass these few guys instead of drinking and partying. Of course, there is revenge to be had, but not as much revenge this time for the nerds, they take way more bumps in this one and dish out a whole lot less pain this time around. They get stuck in a dump, they get fooled by what they perceive as a sacrifice in a scene that they should be the ones to come up with not the jock types, and they get dumped off on a deserted island. The poor guys do not get to do much other than punch a person this time. The thing they did with Ogre is stupid at the end and once again Booger just does not seem to fit with the nerds as he once again comes across as a guy who is going to be in a regular fraternity and being the cut up. He meets a man in this one that sort of mentors him. Like I said, there is not really a whole lot of revenge of the nerds in this one, they did a whole lot more in the first movie to get back at their tormentors. They are also a nerd down as Anthony Edwards does not return, but they pick up another one to take his place. The next film in this series would go straight to television which is almost worst than direct to video, and thankfully there has yet to be a remake of this franchise that started out with a few laughs, but quickly downgraded with this entry. "}{"Title":"Not as good as the original, but a great sequel nonetheless...","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am so glad they did this sequel. The two that followed are inconsequential but this sequel, Nerds in Paradise, just HAD to be done. Why??? They absolutely had to follow up the greatest college Fraternity movie (yes, better than Animal House) with the greatest Spring Break movie, especially since the 1980's was the decade that modern Spring Break as we know it hit its stride. The 80's are when students started to flock to Ft. Lauderdale and the rest of Florida, as well as to other havens across the nation such as Lake Havasu and the Gulf Coast/Redneck Riviera.Anyway, these guys had to get to Florida and be a REAL Fraternity at some point. I like the angle of involving national fraternities, which brings in NEW Alpha Betas, and I love how the inter-fraternity hatred extends beyond the local schools to the national chapters.This movie also does a great job incorporating the oh so hot Beastie Boys style of rapping by introducing Barry Sobel's character, Stewart, a White Castle employee (in Florida, where there are NO White Castles - only Krystals) who happens to be a white rapper that sounds like he's right out of the Beastie Boys! I was a college Freshman in 1986, and I remember clearly the Beastie Boys being the hottest thing on campus that year. EVERYBODY liked them.I also love the beach/vacation/road trip quality this movie has. The first Revenge of the Nerds is a classic in its own right, no doubt. It did a great job establishing itself as a classic and really established the genre of wacky college frat movies. But what good is establishing the genre if you don't take it somewhere? Nerds in Paradise does exactly that. It profits off the foundation laid by the first movie. Many other movies also fed off these two movies (i.e. Fraternity Vacation, another Florida Spring Break movie with a nerdy hero, etc.).I love that the nerds are able to always use what they have to beat out the jocks and have their voices heard, and especially because this means having a musical performance with lasers and lights. Hilarious!!! This was also a good way to work in the Beastie Boys-esquire Barry Sobel Rap, which establishes him as one of the nerds although he's not part of the fraternity. It is the highest honor a non-fraternity member could get, next to being Lewis Skolnick's girlfriend I suppose, HEEEEEEPP!!!! I own a DVD that has Revenge of the Nerds on one side and RotN II on the other side - I think it was under 10 bucks on sale, and it was worth far more than that to me. I'd have paid 50 bucks for it, but I won't tell that to the DVD company. Weird to have a DVD that you actually Flip over and play the other side, though...My favorite line in the movie is from Roger, however OK. Maybe I did. What are you gonna do about it, Skolnick? You gonna make a little speech? It's not gonna do any good. Wanna know why? Because I'm strong and you're weak. Because I'm the type of guy that everybody here wants to be like, and you are pathetic. That's the way it is. That's the way it's always gonna be, and there's nothing you or your pencil-neck geek friends can do or say about it. Comprende, dickhead? Bradley Whitford was such an awesome Alpha Beta, and that's saying a lot considering he had to follow Ted McGinley (Stan Gables) who was awesome in the first movie. Roger was, throughout the movie, a PERFECT jock/preppy snob, I really think Whitford did such a great job with this role that he might be the best actor in the whole movie!!! The line I quoted above just PERFECTLY sums up his and the entire Alpha Betas' attitudes, all into one, in-your-face, simplified, short summary. It starts with a brazen admission to framing the Tri-Lambs, goes into a diatribe against them based purely on bigoted, hateful perceptions, and caps everything off with a stupid sounding insult which no doubt Roger himself thought was cool and creative. Just PERFECT. Whitford's delivery of it was what made it work.One little problem I have with it has to do with Ogre's conversion to being a Nerd. The Nerds seem to always stress individualism and be proud of who/what you are. Well, Ogre is a big strong guy - a jock. It is good that he sees the Nerds for the nice people they are, and the Alpha Betas for the jerks they are; but why should Ogre have to stop being a Jock to stop being an Alpha Beta??? Anyway, I am definitely analyzing this too much, because this film is about fun and having fun, and overblown clichés and stereotypes, and turning Ogre into a Nerd is just part of all that. I love his initiation Oh Lambda Truest, I am the newest, member of your clan. And in your..uh.. (the others help Ogre out by quietly cuing him - hallways) HALLways...I will always, be Proud of what I am. HEEEP!! HEEEEPPPP!!!! HEEEEEEEPPP!!! Funny how Ogre's laugh turns into a nerd laugh, magically, from reciting his oath to join the Tri-Lambs! But he's still Ogre, and drinks messily from the cup, like he did from the cup in the first movie. Anyway, this movie is HIGHLY recommended if you enjoy fun, light, gratuitous, cliché-ridden movies which are satires of themselves, just as the first one was. If you believe films ought to be serious, somber events which evoke deep thought, then don't bother, unless you're ready to live a little and relax a bit, then this movie is for you also. "},{"Title":"** out of 4","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Inferior sequel to the 1984 original has the so-called nerds visiting Fort Lauderdale, Florida for a fraternity convention. There are some laughs here, but it isn't consistent enough to keep you entertained. However, it's always nice to see geeks get revenge on the jocks. Rated PG-13 for language and adult content.   "},{"Title":"A far cry from Nerds I, but diehards get to see their heros again.","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Some movies were never meant to have a sequel, Revenge of the Nerds is probably one of those. In Nerds II, the guys are off to Daytona Florida in search of sun and fun. What they encounter is more nerd prejudice from those Alpha Beta jocks. The movie basically follows the same pattern as Nerds I however, not with nearly the laughs. There is still the odd chuckle in this one, but most of the jokes either fall flat, or were already done in the first film.The film really offers nothing new. Die hard fans will likly enjoy seeng their heros back on screen but don't watch this movie in hopes of seeing the originality that was displayed in Nerds I. "},{"Title":"Another Needless Sequel","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Revenge of the Nerds II (1987) * 1/2 (out of 4) Poor sequel has the nerds heading to Florida for a fraternity convention but the place is full of jocks who don't want anything to do with the lovable losers. As in the first film, the nerds must try to figure out a way to make those pretty people understand them. Considering how much money the first film made I guess it's a little bit shocking that it took them three years to get a sequel made but after viewing this thing it's obvious they didn't take that much time trying to come up with a good screenplay. With very few exceptions sequels are just the first film slightly altered but what really sinks this one is that we get watered down, PG-13 rated jokes that are just poor copies of great jokes from the first film. I've never fully understood why studios think they need to water down jokes to try and bring in a larger audience. Going by the box office numbers it's clear the PG-13 rating wasn't what the film needed. What it did need was a better screenplay because what we get here is pretty lazy as the majority of the jokes fall flat on their face. The problem with many of them is that the characters here are so poorly written that most of the time we just see them acting over-the-top and this really goes against what their characters were in the first movie. The entire idea of them traveling to Florida for some conference is pretty weak story wise and one must wonder why something better wasn't thought of. Robert Carradine returns as Lewis and while the performance is fine you can't help but notice how hard he's having to work to try and make up for the screenplay. Curtis Armstrong is also back as are a few others from the first film but the screenplay does none of them any favors. Even worse is Donald Gibb who gets nothing to do except making dumb sounds as Orge. "},{"Title":"Yeah, it's silly, but it's still a fun comedy","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The other day I bought the Atomic Wedgie edition of the Revenge of the Nerds movies, it was pretty cheap so I figured what the heck to have the sequels too, you know? So I watched Revenge of the Nerds II Nerds in Paradise this morning and I remember it's harsh rating on IMDb, so I was kinda scared about this not being a good movie. But actually I found myself enjoying it, sure compared to the first Revenge of the Nerds film, naturally you'll be disappointed, but if you separate it, I think you might find yourself laughing too. Our favorite nerds are back and they are now in tropical paradise facing the jocks once again.Lewis and the boys are going to Florida to represent their charter with the conference of all charters. They start off the trip very well, but once they get to the hotel, they are kicked out by the Alpha jocks and mocked constantly. But they hang tough, but the Alpha's are not going down, so they frame the boys and try to make sure that they cannot be at the big conference so that they can be expelled from all the other charters. But the nerds have had enough and are going to make sure that the Alpha's go down once and for all.Now guaranteed, this wasn't the first Revenge of the Nerds, but Revenge of the Nerds II Nerds in Paradise was still a lot of fun to watch. The boys are still a lot of fun to watch, I just loved how Ogre kept saying nerds! every time they would walk into a room, he was such a fun addition for the story. I really liked this sequel and I think people just need to cut it a break. Like I said, if you compare it to the first film, you'll be disappointed, but if you just have an open mind, I think you're going to get a few laughs.6/10 "},{"Title":"Rent Real Genius or Just One of the Guys instead. In fact, you should rent Ishtar or Howard the Duck instead of this chocolate no-no.","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While the original movie is silly and stupid, its heart and sentiment make it a lot of fun to watch. This sequel challenges the intellect (by involuntarily lowering the IQ scores of anyone who actually pays attention) and the stomach (the sheer number of scenes with Booger are enough to trigger mass cases of irritable bowel syndrome). It lacks a cohesive plot, the dialogue is terrible, and these poor actors should have filed suit with SAG for unreasonable labor conditions. Seeing it rerun repeatedly on Encore makes me want to call the cable company and demand my money back.It's also disturbing in hindsight to see such talented TV actors like Courtney Thorne-Smith and Bradley Whitford in such unmitigated crap. Seeing Whitford show up in this turdfest, suggests that Josh Lyman was a mean bastard before the angelic President Bartlet entered his heart. At least, I'll never watch The West Wing the same way again. "},{"Title":"What was the point of a sequel?","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Now, even though I didn't like Revenge of the Nerds but what was the point of making a sequel? Aside from making money, of course.I mean as the song The Touch goes After all is said and done pretty much describes about making a sequel. I mean, the first film told its story and didn't leave any possibilities of a sequel, it had something to say and it was done, what more is there to tell? Now, as usual, the nerds, the jocks and the rest of the characters are annoying as hell even after a few years after the first film. The new actors who played the new characters didn't exactly help, I mean they're like Mary Sues and Garu Stus. What the hell, man? The script sucks, nothing more.But the music is actually good except for the song the Nerds sang, don't know the name but I won't bother to ask what it is. but the song Paradise is actually pretty good, it was pumping and energetic. The sequel is actually another case where the soundtrack is better than the movie itself.Overall, Nerds II gets 2/10. Off to the third film I go... "},{"Title":"Like it or not, they're back.","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I liked the first film, because I found it likable entertainment, but this is just crude, silly, and watered-down (PG-13? how typical) entertainment that involves the further embarrassment of the gang of nerds, led by Carradine, as they vacation on an island resort and become the butt end of a lot of practical jokes by some island studs who get all the women.There's a sequence where the nerds find themselves in front of an audience, standing around in underwear, that finally made me realize the comedy was going nowhere but downwards.It's very juvenile and relies entirely on poopy humor for laughs. One of the characters is a big rip-off of John Belushi from Animal House, and he burps with his next-door neighbor on the island.I liked the original, and this film is adequate for a lazy Sunday, but I don't recommend it as a rental. Don't pay to see it. Wait for it on TV--but only if you liked the original.And if you never saw the original, don't see this first. You may never want to watch the first one ever again.2/5 stars.P.S. I consider the IMDb rating of 3.9 stars a bit of a bandwagon jump. A lot of people who voted probably didn't hate the movie enough to give it such a low rating. I'd probably rate it in the area of 4.6 - 4.9, because it's not completely terrible.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"A sequel that is funnier than the original","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Nerds in Paradise is not a great flick and it doesn't deserve to be showered with accolades. If you just look at it for what it is, a corny 80's comedy, then it makes a lot more sense and you can sit back and have fun with it. The return of most of the cast helps make Paradise better than the first one simply because it is funnier than the original. Booger remains the funniest nerd, and the whole cast has fun with the film. Bottom Line A funny 80's comedy that deserves a little more than it gets.  "},{"Title":"Medicore sequel but still provides the laughs","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Revenge of the Nerds II Nerds in Paradise isn't as good as the first film mainly because the film wasn't rated R. Robert Caradine is back in proper form as Lewis his character really grows this time. Curtis Armstrong as Booger steals the sequel he's funnier here in some scenes then in the first. If the film had been rated R and had nudity then it could have been good as the first but the PG-13 rating is what maily hurts the film. "}{"Title":"An absolute masterpiece and great follow up to the first.","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Very rarely does a sequel to a cult hit live up to the expectations of die-hard fans, it happened of course with Ghostbusters and BTTF, but it is certainly a rare treat. It is with this in mind that I unequivocally declare Nerds in Paradise a cinematic masterpiece.This movie has EVERYTHING!! from a choice soundtrack, great location shots to Booger at his comedic best and a feel good ending with the inevitable nerd triumph. The persecution of the nerds cuts a little deeper than it does in the other three films, but the nerds certainly don't take it lying down, there frustration at being forced into sub-standard accommodation and having the tri lambda fraternity continually ignored despite lewis's assurances that they would be accepted this time culminates in an epic poolside battle, with a few surprises thrown into he mix.A highlight of the film would have to be Boogers inspiring impromptu speech, when he asks who decides the standards despite being in a room packed with jocks. In addition to this the scenes on the beach and poolside as the nerds try their hand with the ladies have predictably hilarious results.Robert Carradine is amazing as Lewis and he really gives his all into his performance highlighting his commitment to the Nerd films. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the Nerds II Nerds in Paradise","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The nerds fight for equality at a fraternity conference in this funny follow up to the 1984 hit with the same crude jokes and most of the same performers on hand, especially Armstrong, perfect once again as the disgusting Booger. Followed by the television movie.  "},{"Title":"I've since learned that Robert Carradine's daughter went to my college.","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For the most part, I don't think that the original needed a sequel, but Revenge of the Nerds II Nerds in Paradise isn't terrible. It just seems like they repeated a lot of the stuff from the first movie. Although I will admit that I really liked what they did with the hotel sign. And Booger sure doesn't know when to keep his mouth shut! But I hope that there won't be any more sequels after this. It's a good thing that Animal House didn't have any sequels.And yes, Robert Carradine's daughter Ever attended Lewis and Clark College (this was many years before I went there, so I never met her). I doubt that she had experiences similar to the ones portrayed in this movie. "}]