[{"Title":"Absolutely Wonderful","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This was a fabulous movie. It makes you sad, and happy, and hoping, and wishing, and everything that a movie should do. The sound track alone is worth it, I bought it and it is SOoooooooooo GREAT!!! Both feature players, Hutton & McGillis are so convincing in their roles. GREAT movie!! It shows that Heaven can be all things for all people, and is just dreamy. You despair at the last minute and then,.... well, you will have to see it yourself. I think it's a real classic. At times it is a real heart grabber. You think.. JUST TURN AROUND!!!Wish it was on DVD.  "},{"Title":"True love can always be found.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Anytime that a movie is made about heaven, there is always the chance that people may find it unbelievable.  This was not the case in this wonderful movie.Timothy Hutton first plays Mike, a young man who dies tragically saving the lives of a woman and her two kids.Then he does the worst possible thing that he could do.  He falls in love in Heaven.  In this movie, no matter who you are in Heaven, you will return to Earth.He falls in love with Annie, played majestically by Kelly McGillis.To make a long story short, Annie returns to Earth.  And Mike begs to be returned, in hopes to find Annie on Earth as he did in Heaven.  He has until his Thirtieth Birthday to find her. With Timothy Hutton and Kelly McGillis leading the way,and  wonderful supporting performances by Maureen Stapleton, Mare Winningham, Timothy Daly, and someone who we will just call Emmett, Made in Heaven will touch your heart, make you think, and will show you that you can always find true love. "},{"Title":"What Dreams May Come Meets Defending Your Life...","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Alan Rudolph's MADE IN HEAVEN is a pleasant, sweet-natured romantic comedy with a twist; the lovers meet in Heaven, after our hero (Timothy Hutton) dies, rescuing a family from a car that plunges into a river. It may seem familiar territory to viewers of Robin Williams' drama, WHAT DREAMS MAY COME, in it's depiction of the afterlife and reincarnation, and the Albert Brooks' fantasy, DEFENDING YOUR LIFE, which also involves a romance in Heaven (in Brooks' case, with Meryl Streep). Without the budget of the Williams' film (which won an Oscar for it's visual effects), or Brooks' occasionally caustic humor about Divine Judgment, MADE IN HEAVEN is a simpler tale, weaving in a theme of predestination between lovers 'meant' to be together, which makes it a perfect 'date' movie.Hutton, dealing with being dead and in 'Paradise', appreciates the support of his Aunt Lisa (Maureen Stapleton), a long-dead budding painter in a heavenly Paris, but finds that he is lonely, and feels out of place. Then he meets heavenly guide Annie (Kelly McGillis), a new 'soul', who had never 'lived' on earth before, and the pair soon fall for each other, filling both his need for love and companionship, and her's, for an understanding of life, and passion. They marry, after being granted permission by 'The Boss', Emmett (an unbilled Debra Winger, who plays the male role very convincingly!)Everything seems perfectly heavenly...until Anne's number is called to be born on Earth. Despite Hutton's pleas that the pair were 'meant' to be together, Anne's destiny cannot be changed...but he does convince Emmett to allow him to be 'reborn' on Earth, insisting that the pair's love would bring them together. With the understanding that his new life may not return him to Heaven, Emmett grants him 30 years to connect with Annie...or else.In true soap opera fashion, the pair live wildly different lives, and have unfulfilling relationships with other partners, while each experiences flashbacks of the true love they had experienced in Heaven. Time is running out, however, and Hutton's 30th birthday is rapidly approaching, without meeting his soulmate... A modest film, with a great supporting cast (including Tim Daly, Don Murray, Mare Winningham, and Amanda Plummer), MADE IN HEAVEN's theme, that Love truly DOES conquer all, is irresistible.Grab YOUR soulmate, and enjoy it!  "},{"Title":"Possibly the best American romance ever filmed","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" ...which is saying a lot, I realize.Hutton & McGillis are so compelling that the myriad of celebrity cameos are immaterial.This is a film about true, uncompromising, absolutely unquestionable love, and those who've not yet experienced it just might find it here.The essential scenes in Heaven are, well... pure heaven.  Without ignoring the teachings of the various religions, this pulls off what most of us hope Heaven will be like ~ presuming that we actually get there.  Yeah, some of this might be considered to be a rip-off of Here Comes Mr. Jordan which was itself ripped off by Beatty's Heaven Can Wait but Hollywood's all about rip-offs, right?Anyway, I mentioned in the Subject of this mini~review that this might be the best American romance ever made.In my mind, the very best romance film ever put on celluloid was also made in Heaven ~ Wim Wenders' incredible Wings of Desire decently remade with Cage and Ryan as City of AngelsThis is a 10. "},{"Title":"remember when u really cared about someone?","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A romantic movie about how someone can fall in love on first sight. What I like about this movie is its simplicity. They meet and they fall in love but as all relationships go, they lose each other. Unfortunately life is the reason. Elmo Barnett Tim Hutton must find his true love Ally Chandler Kelly mcgillis in life and he only has till his 30th birthday to do so. Kelly Mcgillis plays an emotional love sick adult that holds onto love that doesn't exist but in her mind it does. For a low cost movie I found it refreshing and emotionally strong. "},{"Title":"excellent love story, with a twist","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  If you ever you had something and then lost it, looked everywhere but couldn't get a hold of that one thing that mattered so much in your life.  Then this is the movie for you!  If you ever fell in love, and something happened and you couldn't do anything to keep him/or her. This movie will touch something inside you and will help you see how it is on the other side of life (heaven).  One thing that got me was that Emmett in the movie was Debra Winger.  The main female in the movie An officer and a Gentleman.  That was another twist. "},{"Title":"Incredible, but it might be truth?","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It is an excellent interpretation for Timothy Hutton and Kelly McGillis, a love story to be remembered forever, so you can never forget there might be soulmates everywhere trying to find each other without knowing it.I really liked the song at the end of the movie, an excellent interpretation that shows the emotion they feel when they find each other again, to finish the movie with an excellent feeling that shakes you to the bone. "},{"Title":"For those who believe it or not","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I absolutly LOVE this movie. The charm and magic of the movie inspire me since I was 9 years old. Thimothy is fabulous and drives the movie to the paces of the character smoothly. For those who  doesn't have a bitter heart and wants more than a Meg Ryan movie.I'm the fan number one of the movie that must be seen by the ones searching for the twin soul.The songs are also brilliant !! "},{"Title":"This is one of my all-time favorites!","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie ranks up there with all those that can be watched time and time again and they never seem to get old or boring.  I love this movie and recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"Positive comment (possible spoiler)","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I tend to go easy on films that attempt the spiritual or portray great love.I thought the film was delightful, especially from a Spiritist (Allan Kardec) standpoint. Okay the story and the acting are sometimes a little cute and simple, but the ideas are fantastic (heaven, reincarnation, enduring love), and it is fun to watch all the famous folks doing bit parts.Maybe if we focused our energies into making movies about things that really matter we could have better quality films about God, Heaven, Love, and our true spiritual life. However, we don't, and at least there are a few people who try, such as the people who made this movie. Wish I could find more.  "}{"Title":"Strikes a chord","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Watching this movie strikes a chord like no other movie I have ever seen. I first saw it several years ago, and it gripped me from the top of my head to the bottom of my toes. I cried like a baby while viewing this movie... not because it made me sad, but because it evoked a memory of an intangible experience I am not certain I have had yet.I continue to be challenged by the possibility this movie represents... Whenever I see this movie playing on cable, I try to flick off it... but am inexorably drawn to it... and must watch it in its entirety.Thats just the way it is...  "},{"Title":"Willing to be true","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, looking this Movie you can't stop to think  I WANT THIS KIND OF LOVE TOO, and in the meantime you feel a bit RAISED by this weird representation of a strange Heaven, so so similar to our normal life, and for that, RELAXING... I think this movie leaves you with a feeling of peace and a great great need of take your Girl in your arms and think that SHE and YOU met in heaven...once upon a time... "},{"Title":"Spiritually uplifting portrayal of love and reincarnation.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  One of my most favorite movies for its courage in portraying a vision of a lively and creative heaven-realm, where characters breathe goodness and develop bonds that draw them together again on earth. I happen to think, from my own life's experiences, that this is what really happens, and it's refreshing to find a movie that artfully and enchantingly shows us a view of our divine nature. I agree with all the above reviews. If you're a fundamentalist or a cynic, it's probably not for you, but if you think love is the greatest of all these things, you, too, will be charmed by this wonderful film.  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It is unfortunate that I am one of the few people I know who has seen this movie.  I count it among my all time favorite films.  It has a very different, fluid cinematic style, which I found very appealing.  It is wonderfully written, acted, and directed, is very funny and in parts very touching.  There are great cameo appearances by musicians Neil Young, Tom Petty and Ric Ocasek, as well as several actors who are oddly uncredited. What Dreams May Come was a disaster.  Made In Heaven is a triumph. I can only hope it will be released on DVD. "},{"Title":"A wonderful romantic comedy, written in the stars....","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A chick flick with some thought put into it, Made in Heaven reminds us why Timothy Hutton is such a good actor.  His wonderful performance in a movie that could have been trite, makes the viewer love the written-in-the-stars romance that blossoms on screen.  Hutton's character dies and goes to heaven, where he meets Kelly McGillis, who has yet to be born on Earth.  The two fall in love and are married in heaven.  When her turn to born happens, he convinces the powers-that-be to let him return to Earth and find her.  Of course, neither one will remember their love in heaven....and therein lies the rub.   "},{"Title":"Innovative, original, and heart warming","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I think this is a great movie and wish the DVD woulds be released. The concept is so original and so up lifting that it sticks in my memory. The sound track is also a wonderful mix of songs. This story explains the values of life and love more than any big budget drama I can remember. The scenes are almost dreamlike and wonderful. This film is very different than the usual Alan Rudolph film. I think this represents Alan's idealistic side. In particular, I get a real emotional kick from the ending. If you believe in fate, than you will feel a rush of emotion. All the scenes in this film generated an emotional glow. The last time I watched this film was 5 years ago, and yet It still stays with me. "},{"Title":"Romantic suspense without sop.","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  One of the better life after death movies poignantly moves through the lives of two people whose relationship was Made in Heaven.  I especially enjoyed the movement through Heaven, the scenery and ideas about the lives people lead once there and the transition between heavenly and earthly life. Definitely one of those movies you can watch again and again... and always be pleasantly surprised by noticing new cameos, a fantastic movie score and a great love story. "},{"Title":"Truly one of the more influential movies one can see...","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The most amazing thing about this movie isn't how perfect, enlightening, romantic, positive and fulfilling it is, but rather how it has managed to stay out of the central focus of the mainstream movie kind lovers. Obviously you have to have a certain open mind to fully enjoy it, but if you do,and if you let yourself believe that things may be done and organized in a certain way and that our acts can and do have a direct impact on whatever happens to us and to those around us, then this movie will gently, softly and almost mystically put the pieces of the puzzle together for you. There is for each one of us a special someone and at the risk of having this turn into a weapon in cynical peoples' minds, this is the kind of movies which lets you know that you shouldn't give up, and that you should keep the fire alive. I have used this movie for the longest time to pick me up from hard times and gather myself ton continue ahead. I am positive it can do the same to you... Enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Nothing and nobody is perfect but...........","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" and that is why i gave a 9....nonetheless for that portion of your humanity that craves and wishes for something totally apart from this world yet should come to exist in this world, this movie captures it very well. the actor's environment being started and portrayed a little more on the dark side gave the searching for his love greater intensity. What gave the movie an ever greater meaning was that song, the singer's voice and the very significant title which gives the love story its peak when they did dance.Put in on DVD, please!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! and the song on CD!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Against all the odds we find true love, so cherish it","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoy watching this movie. Made in Heaven is a finely made  work of art, magnificently directed by Alan Rudolph. This film makes me laugh and cry. The story is not only about romantic love, but also about family love, developing one's potential, an imaginative concept of heaven, and the mystery of life. Rudolph successfully mixed the comedic scenes and the touching scenes. The ending is full of a comfortable and dreamlike atmosphere. Brilliant performances by Timothy Hutton and Kelly McGillis.  "}{"Title":"Fate","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this once when it had just been released and fell in love with it. The idea of falling in love and seeking each other out in a new life is poetic and has led to my own desire to write about the same ideas. I just saw it again for the second time all these years later and still love it even more. Neil Young's song has haunted me over the years not only for it's beautiful melody and lyrics, but for the chance that I too would meet the one in a crowded street. A well done movie, interesting editing, sets, everything. A definite must-see for all romantics.  "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Romance","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is my all-time favourite movie - I never tire of watching it and it's not just due to the lovely Tim Hutton!A beautiful story of soul mates who meet and fall in love in heaven only to be parted and for them to find love (against all odds) again on Earth. Besides the wonderful leads this movie also features such diverse talents as Debra Winger, Ellen Barkin, Tom Petty, Neil Young, Matraca Berg etc. and the wonderful Neil Young penned song We've Never Danced sung by the talented Martha Davis.A film not to miss. "},{"Title":"Incredible..","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I have been enamored by this film since I was a child like many other fans caught the film one night on HBO. I have always considered myself a closet romantic and this film touched me on a level I didn't know existed. At the time I had no girlfriend and was very 15 years old but always considered my many to be an old soul. The characters were simple and pure, innocent in a word and I believe that is what perfect love is. I've always believed in love at first sight and experienced it later on in life and I never forgot this movie. I actually sought it out in the nineties before video stores ride themselves of VHS. I copied it and recently watched it with my girlfriend and she cried as Annie and Elmo bounced around unknowingly searching for each other. I was fortunate enough to get the soundtrack on tape at an old music store and created mp3's from it. We plan on using much of the music during our wedding.. The love Mike/Elmo and Annie/Ally find is the kind I want to carry me through the rest of my life and beyond.. I would like to own the DVD I hear there is an alternate ending.. I'm curious to see it.. "},{"Title":"Made in Heaven on DVD","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Like many of you out there, I just LOVED this movie. Sure it was a bit sappy and corny, but it was cute and funny and full of characters that most of us could identify with. Anyway, I had the movie on VHS, but over the years never maintained my video collection and got rid of the VCR. I always wanted this movie on DVD and today, I found it available on Ebay.If you are trying to find this movie, don't give up. It took me four years (not actively searching everyday LOL) to find it that I ordered two copies (just in case something happens to the first one).LOVE THE MOVIE!!!!!!! I'm embarrassed to admit, but it always gives me goosebumps at the end when Kelly McGillis is an emotional wreck unable to contain her tears walking through the crowded city streets when suddenly she just knows. (I got goosebumps just typing that...LOVE the movie!) "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" i loved this movie when i saw it in the 80's! as a matter of fact its one of the few things i even liked from the eighties. very quirky&odd i don't want to give it away at all,so i wont say more. except that yes it is a romance movie but a really different one. also the cameo's are a treat-see who you can recognize without looking them up. way underrated IMHO,but to each his/her own. i don't believe you'll like this movie unless you are into different like i said. but if you are its a must see. someone should write a term paper on this movie as a nature vs. nurture argument. they would get an A just for picking it i bet. anyway i had to write this after reading the other comment about how it was(sucky)? now its another film that is way over most people's heads is all. "},{"Title":"Do we really have a soul mate?","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Brilliant! One of the best representations of Heaven in anyfilm. Typically part reality, part fantasy, something that AlanRudolph seems to like. The premise of dying and coming back downto find your one true love is an interesting one. Do we reallyhave a soul mate? This film plays with the idea brilliantly,endearingly, without schmaltz. It also shows how time plays onour lives, that we can't afford to waste it, we're all down herefor a reason and we have to find out what it is.Timothy Hutton plays the perplexed Mike and confused Elmo in away that draws you in to the frailty of human existence, andthe longing for our soul mate that we know deep down inside isout there. Kelly McGillis plays the fresh innocence of a newsoul beautifully. Emmet is a really engaging character, not youraverage angel or guardian of the heavens, and it takes a whileto figure out who the actor actually is.Alan Rudolph's almost surreal look at Heaven really is a mustsee if you want a feel good movie that makes sense, in a surrealway. It shows underneath all the chaos of the world there mightjust be some sense of structure creating a continuum guarding usfrom evil forces that hide just under the surface, and guardingus from ourselves.It left me with a sense of calm well being, something filmsdon't often manage in these days of the action adventure. If youwant an easy going love story that glides up to you with goodhumour, but also makes you think this film is well worth seeing.Heaven in the eyes of Alan Rudolph and his team is anything youwant it to  "},{"Title":"Love is yet another four-letter word.","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Love is absurd. Heaven is absurd. A movie about love and heaven may also be absurd or render the absurdity of love and heaven as palpable, revealing and refreshing. This movie truncates two lifetimes into two hours and leaves you with the sense that, for at least some of us, love is all that more powerful when we allow for the supernatural, the absurd components, to mix with biology. The fascinating consideration is that the woman was made (four-letter word for conceived) in Heaven and only subsequently was earth-bound. The existentialism is indeed fascinating in spite of the temporal truncation. As the poet Michael Biscardi has written, There are some truths that serve where facts do not. "},{"Title":"The Most Beautiful Love Story Ever Made.","Date":"4 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Made in Heaven is a unique and offbeat film about Mike Shea (Timothy Hutton) who drowns while saving a mother and her children. He finds himself in heaven where he is greeted by his aunt. He meets a guide named Annie (Kelly McGillis) and falls in love with her. She is sent down to earth to begin a new life as a baby.This is a beautiful love story and Timothy Hutton and Kelly McGillis are perfect as the two doomed lovers. There are also some fun cameos in this film. Watch out for Ric Ocasek (The Cars), Neil Young, Tom Petty, and Ellen Barkin. Its also fun to try and guess who the mysterious Emmett is played by. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Heavenly Film","Date":"15 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I love this film. For those of us who have ever felt a little bit of heaven in our lives, this film feels very real. First, the settings on earth in what appear to be the 1950's seem quite real, for earth at the time. Then there's heaven, shown to be a fantastical loving highly evolved place that exists only to inspire us here on earth to believe in ourselves, in something better, to have faith in a more positive future. Then our return from heaven to earth, with hope in our hearts and faith in our souls, ready to fight the fight we all must face while living our human lives. With what the heart feels in the form of pure love being the most profound and respected by those watching us from above. I highly recommend. "},{"Title":"Made In Heaven,boring or life-like?","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I read the guidelines and they recommended me not to say anything regarding to others comments, but I just wanna say to those who thinks this film is boring; Have you ever thought that on the second half of the film is supposed to be everyday-life? The director seems to playing on the contrast between heaven and earth. Heaven is perfect and never a dull moment, while earth is a difficult place to live and we are bored stiff sometimes. I have to admit that the director hasn't thought every detail trough. He could have made this movie much better, if he focused more about the souls as he does when they are in heaven. Examples; what makes us the one we turn out to be? played more with our ideas we take back with us(like the song we never danced) from heaven. What I'm saying is that it seems the director was rushing the film to be released in the end of production. Although the film has these small flaws, I think the film gets extra stars for originality, and it definitely touched me in some ways I can't describe. - The boring second half, is a portrayal of life and it's flaws-. "}{"Title":"Why not explore Heaven?","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" MADE IN HEAVEN given to me, years ago by a friend, who saw my relationship with my husband as a very interesting spiritual connection, was, to me, a powerful, and touching film. I have seen several films that explore the themes. Defending Your Life, with Meryl Streep, and a great cameo with Shirley MacLaine, who has, in her personal life, explored almost all the themes of spirituality touched on,(and then some), in the movie. Nicholas Cage and Meg Ryan, in City of Angels played an angel and a doctor, and the Angel, who helped people when they died, fell in love with her, found out from a patient, former Angel, that he could become human, and pursue his love. That developed an interesting storyline. The aunt in Made In Heaven, who took up painting, shows an idea about learning new things between lives, and seeing her paintings, or ones like hers, on earth, develops the thought of ideas shared from the minds in heaven as did the song,We Never Danced, and the kids playing at computers. My own son, while very young told me he remembered choosing me to be his mother, before he was born, saying he was at school, but not like the schools here, and his teachers were helping him, because it was his time to come back, showing him the faces of all the women on the planet who were willing to be his mother, and as soon as he saw my face, he chose me, because we had been together, in family since the beginning. Whatever "},{"Title":"On the whole, I'd rather be in Heaven . . .","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" If I believed everything that the movies showed me to be the truth then 'Made in Heaven' would make me want be in Heaven which is a luminescent garden teeming with beauty and light. I would not want to be on earth because it is a lonely cauldron of drunken despair and angst from which there is little hope.That having been said, the first half of 'Made in Heaven' is loaded with a lot of color and imagination. The second half isn't. The movie stars Timothy Hutton as Mike a likable guy who dies in an accident and goes to Heaven. There he meets a guy named Emmett who is God's personal spokeman. His aunt (Maureen Stapleton) lays out some of Heaven's rules which for my book sound a little to constricting for a place that is suppose to be the ultimate paradise. Hutton can decide where he wants to live in Heaven and he chooses a log cabin in the mountains.Heaven smiles on him even more when he meets a beauty named Annie (Kelly McGillis) who's predicament is fascinating from my point of view because she hasn't been born yet (The imagination given to this Heaven is allows it to be populated with the dead as well as the yet-to-be). By this development we now understand that their time is limited. Annie will eventually have to go back to earth to be born.Mike can't stand the thought of Heaven without her. His only hope is to go back to earth and live as someone else, the catch being that they don't remember any of their heavenly adventures together and will live separate lives completely oblivious of one another.This is where the movie grinds to a halt . . .Back on earth we meet Mike who is now Milo a musician with a bone to pick with just about everyone. His existence seems to coil up in bars and self-pity. Earth is dark and dirty and we know that it won't be too much longer until Milo and Annie who is now Ally will have a meeting before the closing credits. Why make the two oblivious of each other? Doesn't that ruin the motivation? We know what will happen to them but if they aren't looking for each other where is the momentum.My biggest problem with 'Made in Heaven' is that it moves as a snails pace. Every scene in the second half seems to run on too long and with a minimum of energy. This isn't just one of the worst climaxes I've seen in the movies, it's one of the most boring. If this movie teaches me anything it's that on the whole, I'd rather be in Heaven. "},{"Title":"Yeah Pagans!","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  With just a little artistic liscense the writers of this script have described the Celtic Pagan afterlife. The Mystical Summerlands, the rest that souls take after they enter; the decision to reincarnate and when (the writers fudged here) and the drink from the well of forgetfulness before the journey back. I'm an aging Wiccan so I can be forgiven for having tears in my eyes at the end of this video.   I loved everything about it. I live with my soulmate; have been with her in previous incarnations and hope to be with her for many more.  Blessed Be. "},{"Title":"It's amazing what I will watch when I can't fall asleep","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Having been unable to sleep last night, I watched Made in Heaven on cable TV.  It's amazing what I will watch when I can't fall asleep!  Made in Heaven is is so cute and precious that I'm surprised that I didn't wake up with diabetes.This film started with the decent premise that a man who died young and heroically should go directly to heaven, where he falls in love with a woman who is a new soul and has never lived on earth.  Drawing on any religious beliefs that may conveniently move the plot forward, the writers send the woman to earth to be born into an American family in the 1950's.  The young man, heartbroken, asks Emmett (Debra Winger in drag and totally bizarre), the guy who runs heaven (but not God) to send the young man back to earth to find his love.  Emmett sends the young man to be born as Elmo, and gives him until his 30th birthday to find his true love or forever lose her.  From this point forward, the plot degenerates into a loose collection of misadventures for both Elmo and his love, culminating the the typical Hollywood cute meeting on Elmo's 30th birthday.Participating in the misadventures are a string of actors, writers, musicians, cartoonists, and probably the director's dentist, none of whom add anything except a strange voyeuristic quality to the movie.  Made in Heaven is yet another example of Hollywood run amok and writers in search of an editor.  What could have been a rather charming little fantasy becomes an exercise in guessing who is playing the weird characters parading across the screen, while wondering what they are doing in the movie in the first place.  "},{"Title":"surprisingly dreary","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Something like this needs to be whimsical, and this is very heavy-handed. It starts out flat stays that way. I was optimistic in spite of the negative reviews because of the cast, but the cast isn't at fault. The look and tone of the movie are uniformly depressing, and the story is not at all engaging. I was very disappointed by this movie... "},{"Title":"One of the oddest films I have ever seen...","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Too arty to be mainstream, and too mainstream to be art house fare, this film flounders somewhere in the middle. Apparently trying to say something deep and meaningful about the nature of existence/true love/life after life, Made in Heaven just ends up another piece of drivel, right down to the contrived main character writes movie's theme song plot point.The only thing that kept me watching was a curiosity to see how this weird amalgum of images and sounds turned out. In the end I was disappointed. The film would have done better to embrace its independent spirit for the entire duration of the picture. Instead, it waffles back and forth before finally concluding with an uninspired ending. "},{"Title":"Decent flick, stays with you... CAMEOS?!?","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was one of the only sappy stories I have ever been to the theatre to see. I was a youngster and yet I distinctly remember watching it with one of my lit'l girlfriends. I'm not sure if we had just been married or what, but that's another story. it was alright, nothing special -- but I've caught some of it on TV occasionally in the years since and have been suckered into watching more than the 5 seconds I would normally prescribe. Oddly enough, while looking through the birthplace list of people born in Boston, MA, I saw a Mr. Tom Robbins was born in Boston (Another Roadside Attraction, Even Cowgirls get the Blues, etc..) and checked out his entry. This movie was one of the few(???) and if that were not strange enough, check out who else apparently shows up Ric Ocasek? Neil Young? Tom Petty? Gary Far Side Larson??All I'm saying is coughcoughalanrudolphcough Timothy Hutton gets around WAY more than we could have figured or Wolfgang Puck catered -- featuring an S&M smorgasbord the likes of which have been duplicated only at the most illicit European Faith No More festival shows.  "},{"Title":"Wrong Choice by Mike.","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" For someone like Mike who's already in Heaven ( where there are lots of beautiful souls like Annie flying around), choosing to go back to earth IS A COMPLETELY WRONG CHOICE!This is taken the fact that even when Mike does finally met Annie, which he did, they could never remember their affair back in Heaven, WHAT'S THE POINT? Their big love affair in Heaven is gone for good, but if Mike chooses to stay in Heaven and wait for Annie to come back one day, there is still hope!( Particularly when there are so many things you can do while waiting for her.) At least Mike can realize and remember Annie as Annie ! Must love be so stupid and blind?Is this what the story wants to convey? "},{"Title":"What's worse than an Alan Rudolph art house feature?","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  You guessed it, a big budget Alan Rudolph film. Rudolph always thinks he has terrific insights into human nature and this time he's pondering our immortal souls. Well, Alan, your heaven is  pretty typical cinematic fluff. Golly gee, everyone's happy! Everyone gets along! They're all learning to play the harp! And everyone gets reborn at some point, sent back to earth to find their one true love.When it wasn't boring me silly this one made my teeth hurt.  "},{"Title":" We met in Heaven","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Timothy Hutton is sucky as Elmo in this excruciating romance flick. The following cast is absurd. The costumes are elegant. One of the fair farces in the genre, Made In Heaven makes empty romances. 4 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Comedy of the century","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" an absolute hoot, there is no film you will ever see that is as badly done as this film, terrible plot and terrible acting. i could not stop laughing at this film, it tried so hard to be heart warming but I was almost on the floor in tears by the end. my favourite part was with the choir who every time they opened their mouth's a different instrument sound came out. If you want to watch a film seriously, do not watch this, if you want to laugh at a film, that is funny for all the wrong reasons then watch it.I would have to say that this film is one of the worst films that i have ever seen. "}]