[{"Title":"You have to be English to appreciate this","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"45 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am posting this submission partly in reaction to the last one currently on the site, which gave the movie the thumbs down. Then its author revealed that he had spent American currency hiring the video and I thought aha, so that's why.This film partly celebrates a piece of rural, Northern England and it really does help if you live there, which I do. (I could even take you to the railway station where the early scenes were shot, featuring incidentally the most unconvincing screen rain I have ever seen! it also stars in the first Harry Potter movie) The delicious soundtrack could only have been composed by someone steeped in Elgar, Delius and Vaughan Williams. Only a man who knows if not at first hand then at least by intimate report the rivalry between church and chapel - which still persists in these parts - could have written that scene in the organ shop.It's not an action movie but rather one that moves with the languid pace of a summer that feels as if it should be Edwardian, but that era is a dream now. There are dark ripples below the sunny surface. Birken's nervous tic, the nightmares of the trenches, the casual debauchery of Moon, are the aftertaste of WW1's horror. What of Christian faith after such slaughter? There is the simple Phillistine chapel culture, its weary preacher still ranting at his congregation about their sins, unaware that the war has made private transgression seem utterly trivial. There is the cold liturgical worship offered by the pious, buttoned up, tight-fisted Rev Keach. Birken finds no meaning in either, and immerses himself in the work of restoring a masterpiece from an age when faith still gripped the psyche, hoping perhaps to draw something of its historic power into himself. Moon - Branagh's character - is shallow by comparison, idle, serene, detached.The scenes with Birken and Alice Keach are little gems of implication and understatement, she - it seems knowingly - playing Eve, complete with temptress's apple, to Birken's Adam. The potential for an affair is manifest, but we sense nothing will come of it, and in the last scene of the movie Birken is seen throwing away an apple core.Branagh would go on to greater things; this is Colin Firth's film and while his celebrity rating has soared since he made it, I doubt he will ever turn in a performance that surpasses it in subtlety and richness.But to end as I began this is not a movie that I would expect to travel well. You really need to be English appreciate it - heck, I've seen American movies that washed right over me because I don't understand the rules of baseball! "},{"Title":"A gem to be rewatched again and again.","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"24 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think this is the most-watched movie in my collection.  Its strong passions are beautifully understated by the entire ensemble, which is the thing that I appreciate most in this film. All the cast are excellent, including the children (and I must add a special appreciation for Jim Carter, who has played opposite Firth in at least two other films that I know of), but this is an absolute tour de force for both Colin Firth and Kenneth Branagh.  The viewer seems to share the pain and humiliation borne by the sufferers of shell shock. Their encounters with the joy and grief inherent in the life and  people of a small Yorkshire village are both poignant and humorous.The slow pace enriches the character development and story. It mirrors the patient process of both leading characters' pursuits Firth's character uncovers a medieval church mural slowly and carefully, as Branagh's seeks and uncovers a mysterious grave. Both work with an audience of curious local villagers by day, and wrestle with their personal demons by night.  Slowly new bittersweet relationships develop as the summer progresses. I pity the impatient of this world who can't focus their attention long enough to take in or appreciate the rich content of the performances, the subtle direction, the beauty of both the cinematography and the music.This movie is a gentle and uplifting experience each time it is viewed! A movie to be savored. I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"A quiet, moving and intelligent film","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As the person responsible for persuading Channel 4 to release this film on DVD for the first time I obviously hold a candle for this film. I knew the author of the novel, Carr, and spent a long time finding a print and the right holders. I didn't see it until the first showing for a decade, at my own book's launch, and I was stunned by how good, and how close to the book, it was. It is very quiet and very English. You will either fall in love with it, or miss the point and get bored. I doubt there is much middle ground. Kenneth Branagh is very proud of the film and Colin Firth rates it as one of his best ever performances. You should find more about my finding of the film on my bradwan site. "},{"Title":"The last movements of a phantom limb","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When an arm or leg is removed, the amputee can continue to 'feel' it for some time afterwards. The phantom limb can hurt, or itch, or feel cold. But nothing is truly the same.Similarly, the First World War irrevocably altered Britain, but in its immediate aftermath we limped on, unaware (or unwilling to admit) that anything had changed. It's this brief period of denial that Month in the Country illustrates the moment when we teetered on the edge of the 19th century before toppling into the 20th.Consequently, while it is a film of great heartbreak and loss, it is also one of great hope and triumph of the human spirit. There is one scene that perfectly illustrates this a little girl visits her friend, who is sick in bed. She talks about the weather and her new hat and how they'll play together when her friend gets well. Then as she walks back home she says to Colin Firth'She knows she's dying, doesn't she?'It is as tragic for the girl to be so knowing and capable in the face of death as it is for young men to have experienced the hell of the trenches and return to indifference and hostility. But because of that tragedy they will go on to experience a more real, and potentially more joyful world, than the other inhabitants of comfortable and conventional Oxgodby. "},{"Title":"Renewal for the soul","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've just watched this haunting movie for the second time, after an interval of several years and having just read the book on which it's based. I feel as though the director,actors, cinematographer took a walk inside my head to pluck the images that lived there as I read the book.  Of course, it was those images inside THEIR heads that have made this film the masterpiece that it is...to enrich the heart, restore the soul. Colin Firth brought the character, Tom Birkin, so fully into life, with his sensitivity, conflicts, process of restoration (both as a skilled worker and as a damaged human being) and yearnings one wonders why such roles as this haven't been offered him since.  His brooding Mr Darcy in the TV version of Pride and Prejudice used some of these talents, but not nearly enough. Kenneth Branagh's fine understated playing of the equally war damaged archaelogist (and a closet homosexual) is amazing and brilliant, considering especially his over-the-top performances in later films.  Lovely Natasha Richardson creates just the right tone of controlled longing of the unhappily married Alice Keagh. Jim Carter and the rest of the cast are splendid as well. This is a film to return to again and again for its visual and soulful beauty, simplicity and depth.  What an antidote for the juvenile,frentic blockbuster fare we're offered for the most part by the movie business.  "},{"Title":"Colin Firth at his best!!!","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"18 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's a love story about rebirth and self healing.  The foundation of the plot seems very simple a young man comes in a town to clean the wall of a church.  With a subject like that it could be absolutely boring...but it's not. Emotion could be the word to describe it all, though repressed emotion would be even more accurate.  It's a delicate movie, with thousands of details you might not see the first time; it's deep and truly is a masterpiece in its genre.Of course to appreciate it you must love repertoire movies.  It's not a blockbuster movie...far from that. You must be in a slow mood  I guess to enjoy it.This is the kind of movie I would like to keep in my collection isn't it a pity that anonymous has probably sold his tape already? (I cannot find it in Montreal!) "},{"Title":"Wonderful film","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have only seen this film twice because it was shown on cable and I've never been able to find it since. It is beautifully filmed and it really captures the essence of ART. No sex, no bad language, nothing objectionable, just pure film, pure cinema. Colin Firth is beautiful in this--he plays the character just right, a bit of angst, a bit of frustration and a whole lot of artist. Kenneth Branagh isn't bad either, and I don't always love him. One thing that makes this film so beautiful is the lighting. It's rarely dark--there's lots of sun and color, just like a landscape painting. They were very careful to make this a film about art and it's very successful. If you like Colin, you'll love this movie. "},{"Title":"A lovely, complex film that keeps revealing itself","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I adored the book by J. L. Carr, and was skeptical that Birkin's first person narrative could be conveyed on film.  Firth brilliantly makes this internal landscape manifest, while the film provides a sumptuous external setting.  All the lead cast strike an effective balance between intensity and restraint.  Every time I view the movie, I see things that I hadn't noticed before.I wish I had seen A Month in the Country on the big screen when it was released.  The laserdisc looks good, though I wonder what I'm missing. Even though the laserdisc soundtrack is monophonic, it was striking enough to make a friend jump when we were viewed it. "},{"Title":"this is one of my all time favorite films. beautiful","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  From the opening moments when Firth gets off the train in the rain, and arrives in Oxgodby, this film is almost perfectly  done.  The acting, by Firth and Branaugh and Malahyde is fine, and believable.  Firth arrives  to restore a painting on a church wall.  Shell -shocked from his service in France, and unhappy; the month at the lovely countryside restores him somewhat.  The music, by Blake, is lovely. When I feel down, I put this on the VCR.  I am restored.  Wish it could be released again, as I have a rather poor copy.  But I love it just the same  Firth is wonderful "},{"Title":"A minor disagreement with the previous commenter","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I loved this film, and I'm American. Admittedly, when I first saw this movie I'd already been to the UK twice, but I had very little difficulty understanding the film or its subtleties. The acting is superb, and the situation delicate and well presented. I'm not sure that simply being English enables one to understand the film. I really had no difficulties with it whatsoever.As I said, its plot is subtle and presented with as light a touch as Birkin uses when cleaning the fresco. The scene where Alice picks up the green apple and taps it and smells it as Birkin watches from afar is so luscious and yearning and sweet.I have read the novel as well, but I must admit, I preferred the film. I am fascinated by the effects of WWI and the returning survivors on the inter-war society of Britain, so to me that was the real value of it, beyond its gentle bittersweet melancholy romance.I will agree with the previous poster, that the film is a paean to the Yorkshire people and countryside. The scenes with the Stationmaster and the other families are very well-drawn. I will also admit that I wished I'd had subtitles the first time I saw the movie. But I saw it so many times after that that I picked up the words pretty quick.Anyway, I definitely think that any one can enjoy this film if they are patient enough and appreciative enough to let it unfold in its delicate way. If you don't expect fast-paced plotting and if you do like excellently and lovingly drawn characters, you'll love this film. "}{"Title":"A true gem","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a true gem of a film. Only those however who have an empathy for the destruction of World War One, and a sensitivity about how moving religious themes can be, will really appreciate the aspects of the film which make it timeless. It is deliberately slow and careful in its pace, and the contrasts between Church and Chapel, working and upper class, and social mobility makes it a film I have always found very moving. The use of the Schubert Mass as a musical backdrop at key points emphasises the cathartic journey Birkin makes. Indeed, his visit to the church as an old man demonstrates the way he has been cleansed of the mud of Flanders. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable film","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this film probably 15 years ago, and have never forgotten it. It's about two World War I soldiers who are recuperating at a church. The one is trying to find the remains of the local priest - it's been a while so my brain's a bit rusty - and the other is revealing a mural on the church wall. There's also a love story/triangle to it. It is fabulously acted and demonstrates the horrors faced by men during war time. Kenneth Branagh's performance is worth the price of rental alone. Colin Firth manages to act for a change, rather than seem like he's sleepwalking. (Check out Apartment Zero, another older and decent film.) Exceptional! "},{"Title":"Excellent performance by Colin Firth.","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Colin Firth, as Tom Birkin, has me truly believing he IS Tom Birkin.  The physical, mental and emotional trauma of war and what it does to those who survive are mirrored on Birkin's face as he attempts to get on with life and complete his assignment in the little town the story takes place.  The scene where the reverend's wife is taking Birkin back to church by way of the wood is one I will never forget.  It sums up the message of the story in one shot!  Birkin's reaction was so similar to my own.  Jim Carter (who has also appeared with CF in The Hour of the Pig and Shakespeare in Love) is also a real treat.  A Month In The Country has a lovely cast and some top notch performances.  This is one of those movies worth searching for! "},{"Title":"It said more than it showed","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is a movie like a good book, you want to cozy down with on a long winters night....it said more than it showed and it showed more than it said..the parting of  Birkin and Moon mostly, Birkin, had me watching it several times,,what were the questions and the answers?...it reminded me of Waiting for the Moon with Linda Hunt...thanks "},{"Title":"A delight to watch again and again!","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have to say this is my favourite film of all time. I've seen it a dozen times at least and it never diminishes now I have the DVD. For anyone interested, the Church in the film is St Mary's in Radnage, Buckinghamshire as are a lot of the locations. Firth, Branagh, Richardson and Carter are all fantastic! Like others before me, I wish i'd seen it on the big screen too. Still, it is always a total delight to watch! I have been to Radnage for picnic's etc and the countryside there is wonderful! Well worth the visit! Firth and Branagh have both moved on to bigger and better...? things since but, they both love this film and so do I! "},{"Title":"Cult Movies 13","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 13. A MONTH IN THE COUNTRY (drama, 1987) Birkin, a young WW1 veteran, arrives in the sleepy town of Oxgodby assigned to paint the church. He suffers from nightmares since being shell-shocked. Birkin meets the beautiful Alice (Natasha Richardson), the wife of the local pastor. Though they're immediately attracted to each other, they know they can't be together. But his love for Alice proves a happy respite from his war ravanged life.Critique To doze off in a sleepy afternoon watching 'A Month in the Country' feels almost like being there. This beautifully shot, nostalgic look at youth's lost moments, conjures up deeply felt emotions. The town of Oxgodby seems to exist between reality and fantasy. Slowly slumbering away in its own ambiance, unaware of the world around it. Where dreamers go, and weary travelers stumble on their way. Pat O'Connor's doughty direction may get a bit tedious at times, but it has to be taken in the context of the film's setting (1920s England). Though some scenes do lag in pace, this does not take anything away from the film's dreamy (dark) undertones which are its strong points.Character conflict is its weakest, however, since most of the characters react passively to the town's underhand prejudice. The best enduring quality is Birkin's lost-love relationship with both the town and Alice.QUOTE God? What God? There is no God? "},{"Title":"a forgotten gem","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I echo all thats been said, a long forgotten gem, therapeutic too watch , and gets better on each viewing, 2 questions ,what is the name of the hymn that features throughout, and where on earth can one purchase that wonderful score by Howard Blake ? One can sense a tiny bit of sparring between Branagh and Firth,Malahide as Rev Keach is brilliant,simple and brilliantly made. It is now available to purchase on DVD, however cannot locate the soundtrack.most memorable moment for me was Birken sleeping on the tomb to the music of Howard Blake , and then waking to find Mrs Keach looking down at him. I even fancied smoking a Woodbine but then thought the better of it ! "},{"Title":"A Very Special Film","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One cannot add much to some of the excellent reviews for this film here already. (So please read them!) It is NOT an easy film to find, and, great pity, should be! It belongs in any collection that boasts films from both Firth and Branagh.I loved its slow-moving, but emotionally moving, pace. The performances are simply superb. From everyone.It tells the tale, ultimately, of two shattered survivors of World War I whose path back to the world is taken a step at a time. It is technically Firth's movie and what a performance from him, still in his 20's. It is thrilling to experience how he totally immerses himself in a part and becomes one with every aspect of his character. Seeing him here lets the viewer experience the early years of someone becoming a great actor and, subsequently, one of the best of his generation. It is still a mystery to me why Colin Firth has chosen some of the parts he played in films over the years, because such amazing potential in him was so very obvious in this part of the quiet, shy, shaken Mr. Birkin.One side note, not sure if it is a spoiler, but I was very interested in the depiction of the returning veteran with the stammer. A bit of foreshadowing to Firth's incredible performance in The King's Speech over two decades later. One thread in TKS deals with King George's speech therapist, Lionel Logue, who achieved his skill and reputation working with stammering returning veterans of WWI, exactly of the ilk the young Colin Firth played in this movie.Much is made of the sun-drenched, dreamy setting in Yorkshire and it is also very much a part of what sustains these two damaged boys and helps them along in recovery.I would say this is one film in the catalog of Colin Firth that should NOT be missed. And there is hope on my part it becomes as readily available as some of his work in forgettable films. (Though he is always, always good in every performance.)This film, to me, is unforgettable. As others have said in reviews here. It bears watching multiple times. That is the ultimate compliment. "},{"Title":"a quiet healing","Date":"9 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This pastoral English period piece must be one of the quietest anti-war movies ever made, with a single gunshot heard throughout the entire film (except for the brief battleground flashback before the opening credits), and fired only by a sportsman. But its effect is no less traumatic on the shell-shocked protagonist a veteran of The Great War taking refuge, after the Armistice, in an isolated English village, far away (except in his nightmares) from the trenches. Hired by the local church to excavate a medieval mural above the alter, he uncovers, in no particular order an age-old mystery; a bittersweet attraction to the vicar's young wife; a kinship with another ex-soldier (Kenneth Branagh, pre-'Henry V') and, finally, some of the dignity he lost in battle. Don't expect any grand gestures from the leisurely told story. Any positive response to the film will depend entirely on a tolerance for such anachronistic virtues as forbearance, charity, and forgiveness. "},{"Title":"Harmony Heals","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What does it take to be happy? First of all it takes tranquility. And so often the happiest days of our life are those when nothing crucial happened. So a month in the country was a real treat to the protagonist and A Month in the Country is a real treat to a viewer&#x85; Well, we all see things with different eyes, and it gets you nowhere hoping that even one in a thousand will see things your way. The film is also a deepest contemplation on the nature of art and history and the harmony of life&#x85; We can ask and ask but we can't have again what once seemed ours for ever &#x96; the way things looked, that church alone in the fields, a bed on a belfry floor, a remembered voice, a loved face. They've gone and you can only wait for the pain to pass. It is better to watch this movie after reading a book then all the nuances will be more vivid. "}{"Title":"Country cure","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although little seems to happen on the surface, A Month in the Country has an emotional depth that keeps this film lingering in the memory.Set a few years after WW1, Tom Birkin (Colin Firth), a returned soldier, takes a job to restore a Medieval mural in a country church. He has a bad stammer, the result of traumatic wartime experiences, which we see briefly at the beginning. The vicar of the church, the Reverend Keach (Patrick Malahide) is only allowing him to restore the artwork under sufferance, but an attraction develops between Tom and the vicar's wife, Alice (Natasha Richardson). He also becomes friends with another returned soldier, James Moon (Kenneth Branagh), who is working on an archaeological dig, and also dealing with issues related to the war.This is a restrained film, which against the background of life in rural Yorkshire in the early 1920's, depicts a couple of returned soldiers dealing with their disrupted lives and shattered nerves as best they can &#x96; shell shock was the broad term used back then. To show how tough life was for many returned soldiers from WW1, there is a sobering statistic that seems to suggest that within 10 years of the end of hostilities, the same number of veterans had died that were actually killed during the war, especially from armies that had been exposed to gas such as those on the Western Front. In its quiet way, A Month in the Country, although made 70 years after the war, gives pause for a little reflection. However, the film has an uplifting tone. Although the locals at first seem uncaring about Tom, their later kindness and attempts at inclusion overwhelm him. Even the minister is seen to be a troubled man. The restoration of the mural is a painstaking job, but eventually the painting is revealed showing God in heaven while below him sinners suffer the torments of hell. With that hanging over their heads, it is little wonder that Tom and Alice do not give way to their mutual attraction even when she visits him in the belfry where he sleeps. By the time Tom has finished restoring the mural, the month in the country, and the new friends he has made have also restored his health and his spirits &#x96; he no longer stammers.It is fascinating to see actors like Colin Firth and Kenneth Branagh fairly early in their careers. A Month in the Country rewards anyone who takes the time to let the story unfold at its measured pace &#x96; there are no fireworks here, and that in a way makes it a refreshing experience. "},{"Title":"I'd buy this movie if it were released on DVD","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film was one of the monthly selections shown by the local film society over ten years ago.I remember little of the plot except for the mystery of why one of the centuries-old graves was discovered outside the churchyard (thus condemning the interred body/soul to purgatory, or worse.)What I remember well is the very fancy camera work, hence my desire to see the film again with the highest of fidelity on DVD. I vividly recall one particular back-lit scene that was so bright I had to squint. "},{"Title":"A Month in the Country","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I admit the main reason I wanted to see this film was for the great Colin Firth, but I didn't realise it had the also great Kenneth Branagh as well, bonus! Anyway, basically, World War I, shell shocked and (for a while) stammering veteran Tom Birkin (Firth) arrives in a small village originally looking for shelter. Then he gets a job from Reverend Keach (Patrick Malahide), in the church he found, to restore mural underneath the layers of white paint. While working there, he meets fellow war veteran Charles Moon (Branagh) who shares his interest in finding ancient things, and is himself keen to find the grave of an ancestor. I think what runs this story, based on the novel J.L. Carr, is the friendship between Firth and Branagh, and a crush on the Reverand's wife, apple giving Alice Keach (Natasha Richardson, Joely Richardson's sister). Also starring Shakespeare in Love's Jim Carter Ellerbeck, Richard Vernon as Colonel Hebron and Tim Barker as Mossop. Very good! "},{"Title":"Brilliant Acting Cannot Overcome a  Plot  That Fails To Deliver","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am usually a great fan of British films and when I saw the cast of this one, I obtained a copy from my local library. The description of the film on the jacket caused me expect a lot more. After watching it, I wondered if I might have missed something? The jacket stated Birkin ignites long denied passion within the pastor's young wife. If so, it was the most understated passion I have ever seen in a film. They never touch despite numerous times alone together? She walks with him through the woods and nothing happens between them. She goes to the belfry to say goodbye and gives him apples? She picks up his book and you assume she will open it and see the rose she gave him? But no, she puts it down and leaves? I kept waiting for her long denied passion to finally ignite but it apparently never does. Finally, the jacket states, The quiet of their rural haven erupts in conflict and confrontation... I saw no eruption, no conflict or confrontation, did I miss something. Everything about this film is so understated as to be almost immobile. Admittedly, the cast is brilliant in striving to convince you that something memorable is about to happen, but it never does. I have enjoyed Firth, Branagh and Richardson much more in other performances and I expected much more from this film which at the end left me wondering where the three main characters will go from here? "},{"Title":"Instantly forgettable...boring film","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I expected more of Branagh in the film...this movie was tedious and though it cost me only $5 used will be going to the local library soon.  Boring stuff! "}]