[{"Title":"You don't have to run to the store, like a demon, to find this film, but it is very likable!","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Kaz (Scott Valentine) has a very slight problem. Whenever he starts kissing a girl, he begins to change into an ugly monster! This is because a mother once found him embracing her daughter and used an old world spell on him. He is presently a sort of street bum, with little hope for the future. Denny (Michele Little) is a sweet blonde lady who loves to rescue those in need. Naturally, Denny takes Kaz home and swears she'll help him get back on his feet. She is blissfully ignorant of his transformation. What happens when she learns the truth? And could Kaz be terrorizing the neighborhood at night, too? Valentine and Little carry this film with their good looks and innate sweetness. The story, of course, has its inconsistencies but is mostly fun and fresh. The supporting cast does a fine job, too and the costumes and Greenwich Village setting add pleasure to the complete film. While one does not have to run like a demon to grab a copy of this movie at the store or library, those who love comedic romance stories, whatever the variation, will find this one is easy to love. "},{"Title":"Somehow, it works...","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm apparently the 2nd person to see this movie. In 2 years. But I'm not sorry. It's obviously very low-budget; silly--well, actually, this is one of those movies I describe as silly, but it *knows* it's silly; cliched, intentionally (I hope) improbable characters, but somehow it all hangs together. If, like me, you can excuse, or embrace, the schlockiness & deal w/it on its own terms, My Demon Lover is very entertaining. If you're looking for a richly detailed plot, laden w/metaphoric symbolism & carefully crafted layers of meaning, complex, realistic-yet-larger-than-life characters on an eternal quest for ever-deepening layers of moral enlightenment, you've obviously wandered in here accidentally--faulty link or something--and ... what? ... no, no, that's alright ... it happens, no prob ... sure ... you have yourself a nice day, now, y'hear? Some very funny lines just cruise right by, all the more effective for being underplayed. The cinematography is frequently very well done, lighting & colors in scene settings used to maximum advantage. Coming from someone who's lived in or near New York City his whole life they've definitely captured the aura of NYC street scenes. So, anyway, I liked it. "},{"Title":"Trivial but entertaining.","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An entertaining premise, adequately handled, with some amusing (if not always top-of-the-line) special effects. The picture is nothing more than a trivial time-killer, but it has a nice spirit. Initially you may be turned off by the behavior of the leading character, but he grows more appealing as the film goes along. On the other hand, Michelle Little plays one of the nicest persons who ever appeared in an 80s film!   (**) "},{"Title":"Campy but cool.","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is your basic, 80's, campy horror movie -- so be warned. If you watch this movie, prepare to face EXTREME campy-ness. Complete with somewhat impressive special effects, entertaining scenes, a little comedy, and bad acting -- My Demon Lover delivers a top-knotch performance in the field of 80's, horror movie campy-ness! I'd check it out. But serious horror movie-goers beware...   "},{"Title":"Cheezy, but funny!","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, I am the only person in the world who has seen this movie apparently. *L* It is exceptionally cheezy, I know, I know. BUT, I think it is pretty funny. I mean, the plot is stupid, but what 80's movie isn't? It is just good humor and laughs. It rocks! "},{"Title":"Classic 80's","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The film's song Let Go is by the band Intimate Strangers. The song also appears on their album Charm.Looking back on it, the film is rather cheesy and the special effects and makeup are pretty cheap, but in its day, it wasn't that bad. I'm not sure if that means I've grown up or the movies made back then were pretty bad...I guess a little of both. Nevertheless, I really liked the song Let Go from the film, wondered who the band was that play it, and how I could get the full version of the song. Finally after researching online I found more information about the song and wanted to post it here for other fans of it. I hope this helps someone. "},{"Title":"Loved it, a great combo of horror, comedy & romance!","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In this hilarious update on the old BEAUTY & THE BEAST theme, MICHELLE LITTLE plays Denny, a pretty young woman with a habit for taking in stray pets & loser boyfriends, her life seems pretty dull until one day she stumbles upon the wild & crazy Kaz, a street person who much to her surprise she finds herself falling head over heels for. Denny thinks she's found the man of her dreams, however Kaz, though he shares the same feelings, does all he can to stay away & why? because if he gets aroused, he turns into a hideous demon, with fur, horns & even a tail! what's worse, several women in town are being killed by what the police thinks at first to be a strangler, but quickly realize that whatever is committing the killings may not be human & worse is it maybe Kaz since he seemingly has no memories once he transforms into the beast! But is he the killer or is there another person with the same curse? MY DEMON LOVER was a surprisingly good comedy with horror movie overtones to help make it a fairly entertaining movie. Also a big help is the good direction, well done monster make-up & great actors who manage to make their characters extremely enjoyable. There's plenty of humor & suspense in the script, plus loads of charm to help make it a cut above most comedies. SCOTT VALINTINE is superb & quiet funny as Kaz & MICHELLE LITTLE is cute & adorable as his love interest. Highly recommend if you can find a copy. Another 1980's gem.**** stars "},{"Title":"What a nightmare","Date":"6 May 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Oh dear... I just want to know how it was possible to make this mess. Who greenlighted it? Who made it? Why? I happen to be a child of the 80s. I dig the 80s. I could spend the rest of my life watching movies from the 80s. However, that decade gave us not only a huge number of great films, but also a lot of really bad, cheesy, and utterly misguided ones. 'My Demon Lover' is one of these films.It's supposed to be a romantic comedy mixed with horror. Now that alone is an ambitious goal, and very few films have successfully pulled it off. Ultimately the film fails as a comedy and a horror and a romantic movie. It is boring and pointless. The romance is the most superficial one I have ever seen, the attempts at humour are pathetic and the horror is just awkward, not scary, and outright dull. For all that silly stuff going on, the film ends up being tedious. It doesn't make you care about the characters or the plot. It doesn't scare you, it doesn't make you laugh... After about ten minutes I was already bored and I knew the film would not get better. I was right. It's a total failure in every scene from beginning to end.Avoid this. It's not even one of those 'so bad it's good' films. It's just boring, boring, boring. "},{"Title":"My Demon Lover","Date":"31 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Denny(Michelle Little) sure knows how to pick 'em. Her last boyfriend we see taking all her stuff out of the apartment they were sharing to sell off, and the new man in her life is demon possessed! Yep, Kaz(Scott Valentine), seemingly with no employment at the moment, introduces himself by snatching her burger from her plate, eating it, discovering it's a fruit burger, spewing back out all over her dress. Yes, this is how they first meet. But, Denny herself freely admits that she has a soft heart and is more than a bit vulnerable when it comes to men. Regarding Kaz's dilemma, he was put under a demonic curse after a witch caught him smooching with her granddaughter. You see, when Kaz gets horny, the demon, in various ugly forms, comes out. This coincides with a series of mauler murders which makes him more than a viable suspect.Bizarre demon comedy with dated special effects(particularly the make-up effects which certainly transform Valentine into various hideous forms)and an energetic cast. Robert Trebor steals his scenes as a clumsy nerd, Charles, who wants to take Denny out. The gorgeous Gina Gallego is Denny's best friend, Sonia..Sonia's sister is a victim of the mauler(who tears apart women on New York City streets)and she wants to find and kill the one responsible. The comedy revolves around Valentine's troubles with the cute Little, who has a warm smile and pleasant personality. Valentine goes over-the-top without restraint, allowed to indulge himself as he sees fit and has the kind of role which gives him a chance to so. His Kaz admits that he's obnoxious and he couldn't be more on the level. Kaz remains, for the most part, in the same wardrobe, essentially a hobo that Denny takes in out of the kindness of her heart. The filmmakers go overboard with all the effects, and Valentine spends a good chunk of the film under heavy make-up, costumed to the hilt. I think the fine cast really helps matters, with Little the glue that holds the film together. With Michael J Fox hitting paydirt with BACK TO THE FUTURE, Justine Bateman starring as a girl rocker in SATISFACTION, it was Valentine's turn out of the FAMILY TIES pack to get a leading role in a film..this, unfortunate for him, was that chance. "},{"Title":"FRIGHTINGLY FUNNY.","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was very entertaining. It was funny has well as weird. I found it more entertaining then The Monster Squad, at least this movie did'nt have campy dialog. It was nice to see Scott Valentine break away from Family Ties for a little while. The story is about Denny(played with a lot of sweetness by Michelle Little) who seems to have bad luck with romance, that all changes when she meets Kaz(played comicaly well by Scott Valentine) they start out has friends, but little does Denny know that when Kaz gets turned on by women, he becomes monster, Valentine and Little are charming. This is one of my favorite 80's movie. "}{"Title":"picking away the moments that make up a dull day-fritter and waste the hours in an offhand way","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Great footage of NYC back before the gentrification and MTV @ Times Square. Heaps of garbage, bag atop of bag on every street corner, entire city blocks just lost to crack, just f*cking lost, what a beautiful city then. No, movie sucks, like it was supposed to be a vehicle for Scott Valentine to advance beyond his Family Ties work, movie did not pay out for the dude. I mean I guess this is an entertaining movie in that with a group of friends its good to watch together and make fun of. But to watch on your own, like on your own time, nope, no way. My Demon Lover, is a creepy ill-conceived romantic comedy to be avoided. "},{"Title":"Kill me...quick","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Homeless musician Kaz (Scott Valentine of FAMILY TIES Ayyyyyyeee fame) is unfortunate enough to have a curse that causes him to turn into a demon any time he gets aroused. This obviously hurts his budding relationship with equally odd named Denny (Michelle Little) and makes him the no. 1 suspect in some NYC slashing deaths. So this is how you spend your ELM STREET profits, Mr. Shaye? I thought this was a dog back in '87 and guess what? It still is. Neither funny or scary, about the only thing going for this film is a supporting role by Robert Trebor as a goofy guy. Director Charlie Loventhal was one of the co-writers on De Palma's HOME MOVIES (1980) and I'm gathering he never made it onto the set to observe how to make a flick. To the film's credit, it has some great FX work going on here and the catchy theme Let Go by Intimate Strangers (which also appeared in the previous year's NIGHT OF THE CREEPS). "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's films! Rubbish, absolute rubbish.","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My Demon Lover (1987) is an exercise in futility. A film like this should be tossed into a dustbin and never see the light of day. Sadly folks many of these films saw their hey day during this time period. People want to complain about the films that are being made today need to take a look back during the 80's and see what was being made.Well, My Demon Lover stars that loser from Family Ties and that actress from the equally bad 80's flick Sweet Revenge. Inane acting and a junkie plot doom this film from the get go. They should have had more demons and less love. After this came out I was wondering 'what's next, the Art of Being Nick on the silver screen?Avoid like the plague... "}]