[{"Title":"Natural Born Vampires","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"52 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Caleb, a young cowboy out for a night of fun, meets Mae, a beautiful and mysterious young girl with whom he becomes instantly besotted. Mae is a strange young woman who runs off at the first sign of daylight...but not before biting Caleb on the throat. As the sun rises higher and Caleb finds himself suddenly sick and getting steadily worse, a van load of drifters stop and all but kidnap him within sight of his father and younger sister. In the van is Mae and her family - a group of outlaw vampires who are not too thrilled with the addition of Caleb to their group. Led by 300+ year old Jesse, his woman Diamondback and the brutal Severen, the vampires reluctantly show Caleb the ropes as they drift across the Midwest. But Caleb's father and sister are looking for him, and soon Caleb will have to choose between his old family and his new one.This is a stunningly innovative and brutally bloody vampire film which never once uses the word vampire. The dirty, cruel, white trash bloodsuckers could be anyone on the run from the law. This is almost more of a crime spree/road story a la Natural Born Killers than a horror movie, and this is exactly what makes it so effective. Stand out scenes include a slaughter at a honky tonk and a shootout at a hotel in the daylight hours. The characters are all well-drawn and complex and the stark scenery throughout - filled with dust and desert and not much else - just adds to the overwhelming sense of isolation, emptiness and death. The murders are incredibly sadistic and gruesome and should please gore fans. The ending - though it disappointed many - is simplistic and surprisingly upbeat, just adding to the grim fairy tale mood of the story. 9 on a scale of 10 for this powerful, desolate vampire tale. "},{"Title":"We keep odd hours.","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"61 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Near Dark is the definitive vampire road movie.  It's the most realistic and non-traditional portrayal of vampires in my mind.  They're cruising the country...you know, just bored.  And wouldn't they be bored?  I mean if you live forever, wouldn't you run out of things to do?  They spend their time getting in and out of trouble.  And that's all they do.  I love it.  The cast (Aliens anyone?) is top-notch.  Adrien Pasdar is as underrated as they come.  He plays our likable hero who gets involved with our gang of vamps by accident.  Lance Henriksen, Bill Paxton, Jenette Goldstein (all from Aliens), Jenny Wright, and Joshua Miller are all perfectly cast as the nocturnal family.  Miller, oddly enough, is Jason Patric's half brother and Near Dark was released just a few weeks after The Lost Boys.  Henrikson is appropriately evil and Paxton's Severen character is highly quotable and memorable.  Tim Thomerson and James Le Gros also put in an appearances.  Eric Red's script is every bit as cool as his earlier road movie, The Hitcher.  Kathryn Bigelow will go down in my book as having directed the best vampire flick that I can think of. Note for genre buffs The word vampire is never used in the film. "},{"Title":"and they didn't even say the 'V' word!","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"53 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the best modern vampire flicks around is this stylish, funny, and all around adventurous cult classic.Young cowboy is literally bitten by a beautiful stranger and ends up joining a band of blood-suckers who roam the American heartland.Although Near Dark is often over-shadowed by the ultra-hip vampire movie The Lost Boys (1987), Near Dark is a far more juicier treat for horror fans. Eric Red, who also wrote The Hitcher (1986), gives us a seemingly old-fashioned tale of struggle between human nature and savage lust with a nicely spun sense of modernism. Not to mention plenty of touches of dark humor. It's a story that does well with avoiding the obvious clichés of the vampire genre. Director Kathryn Bigelow gives this film terrific style, not only adding scenic beauty but sharply creating plenty of intense action sequences. Near Dark also packs some great makeup FX and occasional gore. The entire sequence in the bar has became a favorite among many. Adding even more to the film is the beautiful music score by Tangerine Dream.The cast is quite good. Adrian Pasdar is believable as our formerly-human hero. Lance Henriksen is genuine in his role as the leader of the vamp' band. However it's young Bill Paxton who does most of the scene stealing (and the comic relief) as a scary, yet cheeky vampire thug.A modern vamp classic that delivers on all levels, Near Dark firmly remains a favorite of the genre and one of the most entertaining horror films of the 80's.**** out of **** "},{"Title":"A Counter-Cinematic Masterpiece!","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"62 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In filming Near Dark, Kathryn Bigelow creates a masterpiece of counter-cinematic art. Counter-cinema in its simplest definition is cinema that through its own cinematic practices, questions and subverts existing cinematic codes and conventions. Counter-cinema usually lies in independent film-making, but sometimes may arise into some semi-mainstream Hollywood films. The later works of Bigelow are much more mainstream, but her use of genre, gender and narrative in her counter-cinematic works (Near Dark and The Loveless) are identifiable in the more mainstream Blue Steel and even Point Break and Strange Days.Counter-cinema often attempts to combine genres of film that would, on the surface seem to not go together. In Near Dark Bigelow cleverly combines the seemingly unrelated 'vampire' sub-genre and the 'western' genre. The fact is, these two genres are not as unrelated as we might expect. Both are embodied by a certain mysticism. The tradition of the cowboy as a mythic hero dates back to the western dime novels from the 1860's. The early days of western cinema were based to a large degree on these novels. Vampires are also seen as mythical beings. The first truly great vampire film was Nosferatu of 1922, but the whole mythical ideal of the vampire goes back even further. Bram Stoker's Dracula was published much before this date. The curious thing about Near Dark is that even though the 'western' genre and the 'vampire' genre have a mythical semblance to them, this film is the most realistic and human vampire film that I have seen. I suspect that this is because the film focuses on both worlds; that of nature which nurtures the farm which Caleb (Adrian Pasdar) comes from, and that of the tight knit family of vampires that Mae (Jenny Wright) comes from. Also, counter to many other works of vampire cinema, nowhere in Near Dark is the word 'vampire' stated. However, for the sake of simplicity, I will use the term 'vampire' in this review. Both worlds seem to offer something that the other wants, though humanity (not being human) seems to be the ultimate goal.As the film begins, we meet Caleb who appears to be a drifter, sporting ragged western clothing and a cowboy hat. While standing outside a convenience store with his friends, he sees Mae  walk out for a breath of air with her ice cream cone. He immediately is stunned by her overwhelming beauty so he goes and begins to talk to her. While taking an evening drive together, Caleb tells Mae that he has never met any other girls like her. No, you haven't met any girls like me, she replies. She says that he has never met any other girls like her because when the light from a star hits earth a billion years later, she will still be here. Caleb is intrigued with Mae's mysticism, whereas many men would instantly be turned off by the oddness of her presence. But Caleb's character seems to have restless energy and dogged individualism, just as the traditional cowboy always does in film. He is not the type who would care.It goes without saying that Caleb gets bit by Mae and is no longer a human being, at least in terms of the usual definition. In one of the film's most effective scenes Caleb stumbles across an open field in a desperate attempt to get home, just after he has been bitten. His body is beginning to burn in the open sunlight, but he does not know what has happened to him at this point. Sunlight plays an important role in Near Dark, as it clearly contrasts the world of the vampires, and Caleb's world of the farm. The light which nurtures the farm and the fields that Caleb is crossing, is now the biggest threat to his survival. He has crossed over into a world, a world completely incompatible with his previous world. The vast, open fields again symbolize the western genre. Two key typologies to this genre are the open range and civilization. I personally was raised on a ranch, and I find it interesting how people like my parents refer to the ranching lifestyle as civilization. But the large and open landscapes of Oklahoma do not only represent the nurturing world of the farm; it is also a representation of loneliness and isolation on the part of vampires. The vampires in the film, are in a world where they are isolated by their confinement to the night and the need to feed upon human beings' blood to survive. In this sense, the landscape, which Caleb is crossing is a representation of both his previous life and his new life. Just before he makes it home, a large RV containing the family of vampires races towards him and picks him up. As he is pulled into the side door, Caleb loses his cowboy hat and hence loses a powerful connection to his previous identity.What follows in the film are continual contrasts between both worlds, the one whose people live at night, and the other whose people live during the day. The only bridge or connection between the two is during the sunsets and the sunrises. There are numerous beautiful scenes where Caleb walks across the frame with a sunset in the background. Theoretically, this is the only place where the two worlds can co-exist. One may also see this motif as a bridge where the two genres of the vampire film and the western meet. The vampire can still survive in the dim light produced by a sunset or a sunrise, and at the same time the image of a sunset is a key visual in the western film.Near Dark is not only about differences; Bigelow draws upon the family unit as an essential similarity between the vampires and the humans. There are strong parallels drawn between Caleb's family and Mae's family. Both are headed by  distinctive male figures, Caleb's father and Jesse (Lance Henriksen). Both men maintain a tight bond within their separate families. Even though Jesse is not a father, he is a definite leader who acts as father-figure. He looks out for his own, just as Caleb's father is looking out for Caleb and his younger sister. Families, to the majority of people are a uniquely human unit. In depicting families in both worlds, we learn that humanity not only exists within the standard perception of the human unit. We must remember that each one of these vampires was at one point a human being. The film seems to be implying that even in the most extreme of transitions (from human to vampire), one cannot completely leave behind the rites that you previously cherished so deeply. Homer (Joshua John Miller), one of the vampires who was 'turned' while still a child, is the most blatant depiction of this notion. He appears to be quite disenchanted with his current lifestyle. He is always angry and cynical until he meets Caleb's sister. Homer seems to fall for her in much the same fashion that Caleb fell for Mae. Again, another parallel with humanity.Interestingly, in Near Dark, there is a way in which a vampire can make the transition back to a human being. Many people have argued that this process in not explained well enough. My only answer is that these people should watch the film again a few times, and they may arrive at some possible answers. The way I view the film, the process of converting the vampire to a human relates back to the whole notion of nature and nurturing that is so apparent in the rest of the film.**** out of ****  "},{"Title":"One, two, four... BANG! Bullseye!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"39 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best vampire flicks I've ever seen. These aren't your standard sharp fang having, flying, cool contact wearing, red cape sporting vampires. Rather these vampires look like nomads, leftovers from a roaming biker gang. They drive around in a trailer that has aluminum foil covering the windows to block out the sunlight. They drink blood. They spit out the bullets you shoot them with. They're a tad different than your classic vampire but different enough to keep them interesting. Fans of Cameron's Aliens take note, you have a triple score here with Lance Henriksen (Bishop), Jeanette Goldstein (Vasquez) and Bill Paxton (Hudson) teamed together again. Not too surprising being that Cameron and director Kathryn Bigelow have worked together several times on various films. Bill Paxton is hilarious in this, I have to say. Fans won't be disappointed. I really like this movie. It never gets old, the special effects/make up are pretty decent (nothing too fake looking) and the characters are more than one-dimensional, supported by satisfactory performances throughout. There's enough gore here to satisfy the modest gore-hound and it's entertaining throughout. Give this movie a shot if you're looking for something different. It's a hip vampire movie that works simply because it's not trying to be hip, you follow? Rating **** out of *****.   "},{"Title":"The cast from Aliens shines here","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"34 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How interesting Kathryn Bigelow was married to James Cameron at the time this film was made and she has three superb cast members from Aliens that make this film a treat to watch.Lance Henriksen ( Bishop from Aliens ) tells Caleb  I may have taught him everything he knows, but I certainly never taught him everything I know.  Now that is a cool line.  The strength in this film is the atmosphere.  It is not really a scary movie but the feel of it makes you want to keep watching.  You want to know what cool line Bill ( Hudson from Aliens ) was going to come out with.  Jeannette ( Vasquez from Aliens ) Goldstein essentially plays the same role in this film as she did in Aliens but she does it so well.  I think if this film was directed by a bigger named director it would have done better business at the box office.  It really is a good movie with a funny script.  Bigelow just wasn't a big name director but now that this film is on video it should be treasured.  At least to see what Paxton does with his character.  And to see how he dies, after all, he does in almost every film before Titanic.  "},{"Title":"Bill Paxton stole the show","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"37 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is obviously stolen by Bill Paxton and although the plot is very simple there are some interesting points of discussion for example the whole blood transfusion scenario. It is an enjoyable vampire western, however the word vampire is never expressed in the film. It neglects all the vampire clichés, and is impressive for it's time. It's quite obvious that films such as From Dusk Til Dawn and The Forsaken have taken there inspiration from this movie. The best scene is by far the bar slaughter. For Kathryn Bigalow's first film it is a triumph and a film to be proud of. I think that anyone who hasn't seen this film should give it a look, because it cleverly combines comedy, drama, horror and gore, but for people who are slightly sickened by the site of blood and horrific killings, be wary of Severens' spur to the neck slaughter. "},{"Title":"Best Vampire Flick Ever!","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"35 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I hunted this film for ages and then it came out on DVD, so I had to buy it. Originally, it was purely due to the cast. I thought it would be good though and I was not let down, in fact, my expectations were well exceeded. Near Dark is my favourite vampire film and I am proud to be part of the cult following this film has gathered years since its release.The camera work is great, Bigelow does a really great job in the director's chair and always does her best to make a film look as visually impressive as possible; it's hard to believe this was a low budget movie. The screenplay for the film is excellent and very original. Near Dark is very different to other vampire films and it really is refreshing to watch something so different. Where most vampire films bathe in Gothic undertones and romanticise themselves, Near Dark is much more subtle, even to the point where the word 'vampire' is not included within the picture. I can see why Kathryn Bigelow and James Cameron ended up married briefly as they both have similar integrity when it comes to film making.The casting of the movie is its best point. The Aliens trio of Paxton, Goldstein and Henriksen were brilliant in this. Paxton and Henriksen are two of my favourite actors and I believe this is the best character Paxton has ever played, even Hudson does not compare to the mighty Severen! These three actors all excel at playing ruthless characters and do a great job at making Near Dark as entertaining as possible. In the midst of all the carnage, Adrian Pasdar and Jenny Wright do very well in bringing Near Dark down to earth. The chemistry between the two is very good and the characters are effective as they provide contrast between the other main characters.I feel I must talk about the bar scene. As soon as that music kicks in, you know some on screen magic is about to happen. This is where the Aliens cast members really shine. Paxton is spitting out more clichés than he is blood. Also, as a big Terminator fan, I had to notice the bar patron as the T-2 'You forgot to say please' guy. I think he should stay away from bars from now on! This is what the film builds up to and this is the turning point of the film from a mainly character piece to a nail biting thriller. This is one of the most enjoyable and memorable scenes you will ever see.Near Dark is a fantastic film, sadly overlooked due to people drawing too many comparisons between this and Lost Boys. This is far superior to Lost Boys as this has far more substance and more than one memorable character. With gruesome imagery, streams of blood and Bill Paxton and Lance Henriksen, this is the ultimate vampire film. "},{"Title":"A cult film classic, although flawed, that is eminently watchable.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"32 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Near Dark is stylishly directed, well written, and enjoyable to watch.  It's very easy to sink yourself into the velvety world of the night and see from its perspective.One of the pleasant parts of the film is that traditional good guys and villains are continually switched around as the film progresses.  Sympathy for the nomadic vampire group shifts throughout different parts of the film, playing with your emotions.  A nice touch, well done.The two main characters, Caleb (Adrian Pasdar) and Mae (Jenny Wright) are excellent in their parts and know their characters well.  Bill Paxton enjoys his role as the wise-cracking and unstable spur-sporting Severen and gets some brilliant one-liners.  In general, the script is crisp and well written.The movie is flawed in parts, but I don't feel that that makes it any less enjoyable, just marks points that could be improved.  For example, it is NEVER explained how you turn a vampire back into a human.  It just happens, and that is irritating to an otherwise well thought out film.Basically, Near Dark drips atmosphere, and sinks you into its world of shadows, passion and blood.  It's actually more of a love story than a horror story, and gels both genres together well.An occasionally (and vexingly) flawed but otherwise spectacular piece of vampire lore.Lothos. "},{"Title":"A Modern American Horror Story","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"26 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A real gem of a film which deserved a lot more credit than it ever received. Director Kathryn Bigelow went on to produce Aliens and direct Blue Steel and Point Blank, while writer Eric Red went on to direct the brilliant but rarely-glimpsed Coen and Tate, an equally dark movie. In this stylish tale of modern-day vampires, gothic horror is mixed with modern-day American society. The hero, Caleb, is plunged into a shadowy world of immortal vampires that exists just below the ordinary world as the bad guys imitate modern mortals to hunt their prey. With atmospheric music by German techno-band Tangerine Dream, an impressive and evocative horror film with the added attraction that it features my favourite actress, Jenny Wright!  "}{"Title":"Howdy. I'm gonna separate your head from your shoulders. Hope you don't mind none.","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Near Dark is directed and written by Kathryn Bigelow with Eric Red also credited for the screenplay. It stars Adrian Pasdar, Jenny Wright, Lance Henriksen, Jenette Goldstein & Bill Paxton. The score is provided by Tangerine Dream and Adam Greenberg is the cinematographer.A small Oklahoma town and Caleb Colton (Pasdar) meets Mae (Jenny Wright), an attractive young drifter. They chat, they flirt and just before sunrise she bites him on the neck before running away. Welcome to your new vampire family Caleb&#x85;&#x85;It's now written in scripture that Bigelow's Vampire Western failed miserably at the box office and quickly vanished into the shadow of Joel Schumacher's popular Vampo piece, The Lost Boys. However, thanks to VHS interest, the film refused to shrivel up and blow away when the sun came up. Over the years the film has garnered a cult fan base and been reappraised by many of the front line critics to great reviews. So much so that now it's considered something of an enigmatic & poetic classic that's directed by a hugely talented female director.With its core story the film offers nothing new to the vampire sub-genre. The blood as a drug/thirst motif was long ago penned by one Bram Stoker. But Near Dark is not interested in traditional vampire mythology, this is a modern spin where garlic, bats, crosses and stakes are neither needed or thought about. In fact the word vampire is never mentioned in the film. This is, all told, a film about the human side of the night dwellers, we hop inside their blacked out bus and hit the road; along with the confused and conflicted Caleb. What follows is touches of savagery and touches of ethereal beauty-beauty that comes not from Gothic touches, but from dusky Western surrounds. Photographer Greenberg blending oater stylings with moody horror atmospherics, his light work carrying a sexy sheen that dovetails smartly with the family and their life when the sun has gone from the sky. It's seductive, it's what Bigelow wanted and got, the mood created helps us to understand how easy it was for Caleb to be drawn to Mae in the first place.That Bigelow chose to hire Greenberg and to utilise him to the max obviously aids the film no end. That she surrounded herself with quality character actors was something of a master stroke. This allowed her to focus on the tone and flow of the piece, safe in the knowledge that Messrs Henriksen (great character depth), Paxton (a bundle of film stealing energy) and Goldstein (savvy) were carrying the film safely to its Western style finale. Lest we forget the efforts of then unknowns Pasdar & Wright, both pretty and perky, for they too instill their characters with a warmth and tenderness that belies the blood shedding that surrounds their coupling. It's also noteworthy that we are not being asked to sympathise with the addiction plight of the family, understand? Yes, but never sympathise. Even if the poetic noirish beauty of it all can lure you nervously into its seductive arms and make you feel at odds with your feelings.Not many knew it at the time, but this was to be a hugely influential film. One that now still shows aspiring newcomers to the sub-genre how it should be done. 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of My Favorite Cult-Movies","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In Phoenix, the young cowboy Caleb Colton (Adrian Pasdar) meets the beautiful Mae (Jenny Wright) late night in town and she asks for a ride to her trailer. It is near dawn and Caleb brings Mae that is in a hurry; he asks for a kiss and she bites him on the neck. Caleb's truck does not start and he walks home. However, when the sunlight hits him close to his farm, he starts to burn. His father Loy Colton (Tim Thomerson) and his sister Sarah (Marcie Leeds) witness a van that appears out of the blue and kidnaps Caleb. He is introduced to Mae's family the leader Jesse Hooker (Lance Henriksen), his mate Diamondback (Jenette Goldstein), the cruel Severen (Bill Paxton) and the boy Homer (Joshua Miller). In common, all of them are predator creatures of night that need blood to survive. However, Caleb refuses to kill and Mae gives her own blood to him to keep him alive. Meanwhile Loy and Sarah are looking for Caleb; when they meet each other in a motel, Caleb has to choose between his beloved family and his love for Mae.Near Dark is earlier work of the Oscar winner Kathryn Bigelow, an original and gore road-movie and one of my favorite cult-movies. Mae and her family are never called vampires and they are very brutal and sadistic with their countless victims. Caleb is a family young man that is in love with Mae and is forced to live with these evil creatures. The plot blends romance, crime, violence, thriller and horror and the result is a great film. There is also dark humor in the lines and my favorite is when Severen says that he hates when his victims are not shaved. The soundtrack with the music of Tangerine Dream is another plus. I do not precisely know how many times I have watched this film but the previous time was on 30 December 2002. Unfortunately it has been only released on VHS in Brazil by Video Plus distributor and the image does not have good quality. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Near Dark &#x96; Quando Chega a Escuridão (Near Dark &#x96; When the Darkness Comes)Note Today (16 Oct 2010) I have seen Near Dark again, now on Blu-Ray that I have just bought. In the Extras, there is a 2002 documentary with the director, producer, lead cast and crew. Unfortunately Jenny Wright has not been located to participate in this nostalgic footage mandatory for any fan.On 05 October 2013, I saw this movie again. "},{"Title":"Really good modern day Vampire film.","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Near Dark starts late one night in a small rural American town where a guy named Caleb (Adrian Pasdar) spots an attractive woman named Mae (Jenny Wright), he introduces himself to her & they hit it off so Caleb offers her a lift home. On the way Mae stresses that she needs to be home before dawn but Caleb is insistent on at least a kiss, Mae bites his neck & runs off. As Caleb staggers home the sun begins to rise & his skin starts to burn, suddenly a large motor home pulls up in front of him, the occupants pull Caleb inside & drive off. Caleb's kidnappers turn out to be a dysfunctional family of Vampires, Jesse (Lance Henriksen) & Diamondback (Jenette Goldstein) are head of the family while Homer (Joshua John Miller), Severen (Bill Paxton) &, of course, Mae are their Vampire offspring. Caleb is slowly turning into a Vampire & soon discovers that he must kill other's so that he may drink their blood. As one might expect Caleb isn't keen on the idea & sets out to return home to his proper family...Co-written & directed by Kathryn Bigelow Near Dark is an excellent film. The script by Bigelow & Eric Red builds the character's superbly to a point where you care for them, a unusual thing in a horror film. The way the tale is told is also refreshingly different to the usual Vampire film, the way we follow Caleb turning into a Vampire & the obvious problems that would bring are well developed & put across. The way Near Dark portrays the Vampire existence as desperate moving from one motel to another trying to avoid capture & the brutality of their lives as they stick together & try to survive. There are no traditional Vampire hunters, no garlic or stakes through the heart as it brings the Vampire right up to date & presents them as cold, sadistic blood drinking creatures of the night rather than the romanticised suave figures painted by some films. Near dark moves along at a reasonable pace but since the writing is so good I didn't mind the odd slow patch, it grips & engages & most importantly it entertains. The only real negative is the quickness & ease in which Caleb & Mae are cured of Vampirism in a 'live happily ever after' type Hollywood ending.Director Bigelow does a great job, Near Dark has style, a great story & atmosphere. Near Dark may not be the goriest film ever but it sure is brutal, from very gory shoot outs to a vicious & sadistic scene in a bar when a couple of people have their throats slit.With a budget of about $5,000,000 Near Dark is a very competent film & well made throughout with high production values. The acting is first class & reunites three cast members from Aliens (1986), the always watchable & excellent Henriksen, the underused Goldstein & the fantastic Paxton who could probably say the most boring line of dialogue ever & still make it sound cool, virtually everything this guy says instantly becomes quotable.Near Dark is an excellent Vampire film that has a great story, good action & nice performances. What more can I say? Go watch it! "},{"Title":"Great start but rapidly degenerates toe curling bad movie","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is a balance of good ideas and bad plot as it starts out great but degenerates rapidly into a toe curling bad movie. As such it isn't worth the trouble to watch it a second time. And I would advise people to think twice before buying it. At first the movie starts out great. It is a kind of a road movie. Cowboy meets girl. Girl turns boy in a creature of the night. Cowboy get's drawn into a life of violence as he is dragged along the road by a group of undead who travel around killing people and sucking their blood. These are't the sleek and nice vampires that say sorry when they bite, but the kind that kill for the fun of it and leave a trail of corpses in their wake.Well this is at least a new take on the vampire movie. In fact the new cowboy vampire has to earn his place. The other vampires pressure him kill. Killing is graduating to full vampire stardom. It is the point of no return.But then suddenly the bright idea's stop and the movie degenerates into misdirected violence. On it's own violence can be something that adds to the movie, but this movie just serves up fights that are odd and illogical. Let me explain.The turning point is actually the bar scene halfway. The group of vampires descend on a bar and start to kill everyone inside. Oddly enough the normal people don't even make a break for it after one of the girls cut the throat of the waitress. They sort of blink their eyes as if someone just downed a pint of lager in one go and then stand around waiting to be killed. The bartender in the meantime takes forever to get is double barreled shotgun loaded and apparently two loads of buckshot in this movie doesn't do much to a vampire. Aim for the head I always say. One of the customers is allowed to flee by the cowboy vampire as he still reluctant to kill people. The next step is ridiculous. The vampires hide from the sun in a bungalow. The police, tipped by the escaped customer, surrounds the place during the day with two cars and four man. This customer has previous seen the vampires survive a full load from a shotgun up close. He has seen the vampires drink the blood of their victims. He has seen the whole shebang. But the police turns out with four men and two cars.Then the vampires escape during the day because the cowboy runs out with a blanket, jumps into a van and drives it through the bungalow so the other vampires can get in. Then he drives it out at the other side. And the police can't chase them for their two cars have been damaged in the fight.At this point one unbelievable scene tumbles over the next. The vampires escape. The family of the cowboy happen to be in the same motel they lurk in. The family is threatened by the vampires, but they escape because the young daughter throws open the door and the sun streams in, while a few minutes before it was still dark.The cowboy and family take a hike. The cowboy get's a blood transfusion and is human once more. Then they totally forget that they have been chased by a bunch of killers and sit around idly at the ranch in the night with the windows open. So the young daughter is kidnapped. The cowboy chases the vampires. He confronts them, without any weapons. Then a fuel truck comes along and he get's in and whacks the vicious vampire when the truck blows up.Next cowboy somehow manages to get his sister free in a scene which involves one of the vampire girls throwing his knife at another vampire by mistake because the cowboy ducks in time. The girl lets cowboy and young girl run. The vampire pulls out the knife, tries to fire, good vampire girl pushes the gun way and then he decides not to fire his gun a second time, instead they jump into the car to chase the cowboy and his sister.The cowboy and his sister run out of town into the surrounding countryside. The vampires chase them. They grab the little girl again. The sun pops up. The daughter and the nice vampire girl escape the car. The bad boy vampire runs after them and is then blown to smithereens by the sun(but the nice vampire girl not). The remaining vampires get the same treatment when the sun sizzles them and the car to kingdom come.The nice vampire girl gets a blood transfusion and everything is forgiven and forgotten(including the mountain of corpses she has created.)Happy end.For some reason the vampires are continuously active around sunset so the director can serve us burning vampires, humans who escape the clutches of the vampires, and vampires scrambling for cover. This ploy is used again and again. For another reason it is unclear why the vampires don't just kill the cowboy vampire. They give him a week to kill someone and he fails to do so. In fact he let's someone escape who then sets the police on them. Why?The movie shows that great ideas and a able cast do not make a great movie. It starts out well and then becomes a badly directed action movie. Can't think of a reason why I should watch this twice. Seen better. "},{"Title":"Story wandered aimlessly until end","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoiler, don't read this if you're committed to seeing this movie.The story seemed OK and then it just bleed to death slowly. I've never seen an instant vampire and in this movie, maybe this was for the microwave generation, Kaleb was a vampire in 1 hour or less. At the end of the movie I was wondering what the heck the movie was about and struggling to make sense of the story. There were several great actors (Tim Thomerson, Lance Henrickson, and Bill Paxton); however, I don't think they had a chance to give this movie the nitrous boost it so desperately needed. I'm used to watching movies for college classes and then I would write comments and papers for my college classes. This movie started out OK, picked up tempo and then just went down hill.This was my take on the movie A nice cowboy (Kaleb) meets an intriguing country girl (Maggie). She bites him a little and he's instantly a vampire (he begins smoking as the sun comes up within an hour).Maggie's vampire group/family pulls him into their RV and they drive off. Kaleb's father, played by Tim Thomerson (the reason I watched the movie), sees his son being abducted as does Kaleb's sister Sarah.Kaleb is taken on a road trip. He cannot kill. Maggie feeds him. The group threatens to kill him unless he kills someone.Kaleb's father and sister find him.Kaleb goes home, his father gives him a transfusion and he's healed. Maggie comes to Kaleb's home. The vampire group takes his sister.The group dies. Maggie gets a transfusion and she's healed. "},{"Title":"Really good, almost great","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had never even heard of this vampire flick until Kathryn Bigelow became big news last year. I, like many, felt that people were trying to rewrite the history of her career to make her look like some kind of unrecognized genius. I had only ever seen Strange Days and Point Break, which didn't give me confidence that she was anything special until The Hurt Locker. Near Dark proves me (at least somewhat) incorrect. This is a horror gem, a truly well directed little film. It is far from perfect, but Bigelow has a fantastic control of mood, and creates some brilliant setpieces. And she does it all relatively quietly, using atmosphere to create tension until she gets to the big, explosive climactic sequence. Adrian Pasdar stars (and is a little dull) as a country boy who picks up a vampire chick (Jenny Wright, super cute). She very coyly transforms him into a vampire. He's quickly picked up by her crew, a group of vampires (including Lance Henrickson and Bill Paxton, who both kick all kinds of ass) who work together to get meals and stay alive. Pasdar isn't well trusted in the group, despite Wright's love for him, and he eventually tries to break from the group. There is one plot point that kind of bugs me (the way Pasdar and Wright get cured of their vampirism is just way too easy and stupid), but most of the film is gripping and excellent. "},{"Title":"An original and inventive cult classic","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Released in the shadow of the higher budget and more audacious comic fantasy masterpiece 'The Lost Boys', Near Dark doesn't quite get the recognition it deserves within the horror genre. Although it's not as great as the aforementioned cult classic, Near Dark has it's own niche within the vampire sub-genre for being such an original take on it. The rules of vampire horror have been reinvented, changed or discarded completely and the result is something to behold. This allows Katherine Bigelow to do whatever she wants with the premise, and this makes for a very thrilling movie as we're lead to believe that absolutely anything can happen, which continually keeps the audience on the edge of their seats. The story, which takes in various elements of common vampire folklore such as the transition from human to inhuman, follows Caleb Colton; a young farm boy that is taken in by a beautiful young woman (and you wouldn't blame him when you see her&#133;), and soon finds himself battling with some strange ailment that makes him allergic to sunlight, shortly before being picked up by a rag-tag band of vampires that inhabit an old pick up truck. We then follow Caleb as he comes to terms with his situation and attempts to fit in with the pack...For this movie, Katherine Bigelow recruited three of the support players from her then husband's fabulous 'Aliens'. Bill Paxton, Lance Henriksen and Janette Goldstein bring life to the movie's core as the three major players of the vampire nomads. Bill Paxton in particular is fantastic as usual as Severen; the most pronounced member of the group. Bill is an actor that tends to get support roles that almost carry the film, and that's exactly the case here. That's not to say that Near Dark is only Paxton's movie, as Adrian Pasdar and the incredible Jenny Wright do well in the lead roles, as do the rest of the support players. But when the movie is over, it's Bill Paxton that sticks in your mind the most. The cinematography on show in Near Dark is superb and a delight for the eyes &#150; as well as the brain, because Near Dark breathes a continual atmosphere of intrigue from the way it's beautifully shot. The music by Tangerine Dream is right on cue as well, and it brings a surreal, trippy sensation to the proceedings, which emphasises the dream-like state that our hero has been put into.Near Dark is a vampire movie free of the usual clichés and one that makes it's own rules, which makes it must see for the vampire fan. I wouldn't recommend this movie to people who are new to the vampire movie from the off, however, as it's one that needs to be viewed after you've got used to the genre staples in order to fully appreciate it, but once you have got used to it; this isn't a movie you'll want to miss. "},{"Title":"Err... yeah.... brilliant....","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed this vam... this flick about undead rednecks who aimlessly murder and suck the blood of other, equally gene handicapped, rednecks. Yes, Near Dark is wonderfully entertaining and worth your while if you watch it as a joke.Near Dark is technically a vampire movie, but without any wooden stakes, fangs, or mention of the term vampire period. On this note, the end was particularly confusing. Apparently, vampires feed and cease-to-be vampires in exactly the same way - only the equipment is different.The love-story portion is actually quite average by Hollywood standards. In other words, totally incoherent. The two stars (Adrian Pasdar and Jenny Wright) become overwhelmingly attached after only a few hours, when Mae (Jenny) bites Caleb (Adrian) and he evidently decides she is the woman of his dreams. Their relationship only gets stronger as Caleb becomes acquainted with Mae's friends, who spend most of their time violently murdering innocent (for Southerners anyway) people. As if the killing weren't senseless enough - more often than not - the gang fails to drink any of the blood they spill, making me wonder if they are really vampires or it's just an excuse.Bottomline Near Dark is a good choice for a night of MST3K-style fun, but steer clear of those who take this movie seriously and like it. "},{"Title":"Bite the Dust","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Country boy Caleb Colton (Adrian Pasdar) whittles away the quiet rural nights hunting local girls - but, when he falls prey to the mysterious and beautiful Mae (Jenny Wright), Caleb unknowingly becomes the hunted. Mae is no ordinary girl, Caleb soon learns; she is part of an outlaw band of vampires, and their love is about to lure him into a terrifying world of blood-lust, mayhem, and absolute horror. Will Caleb pay the ultimate price for love and eternal life - or, will he find a way to defeat the evil growing inside him each night...? Here is a vampire film which is a little disarming because it operates outside the range of (once upon a time) accepted, recognizable vampire rules. These bloodsuckers do not bare fangs, avoid garlic, or shun the Christian cross. In a sense, the Near Dark vampires are a continuation of the genre's evolution - cousins of wrist-suckers like Jonathan Frid's Barnabas Collins and Anne Rice's Vampire Lestat. Interestingly, Barnabas and the similarly reluctant vampire Caleb are changed by the presence of an innocent little sister named Sarah.Director Kathryn Bigelow, with assist from Eric Red, does a bang-up job with her vampires; slow moody shots and explosive action sequences are almost equally spellbinding. The film is paced beautifully, and is forgiven for some moments where it becomes difficult to suspend disbelief. The young leads are very attractive. And, Civil War veteran Lance Henriksen (as Jesse), bosomy girlfriend Jenette Goldstein (as Diamondback), sadistic pal Bill Paxton (as Severen), plus adolescent punk Joshua Miller (as Homer) set the screen on fire.******** Near Dark (10/2/87) Kathryn Bigelow ~ Adrian Pasdar, Jenny Wright, Lance Henriksen, Bill Paxton "},{"Title":"Bill Paxton is too goofy to be a menacing vampire.","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Whenever you hear of classic 80s horror/vampire flicks you always tend to hear the two words, Near and Dark. Just because it was made in the 80s and it has Lance The Man Henriksen, doesn't make it any type of a classic flick.Near Dark is about a dude who by chance hits on a vampire, and again by chance, successfully swoons the lovely vamp. She turns him on purpose, and the rest of the movie is him dealing with his new found problem and dealing with the rest of the vampires.The movie first off, isn't a real entertaining flick. It just doesn't deliver enough of anything. You have a decent performance by Lance Henriksen, who's usually always good in whatever he does. Besides him, no one is notable. Well Paxton is slightly, just because in real-life he's this goofy sounding guy. Kinda silly looking as well. When he's trying to be this evil vampire guy, I just couldn't find him menacing or intimidating. There's only a couple scenes with some nice blood/violence (bar scene for one), but besides that, the movie just moves at a leisurely pace that really doesn't add anything or bring any type of surprises.But with average acting all-around, some kinda cool smoke and fire effects, the movie does entertain enough not to truly bore. I just don't understand why people consider this such a great vampire flick. Lost Boys and Fright Night are ten times better than this flick. Still, not a bad flick at all, but no way a classic. "}{"Title":"Interview With a Wimpire","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I suppose I just should have gone with my instincts and put Near Dark back on the shelf. It's a vampire movie, and as a rule, I don't watch 'em. (OK, Hammer Draculas, but they're something else entirely.) But, I got hooked on the box copy - it looked kinda indie, the quotes were promising, and the art was gruesome enough - I thought it might be a big make-up FX film. Instead, it was everything I hate about the modern vampire. Did'ja ever sit through an entire film just because you hate it so much you refuse to let it beat you?Near Dark is the worst sort of Anne Rice pastiche. A small group of vampires wander the Southwest in a series of stolen vehicles, wantonly killing rednecks during their nightly hunts. The youngest of the lot, a tiny little short-haired blonde chick with big anime eyes, accidentally turns a hunky young Oklahoman guy (our Hero). Why? 'Cause he's so nice she can't bear to kill him (not so nice, however, that his blatant attempts to bed her don't come across as sleazy and manipulative). Hero spends the rest of the film agonizing over his undead state, refusing to kill or feed off humans and feeding on Blondie instead (codependence, anyone?), thereby pissing off the rest of the pack, until he returns home and is cured by a simple transfusion (!) from his father, Tim Thomerson. (Bad Dad of the vampire pack is played by Lance Hendrickson - battle of the craggy dads!) He then kills the rest of the vampires, except for Blondie, who is likewise cured by the life-giving blood of Dollman. Happily ever after, amen.So much is wrong with this film, but the thing that's got my blood boiling is the inversion of the monster motif. The victims are all ciphers, mostly obnoxious, aggressive rednecks or women of loose morals. The vics only get sympathy when they're supposed to be Hero's prey, and then they just go all soft and squishy and puppy-eyed. Only the moral purity of our Hero - a vampire, let me remind you - matters. Even Blondie's redemption only serves to further demonstrate his virtue. Aaaargh. "},{"Title":"Interesting Take On The Vampire Genre","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie could have been a disaster - Trailer trash vampires ! In terms of box office it was something of a disaster but that was due to the studio going bust when NEAR DARK was released hence the movie had problems getting wide distribution not to do with the quality of the movie or bad word of mouth . Admittedly there are a few niggling problems with the script like for example the rather slow start which is intriguing first time you see it as it sets up the story but becomes something of an ordeal once you know the plot , and the cure for Cabel and Mae's condition is as vague as it is unlikely But the script is saved by Kathryn Bigelow's directing . Let me just repeat that this horror movie could have turned out completely laughable due to the subject matter but everything is played for real and you won't feel like laughing much as the trailer trash vamps go on a killing spree . Actually this is a possible criticism of Bigelow , she makes everything a little too dark , a little too bleak and a little too ultra violent but I guess that's the point we're supposed to empathise with poor Cabel who's as much a victim as the people the vampires murder . The director also manages to make the romance between the male and female protagonists surprisingly touching which is something that rarely succeeds in this type of genre , you may find the score by Tangerine Dream a bit too 1980s but the music by the band goes with the visuals which isn't something you can say about THE KEEP . The only real criticism I have is a scene involving the timeframe - Several characters walk into a motel room and it's pitch black outside then when a character opens the door a mere two minutes later ( The scene is one take in real time ) it's a bright sun lit morning , but this is probably the fault of the script rather than director or editor As far as horror movies go I was fairly impressed by NEAR DARK and would certainly recommend it to anyone with a passing interest in horror movies , though it's probably a bit too violent and morbid for some tastes "},{"Title":"Sloppy direction cannot save interesting concept of redneck vampires","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" De Laurentiis, infamous producer of Italian classic films but also big-budgeted trashy films like KING KONG (1976) created a new film company called DEG back in the 1980s. This independent company created a slew of films that were low-budgeted, often pretty bad and ultimately forgettable. There were a couple of exceptions though, like BILL AND TED'S EXCELLENT ADVENTURE, and David Lynch's BLUE VELVET, which is now highly regarded. Another one of those films, though not in the same league as BLUE VELVET, was NEAR DARK.NEAR DARK had the potential of being a great film, as highly regarded as BLUE VELVET, but instead it's just a mishmash of interesting vampire or goth concepts, revisualized by a director who, at the time, had very little experience behind the camera. The cast is uniformly excellent. The cinematography is sometimes pretty good. The idea of having vampires and rednecks together is sorta original and was rife with potential but nothing really works here. Just watch the embarrassingly directed scene at the bar to see my point. That whole scene is really bad badly acted by the unknown actors, badly paced, badly framed, badly conceived. The normal people's reactions to what's going on is cringe worthy. It's near amateurish. If you saw a woman get her throat cut in front of you, would you just wince, like somebody just sneezed? Well, that's how the bartender and the others in the bar reacted when the waitress was killed. The editing/pacing was sloppy and not thought-out properly throughout the movie. The action was sluggish, even though we see a lot of people getting killed and gunfights and things burning down. And the music score is uninspired.Like I already before, the cast is excellent. A great ensemble cast of actors if I've ever seen one Lance Henriksen, Bill Paxton, Tim Thomerson, James LeGros, Jenette Goldstein and especially Jenny Wright and Adrian Pasdar, who make a great young couple. Those two have a lot of chemistry together! Whatever happened to Jenny Wright? I'm glad Adrian is still working today because he's a very good actor. The best scene in the movie is when the father (Thomerson) gives a blood transfusion to his son (Pasdar). Memorable moment there. But even with such a great bunch of actors, the sometimes pitifully bad dialogue almost sank all their efforts.The only weak point in the cast is Bill Paxton. His hyper performance is a tad too showy (bar scene mentioned above) and pales in comparison to other over-the-top psychos, like Bill Moseley as Chop Top in Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE 2. Bill Paxton, you are no Bill Moseley, so stop trying too hard.Another weak aspect of NEAR DARK was the director's attempt to normalize violence, or the life of violence the little cult lived by. I didn't buy it at all and found it a bit repellent (certainly with the kid doing so much killing). Adrian Pasdar's character's ambivalence in killing people in order to live, which is the central theme to the film's narrative, is completely nullified because of director Kathryn Bigelow's love for violence, killing and gore. Anyway, it's sad that Bigelow's direction is so sloppy. I'm sure the low-budget supplied by DEG limited her to a certain point but still there are just too many moments when she tried to be showy and edgy, and simply ended up looking amateurish and direction-less. The scene of Adrian running to the van at dawn, with flames erupting around him when the sun touches his skin looks silly and overdone. If there's one good thing about NEAR DARK, it's Jenny and Adrian. Watch this movie to see real chemistry in action. "},{"Title":"critical darling... how???","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Based on the critical buzz, I rented this film and showed it at our weekly scary movie night. The critics were on crack! What was that? This film is awful, cliched, unsuspenseful, boring, poorly written, sloppily directed and laughably acted. Don't be fooled like we were. Avoid this and watch a known and proven commodity.Thank you. "},{"Title":"Jesus, did you people even watch the same movie?","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie actually dropped my IQ.  I truly don't see how anyone could enjoy this steaming pile of cow dung.  I saw frailty with bill paxton and was amazed at that movie, so naturally I thought this one would be good as well. OOOOPS.  Bad move Pardner (oops slipped into the movie for a moment).Ok, First, the vampires survived for years, and yet these idiots don't EVER think to tape up the windows before sunrise?  EVER?  Call me crazy, but I find it hard to be scared by a group of morons who could be foiled by simply hiding the black paint, newspaper, aluminum foil, and duct tape 2 min before sunrise.  Ohhhh, don't kill me mr vampire, oh wait, what do I have here? Yep, your can o spray paint, and I'm taking your blankie too, bye bye moron.Ok, lets let that one go, whats with the casting of this moronic child vampire who could not act his way out of a paper bag?  Line after line of READING from this idiot.  I felt bad for Paxton and Lance Henriksen being placed in a movie that sucked more than an entire department store full of hoovers.  And Severn was just a little too stupid to be considered scary or mean.  The killer from seven, scary, the little girl from the Ring, Scary, the spirit that takes over Regan's body in the Excorcist, scary, Severen the vampire who would fail his GED once each day and twice on sunday-  Not scary.I guess I just expected better work after seeing frailty.  As to those who have placed this as the best vampire movie of all time, I can only truly hope and pray that you have a very very obtuse sense of humor and indeed are making a satirical joke.My advice, don't go anywhere near this DVD if you value a coherent story with even mildly intelectual characters. "},{"Title":"An absolute classic","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kathryn Bigelow's dusty, ambient vampire western is a timeless classic for me, and a lived in genre entry with stellar performances, razor sharp writing (Eric Red power), and confident direction from Bigelow, at her very best when working in the pulpy realm of action, crime and horror. Once again Tangerine Dream contributes wonderfully atmospheric work (they seem to be a running theme with the movies I watch, can you tell I like them?) that compliments the bloody spectacle on display. Aimless young cowboy Caleb (Adrian Pasdar) is transfixed one desolate night by a eerie, gorgeous drifter girl (Jenny Wright) who's passing through his small town. She takes him on a night ride into the outskirts of town, and in a delirious make out session beneath the stars, bites his neck, changing him into one of her kind (the word vampire is never actually mentioned throughout the film). She takes pity on him and convinces her roaming pack of fellow blood sucking no,ads to try and take her in as one of their own. They are led by ruthless, violent patriarch Jesse (Lance Henriksen, a spectral force of enigmatic intimidation), his girl Diamondback (Janette Goldstein) and young Homer (Joshua Miller). The real standout, however, is Bill Paxton as Severin, the loony toon psychopathic whack job of the group. There's a blood freezing, prolonged sequence where the clan terrorizes an interstate roadhouse, and Paxton cuts loose and raises all hell, proving his talent to bring an audience their knees with his good ol boy ferocity. Caleb is very reluctant when forced to feed on innocent humans, and keeps relying on Mae to give him blood from her own veins, refusing to resort to predator instinct like the others. Meanwhile, his farmer father (Tim Thomerson, always welcome) and little sister search for him across the southwest. There's some truly memorable set pieces here, the bar scene I mentioned earlier, a smouldering climax on barren highways, and a sickening sequence where a blood deprived Caleb feverishly tries to purchase a bus ticket home. Bigelow infuses her love for visceral action and vivid characterizations together with the melodic nature of the story, resulting in a broad,backwater fable that's equal parts brutal and beautiful. "},{"Title":"The night -- it's so bright, it'll blind you.","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Adrian Pasdar plays a young cowboy who is turned into a vampire by a girl (Jenny Wright) and reluctantly must join her family of traveling vampire hicks. Great movie. The bar scene is justifiably considered a classic now. Pasdar and Wright are both good. Pasdar has settled into a rut in recent years giving the same performance in every role. This is proof that he used to have range. The movie reunites Aliens co-stars Lance Henriksen, Jenette Goldstein, and Bill Paxton. They're all great fun, especially Paxton. Also in this is genre fan favorite Tim Thomerson and '80s oddity Joshua Miller, playing an adult vampire trapped in a child's body. Miller was one of the weirder kid actors in the '80s so a part like this was right up his alley. Very unique and interesting vampire film well-directed by Kathryn Bigelow. Tangerine Dream score is a plus. "},{"Title":"A different type of vampire movie.","Date":"24 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a different type of vampire movie, that's not all focused on the monster or horror aspects but more on its storytelling, characters and dramatic aspects, without becoming a melodrama or anything like that.It's a pretty subtle and more quiet type of movie, so to speak. That's also being really the foremost thing that I didn't like all that much about it; it isn't really following a clear main story. Its more the type of movie that follows its characters around and shows things as they happen, without building up to anything. There also isn't a classic type of hero or main villain in the movie, which is of course something that not every movie needs to have in it but in this case, I think I would had most definitely preferred it if this movie had those type of characters in it and followed a more usual main story, with a more typical beginning, middle and end in it.Other than that, I can't say that the movie is a bad one but it indeed is one that never hits a home-run, metaphorically speaking. It's nice that the movie tries out plenty of new and unusual stuff and it's definitely being an original movie in the vampire genre but not one that's an absolute must-see for anyone. It's just not quite interesting or entertaining enough for that.Also don't expect this movie to be filled with action or bloodsucking. But that's not a complaint from my part. I liked it that the movie only had a handful of typical vampire moments in it and just about only one big action set piece, that worked out great for the movie and really was all that this movie needed. It set the atmospheric tone and established the 'rules' for this movie, so that the rest of the movie could focus on doing completely other things, which you perhaps normally wouldn't expect being in a vampire flick.The movie also features Bill Paxton and Lance Henriksen in it, among many others. And remember, this is an 80's movie, so that means that it has still awesome Bill Paxton and Lance Henriksen in it! No doubt it helped that director Kathryn Bigelow still was with James Cameron at the time, since he's a director who worked a lot with Bill Paxton and Lance Henriksen around that same time. Same goes for Jenette Goldstein by the way but she is somewhat of a lesser known actress.The main characters are still played by some big unknowns (Adrian Pasdar & Jenny Wright), which is perhaps also being something that somewhat keeps the movie down. A more charismatic main lead for instance could had most likely spiced up things a little bit more and would had gotten you more involved with the movie its story and main character. All in all its being a quite good and different little vampire flick but it's nothing to get all too excited about. Very watchable but not a must-see by any means, not even for the most hardened vampire lovers out there.7/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Genuinely worthy of its cult status.","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The horror racks are loaded with generic vampire junk, but this one stands out as something special. A gang of jean clad vampires are drifting across the American southwest, killing and feeding on humans like blood drunk tramp bikers. Director Kathryn Bigelow chooses to work in an almost colorless palette and emphasize the downscale dusty grime of the setting, a stark contrast to the garish colors and posh Victorian settings of Hammer vampire movies. The vampires are not noble or seductive. They are sociopaths. They shack up in cruddy motels and wander from one nearly anonymous small town to the next looking for a fight and a meal. Into their lives comes a nice small town boy, Caleb, and his reluctance to join in their violent ways pits him against the others and threatens his family. The performances here, especially by Bill Paxton and Lance Henrikson as convincingly evil vampires, are very good and effectively set up the dramatic tension that fuels the majority of the film. Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Blood and Beer.","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's the world of the 1930s gangsters updated. The iconography is all pick up trucks, redneck bars, shabby motels, spurs, cowboy boots, guns, police pursuits, and the dusty roads of Kansas, Texas, and Oklahoma.The difference is that this filthy and diverse half dozen are not bank robbers but blood robbers. They're vampires in the old-fashioned sense. Come to my laboratory -- I sock your blot. They are the dirtiest, greasiest, most unkempt of leather-jacketed vampires you ever saw. They're exceedingly profane. They play poker and cheat. Their jeans have holes in the knees. They badly need showers.I'm not sure all the traditional rules of vampirism apply. Unlike Nosferatu, they don't go up in a puff of smoke and turn to ash the moment the sun strikes them. Instead, they get hurt if caught in the daylight and then, by degrees, char, smoke, begin to flame, and finally explode. They can also reverse their condition by an infusion of blood from a voluntary donor, or so I gather, since it happens twice. They also gain partial protection from the effects of solar rays by covering themselves with filthy blankets. No crucifixes or garlic in the movie.In style, as well as in content, it's an odd mixture. Bigelow, the director, knows what she's doing and has a sure eye for the camera. She's helped enormously by the arty and perceptive photography of Adam Greenberg. A darkened motel bungalow is shot full of holes and the family is at pains to avoid the pencils of light shining through the punctures. A neat scene -- after it was used in Black Sunday but before L.A. Confidential. And most electronic scores are a fornication upon the tympanum -- let's face facts -- but Tangerine Dream's score is simple, eerie, and slightly melancholy, mostly extended tuneless chords.Most of the performers were not big names, and aren't bankable now. The movie must not have been a budget buster. But they get the job done. And the script has a few felicities. Shot in the stomach with an ordinary pistol, vampire Lance Henrikson coughs up the bullet, spits it out, and pats it into the shooter's pocket.Added to these unexpected bonuses is a tendency towards cliché, as if the writers and director added them because they thought the audience would be disappointed if they didn't show up. There are several fireballs, one of which I couldn't understand. Every action movie must have exploding fireballs. And they must be in slow motion. Why, you ask? There are some things mortal man was never meant to know. Don't ever ask again, or all the garlic in the world won't help you.A splendidly photographed story of low-proletarian vampires, with some tension between the rollicking nocturnal life style of the undead and the ordinary bourgeois life everybody else leads. There's a scene in which an affable black guy picks them up in his eighteen wheeler and explains how the gears and brakes work. They persuade him to stop -- and then they kill him and suck his blood. If you like that scene, you'll like the rest of the film. The attraction of life everlasting is always lost on me. Who wants to be a Teaching Assistant for five hundred years? "}{"Title":"Before Twilight and The Lost Boys","Date":"13 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the best vampire movies that you will ever see. This off-beat actioneer is part Western and part gangster thriller with some unusual vampire stuff slung in for good measure.A youth falls in with a group of vampires who roam the southwest in a recreational vehicle. Pick-up truck driving Caleb Colton (Adrian Pasdar) gets picks up by a cute little blonde, Mae (Jenny Wright) who literally puts the bite on him. As he stumbles home, Caleb starts to smoke because he has become a vampire and the sun is rising. The vampires come roaring up in their RV and pick him up. Initially, they do not have high regard for him. Mae defends him and the leader of the group, Jesse Hooker (Lance Henriksen), allows him to join them. Two other vampires in the group, Severen (Bill Paxton) and Homer (Joshua John Miller) want to kill him, but Hooker relents. They decide to give Caleb time to prove that he his worthy of joining them. Loy Colton (Tim Thomerson) is Caleb's father and he takes his daughter Sarah (Marcie Leeds) and hit the road in search of Caleb. Oscar winning director Kathryn Bigelow of The Hurt Locker helmed this atmospheric, fast-moving horror yarn, but we never hear the word 'vampire' uttered. Neither do we see any vampire fangs. Hooker has been a vampire since the American Civil War and he fought on the losing side, while Severen is a lot younger. Nevertheless, Severen remembers the great Chicago fire that they started. Mae, who infected Caleb has only been a vampire for four years. Ironically, she was turned into a vampire by the smaller member of the group, Homer, who is the age of a little boy. Two scenes stand out in this taut vampire film. First, the scene in the bar where Severen slashes the throat of the bartender as he prepares to brandish a shotgun is cool. If you look closely, the cowboy who escapes from them is none other than James LeGros, The second best scene occurs with the authorities catch the vampire clan holed up in a motel and blast it out with them. This scene could have been lifted from the Arthur Penn classic Bonnie & Clyde. During this scene, Caleb proves his worth when he breaks out and gets a vehicle for the vampires to escape from the law. Bill Paxton has an explosive death scene. The orchestral score for Near Dark was performed by the legendary German electronic music group Tangerine Dream. The western setting and the use of Colt .45 revolvers gives NEAR DARK a western flavor. The scene where the father gives his son a blood transfusion and cures him is interesting, too.Near Dark is not your usual, run-of-the-mill fangster saga. If you love to watch vampire movies, this is one that you must see! "},{"Title":"Film Horror","Date":"20 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Steamy vampire flick with terrific moments and memorable characters, including Jenny Wright as a shyly sensuous vamp who seduces farm boy Adrian Pasdar into her clutches. She bites him and, not yet transformed, he joins the family a gang of rogue RV-riding bloodsuckers including Lance Henriksen as the brooding leader and hopped-up scene-stealer Bill Paxton as a bad boy brawler.The vibe throughout is spooky and intense, the starkly rural daytime setting giving a Spaghetti Western feel while the shadowy night shots channel Film Noir. But the camarawork, although making good use of light and shade, keeps too close on the actors, feeling more like a Gothic photo album than a motion picture. Dated 1980's rock tunes, seeming placed throughout to fill a soundtrack album, hinders what should have been more timeless otherwise.But an ultra-violent scene within a red neck bar, and a finale on a desolate street straight out of a demonic HIGH NOON, makes this a uniquely bloody ride.Although not as conventionally entertaining, there's a murkier depth than its successful competitor, THE LOST BOYS. And while Pasdar is a dependable &#x96; though somewhat wooden &#x96; lead protagonist, the best moments concern Paxton's daredevil lunacy or Jenny Wright's docile-doomed expressions as each inevitable dawn draws in.Perhaps NEAR LIGHT would have been a more fitting title, as these vamps are continuously playing time with loaded dice.And for more interviews www.cultfilmfreakreviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Smart, Cunning and a different twist on Vampires","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Over 20 years this movie has been out and barely older than I am, but I finally had a chance to watch it, and it was Fantastic! What an intuitive movie! It breaks the mold of what we as a society have come to think of vampires, and at a time when Vampires seem to be in every third movie coming out this was ahead of its time when it was released. What I thoroughly enjoyed was that there was no emphasis on labeling them as vampires. They were night creatures that travelled from place to place never staying in one location for long and not leaving any witnesses of who they killed to feed on.Kathryn Bigelow directed this with beauty into showcasing the rough exterior that these creatures were. This was not your Gothic wearing, clean cut jewelry carrying guys and girls who drank blood&#x85;or animal blood. Kathryn showed us the gritty crack like behavior and homeless way of living that they had to endure and also how much they enjoyed being the predators killing what they could because they felt superior to the humans. The ending is very unconventional and many do not agree with it but why must the way we think of vampires be set in stone? Why is this not in the realm of possibility it isn't as if anyone in history has come across any real vampires to live or tell stories about them.Great cast, great direction and great out the box thinking. Fantastic movie! 8/10 ~XTC "},{"Title":"A Morality Drama","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Near Dark is not so much a movie about vampirism as it is a movie about evil.  That is why traditional vampire imagery, and even the word vampire, are absent from the film.Near Dark actually has a lot more to say about the genre of Westerns than about the genre of Vampire films.  For all the missing vampire imagery, there is a ton of Western imagery. Still it's very unconventional Western imagery, such as Severen's spurs that are used to slit peoples throats, or Caleb's horse-ride into the center of a town lit by neon lights-- there's even have a showdown involving a truck towards the end of the film.But the most important element of the Western that is utilized in Near Dark is black and white morality (i.e. black-clothed cowboy = bad, white-clothed cowboy = good). In Near Dark it is manifested as a night and day morality.  The vampires are evil, and they are also creatures of the night.  In fact, daylight wounds them, and can even kill them.  Caleb's family of farmers, on the other hand, thrives on daylight.  They use the light of the sun to provide food for other people.  The vampires use other people for food.But the fundamental difference between the typical Western and Near Dark is the way the film shows us the lifestyles of both the good and the bad. This is done through the character of Caleb, who has the opportunity to live as a member of both the daylight-loving family, and the night family.  The amazing thing about this film is that it manages to portray both of these families sympathetically, but without over-romanticizing the vampire lifestyle (which virtually every vampire movie does).People who criticize Near Dark for it's seemingly simple-minded cure for vampirism (a blood transfusion) are missing a much larger point.  It's NOT the blood transfusion that cures Caleb, it's the fact that he is given blood, lovingly, by his father.  Vampires take blood, they aren't given it. It's the power of real love that draws Caleb back into the human world (while it might be argued that lust is what first drew Caleb into the vampire world).Near Dark is ultimately a giant metaphor on human morality. One that dramatizes that illusive quality in people that allows them to join socially destructive organizations, such as gangs, skinheads-- any group of people that declares itself God, and looks at others as inferior-- as being useful only for feeding their desires.It's a horrifying film, with a beautiful ending.  "},{"Title":"You must have a long attention span and patience to enjoy this film.","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After the second viewing of this film, I am pleased to say I like NEAR DARK. The first time I expected more. More action, more blood, more special effects. But then I thought...why? Those elements usually overshadow the story and acting which are the strongpoints of this movie. And those other movies are usually treated like one wild ride you either never feel like riding again or you dont feel the same excitement you felt the first time.Kathryn Bigelow, such an underrated and exciting director, gives us a neoWestern which is paralleled with the eternal gothic myth of vampires. The second time was more fun than the first because it gave me a chance to meditate on the film more. The pace is slow enough to pull you in and when an action-packed sequence comes up, you are blown away.I liked the little things like Lance Henriksen and his crew of bloodsuckers driving around in an RV wrapped with a shield to block sunlight, the only weakness they have.Some scenes are classic, like Bill Paxton slicing necks with the spurs of his boots in the bar. Some scenes, however, seem out of a cult B-movie (which this pretty much is, despite the director) That explains all the familiar faces from genre movies like ALIENS and DOLLMAN.But this is a smart cult movie, with slow pacing, but dont let that turn you off, just stay on the ride, because the payoff is worth it!    "},{"Title":"Darkly magnificent. One of the best vampire flicks ever!","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" *Warning, might (perhaps) contain spoilers*Near Dark is not your typical vampire movie. There are no livid guys in black silk cloaks flying around, transforming themselves into bats, green mist or other interesting things. There are no tough looking vampire hunters stomping with a determined air toward some grim house and carrying a whole arsenal of stakes, crosses and garlic. Nothing of the sort occurs in Near Dark.  Instead you have a bunch of drifters who haunt bars, steal cars, make a lot of fuss, burn everything that can be burned, drink blood (of course) and, in general try to have as much fun as they can. And everything goes (apparently) quite well before Mae (a member of the drifters' group) falls for Caleb (and here's the problem Caleb is human and that means good guy not drinking blood at all). The result is predictable, Caleb is bitten and turns. The drifters take him with them and oblige him to haunt bars, burn cars and, in general participate in their usual nocturne activities. Of course Caleb has some problems with killing other people to survive that doesn't seem to coincide with his understanding of what's good or bad. Poor Caleb is subject to pressure from his peers (actually, intimidation is more exact a word). He's confronted with a choice make himself useful or die. Although Caleb still can't kill people and looks more and more like a junkie who didn't get his fix, the perspective of death doesn't seem to overjoy him. So, he makes himself useful by saving his nice new friends from a death by incineration. The interesting thing about this movie is that the word vampires is never mentioned. Perhaps the film is in fact an allegory to something else, something like drug addiction. Who knows. Now, what makes it a really great movie is the marvelous characters the phlegmatic, sarcastic Jesse, who tells that he fought for the south, they lost (played by Lance Henriksen. Very impressive in that role), Diamondback (Janet Goldstein, aka Vasquez from Aliens with a cowboyish outfit), Severin (Bill Paxton...outrageously funny and almost as irritating as Hudson from Aliens), Homer (you'll probably want to strangle the cynical brat 3 seconds after his first appearance. Great great performance!), Mae, as innocent looking as she's deadly. All that jolly crew will achieve an incredible thing they'll probably gain your sympathy! Another great thing about this movie is its atmosphere dark and genuine. The other treat is of course its edgy sense of humor. (not only the dialogue is often amusing, but some scenes are hilarious and scary, such as the one when Jesse (henriksen) spits out the bullets he just received in his chest with a oh-great-it-happened-again type of look on his face. ) It's also visually brilliant, with some beautiful landscape shots. The ending, well...what can I say? Predictable, sure. But still very impressive (no state-of-the-art special effects-stuffed ending ever came close to the scene with the grinning J.Goldstein and impassive L.Henriksen driving in that car and waiting for the inevitable to occur). All that to say that this is one great movie and is certainly worth the time. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Vampire/Western Combo That Drops the Ball on the Finish Line","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the process of courting a strange girl named Mae, Caleb finds out that she is a vampire. After being turned by Mae he joins her renegade band of vampires and finds his initiation to be harder than he expected. Should Caleb stay with these strange creatures and start a a new life or go home to his family who could never understand what he has become? Near Dark is not only a very good horror movie, but one of the best vampire movies ever made. Kathryn Bigelow seamlessly and amazingly integrates the western genre into the mix to create a truly haunting blend. The vampires in Near Dark are portrayed in a more real life manner than in most movies. They aren't mystified and they have no absurd other-worldly powers(flying, turning into bats, etc.). Much like a band of criminals they are constantly on the run and they have to eat, they just happen to eat/drink humans.The acting is also very good specifically from Adrian Pasdar, Jenny Wright, and Bill Paxton. Wright and Pasdar capture a vulnerability that makes their romance work very well as well as allowing the audience to see the movie through Caleb's eyes. The viewer can experience the same horror he does when he begins to understand how violent these creatures really are. Paxton gives the best performance of his career as Severen, the most violent and unhinged member of the group, in a role he was born to play. Severen delights in slaughtering humans and you can tell Bill Paxton is loving every minute of it as well.All that said, the ending of Near Dark is very poor. The entire progression of the movie is lost when suddenly the gas pedal is slammed down and Near Dark is rushed into a conclusion far too quickly. An extremely convenient and unlikely plot point is introduced and then, in true horror movie fashion, all logic is thrown out the window in order to create an exciting climax and tie up all the loose ends. Very disappointing in a movie that was very tightly knit up to that point.So, Near Dark is definitely worth watching at least once, and maybe twice. It's not only a very good movie, but an unprecedented horror/vampire/western combo. Just don't be surprised if the ending leaves you wanting more. "},{"Title":"Stylish And Terrifying Modern-Day Vampires Yarn","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Caleb is a farmhand in rural Oklahoma who meets a strange girl called Mae. When Mae bites him in the neck, Caleb starts to develop a weird condition whereby he can only take nourishment from blood, and any sunlight burns him. Frightened and bewildered, he is kidnapped by Mae's fiendish family of deadly night-dwellers. Has he lost his humanity ?What astonishes me about Kathryn Bigelow is that she's a woman. I mean that literally. How could a woman make such stylish and exciting genre films, and have such an astute and original grasp of directorial style ? Women directors - what few there are - make romantic comedies, or talky family dramas with nothing but dull closeup-reverse-closeup shots. For me, Bigelow is completely out on her own - her choice of subject-matter, her use of photography and editing, her auteur sensibility, her knowledge of cinema history and her tenacity are just extraordinary, and for me Near Dark is the best of her excellent body of work. First of all, her script (co-written with Eric Red) is a fabulous reworking of vampire lore; despite all the style, it's a touching, realistic story of love and confusion, deliberately avoiding references to vampires, holy-water and garlic. Caleb's plight is very real, and all the more dramatic for it. Secondly, all of the style serves the story; the monsters don't stand around in dated clothes looking menacing (unlike, for example, in the vastly inferior The Lost Boys, made the same year). The atmosphere all comes from Bigelow's astute use of locations (Arizona and Oklahoma), photography and music, and she pulls off numerous set-pieces (the barroom slaughter, the motel shootout, the eye-popping dawn finale) which build and build into an extremely memorable film. And thirdly, the movie is highly original thematically, fusing horror themes with police / action / western concepts (which later influenced great movies like From Dusk Till Dawn and Vampires). The cast are all terrific - particularly the Aliens trio of Henriksen, Paxton and Goldstein - but young lead Pasdar gives a great physical performance as the undead cowboy Caleb, and Thomerson is also excellent in a thoughtful, subdued role. Also top-notch are the eerie score by Tangerine Dream, the stuntwork by Everett Creach and the dirty makeup effects by Gordon Smith; this is one of the few horror movies where the bloodsuckers really look dead. I'll say it again; Bigelow really is one of a kind (the only other female director I can think of who even begins to match up is Rachel Talalay) and if you haven't seen her work, check it out, particularly Blue Steel and Strange Days. But before you see them, see this - a stylish, scary, timeless, haunting, horror classic. "},{"Title":"Jenny Wright and Adrian Pasdar heat up the screen","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Put simply, this is the most sensual portrayal of the vampire myth in recent cinematic history, and it does a neat turnaround of the roles, since most renditions have a sweet, innocent young woman seduced by a dark, handsome bloodsucker.Instead, Jenny Wright is the ethereally beautiful, seductive, mysterious stranger who initiates Adrian Pasdar (as farm boy Caleb Colton, whose openly displayed lust is kind of amusing for a minute there) into the mysteries of her night-focused world. Watch her during the scenes in which she bites Caleb -- and later, kills for him. Jenny Wright certainly never reached the caliber of Meryl Streep during her short career, but she COULD act. Her performance as Mae in Near Dark was chilling -- and admirable.Caleb is on a sort of probationary vampire status, and he finds it impossible to kill (which is a requirement, since according to Mae, The night has its price.) And yes, the end is probably not what the readers of Fangoria would have preferred, although they probably would've bailed on this anyway once they learned the only real gore was in the bar room scene.Terrific supporting cast, especially Bill Paxton, who stole every scene he was in. But the scenes with just Wright and Pasdar -- oooh. Powerful, sexy, and unforgettable. Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Not so flawed..","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Yes it is a low budget film and it shows, especially 20 years after it's original release. But it grips you and holds you till the end, which actually against all odds manages to be a happy one...Some of the scenes are really impressively violent and raw and have some kind of dark attraction.If you add to these ,the existential dilemma of the desperate and seemingly hopeless hero of the film and his romantic relationship with the beautiful enigmatic girl vampire who tries to save him, then you understand why the viewer is hooked. The main reviewer who says in his review that there is no explanation as to how the vampires are turned into humans again, obviously missed something. The vampires are turned into humans via transfusion of human blood in their veins.You may consider this implausible ,but then isn't the existence of human vampires the premise of the movie implausible itself? There is no plot hole there.See again the scene where Caleb's father does exactly such a transfusion to Caleb to restore him...Overall an enjoyable film if you can swallow it's premise and it's low budget feel...7.5/10 "}{"Title":"Fantastically dark lil movie about roaming vampires","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Near Dark has to be one of the most underrated vampire movies ever made. The fact that it was released a few weeks after The Lost Boys probably didn't help. That movie had well-known stars, and a well-known director, and as much as I love it, Near Dark has a better cast, a darker story and much more gore.The story concerns Caleb; a young cowboy who becomes besotted with a young girl he meets called Mae. Mae is mysterious and evasive, panicking over the approach of dawn and nibbling Caleb's neck. Just a bit too hard for comfort. Convinced she just got carried away with herself, Caleb lets her go and begins his own journey home. Doubled over in pain, things get worse as the sun rises. He starts to burn. Just before he completely goes up in flames, and close enough to home to be within sight of his sister and father, Mae and her family 'rescue' him by bundling him into their caravan. Unfortunately for Caleb, Mae and her 'family' are roaming vampires who aren't too thrilled at the prospect of an unannounced addition to the group.For a vampire film, the V-word is never once mentioned, and the vampires themselves don't display the usual appearance traits i.e., fangs, glowing eyes, pale skin. And although they are certainly brutal and sadistic (check out the bar scene) they're constantly on the run - both from sunlight and the law.The main Alien cast come together again for yet another dark tale of death and survival. Still badass, still murderous, they all do great jobs of their characters. Lance Henrikssen is as menacing as they come as 'daddy-vampire' Jesse. Apparently he lost a lot of weight for this role, as he wanted to 'look' like he thought his character should &#150; a skinny moth-eaten savage who's spent more time on this earth than he cares to remember. Genius. Jenette Goldstein is quietly sinister as Diamondback, certainly the maternal force of the group. But when I say maternal I mean maternal in the sense that she'd rip your throat out if you talked back to her. Jenny Wright is sweet as Mae &#150; a blonde, waifish southern belle, obviously the daughter of the group. Adrian Pasdar is great as the very besotted but slightly confused Caleb (could they have gotten anybody cuter than him to play this role? I think not&#133;) but Bill Paxton is a sure-fire favourite as Severen. He unabashedly steals the show, nabs all the best lines and all the best killings and plays his character with devilish glee. The only character I feel that lets the side down is Homer, played by Joshua Miller. A little too much like the role of Laddie in The Lost Boys, (a small boy dropped into the middle of a gang of blood-thirsty vampires) Homer is a grumpy old man in the shape of a boy. And although some of his scenes are a bit dark &#150; smoking cigarettes, gambling and shooting people &#150; I couldn't help but feel pleased when he finally went up in flames. Though not as polished and glossy looking as it's famous counterpart, Near Dark is surely the better movie. More of a western than anything else, stark desert landscapes and sprawling black skies give us a sense of drifting isolation. In the 20th century where every unnatural death is investigated thoroughly, a vampire can have a hard time feeding. Even though these guys aren't the nicest characters you'll ever come across, you have to feel sorry for their nomadic lifestyle, having to skip from town to town to evade the long arm of the law. Especially since Caleb's father is desperately trying to find his son. The gore in the movie is brilliant, but is localised to mostly one blood-soaked bar scene. Although vaguely tame by today's gorenography standards, there are a few sufficiently messy killings (including the most imaginative way of using spurs) and a few nicely written lines I just want a few more minutes of your time. Which is about as long as the rest of your lives. A lot of critics (and IMDb members) wrote that the ending to the movie was 'disappointing', and while this is not the way I'd put it, it certainly seems a bit rushed. Compared with the rest of the film's careful dialogue and exploration of its characters, yes it is a bit overlooked. And yes it is a bit sickly sweet and light for such a dark and bloody film. But for what you get to sit through prior to said ridiculously happy ending, it's worth it. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Vampire Flicks","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Most vampire films suffer from a lack of what this film has a lot of. It has a lot of great scenes of gore, whilst if you really think about it, most vampire films don't have enough or at least simply have very very campy gore. It has a creepy score by Tangerine Dream, it has a compellingly creepy atmosphere, and the story is nothing more than an adaptable vehicle for a moody, grungy gorefest.Diverting, absurdly evil Bill Paxton steals all of his scenes, and complaisant, indispensably hot Jenette Goldstein surely deserved much more screen time. She, as well as director Bigelow, are very underused in their talents. Goldstein needs to be cats in something other than just bit parts, and Bigelow is perhaps the most talented B movie director of the last 20 years. I say this because I don't believe she should be as unsuccessful as she's been. Near Dark, even if it nearly falls apart in its last 10 minutes, is a great little piece of dark film-making, and her later films, the underrated Blue Steel with Jamie Lee Curtis and the epic Strange Days with Ralph Fiennes and Angela Bassett, should've surely put her on the map. There's something sort of amiss, because she hasn't had that hit yet. Her talent is severely underrated. Watch Near Dark and see how brilliant she is at creating ambiance and impressionistic settings, making what could've been lesser films much more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A cool vampire flick","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" You know when this film came out it was over shadowed by another vampire flick called The Lost Boys, that was for the MTV generation, but Near Dark is a far Superior film & it has dated quite well compared to the latter. What you have are these vampires who travel from town to town looking for pray (although the word vampire is never used in the film) they come across like outlaw gypsies, the whole film has a western feel to it, Kathrene Bigelow along with cinematographer Adam Greenberg has created a dark moody, modern day vampire road movie. The bar room brawl remains a classic, it shows how cold calculating & vicious they are, Bill Paxton steals the show, while Adrian Pasdar & Jenny Wright make a solid couple. The best vampire film of the 1980's! "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the best vampire film ever made","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Caleb (Adrian Pasdar), a good ol' southern boy meets a kindred spirit in the night when he first encounters Mae (Jenny Wright). However she is not exactly what she appears to be and Caleb quite reluctantly finds himself in a new familyincluding Lance Henriksen as the menacing patriarchal, Jessie, Bill Paxton as Severen, a devil may care wild-card, even as his old one desperately tries to find him. The wild flamboyancy of Paxton's character, the understated malice of Henriksens, an awesome story, and the chemistry between Caleb and Mae, all make this film one of, if not THE, BEST vampire movie ever made. I'm not one for mindless hyperbole and I really don't give accolades over easily at all. This film is just that great, my friends. From the great score, to the superb bar scene, to the thrilling ending, and everything in between, I just plain love this film.My Grade A 2 Disc DVD Extras Disc 1) Commentary by Kathryn BigelowDisc 2) The 47 minute documentary Living in Darkness; a deleted scene with commentary by Bigelow; poster & stills galleries; Cast & crew bios; storyboards; and 2 Theatrical trailers DVD-ROM 2 Screeensavers and the Screenplay "},{"Title":"Bill Paxton is the man!","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Near Dark was one of those films that I had heard so much about throughout my lifetime, but I never did sit down and actually watch it. After seeing it showcased on Bravo's 100 Scariest Movie Moments I decided to rent it. I felt that it was a decent movie with an interesting twist on the vampire mythology (interestingly, the 'v' word is never used in the movie), but I still felt as though there was something missing.The film opens with a cowboy named Caleb (Adrian Pasdar) encountering a beautiful, but puzzling young lady named Mae(Jenny Wright) late one evening. After some flirting, they go on a drive back to her place. She continually reminds Caleb that she has to be home before the sun comes up, and thwarts his persistent advances. When he politely declines to let her go home until she gives him a kiss, she gives in and takes out a nice chunk of his neck in the process. She scurries inside and Caleb goes home. But almost immediately he realizes something is wrong. As the sun begins to rise, his skin begins smoldering. As his stunned sister watches from afar, he is abducted by a group of people in a Winnebago. However, we come to find out that they we not people in the ordinary sense of the word. Mae is among them, as they embark on a tour of total destruction throughout the American South and Midwest. Slowly, Caleb begins to realize what he has become and what he must do in order to survive. But will his family manage to intervene before it's too late? The acting in this movie was a lot stronger that your typical horror movie. Bill Paxton contributes a remarkable turn as Severen, a redneck vampire who has a penchant for causing trouble. His performance alone makes the movie worth renting. Lance Henrikson is quite good as the unofficial leader of the clan, as he is clearly evil but not to the point of acting irrationally. The rest of the cast were also good in their roles as well. Near Dark also has the typical love story that all vampire movies seem to require, as seen here with Caleb and Mae. As would be expected, this relationship leads to both characters having to make very difficult decisions and sacrifices for one another. You can just sense a real chemistry between these two actors and they just do a terrific job.Of course, since this is a vampire movie there is an ample amount of death scenes. None of which are particularly harrowing to watch, but gore is not always necessary if you already have a good movie on your hands. The look and feel of the film to me seemed a little more modern that 1987. The director was married to James Cameron at the time, and you can almost feel his essence at times during this movie. It was a strong picture the entire way through. Truth being told, the ending was one of the things I disliked about this film. I won't give it away, but I felt it was just a little contrived. Maybe that's just me. Anyway, I'm giving Near Dark a generous 7/10. It's worth owning on DVD if you're a big fan of vampire themed flicks. "},{"Title":"Different kind of horror movie","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed Near Dark. It was a pleasant experience which starred many of the characters from one of my favorite horror movies, Aliens.Poor Caleb (Adrian Pasdar), he just has this wild side which gets him into trouble one night when he picks up a fine looking girl named Mae (Jenny Wright). She then proceeds to make him a part of her psychotic family, even though she seems completely sane. The bad thing is that her family members, which include father figure Jesse (Lance Henriksen) mother figure Diamondback (Jenette Goldstein)and brother figure Severn(Bill Paxton), aren't your average psychos. They have a secret which is most unholy, and now Caleb is trapped in a nightmare that he can't seem to escape from.However he has his own family, a father named Loy (Tim Thomerson) and a sister who care deeply for him and proceed to track him down and bring him back. Caleb doesn't know this at first but later finds out at perhaps one of the worse times because suddenly his other family, the evil unnatural one, knows as well. And so the movie goes on from there.The acting in Near Dark was very good. That's a splendid treat for any horror movie. Not only does it have good actors, it also includes character development which also makes for a wonderful experience. Bill Paxton was hysterical as Severn, and all the other actors added a little bit to make this one of the better horror movies of the late 80s.Still this movie has a few flaws. The ending didn't seem complete, and the cure that helps bring Caleb back from the dark side seemed to be a cop out of a sort. I think I understand what the director (Kathryn Bigelow) was trying to do. She was trying to bring family values into the movie. Sort of like a young adult who has lost their way and needs their family to bring them back around to the right way. For the most part this works. Even the psycho family had its own type of family values. They may have killed others, but they always looked out for each other. However, the ending of the film and the ultimate cure just doesn't seem to work for me. I guess it just seemed a little too easy for me.Still Kathryn Bigelow brought us one heck of a good movie. And now that I'm about to end this review, I will finally say that the movie was a unique take on the vampire with some surprising twists that gave us no fangs or facial transformations. The word vampire is never mentioned in the movie either. It is only observed as a strange virus that can be cured by a simple blood transfusion. I guess you can understand why I can't quite except that cure or the slightly rushed ending. But I still liked the movie, and will give it a very high star rating. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!On many of the message boards here, including the Horror Board, this is one movie which is rarely mentioned, even though it was ahead of its time and features some original ideas and very good performances and effects. The vampire legend is transported to the desert towns of North America (being from NI i don't have the best idea of what these places are really like, though we have our fair share of ghost towns), as we follow the exploits of a 'family' of vampires who travel across the States killing to survive, with no thoughts of world domination. When Caleb, a local lad is bitten by Mae, who he has fallen for, she introduces him to the family the father-Jesse, a C.War veteran, mother Diamondback, Uncle Severen-a redneck with a vicious streak, and the son, Homer-who may be older than the others but is trapped eternally in the body of a child. Caleb must choose between killing, or being killed by Jesse but he refuses and begins a battle to save his own family and convert Mae back to humanity.Bigelow gives the film a unique look, the desert at dusk as a place of vampires invisible to everyone but the unfortunate few who happen to cross their paths. Her relationship with James Cameron can be seen, as Paxton, Goldstein and Henriksen frequent his movies, and it has a noirish feel a la The Terminator. The best scene has to be the one in the diner as Paxton shows off his talents with style, and we see the varying approaches to killing that each family member has. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Going out for a bite? Beware. (Spoilers)","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Near Dark is a pretty cool vampire action movie that never takes much opportunity to develop much of a story or too many engaging scenes, other than towards the end when our protagonist is forced to live like a vampire or die like a vampire. Prior to that, the movie gives us too many scenes of Pasdar and Wright smooching or that of back lot alleys and other pointless scenery. Given the good action sequences and special effects that the movie does show off in the latter half, this could've been one hell of a good vampire movie. Caleb (Adrian Pasdar), hanging around town one night, meets Meg (Jenny Wright), a strange girl who sounds more like a hippie than a vampire. She, in her hard-to-get manner, goes with him around town yapping about listen to the night. As long as Caleb can get in her pants, he'll play along. But, things get really weird when, still dark out, she demands that he drive her home before sunup. After that, Caleb's walking home with a vampire bite.Although the movie drags a lot, it gets right to the point about Caleb. Other vampire movies usually ease into the transition of their characters going from human to vampire. But just seconds after Caleb is bit, and he flees in the sunlight, he is a walking ball of smoke as now, he is no longer immune to the power of sunlight. At first, he just looks like a junkie. But really, he's just taken a step over to the darkside and become one of the undead. Meg is part of a strange vampire gang, which I suppose is more like a communal vampire family. Lance Henriksen is Jesse, the father figure vampire. Jennette Goldstien is Diamondback, the mother figure. Bill Paxton, Severen is like the Jethro of the group. (All three have previously worked with James Cameron in the Terminator movies). And little weird Joshua Miller is Homer. They don't welcome Caleb with open arms, either, because Caleb refuses to kill people to get his blood supply. The best sequences happen when the group try to force Caleb to give in to his vampire instincts. The pool hall feasting sequence is terrific, Bill Paxton gets to act like a raving lunatic and p*ssing the patrons off, so they have a reason to fight him and he has a reason to fight back. The other good sequences are when the gang is holed up a hotel and have to shield themselves from sunlight during a shootout, and the finale when Caleb decides that he's just going to have to get rid of these dumb vampires the only way he can, otherwise, they'll never leave him alone.This movie does provide something interesting to the vampire tale, and that's how Caleb is able to stop being a vampire, yet still manage to live. And, it doesn't have anything to do with killing the head vampire. That would be impossible, too, because the vampire group has lived a long time (Jesse says he fought for the South), and to know the head vampire, if other than Jesse (which requires a complicated explanation of how that person then came to be one), would be impossible. Although, the movie does give Caleb an easy out, and one that doesn't require much action. That's the downside of it.It's a decent lazy movie, but certainly not one of the better vampire movies I had ever seen. There is just too much empty space, too much time wasted on stupid things like Caleb running around with Meg and the sequences when he comes home to his family. They had a good cast to work with, and ample opportunity to get really creative with this story, but they only came up with half of a decent movie.  "},{"Title":"Where there's smoke, there's fire...","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  NEAR DARK made the rounds on HBO back in the early 90s and it still sticks in my memory as a great action-horror low budgeter.  It's low budget enough although it's shot on 35mm film and does have some decent pyrotechnics and stunt work that elevate it beyond the usual dreck that came out in the 80s.Caleb (Adrian Pasdar) takes a Mae (Jenny Wright) home from a bar one night and get more than he bargained for.  He get's bitten by Mae and becomes one of them, a band of roving vampires led by the evil, twisted Jesse (Lance Henriksen) and with Bill Paxton and little Joshua Miller added to the mix, you have a first-class trio of demented sickos, ready to spread more bloodthirsty mayhem throughout the Southwest.Anchor Bay gave this one the star treatment with a re-mastered, wide-screen THX version that will probably become the definitive record of this film.   With a second bonus disc full of extras including a 45 minute interview with director Bigelow and the principle actors, as well as numerous location stills and posters. you really can't go wrong if you consider this a pretty good cult film like I do.Btw, I thought this one was much better than THE HITCHER which also came out about the same time and shared many of the same themes.  Both films were written by Eric Red.Recommended.7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Intelligent, violent, pleasing","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Near Dark flopped when it was released around the time of The Lost Boys. Ask most teens about their favourite vampire film and they will answer with the latter.Although the two are similar, it's unfair to compare them, mostly due to the fact Near Dark is, well, darker, much more violent, much more intelligent and generally of a higher standard.We are introduced to a young man, and he is soon introduced to a group of bloodsuckers, the most dysfunctional family unit one could imagine. Lance Henriksson and Bill Paxton are extremely menacing and I have rarely seen them this good/insane.The film plays as kind of a cross between a western and a horror film, and as Kathryn Bigelow likes to play with postmodern imagery and form, it's well worth your time if you're a film nut or simply after a little action. "}{"Title":"finger-lickin' GOOD","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Let me start by saying this...if you decide to watch Near Dark, you won't regret it. It's really one of the most original and surprising horror movies ever made. Near Dark is a film about vampires, but a very good one. In fact, along with the original Dracula's this is one of the only REALLY GOOD vampire-movies ever made. And yet, you can not at all compare this film with other Dracula or others. This fine piece of cinema really stands for itself and gives a whole new vision on the characters of these bloodsuckers. When Caleb first saw Mae, it was love at first sight. Such a beautiful girl, all alone in a forsaken village. Caleb offers her a ride home but when he's getting too greedy...Mae bites him. Before Caleb can reach his father and little sister he's picked up by Mae and her compagnons. Caleb is now forced to stay with them because he ain't human anymore. Sunlight burns his skin, bullets can't hurt him anymore and he's only able to drink blood instead of eating food. because Mae insists, Caleb can stay but on one condition  he has to learn how to kill. And that seems to be a big problem for him. No matter how much he wants to stay with Mae, he can't bring it up to kill another human being. Meanwhile, his father and little sister started a search to bring him back home. Although all the elements ring a bell, these just ain't your ordinary vampires. Never in this movie is explained how they became what they are and most of the typical clichés ain't here neither. ( like coffins or crucifix or wooden sticks etc...) Heck, the term VAMPIRE isn't even used in this movie !! That's what makes it so good. That and of course the amazing acting performances. Two in particular...Lance Henriksen and Bill Paxton are two of the most underrated actors alive if you ask me. They're both perfect in this film and their characters are without a doubt some of the cruelest horror villains in history. They kill because they have too...but also clearly because they enjoy it ( you can see that when Paxton shoots one of his great quotes...). The girl who plays Mae is very cute and a good actress. She finished her acting career somewhere during the 90's. I have much respect for director Kathryn Bigelow. She wrote and directed some great movies like Blue Steel and Strange Days and of course this one. For this movie, she got help from another person who know what he's talking about, Eric Red who wrote the perfect and very scary thriller  The Hitcher. "},{"Title":"Great concept, awkward execution","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a better idea than similar 80s vampire film The Lost Boys, but it could have benefited from that film's budget, not to mention a better script. It has elements of both a horror movie and a western, yet just like The Lost Boys, the real purpose of this film is a teen romance, which ultimately lessens the overall effect of it.Caleb (Adrian Pasdar) is a young cowboy who gets all rowdy over Mae (Jenny Wright), a beautiful stranger who wanders into their town; after giving him a few long speeches about the beauty of the night, she bites him and suddenly he's a vampire, like she is. As such, he gets roped into joining her small band of outlaws Jesse (Lance Henriksen) and Diamondback (Jenette Goldstein), Severen (Bill Paxton), and Homer (Joshua John Miller). Mae and her family wander through the midwest United States, killing people and drinking their blood, stealing vehicles and torching them, and generally behaving badly. Caleb doesn't feel right about being a murderer and criminal, so instead he sucks off of Mae after she does it. Leech! There is a great movie in here somewhere, but it's just so damn dull. The early parts of the movie benefit from the dreamlike direction, and the score by Tangerine Dream is wonderful. The cinematography looks great, too. But somewhere around the halfway point it starts to go wrong. The characters become annoying about that time, too, especially Paxton's. He's basically doing his Pvt. Hudson schtick from Aliens, although Henricksen and Goldstein are great and utterly unlike their characters from that film. A major problem is the child actors. Miller is so-so as the young Homer, who has parallels with the character Claudia from Anne Rice's book Interview with the Vampire (the movie hadn't been made yet). But his dialogue is poorly written, and he's not up for the challenge of acting older than he really is. Marcie Leeds as Caleb's young sister is probably the weakest of the cast members, and her scenes made me wish that Kathryn Bigelow had some more experienced child actors to work with. The conclusion is also a cop-out, and one of the biggest problems the movie has. With the brutal violence that has come before, it's a cheat to think that Jesse and the others would have hesitated to kill Caleb's real family, not to mention the fact that Caleb and Mae escape basically unscathed and return to a normal life with little more than a blood transfusion. What exactly happened here, a TOTAL blood transfusion? How do you get rid of the supernatural with a medical procedure? It's a little too happily-ever-after, and it reminds us that what we've been watching is a teen romance after all. "},{"Title":"Standard Vampire Flick","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this listed on BRAVO TV's as one the 100 scariest moments in movies and thought I'd give it a gander. To be honest I kept waiting for the scary part. I guess the barroom scene qualified. I felt it was more suspenseful than scary, but maybe that's just me. After all, we know they're going to kill the patrons.I did like this movie, though I didn't think it was anything special. The issue of a reluctant vampire doesn't seem all that original to me. The effects were amazing, especially the sunlight/burning skin one.However, I did have some criticisms. The character of Homer as sort of a reverse Peter Pan (a grown man in a child's body) was simply annoying and I kept hoping for a chainsaw to cut his head off. I don't know how the rest of clan put up with him. Also, if Jesse and company has been doing this for 120+ years, why hasn't somebody caught on by now? That's a lot of dead bodies and burning buildings/vehicles. Nobody else has ever stop them but Caleb takes care of it in one night.The scenery is wrong. The movie takes place in Texas, Oklahoma, and Kansas. I've lived there. Where in the world did all the mountains come from? They could of changed the story to Arizona and New Mexico and it would have fit perfectly.Finally I had a complaint with the transfusions curing a person of vampirism. To become a vampire, a vampire bites you and drinks your blood. Yet, to stay a vampire, you must continue to consume blood; from vampires (as Caleb does with Mae) or non-vampires. However, if you get a transfusion of blood from a non-vampire, your cured. How is that different from drinking the blood of a non-vampire? Does the digestive process affect it or something? "},{"Title":"The worst Vampire movie ever released","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Cannot believe some of the other comments on this movie!! There are so many poor performances by top notch performers, a very poor script which had more holes than the opening title screen of the A-team & B-movie one liners coupled with the B-movie FX. I read the plot outline to this & it looked to have everything yet it delivered on nothing, it wasn't scary, interesting, thrilling, suspenseful but it was (un-intentionally) funny as hell. Why did the victims never put up a fight, more so why did they all tilt their heads for the attacker?? Why when they burned in sunlight could they wipe away the burns, what made them explode, why did the cop give him money when he was in such bad shape, how short were the nights, so many questions all unanswered by this waste of time movie. I made the mistake of watching this film to the end, feel like it sucked the blood and the life out of me. I say again, with the people involved in this it could of been a little sleeper, bit of a cult classic instead it will hopefully end up in motorway stations £1 or less bins..... Awful, awful, awful film. "},{"Title":"UNJUSTLY KEPT IN THE  DARK ","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you asked most people what was their favorite vampire movie released during that deliciously decadent decade known as the 80's most of them would immediately and proudly say Joel Schumacher's masterpiece Lost Boys. I for one, however, believe that the best bloodsucker film to spring forth from the era of big hair and big money is Kathryn Bigelow's criminally underrated cinematic crown jewel, Near Dark.This compelling , overlooked vampire flick where the word vampire is cleverly not mentioned is my favorite vampire movie of all time! C' mon you gotta love a vampire flick where the Nosferatu's don't bear fangs and still come off EXTREMELY BAD ASS! Bigelow's only foray into the world of horror is a bold and ingeniously unconventional potent work that wonderfully infuses boy-loves-girl and Western elements. This is Bigelow at her shining best. If your desiring tidy, glam, watered down bloodsuckers who perish at the thought of breaking a nail go look somewhere else! These vampires are thoroughly unremorseful, disgusting, messy and truly savage. The graphic and disturbing imagery from the infamous bar slaughter scene will soil your mind! Visually, it is a Gothic, beautiful Southwestern sight to behold. Nocturnal never looked so looked so enticing. The performances from Adrian Pasdar, Jenny Wright, Joshua Miller(Lost Boys, Jason Patric's half-brother!) and ALIENS alumnus Paxton, Henriksen, and Goldstein are spectacular. Paxton's turn in particular as the trailer trash, leather clad, blood crazy Severen is unbelievably searing and downright scary. Severen is without a doubt the coolest and greatest vampire to EVER disgrace the silver screen! Mucho praise should be showered upon Bigelow and co-screenwriter Eric Red for shunning some overused vampire movie clichés and injecting fresh blood into the often anemic genre.And praise to Tangerine Dream for providing a lush and moody, surreal Southwestern score that will capture your auditory senses.It's a shame that nearly twenty years later most people are still in the dark about Near Dark. Admirers of this fantastic film should make it their duty(if they have not already) to shine as much light on it as possible. "},{"Title":"Vampirism at its worst","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Allthough I am not entirely sure it IS a vampire movie, since the word is never used in the movie.There are so many things wrong with this movie. First its easy to tell that its on an extremely low budget, everything looks cheap and is pretty badly done. One exception would be the fire effects when the vampires are burning, and they do use that a lot. I was also dissapointed in the acting, Paxton overacts, and everybody else are just dull and mediocre.Another weird thing is how fast the day changes from the middle of the night to the middle of the day. One example is in the motel, where the little sister is brought into their bungalow, and Paxton's character goes and gets the father, its the middle of the night, at least its very dark. About 2 minutes later when they escape that room, its suddenly broad daylight! There are other examples of this too.I also find the vampires whole attitude really weird, i mean they don't care at all if they get shot/burned/hit by a truck or whatnot.And don't get me started on the whole curing with blood transfusion...In conclusion, this movie doesn't bring the atmosphere a vampire movie should, and its not even a little scary/creepy once. Stay away from this mess at all costs! (3/10) "},{"Title":"Leaves A Bad Taste In Your Mouth","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Here's another memorable and interesting vampire movie, but one that left a bad taste in my mouth, pun intended.....sort of. Actually, as interesting as it is, it was a bit too profane, gory and with too many unlikeable characters for a nice guy like me to enjoy. The special-effects are excellent. Horror movies seem to bring out the best in the FX department. These are vampires with a bad attitude (not that they are generally nice guys), led by Bill Paxton's Severen, who is really brutal, over-the-top, really. He is helped in the nasty department by Adrian Pasdar, Lance Henriksen and other mean-looking actors. Another complaint too much usage of the Lord's name in vain. The female lead is played by a new face (and an interesting one) Jenny Wright.Overall, if you like these mean-edged films, you'll love this. It has evil written all over it. "},{"Title":"Better than The Lost Boys my butt","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched the trailer for this, saw the poster and wasn't really impressed... But then I read some reviews saying that it's better than 'The Lost Boys (1987)' I thought I'd give it a go still.Now I never expected it to be true that it was better than 'The Lost Boys' as that's one of my favourite horror movies HOWEVER I did expect it not to be a generic bore-fest with a complete lack of humour or interesting characters, at least SOMETHING that would even make it WORTHY of being compared to the classic that is 'The Lost Boys'.But no such luck, perhaps if you saw it in it's hey-day it will have a nostalgia level to it that still makes it likable (which surely is a part of why I like 'The Lost Boys' so much) but as a new watch in 2016 I felt it was frustratingly trite. "},{"Title":"mainly for cinephiles","Date":"18 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The musical question is, with Bigelow behind the camera and big names in front, how can you go wrong? The answer? This is, was, and always will be a B grade film done on the cheap with a small ensemble cast. As such it does offer historical interest for cinephiles especially since the idea of looking at the human side of vampires was at least 10 years ahead of the curve and that deserves credit. Ditto for the fact that script -- which is sharp in some places and terrible in others -- does not even use the word vampire which, for the era, was a sign of great restraint.However that said, the truth is that this is not really a classic and does not hold up that well over time. There is also an internal imbalance, the first half of the film is much tighter and more coherent than the second, as money ran out during shooting which, given the era and the genre, might have actually happened. "},{"Title":"Vampire Western moseys aimlessly","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If mood and unease are high on your list, then Near Dark is sure to please. Between the fog, those dusty western towns and the feel of blackest night, the atmosphere is palpable. I dare say that Tangerine Dream is the star of the show. Plus, the movie borrows from James Cameron's stable of players, so there's personality to spare. My issue with this movie is the lack of chemistry between Adrian Pasdar and Jenny Wright, which is what's supposed to kick this whole story into motion in the first place. There's also a surprising lack of tension throughout. And it's not until Tim Thomerson swoops in to save his son that the movie carries some emotional weight (and by then, we're fifteen minutes out from the end credits).I've done the reading and I know why Near Dark is notable (historical context and whatnot). But as a vampire movie? Not my favorite.5/10 "}{"Title":"Awesome and original vampire classic","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Katheryn Bigelow has achieved a lot in her career as a writer and director, but it is my opinion her best work is the very underrated and very original horror classic Near Dark. Adrian Pasdar is a good ole' boy who has excellent taste in women. Boy meets girl and their night on the town has longer lasting consequences than a shot of penicillin. The seductive beauty Jenny Wright is also part of a group of ravenous, roaming outlaw vampires. Coming straight off of Aliens, Lance Hendrikson, Bill Paxton and Jenette Goldstein continue with their excellent chemistry in this classic while they raise a whole lot of Hell and paint the town red. This is a very well written and directed, character driven story. The style is anything but Gothic. It is a very rugged and gritty vampire western. Our very charismatic, violent, filthy anarchistic antiheroes operate under society's radar while adhering to their own code of conduct. For the most part, they are nature's way of weeding out impurities. They predominantly prey on the vicious, careless and stupid. Their lifestyle is anything but glamorous and are essentially psychotic, hobo, outlaw crust punk killers. As much as this is a horror film, this is a real hard hitting and action packed western also. This film is unique in vision and its execution. It combines poetic darkness and scuzzy toughness in a hail of gunfire. I agree with Decibel magazine scribe Richard Christy that Kathryne Bigelow deserved an Oscar for the remarkable job she did in making this very original and well made horror film. "},{"Title":"A Well-Written Story Held Back by Bad Acting","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As a lover and frequent viewer of films in general (and horror specifically), I find that my opinion of movies fall into a few general categories. There are those movies that you fall in love with from the first viewing and will always love. On the opposite end of the spectrum are those movies that you hate and no amount of retrospection will ever change that. In the middle of those two polar ends are, to be honest, the majority of movies. Now, I'll split those as well. Sometimes you find a movie that doesn't make much of an impression either way, but repeated viewings make you appreciate the nuances of the film. Sometimes, though, you find that you the more you watch a movie, the less it holds up, and your opinion of it dwindles as times goes on. This is my relationship with this movie.There are ardent defenders of this movie who will go to great lengths on the message board to insult any who dare to denounce this film. I would ask you to look at my rating. I still think this is above the average and better than a great deal of the horror films unleashed on audiences in the 80s. It's just that I've starting to see the cracks in the foundation of this as I watch it over the years.Let's start on the positives, which are what those defenders always want to praise. This movie (much like Carpenter's VAMPIRES later) does an admirable job of mixing the standard look and feel of a western film with a very horror-centric plot. You could, easily, remove the vampiric elements, give these villains black hats and still make this movie work as a western. In fact, one of the best things about the movie is the lack of generic vampire film lore. The word itself is never mentioned through the film. Though our monsters must protect themselves from sunlight, there is no garlic, no crosses, no coffins. This is certainly a much different breed of vampire.Lance Henriksen and Bill Paxton are the very best things about this movie, particularly Paxton's Severin. I find myself biding the time when he is off camera, sloughing through tedious romantic moments, in order to get to the meat of the movie and the mesmerizing presence of Paxton, who plays a vampire that is truly your worst nightmare. There is no suave sexiness and no pretty boy goth drama about him. He is a killer of man, pure and simple, and delights in his destiny. The scene that is usually mentioned is the slaughter in the bar and Paxton is the glue holding this scene together. The swift brutality that he shows to the patrons and the remorseless taking of life show a glee in killing that's hard not to appreciate in a twisted sort of way.The trouble with the movie, though, is that this band of vampires are really not the main attraction. The largest majority of his movie revolves around a farm boy, who meets one of these vampires in the opening scene. In typical Hollywood fashion, they fall in love after about 2 hours of knowing each other and begin to show the sort of deep devotion to each other that takes real time to develop in real life. She draws him into their world and it is this hero that is supposed to draw our empathy, he is the sole presence in this group who feels any sort of guilt and loss for the life he's left behind and the lives that he's required to take.I can't imagine that those scenes would have worked, in this movie, with any actors, though for immediate comparison I would look to THE LOST BOYS (it's obvious counterpoint) and the romantic relationship that develops in that movie. In THE LOST BOYS it is an integral plot point, but never feels like it draws away from the action itself. The romance in this one is painful to watch at times and draws away from any sense of tension and horror that is developed. The blame for this should be placed squarely on the shoulders of the two actors, Adrian Pasdar and Jenny Wright. It is no small wonder that neither had a very successful Hollywood career after this movie. They are not given great dialog to work with anyways and these two clunk their way through that dialog so much that we start hoping that Severin is just going to kill this kid off and end all of our misery. Perhaps in better hands these scenes could have worked, but alas we will never know. What we are left with is a movie with tons of potential, great plot, good cinematography and some great characters, that is ultimately killed by bad casting and wooden acting. It's easy to see why Bigelow became such a talented director, as she starts off with a promising debut, but in the end I'm not sure this even makes my top ten vampire movies. "},{"Title":"Could have been a classic","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first thing that would surprise people who set out to watch this movie is the lack of the cheesy elements of that period. I would even say that may be one reason which would turn off people from this movie. The movie doesn't have the trademark 80s style. I heard about some romance elements in the movie and I imagined it would be prominent. On the contrary, the romance elements are quite minimal and personally I don't think there is a huge amount of chemistry between the leads. But honestly that doesn't matter too much. One of the highlights are the performances of Bill Paxton, Joshua John miller and Lance henriksen. They basically save the movie from just being a mediocre teen movie to an exciting ride. The interesting thing about the characters is how each vampire has had a normal past and then they had to adapt to the new reality. They had to adapt to a situation where they needed to kill. At first it is difficult but then they start to enjoy it and finally they become killing machines who can feel no remorse, no pain. And then they are unstoppable since nothing can kill them other than sunlight. It is interesting how the main character is sometimes attracted to the new lifestyle but is not cold blooded enough to complete the transformation. Not only that, when it starts hitting close to home, he wakes up to the problems of the new lifestyle. There are quite a few scenes like the bar scene and the hotel shootout which are impressively done and Bill paxton's scenery chewing performance is most prominent in these scenes. Obviously there are elements of dark comedy but they are not too prominent (thankfully). One of the big problems that bring down the rating a little is the ending. This is what prevents the movie from being a classic. I was a little unsatisfied with the last few scenes. One would expect a brutal gang like this to finish the job with a lot more ruthlessness and with no mercy. Instead they try to drag the situation and then obviously get into trouble in the end. It is not in tune with the rest of the movie, I feel. I loved the soundtrack by Tangerine dream and as expected it really suits the tone of the movie. They were the voice of the 80s for me, so here too they do a perfect job with the dark touches. I liked it very much and it does have some classic touches but it has some flaws such as the ending.7/10 "},{"Title":"We keep odd hours","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Greetings again from the darkness. It's always fun to take a fresh look at a cult favorite, especially after a quarter century since initial release. Near Dark is best known as Kathryn Bigelow's first solo directorial effort ... yes, the Oscar winning director of The Hurt Locker (plus Point Blank and Zero Dark Thirty). But that's not why this one has a loyal following. It's actually a very stylish vampire/road trip that focuses on family. And it's one of the very few vampire movies where the word vampire is never uttered.Ms. Bigelow co-wrote the screenplay with Eric Red, who also wrote The Hitcher. Similarities abound, yet this one stands on its own thanks to the photography and the performances. We can't help but notice three main actors come directly from James Cameron's Aliens ... Bill Paxton, Lance Henrickson, and Jenette Goldstein. Of course, Mr. Cameron and Ms. Bigelow were in a relationship that resulted in marriage (and later ended in divorce). Near Dark lost at the box office to another vampire movie released at the same time, The Lost Boys. Having its production company go out of business provided no marketing help and Near Dark has since experienced a rabid following thanks to cable, DVD and midnight showings.The basic story has a young local (rural Oklahoma) boy (Adrian Pasdar, who is married to one of the Dixie Chicks in real life) meeting a stranger in town (Jenny Wright, who played Rob Lowe's wife in St Elmo's Fire). Their initial sparks lead to necking .. get it? Next thing we know he is being dragged into a runaway Winnebago by Paxton, Henrickson, Goldstein, Wright and Joshua John Miller. We soon enough figure out it's a traveling troupe of vampires and Caleb (the young local boy) is in big trouble.There are a couple of well known/classic scenes the sequence in the bar where we really get to see the personalities of each of this group, and the bungalow shootout where the bullet holes in the walls allow the deadly rays of sunshine to wreak havoc with the bloodsucking clan. Additionally, you will note some beautiful shots that confirm Ms. Bigelow's background as an artist - the backlit shot of the group in the fog, and Caleb's horse riding scene.For those accustomed to seeing the cool Bill Paxton, they will be surprised at his frenetic wild man act. You might also recall his stint in the The Terminator as one of the blue-haired punks that naked Arnold meets on his arrival. Jenny Wright is fun to watch here and it's a reminder of her talent, and a shame that she retired/disappeared from the acting world in 1998. Others in support include Tim Thomerson as Caleb's dad and (a very young) James LeGros as the frightened teenage cowboy playing pool in the bar scene. Caleb's sister is played by Marcie Leeds, who played young Sarah (Barbara Hershey's character) in Beaches.A sure sign of 1980's horror is the electronic score provided by Tangerine Dream. Sure, the score would be much different today, but it's very much a part of the film's fabric and style. In addition to the key actors coming from Cameron's film, you will also note Aliens on the town's theatre marquee.Bram Stoker published Dracula in 1897 and since then it's provided source material and inspiration for an amazing number of films. Some of the best known include Nosferatu in 1922, Bella Lugosi in 1931, Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein (1948), Frank Langella as Dracula (1979), The Hunger with Catherine Deneuve (1983), Francis Ford Coppola and Gary Oldman (1992), Tom Cruise in Anne Rice's Interview with the Vampire (1994), Robert Rodriguez' From Dusk til Dawn (1996 with George Clooney), Blade (1998), and most recently the Twilight franchise, TV's True Blood, the excellent Let the Right One In (2008) and the animated Hotel Transylvania (2012). Next up is a NBC series with Jonathan Rhys Meyers in the title role. For the undead, it's quite a family tree of entertainment and horror. "},{"Title":"I sure haven't met any girls like you.","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Vampires in cowboy country? No, this is not some western, but a tale of drifters in the west that just happen to be children of the night.Kathryn Bigelow directed a winner her with familiar stars such as Adrian Pasdar from Heroes, who falls in love with a vampire played by Jenny Wright. Don't get excited. Wright keeps her shirt on unlike her previous skintastic appearances in Pink Floyd the Wall, The Wild Life and The World According to Garp.The drifters? How about Lance Henriksen, Bill Paxton, and Jenette Goldstein from Aliens. Cool, huh? One thing I have never seen in a vampire movie is the transformation back to human. This was a first. Of course, it had the usual fire and explosions after sunlight hits.An interesting twist on the usual and a fun flick. "},{"Title":"Film Horror","Date":"30 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Steamy vampire flick with terrific moments and memorable characters, including Jenny Wright as a shyly sensuous vamp who seduces farm boy Adrian Pasdar into her clutches. She bites him and, not yet transformed, he joins the family a gang of rogue RV-riding bloodsuckers including Lance Henriksen as the brooding leader and hopped-up scene-stealer Bill Paxton as a bad boy brawler.The vibe throughout is spooky and intense, the starkly rural daytime setting giving a Spaghetti Western feel while the shadowy night shots channel Film Noir. But the camarawork, although making good use of light and shade, keeps too close on the actors, feeling more like a Gothic photo album than a suspenseful motion picture.Some of the music, seeming placed throughout to fill a soundtrack album, hinders what should have been more timeless otherwise. But an ultra-violent scene within a red neck bar, and a finale on a desolate street straight out of a demonic HIGH NOON, makes this a uniquely bloody ride.Although not as conventionally entertaining, there's a murkier depth than its successful competitor, THE LOST BOYS. And while Pasdar is a dependable &#x96; though somewhat wooden &#x96; lead protagonist, the best moments concern Paxton's daredevil lunacy or Jenny Wright's docile-doomed expressions as each inevitable dawn draws in.Perhaps NEAR LIGHT would have been a more fitting title, as these vamps are continuously playing time with loaded dice. "},{"Title":"Far from Near perfect, but Bigelow's film is a creepy and grotesque piece that's a bit different to your standard lobotomised horror fare.","Date":"9 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's a rule of thumb, is it not, for films about vampires and wherein people become vampires to refrain from using the word vampire? Much like zombie movies, no one ever uses the term zombie &#x96; like there was an unwritten rule forbidding them to do so. No one uses the term 'vampire' in Near Dark, a film conforming to traditions and referencing the old guard, not to mention genre demand, while offering something a little fresher with the vampire and blood-letting genre iconography we all recognise. The film is a neat if uneven piece, a film buoyed by the fact its intuitive spin on the vampires is in its depiction of the beasts as somewhat weak, even pathetic. In a genre where vampires have often been powerful, conquering creatures with a desire for world domination on top of their more usual diet of the human liquid interior, these shabby looking (not a cloak in sight) individuals squeeze into battered automobiles and scurry around looking for the sustenance that'll keep them alive for another day. The usual rules regarding sunlight still apply, but don't bet on a fistful of garlic and a crucifix to save you from the beasts Katherine Bigelow depicts here.We don't necessarily begin in a way that would suggest the film is about vampires. Young Caleb Colton (Pasdar) lives a quiet and unassuming life in an isolated town somewhere in warm, dusty America. He has his friends, his family of a father and younger sister on top of his desires to leave for a thousand miles in just about any direction such is the vacant nature of a life around here. Things shift when he meets a young girl his age named Mae (Wright), someone alien to the area who's the object of most of the other young lad's attention; a girl who knows all the star constellations, who has to be home by a certain time for reasons that are not immediately obvious - a girl who's just different. Mae hooks up with Caleb one evening and turns events in both their lives down a different route entirely; for Mae is a vampire - one of the youngest of that aforementioned group of whom travel around trying to keep themselves alive.One assumes vagrants and sex-workers would make for good targets, those few will miss; those with pasts they'd rather forget and futures that are largely anonymous but for their incumbent state. As the film rolls on, we discover the leader of this group, Jesse (Henriksen), found his partner changing a tire by the side of the road some years back; while Jesse himself, upon being asked how long he's been a part of this sinister tour of the un-dead, replies that he fought for the South(!). Mae, in essence playing a femme fatale without really desiring to do so, has bitten Caleb and thus transformed him; but what is essentially her poor judgement has allowed into their troupe a fellow with a history he doesn't necessarily need to forget and a future which, judging by his desire to get out of the town in the first place, had potential to be full of something a little more than just hanging around. In heading out with Jesse and his sordid crew, the Colton family are sparked into searching for their missing boy, but everyone's departing additionally allows the sordid love story between Mae and Caleb to brood.Mae and Caleb's tryst is the heart of the film, the core of the picture around which varying B-movie elements may revolve the father of Caleb, a determined man played by Tim Thomerson with the right amount of apprehension and urgency, troops around trying to find out what's going on whereas all the hunting and finding of human food from the vampires' point of view is the grizzly stuff we sort of expect to rear up now and again. At a point where Caleb is still too early into his tenure as a vampire, he must 'feed' from Mae momentarily to avoid starvation &#x96; a sequence that carries with it its own sexual overtones as she pulls expressions of ecstasy and he appears to be knelt in front of her whilst eating out of her hand.What is enjoyable is its understated attitude to the villains; creatures who're granted their own patriarchy and set of rules and morals but remain the enemies, despite our eagerness for Caleb's father to do his best in finding his son. Most films of this ilk from around this time took place indoors, such as The Evil Dead, or continuously bumped along with C. Thomas Howell's character in The Hitcher. These films might cover the hapless lead trapped in a scary situation fending off the elements and fighting for his life, but Near Dark spends its time WITH this pack of monsters; their transportation; their lives and the moment's in-between picking off their latest targets. The film is an exciting chase picture; a coming of age piece and one of your more bog standard horror films about a pack of evil, unabashed blood craving monsters picking off victims. The film requires some rewriting in regards to its ending, which is both straight out of 1984's The Terminator and needed to be more ambiguous, but Near Dark is a solid and often smart, if unbalanced, genre film. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Horror/Vampire Films Ever Made. An Excellent,Horror/Vampire/Action/Western Classic.","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kathryn Bigelow's Near Dark is one of the best Horror and Vampire films ever made that greatly mixes Horror,Western,Vampires and Action. Filled great direction,excellent cast and a wonderful score,Near Dark is not only one of the great Horror classics of the 80s,but one of the great Horror classics of all time.Near Dark tells the story of a young farm boy named Caleb(Adrian Pasdar)who sees and falls for a beautiful,but mysterious girl named Mae(Jenny Wright). When Caleb seduces Mae and kisses her,Mae bites Caleb on the neck and later on discovers that Mae is a Vampire who runs with a family of Vampires that includes Jesse,(Lance Henriksen),Severen(Bill Paxton),Diamondback(Jennette Goldstein)and Homer(Joshua Miller) who kidnap Caleb. With Caleb running with the Vampire clan and Caleb's family trying to track him down,Will Caleb join up the family of Vampires and feed on the living or save his own life and become human again.In 1987,two Vampire classics were released the same year in theaters which were Joel Schumacher's The Lost Boys and Kathryn Bigelow's Near Dark. While the former was a film that combined Horror and Comedy and was a lighter take on the Vampire genre,the latter was a much darker and more serious and violent Vampire Horror film. One of the things I love about Near Dark is the way it takes out vampire traditions and trademarks. The Vampires in this film aren't surrounded by Gothic trappings and are not romantic,but look like regular people and people who are dirty and travel on the road. While the Vampires are brutal killers,they also have a likability and at some point you root for them as if they were antiheroes. The film also strips away other trademarks of the Vampire genre such as fangs,crosses,holy water found in the film and to top it off the characters don't say the word Vampire throughout the movie. The only familiar trademark in this film is the Vampires fear of sunlight. It's the exclusion of the Vampire trademarks and conventions that adds to the film's greatness. ND is not only Horror film and Vampire film but also a Western film and the Western influence is on full display here with the dust,dirt and southwestern look,shots of the hot burning sun and in the characters clothes where you see the main characters wearing cowboy hats and boots or with the Vampire gang who are wearing long coats and dusters or have spurs at the heels of their boots. The Western aspect is also in the Road the film because of the constant traveling on the road where instead of riding on horses and big wooded stagecoaches the vampires are riding in cars,vans and RV's with the dirty dust,sunlight and moon hanging over the character. The open road is the Vampires Western frontier. It's also a Western during the Action and gunfight scenes where the Vampire clan is using six-shooters and pistols in the way you see in a Western movie. You feel like the main characters could've been in the 1870s or 1880s and the Vampires would be outlaws. Where would other excellent and very memorable Horror/Vampire Action films with Western styles like John Carpenter's Vampires and From Dusk Till Dawn be without Near Dark's influence. The romance between Caleb and Mae is great and you feel that it's not fake or forced but very real and authentic. Despite Caleb trying not to be a Vampire and Mae trying to teach him to be one you feel Caleb and Mae love each other and belong together. The screenplay by Kathryn Bigelow and Eric Red is truly amazing,giving the film small but brilliant dialog and making the characters,including the Vampires great and very memorable. Near Dark's Violence and gore throughout the film is effective and suits the style of this movie and what's great about most of the violence is that some of it takes place off screen. The Action in the film is fast and intense and when the film starts to get bloody and gory the blood flows. The ending of the film is great but it will disappoint most viewers because it doesn't go any further. Could the ending had been bigger and much more? Sure,but I think it was enough for the film and is a wonderful conclusion to the movie.The whole cast in film is excellent. Adrian Pasdar is great as Caleb,bringing depth and sympathy to the role. Jenny Wright fantastic and sexy as Mae and has good chemistry with Pasdar. Lance Henriksen is excellent and menacing as Jesse,the leader of the Vampire clan. Bill Paxton is brilliant as Severen,with Paxton bring humor and memorable one-liners to the film. Jeannette Goldstein is wonderful and sexy as Diamondbeck. Joshua Miller is excellent as Homer an old man trapped in a little boy's body.(Ironically,Miller's older brother is Jason Patric who starred in The Lost Boys the same year.)Tim Thomerson and Marcie Leeds give great performances as Loy and Sarah,Caleb's Father and Sister.Kathryn Bigelow's direction for the film is masterful with Bigelow giving a unique visual style and tone which is at times beautiful and gritty. Great direction from Bigelow.The score by Tangerine Dream is wonderful,dark and effective and it fits the dark and gritty tone of the movie. Great score. The movie also has some good songs by The Cramps(Fever),The Cowboy Rides Away(George Strait),Morse Code(Jools Holland)and Naughty Naughty(John Parr). All of the songs which were used in the classic Bar scene.In final word,if you love Horror films,Vampire films,Action films,Western films or films in general I suggest you see Near Dark a Horror classic that will stay with you watch and a film that will live on forever. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Good 80's Vampire Film!","Date":"2 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Adrian Pasdar, Jenny Wright, Lance Henriksen, Jenette Goldstein, Bill Paxton, Joshua Miller and Tim Thomerson star in this 1987 horror film. This tells the story of young Texas Cowboy, Caleb (Pasdar) whose life changes when he falls for an attractive girl, Mae (Wright). She bites him on the neck and he starts to feel different. Soon, he meets and falls in with her vampire friends, Jesse (Henriksen), Diamondback (Goldstein), Severen (Paxton), and Homer (Miller) discovering their not human. Thomerson (The Wrong Guys) plays Caleb's father, Loy who searches for Caleb after he's abducted. Mae helps Caleb while he's forced by the others to feed, but he tries to regain his life to be with his family before it's too late. This is a good 80's vampire film that's a little bit of a western and I like how Henriksen, Paxton and Goldstein are in this after they were in Aliens together. Tangerine Dream's score is also excellent as usual and I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Terrific, game-changing, vampire film!","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Love it to bits! First watched this as I was a huge fan of Aliens and certainly wasn't disappointed. Interesting that both are largely concerned with the family dynamic, Caleb (and eventually May) in Near Dark is torn between his 'daylight' family and his 'night' family, Ripley wins through at the end of Aliens against the Alien Queen's 'family' regaining her family/crew she lost in Alien (only to lose it in the execrable Alien 3 but regain it once more in Alien; Resurrection).Near Dark is just terrific stuff, the Western and the Horror film effortlessly combined and the wonderful Katherine Bigelow proving once and for all that women can make action movies (as she would later prove beyond doubt with Strange Days, Blue Steel and Point Break). If I were to have a favourite scene it would be the shootout at the motel, a great action set-piece with the police blazing away, not knowing that their bullets aren't actually hurting the vamps inside but the bullet holes letting in the sunlight which is burning them alive. The fiery finale is also great. Some people have queried the ease with which vampirism is cured in the film but it's not a problem for me, it's almost irrelevant given the wider themes embraced. I love the ending, May redeeming herself by her actions and almost too terrified to accept the reality that she can be restored to human, that she has a chance to live a normal life once more. It's so beautiful it makes you want to cry.Also check out the scene in Buffy season 5 where they go on the run in a Winnebago with its' windows blacked out.All told, utterly brilliant! "}{"Title":"Oscar winner Kathryn Bigelow's solo directorial debut.","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When asked what my favourite vampire movies of the 80s are, I usually answer The Lost Boys, Fright Night and Vamp; I guess I just prefer my 80s bloodsuckers to obey the recognised rules of the genre and deliver a touch of fun along with the horror. However, if it is a more sober and unconventional approach to vampirism that is desired, I suggest giving Near Dark a try it ain't perfect, despite what the film's more ardent fans would have us believe, but it does score highly on originality, style, and brutality.The directorial debut of Kathryn Bigelow, Near Dark mixes road movie, western and horror, the action taking place on the same long, dusty, desolate stretches of sun-baked highway that made screenwriter Eric Red's earlier effort The Hitcher such an impressively atmospheric picture; this bleak location perfectly complements the harsh, emotionless, and seemingly endless existence of its antagonists, with the sense of desolation further enhanced by a brooding synthesiser score from Tangerine Dream. The film also benefits from an excellent cast that includes a trio of actors from Aliens (Lance Henriksen, Bill Paxton, and Jenette Goldstein), cult child actor Joshua Miller, Tim Thomerson, and the pretty little package that was Jenny Wright.Red's script largely ignores the expected clichés the likes of crosses, garlic, stakes, and holy water certainly play no part in proceedings, the killers do not have fangs and lack many of the supernatural abilities usually associated with vampires, and towards the end of the film, it is even revealed that their condition can be reversed by a blood transfusion. For some, including myself, the many liberties taken with the conventions of the genre are a step too far, even for a 're-imagining' that intentionally avoids the use of the 'V' word, but I cannot deny the power of the film's finer moments a vicious assault on a bar that really sets the blood flowing, and a marvellously staged motel shootout between the bloodsuckers and the police. "},{"Title":"Finger licking good!","Date":"2 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's no secret, I love vampire movies, you can tell from my comments, I've seen a lot of them. From the 1920's to now, it doesn't matter, I love the myth, the horror and characters. In the 1980's, we had a few vampire movies, the most famous being The Lost Boys which is named as one of the all time favorites with fans when it comes to vampire movies. But it just so happened that the same year, another movie was made, a little independent film that kind of got the shaft in the advertising department compared to The Lost Boys and wasn't as much of a success, it's called Near Dark. I had always seen the cover whenever I went to the video store when I was a kid, but I have to admit that the VHS cover wasn't that appealing, so I feel bad that I gave the film a pass until now. I saw a lot of buzz on the internet when people talk about vampire films, this one came up quite a bit. I bought it on the spot and watched it a few weeks ago, I can see why this one made the top list a few times.One night, Caleb, a young man, meets a young drifter named Mae. Just before sunrise, she bites him on the neck then runs off. The rising sun causes Caleb's flesh to begin to burn. Mae comes with a group of roaming vampires and takes him away. The most unsociable of all the vampires, wanting to kill Caleb, but Mae reveals she has turned him into a vampire. Their charismatic leader, Jesse, reluctantly agrees to allow Caleb to remain with them for a week to see if he can learn to hunt and become a trusted member of their group. Caleb is unwilling to kill to feed, which alienates him from the others. To protect him, Mae kills for him then has him drink from her wrist. They are running short on their tempers to keep him in the group. Meanwhile, his family is looking for him and the gang of vampires may have found a new way of initiation for Caleb.So the good with this film the vampires. One of the things I did like a lot that we don't get to see in some vampire films is that we get to know them not as monsters, but that they were once human. Also the frustration you feel for Homer, the little vampire, he's an old man trapped in a boy's body, something that was way before Interview with the Vampire with the character Claudia. Now it's not as detailed but it's still sad to see his struggles as he has a man's needs, but it looks wrong when you have a young boy hitting on an older woman. He's also smarter than the leader but can't do as much since it's an adult's world. Then we have Severon, played by Bill Paxton, and you can tell he had a lot of fun with this role. He looks and acts tough, he's the vampire you don't want to mess with, add in the dark humor and he's just vicious. Jesse, played Lance Henriksen, has charisma and you can tell off the bat, he's the dad of the family. Diamondback, played by Jenette Goldstein, is beautiful but deadly and like a mom to Homer. The love story between Caleb and Mae is sweet, but I don't think that was the true heart of the story as you find yourself more involved with the other vampires.The costumes, make up and sets are very cool. You have a great set of a western with a mix of biker, which can be contradicting at times, it does over all work. But there are some flaws with the movie. The ending is a huge cop out, which a lot of people seem to be in agreement with. I like the whole myth that if you haven't fed, if there is a transfusion of human blood put back into your body after being bit, you can return to normal. But then they do this with Mae, who was a full vampire and it felt like a cop out with unanswered questions. Did she want to be human? She didn't complain that much about being a vampire. Also when she bit Caleb, she barely bites him and he's turning into a vampire 5 minutes after? That's like saying when I get bit by a mosquito, I'll turn into one. The ending wasn't very well thought out and this film had so much more potential than they give. Maybe with a better budget I think this could've beaten a lot of vampire movies out of the water. But it's still a good one that I would recommend and would gladly watch again.7/10 "},{"Title":"Finger licking good.......","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Caleb Colton meets Mae late night in town and she asks for a ride to her trailer.It is near dawn and Mae is in a hurry, he asks for a kiss and she bites him on the neck.When the sunlight hits him he starts to burn. A van appears out of the blue and kidnaps Caleb.He is introduced to Mae's family the leader Jesse, Diamondback, Severen and Homer. All of them are predator creatures of night that need blood to survive.Family are looking for Caleb, when they meet each other in a motel, Caleb has to choose between his beloved family or his love for Mae.A wonderful western come vampire movie that owes a lot to Cameron, but also shows why Bigelow is one of the most important directors of recent years. Unfairly shadowed by The Lost Boys on it's initial release (They are both great movies, but this should have had more recognition), it plays like the deranged cousin of the Schumacher movie, dark in mood, with a hypnotic score from Tangerine Dream.The gang of 'undead' are a wonderful creation, each having there own traits and demons, but none more than Paxton. His Severen is an amazing feat, a character who is truly scary from the upstart, and he really goes up to eleven as th film progresses.The est of the cast are great and there are some terrific set pieces, namely the bar scenes, which has an amazing sense of dread throughout, much like the Video scene in 'Henry poask' you feel helpless for the patrons, and even though you know what will happen, you want them to escape.All in all a great inclusion to the genre, but one that has escaped many. "},{"Title":"A Classic 80's vampire film!","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Near Dark brought to us in 1987, is a typical 80's vampire movie. It provides plenty of gore, but does so in a stylistic manner.Near Dark presents Caleb, a young farm boy who when out for a night of fun, meets Mae, a beautiful yet mysterious girl whom he becomes instantly besotted with. Mae is a strange young woman who runs off at the first sight of daylight, that is not before biting Caleb in the throat. As the sun rises higher, Caleb finds himself getting sick suddenly and steadily getting worse. It is then a gang of travelling vampires kidnap him within sight of his family. The vampires reluctantly show Caleb the ways of a vampire world as they drift across the Midwest. However, Caleb is struggling to commit to his vampire alter-ego and his family and searching the country to find him.Near Dark is stunningly innovative for its time and portrays the bloody brutality which the vampires engage in to survive. The most creative and entertaining scene is the slaughter which takes place at the bar.The characters created for this movie are complex, and they all have their own place within their group. The most surprising thing to me was how commendable Bill Paxton was in his role as a vampire. Not only did he look the part but he was definitely the most blood thirsty vampire of the pack.The vast landscape of the desert, filled with dust adds to the overall intensity and isolation of the movie, which could also be seen as a representation of the emptiness of death. The murders are both sadistic and gruesome, but yet somehow they feel real. The simplistic nature of Near Dark is what makes it so successful and its almost like a dark fairy tale.Overall, Near Dark creates an eerie atmosphere and you delve into the world of shadow, passion and blood. It could be portrayed as more of a love story than a horror story, but instead it merges both genres together, without hindering the overall narrative.The movie is flawed in parts, but this does not take away from the overall enjoyment, I just feel that certain things could of been improved. For example, you are not offered any kind of explanation as to how you can turn a vampire back into a human. Caleb and Mae are automatically changed back by Caleb's father in his shed, without offering any information how he did so. This is the main flaw to an otherwise well thought out film.Near Dark is stylishly directed, well written and very enjoyable to watch. "},{"Title":"Mornin' sunshine","Date":"23 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kathryn Bigelow directs Near Dark, a horror/vampire/western hybrid. The film was part of a wave of vampire films - Fright Night, Lifeforce, The Lost Boys, Interview with the Vampire, Embrace of the Vampire, Nicholas Cage's Vampire's Kiss, Tony Scott's The Hunger, John Landis' Innocent Blood, Francis Coppola's Dracula and Guillermo del Toro's Cronos - released in the late 80s and early 90s. None of those films were great, but some of them were fairly original.Bigelow has always mistakenly seen herself as a woman who operates within but critiques traditionally masculine, action genres. Films like Blue Steel, The Hurt Locker and Point Break all revolve around gun-lust, adrenaline junkies and macho thrill seekers. But they're all also about the allure of the action genre whilst operating exactly as the genre requires. In Near Dark's case we have the tale of a young mid-western kid who is bitten by a vampire and finds himself suddenly struggling to resist committing acts of violence. While your tradition vampire movie involves a virginal young woman essentially being sexually indoctrinated by a lecherous male vampire, Near Dark reverses this and has a young female vampire attempt to seduce the male into committing acts of (penetrative) violence. The film's tension is between the hero's desire for non violence and its genre's, and audience's, lust for the hero's transformation. In the way Near Dark posits itself as a traditional, violent action movie which advocates non violence, the film resembles a number of action director's James Cameron's films. Think the hypocritical aliens of The Abyss (threaten violence to promote peace) or the supposedly anti violence uber violent Terminator 2. Like many directors, Cameron essentially makes love-letters to violence which engage in desperate games of disavowal. Bigelow and Cameron were married for a number of years.Near Dark's plot is very slight and its middle hour is dead weight, but Bigelow's visuals are poetic at times, the film looks great, its opening scenes are brilliant and its climax is great in concept. The film's notable for starring three James Cameron regulars &#x96; Lance Henriksen, Bill Paxton and Jenette Goldstein &#x96; all of whom are fun to watch. They're vampire versions of the Jesse James gang, cowboys with fangs and six-shooters. Cult favourite Bill Paxton, as always, steals the show.7.9/10 &#x96; Well shot, but the film wastes a good concept. See Daybreakers, a trashy but smart modern vampire flick. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Dark and gritty in more ways than","Date":"16 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What did I learn from Near Dark? I learnt1. Vampires are very, very dirty. I mean, really dirty.2. Lance Henriksen is nasty, horrible, evil and cruel. Naah, I already knew that.3. Sunlight sets vampires on fire. I already knew it wasn't good for them, but it is comforting to have it confirmed.4. Jenny Wright has a fine chin to go along with her heart shaped face, sad eyes and rather pointy top lip. Also she is very dirty. But that's because she is a vampire.5. Vampires aren't actually called vampires. But they're still vampires.6. You can cure vampires with blood transfusions. This also makes them cleaner.7. Vehicles drive perfectly well across ploughed fields.8. Wearing blankets over their heads protects vampires from sunlight. Mostly.See, movies can be educational. "},{"Title":"Near perfect","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kathryn Bigelow's wildly original and artfully rendered debut is a unique and fantastic offering that shrugs off the stilted confines of vampire lore and constructs a group of indelible creatures who can be directly credited for inspiring the denizens of every post-punk vampire movie that came after Near Dark.The film follows a naive farm-boy named Caleb whose overzealous ardor for a pretty lady vampire named Mae leads to his unwitting induction into a nomadic band of motley bloodsuckers. While Near Dark packs in plenty of action and gore to satisfy genre enthusiasts, it's not surprising that the presence of a future Oscar-winning director at the helm keeps character study at the core of the piece. The bulk of the film is devoted to the moral and mortal struggles of Caleb as he faces the horrific realities of his transformation. His unwillingness to murder innocent strangers to sate his need for sanguine sustenance provides the nexus of his internal battle, and his reluctance to abandon the threads of his former life puts him at odds with his new caretakers, who view him as an interloping outsider.You probably already guessed that Caleb eventually ends up having to face off with his murderous hosts, and though the climax isn't nearly as thrilling as the ride there, when the final showdown arrives the film virtually avoids vampire clichés altogether in favor of resolving the story through a series of inventive twists.Marked as a missing person since receiving Mae's fatal kiss, Caleb is pursued throughout the film by his father and young sister, and when his entire extended family inadvertently crosses paths at a motel, all hell breaks loose. Caleb opts to flee with his birth family, and is freed from the curse of vampirism through a rather resourceful and intriguing process I've never seen attempted in a vampire movie before this one.In all areas, the film explores an entirely new take on the vampire mythos, eschewing dated weaknesses like crosses, holy water, and garlic entirely. While the undead creatures here do in fact drink blood and profess to be immortal, they don't rely on these devices when cornered by their enemies. The band in Near Dark prefers to pack heat, and their resourceful use of weaponry leads to a gang-buster of a shootout with dozens of police officers. Though certain elements of classic vampire films resound (sunlight is their most feared nemesis), the way they protect themselves from the omnipresent threat of dawn is just as novel as everything else here.The presence of Lance Henriksen as Jesse, the assertive patriarch of the vampire clan, adds immeasurably to the film, and the venerable character actor is just as great here as he is in everything he turns up in. However, Bill Paxton easily steals the show with his raucous turn as Severen, the most overtly malevolent and sadistic member of the group, who attends to the most gruesome facets of the band's feeding habits with infectious whimsy. He shines brightest in the sequence in which the group visits a dive bar and gleefully slaughters everyone inside. The ensuing tableau is one of the most awesome scenes in any horror movie, ever, and Near Dark is worth seeing for those few minutes of unbridled mayhem alone.The main weakness in the film is the under-developed insertion of an ageless, pre-pubescent vampire named Homer into the clan. While his existential query, Have you any idea what it's like to be a big man on the inside and have a little body on the outside? lends itself to a fascinating exploration, that one line is pretty much the extent of Homer's character, and the film never spends any time developing this rather interesting notion. Without any other augmentation of his role in the group, Homer often comes across as a cloying and ultimately useless addition to the affair, and he is eventually undone by his lustful pursuit of Caleb's sister Sarah (who looks to be about 9 years old), which leads him to chase her into the sunlight, upon which he bursts into flames and explodes. His motivation for wanting Sarah is perplexing and sort of creepy in the wake of the only information we really know about the character; if he's a big man on the inside who is attracted to little girls, that sort of makes him a pedophile, doesn't it? Despite the befuddling presence of Homer, Near Dark is a masterpiece in almost all other respects, right down to the music. The throbbing score by Tangerine Dream is a fitting accompaniment for the mood of the film, and pretty much any time a Cramps song is used on screen, a movie's cool quotient goes up at least 10 points.Though problematic at times, Near Dark is nevertheless mandatory viewing even for casual fans of the genre. This is a true original, and should not be missed. "},{"Title":"What Twilight aspires to be... if it ever grows up.","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of Big Kat's early efforts, and although it hasn't aged exceptionally well it still holds up to scrutiny 20+ years later, especially when compared to what passes for a Vampire film these days.Caleb is your standard single cowboy in a small town, driving around at night aimlessly and trying to pick up anything that moves with his smooth cowboy talk.One night though he meets waifish May, a teeny tiny chick with short blond hair who looks like she weighs as much as a match with the wood scraped off (one of my Dad's old sayings). After 45 seconds of scintillating convo they're away in his truck into the night.No hanky-panky mind you but their night of magic goes a little too long for May's liking and she orders Caleb to take her home immediately, seeming a little more than panicky in the process.Taking advantage of the situation Caleb asks for a blackmail kiss or the truck goes no further, May initially complies and draws a little blood, but then changes tack and does a bolt, heading off on foot. For some reason Caleb's truck won't restart so he too hoofs it for a while&#x85; until he starts smoking, and I don't mean Camel Lights. As he nears home with smoke billowing from all over him a van shows up and plucks him off the road.May is in the van, and it's meet the family time! Hopefully you can guess by now that something is amiss in the goings on, so the news that the family are all Vampires shouldn't really shock.Jessie (Lance Henricksen from Aliens), Diamondback (Vasquez from Aliens), Sever (Bill Paxton from Aliens, notice a trend here?) and Homer, a young boy seemingly in his early teens who is to be frank a bit of a d*ckhead.After the intros May is chastised for picking up without consultation and Caleb is told he has a week to learn the ropes or he's out.From this point on Caleb tries to integrate himself into the Vampy lifestyle without a lot of success, despite the best efforts of May to help, and Caleb's Dad and little sister fang around the countryside looking to find him. As with the Vampires though most of their efforts are in vein&#x85; get it? ZIIIIINNNNNGGGG!!!! I feel like I'm 7 years old again! The pivotal scene in the film has the new age family heading to a local bar for a drink and a feed, so to speak. The scene runs for 12 minutes and lets Paxton ham it up big time as the gung-ho Sever, indeed he is the best thing in the movie, but all good things must end and when Caleb lets a victim go the family must rush off with the cops on their tail and daylight a comin'.Eventually both of Caleb's families end up in the same room, he must make a choice with uncomfortable repercussions in either case and in doing so he sets up a pretty good, albeit stock standard finale.The old school cover from the late 80s early 90s VHS release had an unrecognisable Bill Paxton coated in post-battle make up, he is bloodied and basically seems to have had his head caved in. It was a great cover, a little too great for me as I was about 14 when it came out and gave the film a wide berth for a few years thinking it was an over the top shlockfest, and unlike today's 14 year olds I wasn't fully confident that I was ready for that.While the film does have gory elements and indeed Paxton does get to wear the cover makeup at one point, most of the film is carefully plotted and well acted. It still most definitely isn't a film for young kids, but it desires to be more than a simple Vampire eat-em-up, and thanks to Big Kat it achieves that goal.Final Rating &#x96; 8.5 / 10. Hasn't aged incredibly well, but still holds up as an extremely effective little horror film that takes itself a little more seriously than most. "},{"Title":"Traditional vampire folklore revolutionized by 80's rebelliousness .","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Directly to the point Near Dark worths your money and time, totally. It's not a very conventional vampire movie but the fact that it doesn't have many clichés about vampires doesn't means that we are watching a movie about bloodsuckers. We don't see any crucifixes, garlic, mirrors, but instead, we get guns, slith throats, motorcycles, and the most sadistic and bad-ass vampires I've ever seen! Nosferatu, eat your heart out.Seriously, this is one of the most creative and atmospheric Horror movies ever made. We have a few decent vampire flicks in the genre. I won't mention Dracula because it's not the time. But I can clearly tell you that Near Dark is superior than The Lost Boys and maybe Fright Night (I write it with all the pain in my heart).The best about Near Dark is that you can't compare it with anything. I mean, it takes the vampire sub-plot into another level. We have a beyond the grave love story that it becomes a tale of an impossible love. It's not like ahh I will wait to become a vampire in order to make this work. That's BS! You know who I am referring to. ;) Like I wrote, even that we don't get clichés, in every single moment we know the villains are vampires even that the word vampire is never mentioned through the film.But the best feature about Near Dark is the extraordinary, almost artistic atmosphere. This is Terror inserted in art my friends. With a big budget, Katherine Bigelow designed a perfect film in terms of direction. The scenarios are desolating, scary, but at the same time dynamic and covered in mysticism. This woman realizes a great job. The budget is brought to it's maximum. The woman had an extraordinary artistic vision and knows perfectly how to put it into a Horror movie. There are just a few movies like this one.Each scene is extremely, perfectly crafted. To the last detail. The fact is that Bigelow doesn't mentions the golden rules of vampire cinema, she just takes the chance to do whatever she wants. And it's something amazing. We don't expect anything that happens. We get sadistic vampires that act like criminals and if we know how to stop them, it's just not predictable.It's also very remarkable the mix of Western with glam vampires. Yes, we're also into a Western movie. Caleb rides his horse, we get takes from the desert, the sun setting, etc. A not so common combination that works perfectly, believe me.All of the takes are dynamic, artistic, spectacular. One of my favorite scenes is when Caleb and Mae talk about the night. Pure poetry my friends. It makes me want to live something similar. The atmosphere makes you feel something special.The scene that will always stay in my mind is the bar massacre. It's violent, scary, brilliant, atmospheric, etc. It every moment it makes you grab your seat waiting for Severen to control his violent temper. It's one of the highlights of 80's Horror.The shooting/raid in the motel also deserves a special mention. Spectacular and bloody! When a movie like this one generates different emotions in you, it means that we're in front of a perfectly created and crafted work.The plot is well delivered thanks to an intriguing continuity covered by a beautiful and disturbing cinematography and detailed Art Direction. The score from Tangerine Dream is simply surreal. It's one of the most impressing pieces of action, suspense, and 80's vibe. For some moments, the music fits perfectly with the almost nightmarish reality that the lead character lives.I rest my case with the intriguing song The Cowboy Rides Away, a delicious country song that figs into one of the most violent moments in the movie.Near Dark sets it's own rules. The acting is the most important aspect of the movie. Katherine Bigelow took support from actors from Aliens. The boss Lance Henriksen delivers an extremely bad-ass performance. His deep voice is amazing. I admire this man. He's perfect as the wise, violent, but clever Jesse. Bill Paxton steals the show as the sadistic-lunatic Severen, who in my opinion reminded me of Bill Moseley's Chop Top. Paxton delivers a memorable performance. He just gets your attention to the point that you will be looking at every single of his moves. Also, he adds the necessary black humor for a plot like this! Bill Paxton is used to be the secondary character that steals the show and this time he doesn't fails! Without a doubt, the duo Severen and Jesse is one of the most sadistic, cruel, and charismatic in the history of Horror.Janette Goldstein is perfect as Jesse's bitch. She's violent and adds the necessary amount of obligatory sensuality. The guy that plays Homer got into my nerves to the pint that I gave a standing ovation when he was killed. Was about time!.Adrian Pasdar is a great lead male. The man is attractive, good looking, has plenty of charisma, good actor, and best of all, he's believable. Jenny Wright is a total, major babe. I mean, you didn't understand. She's a total hottie that should be considered as marriage material. Delivers a decent performance although her character is the romantic support only. She's delicate, cute, and she expresses it very well.Gore is beautiful, extraordinary. We get slith throats, burned skin by sun (literally), wounds provoked by guns, brutal beatings, spilled blood everywhere, neck bitings, be-headings, etc. Brilliant exploitation of blood and gore!.The Cinematography is extraordinary. Makes you feel in love with the night. The highways, and more made me remember about passages in my life.I can't appreciate more Near Dark; one of the best vampire movies ever. "},{"Title":"Entertaining classic vampire movie","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of those film typical to the eighties, where the soundtrack was eerie, the characters flawed and not archetypal, the plot was important and the acting was not chiseled, but certainly not bad. A joy to watch, actually.How can you not love a movie with Bill Paxton and Lance Henriksen? Recent Heroes fame Adrian Pasdar is the main character, as a backwater cowboy hitting on a girl that turns out to be a vampire. It's not like the movie is not predictable in some fashion, but the details are where God (or any other good director) is.What I personally found interesting in the story is that it could just as easily have been about hard drug addicts. Replace blood with heroin and you pretty much get the same script. Why crack is less romantic/mysterious than blood I will never understand ;)Bottom line don't expect something that will knock you off your feet, but for a horror fan, it would be shameful not to have seen it. I would place it up there with Lost Boys, the two films being very similar, only I like Kiefer Sutherland better. "}{"Title":"Trailer Park Vampires","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the traditional vampire movie the vampire is usually a member of the aristocracy (Count Dracula living (if that's the word) in splendid isolation in his castle.  Here, the vampires are trailer park trash living in RVs and motels.The movie puts forward this premise stylishly and entertainingly but, other than that doesn't really have much to say for itself.  "},{"Title":"A fun film, but stolen ideas","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Near Dark is an enjoyable film with a fun cast.  There is no real plot to speak of, but that doesn't hurt the film.  What does hurt the film are the very obvious items stolen from Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles.  The vampire trapped in a child's body, drinking from the wrist and more are straight from her books.  Overlook the robbery, however, and it's 94 minutes of goofy fun. "},{"Title":"The best vampire movie yet.","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film may not change the world, but what in what it tries to do, it excels.  It is, in my opinion, the best vampire movie yet, well ahead of Interview.  And best of all, it does it without ever mentioning the word! Complete with most of the supporting cast of Aliens, the acting is phenomenal.  If you like vampires, see this one! "},{"Title":"Above average vampire fare.","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remember seeing this feature in the theatres during its' original run when I was sixteen. I had great expectations after reading the pre-release write up in FANGORIA magazine and I have to say that I wasn't disappointed. This rather inventive take on the vampire story has above average production value for the genre, passable acting, and a highly stylized look about it. Notable in the cast are Lance Henrikson and Bill Paxton as a two of the redneck undead. This movie has some great bloodletting scenes and the one in the biker bar makes this film worth the rental alone. "},{"Title":"And This Is Our Hero...?","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first scenes of Near Dark introduce us to its hero, Caleb, a young man who within minutes of first seeing young Mae step out  onto the curb tells her she has a pretty name, drives her away in his truck, tries to rope her while she's uncomfortable around his horse, refuses to drive her home when she's obviously distressed, and forces her to kiss him or he won't let her out of his car. And we're supposed to cheer for this fellow? Maybe in another universe. In the meantime, the real heroes of this movie as far as I'm concerned, Mae's family of vampiric nomads, act much more human than Caleb or his little sister combined (the only human that comes across as full flesh and blood is Caleb's tortured father). Particularly human are Jesse and Diamondback (played wonderfully by Lance Henriksen and Jenette Goldstein, respectively), who ride around at night reminiscing on how they met, feeling romantic and even touchingly close. But Mae's family are supposed to be the villains, and when the movie tries to make us believe that we should cheer for stud boy Caleb there is when it starts going as wrong as it can get. Still, if, like me, you're watching for the vampires, then this should be a fun ride.  "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!!","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Near Dark is one of the greatest vampire movies ever made it ranks right up there with The Lost Boys and Fright Night. I loved everything about this movie,Bill Paxton was hilarious and Lance Henrkisen was great. The movie is visually stunning and like The Lost Boys has a great soundtrack. Highly Reccomended. "},{"Title":"Truly frightening","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the scariest vampire flick I've ever seen, and easily in the top five of scariest movies, period, I've ever seen.  Stylish direction from the underrated Kathryn Bigelow (no relation to me) and wonderful acting from several of the James Cameron Travelling Players (including Lance Henriksen, Bill Paxton, and Jenette Goldstein) maximize the value of a clever script. A near perfect film. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is all visuals and feeling. If you look too hard for a plot, you'll be disappointed. But, as someone said, it is an instant cult classic, do not miss it (it's rather hard to come by these days). And it shows the future promise of the very talented Kathryn Bigelow as director. Why hasn't she done anything after Strange Days? "},{"Title":"To blow it all at the ending! Oh, what shamelessness!","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Maybe it's supposed to be fun to watch Bill Paxton overact his way into ridiculous realms. Maybe it's joyous to see foolish, idiotic events in the plot such as a blood transfusion used to turn someone back from being a vampire. Maybe it's fun to then see that would-be-vamp-turned-back-human have a final, macho showdown. Yeah, maybe. Or maybe it would be fun if Bigelow decided the ending of the movie really left a lot to desire and reversed it. Then MAYBE we'd have half a movie. Maybe then, someone would have done something differently. As it is, watch this movie if you want to see what's wrong with horror movies today. Call it, Good Potential, Drained of Blood.  "},{"Title":"A different kind of vampire story, very cool indeed.","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A low-budget vampire story that is much different than most films.  The vampires in this movie are filthy, wandering criminals who scour the land searching for money and transportation.  Also included in this film is a love story, but not a very conventional one.  The film's main three vampires were all together a year earlier, in Aliens.  Lance Henriksen (awesome, creepy actor) is the leader of the evil group, and sets the ground rules for the undead.  When a newcomer is forced to join the group to survive, he must obey by their rules or die.  The violence is just right for this film, and the gore is realistic.  If you have seen The Hitcher, you will love this movie for its similarities.  Both films were written by the same guy, and filmed a year apart.  Very atmospheric and depressing, this film is a cult favorite that must be seen to be appreciated.  "}{"Title":"One of the best vampire movies I've seen.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It isn't the scariest, but it is excellent.  Set in modern day, it is realistic for the times.  The love story is good, especially what someone will go through to be with the one they love.  It is well worth a look!  Go rent it.  (As far as vampire movies go, my other favorites include The Lost Boys and From Dusk Till Dawn, each for their own merits.  They all have something a little different, but worth watching). "},{"Title":"What fun!  (not for the faint of heart)","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A first-rate vampire picture!Whereas a movie like Bram Stoker's Dracula is all costumes and sets, Near Dark is closer to Road Warrior and The Terminator.The director was Kathryn Bigelow, who has yet to disappoint me, with work behind her such as Point Break, Strange Days, and Blue Steel.  Also, the eerie electronic score by Tangerine Dream adds the perfect touch. "},{"Title":"Cult Movies 1","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 1. NEAR DARK (horror, 1987) A chronicle of the lives of modern-day vampires. Led by Jesse (Lance Henriksen), they travel across Texas' desert planes seeking out victims. May (Amy Wright), the young and beautiful of the group, falls for Caleb (Adrian Pasdar). That's why she only nips him on the neck and runs away. Finding out, Jesse brings the now transformed Caleb into their group. Caleb, however, is afraid of killing and is sustained by May. Realizing that Jesse and his posse will kill him if he does not prove his worth as a vampire, he escapes, but will May follow?CRITIQUE Directed by Kathryn Bigelow, this film is a dark, stark reminder of 1940s and 50s 'film-noir' pictures. This is enhanced by Adam Greenberg's atmospheric, moody cinematography along with the haunting score by 'Tangerine Dream' (a once rock-punk band). The screenplay by Eric Red and Bigelow is imaginative in its use of the vampire genre, giving us a new perspective to a widely rehearsed subject.Like the more popular 'The Lost Boys', which shares the same themes and oddly enough came out the same year, it is a stylish piece of film-making.QUOTE Jesse Let's just say I fought for the South. We lost. "},{"Title":"Not scary, but good","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  TV Guide named this the scariest film, so me and my mom decided to watch it. Ok, so maybe there were no scares, but there was entertainment! Bill Paxton is funny in it! "},{"Title":"Vampires on the run.  Love it!","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Vampire movies are the easiest kinds of horror movies to attend. We know all the rules and we know the scenerio. But it's what the director does with those two conventions that determine the film's success.We know that vampires can never go out in daylight (a rule which is based around a logic that I have yet to understand). The second thing we know is that vampires must constantly drink blood (why do they never visit slaughter houses?) This allows us the scenerio from almost every single vampire movie that has probably ever been made. Two characters are necessary one has been a vampire since time began (no one is ever bitten in the 60s) and the other is a young virgin that the vampire bit and must now go through the agonizing process of figuring out how he/she is going to live for all of eternity living by all of the rules mentioned above.Kathryn Bigelow's 'Near Dark' takes these rules and does something neat with them. She sets a family of vampires in a van with the new guy (Adrian Pasdar) and puts them on a nocturnal trek across the southwest. Along the way we run into a redneck bar where some of the best scenes in the movie come to life (which I won't spoil with one single word). Following hot on their trail is Pasdar's father (Tim Thomerson) who thinks he knows how to cure his son.This leads to all sorts of complications that we can predict. You know what to expect but you are waiting to see the approach that Bigelow takes. This movie is fun, I enjoyed the swaggering characters, I enjoyed the plot twists and I enjoyed the preposterousness of the whole enterprise. You know what to expect but you don't expect it to come together this well. "},{"Title":"Not bad but something is missing.....","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I finally got a chance to see the film yesterday and i enjoyed the movie mainly because of its old 80s style.The film tells a story about a young guy who meets a beautiful girl which results in some unavoidable circumstances forcing him to travel with her friends who seem to be the creatures of the night or simply 'vampires'!!!.Now,if you are expecting a cold blooded vampire style movie with lots of brutal killing & violence you might not be satisfied after sitting through this film which is why i said that something is missing from the film,nevertheless its not a bad movie and is a little different from the rest mainly because the story is very good,still i feel that a little more effort could have made it one of the very best..to be honest its totally up to your expectation about the movie that decides the verdict... "},{"Title":"A horror masterpiece and the best vampire movie of the 80's!","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the mid-west, there lived a modern cowboy named Caleb (Adrain Pasdar) was on his way home until he stops by a store where a lovely young lady named Mae (Jenny Wright) catches his eye. He decides to give her a ride home until he gets a kiss by his neck which is quite painful for words literally and tries to go back home in the morning, unfortunately the bite changes him as he starts roasting in the morning sunlight as he is reaching home until he is kidnapped by a sadistic bunch of killers. This gang consist of Jesse (Lance Henriksen) who is a former Civil war vet who leads the gang, there's sultry Diamondback (Jenette Goldenstein), Severen (Bill Paxton) who is a gun-crazy lunatic and of course Homer (Joshua John Miller) who may look 12 but is really an old man in a young man's body as he claims. They are actually a band of vampire outlaws who has been on murder sprees for a long time as Caleb unwillingly becomes one of them once he craves for blood from the humans they murder but wants to find a way to be normal again, his father Loy (Tom Thomerson) searches for him as he is the only one that can be his cure.A brilliant, ultra-violent and original modern supernatural western horror movie from co-writer and director Kathryn Bigelow. This one has pure originality to it unlike any vampire movie ever done before, it's basically a modern version (For the 80's) western movie meets Count Dracula sort of way and just with the right touch. Unlike some vampire movies, this one doesn't mention the V word but keeps in usual clues about the vampires in this movie who have no fangs but razor-sharp as blades human teeth as they still drink blood and can be cooked in the sunlight yet not any kind of bullet would kill these vamps.It's far beyond any Hollywood vampire movie, this movie became a gory and action packed cult sensation since 1987 and remains that way like it was today as it's became an influential movie. This movie is a true must see and one of my all time favorite movies since high school in the 90's when i rented it on video.A winner! Also recommended Vamp, The Lost Boys, Vampire Hunter D, Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust, Fright Night 1 & 2, Night of the Living Dead (1968 and 1990), The Devil's Rejects, House of 1000 Corpses, Interview with the Vampire, The Hunger, Lifeforce, Dracula (1931, 1979, Jesse Franco and 1992 Bram Stoker), Let The Right One In, Twilight Saga, The Addiction, Habit, Immortality (a.k.a. Wisdom of Crocodiles), Bordello of Blood, From Dusk Till Dawn, The Forsaken, Underworld Trilogy, Blade Trilogy, Cronos, Horror of Dracula plus sequels, Perfect Creature, Daybreakers, Embrace of the Vampire, Thirst (2009), Def By Temptation, Cat People (1982), The Howling, Van Helsing, An American Werewolf in London, Dawn of the Dead (1978 and 2004), Captain Kronos Vampire Hunter, The Vampire Lovers, Countess Dracula, John Carpenter's Vampires, Vampyros Lesbos, Innocent Blood, Lair of the White Worm, The Hitcher (1986), Scarecrows, Vampire Circus, Vampire's Kiss, Central Park Drifter a.k.a. Graveyard Shift, Sundown The Vampire in Retreat, Children of the Night, Blood and Donuts, Skinwalkers, The Return of the Living Dead, Embrace of the Vampire, 30 Days of Night, The Monster Squad, The Night Flier, Queen of the Damned, Zoltan Hound-Dog of Dracula, Once Bitten, Love At First Bite and Sleepwalkers. "},{"Title":"Dracula Meets the Beverly Hillbillies","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" No Central Europeans with thick accents here. No siree, just your average downhome RV folks who happen to prefer O-positive to a Budweiser on ice. They might even be mistaken for Andy Griffith's Mayberry neighbors, which is what good-ole-boy Caleb Colton does when he spies Mae, tight jeans and all, outside his favorite honky-tonk. So what if her idea of planting a hickey leaves Caleb seriously depleted, staggering around town and wondering what species he is. Good thing Mae has taken a shine to him since his face now looks like a garbage pail. But the RV folks don't care&#x97;they adopt him anyway. Trouble is they're like the moon, only coming out at night. Plus, their idea of relaxing in a bar resembles a visit by Atilla the Hun, except Atilla had much more conventional dining habits. Then too, these folks are not easy to get along with, and who knows what'll happen to poor Caleb unless he starts shopping for his own dinner. After all, Mae's arm is looking a little limp. Worse, brother Severan goes into a slobbering rage at the least little thing. No, these are not folks to share a KOA camp space with unless you don't mind becoming the evening's main dish. Caleb would be well advised to jump species and go back to being human. Besides, his complexion would definitely clear up.Really well-done vampire flick that shows why the idea continues to fascinate. "},{"Title":"One of the best vampire movies to emerge from the 1980's!","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" CALEB (ADRIEN PASADAR) falls madly in love with a young girl he meets one evening in town, whom acts very scared & very weird as daylight vastly approaches. After putting the bite on him due to uncontrollable thirst, he is transformed into a vampire & is forced to join an elite pack of vampires led by the always fun to watch LANCE HENRIKESEN, as they go about the night, putting the bite on a series of victims, while sleeping in cars & hotels during the day in order to avoid becoming crispy critters. However Caleb has difficulties in bringing about his first kill & soon the vampires put their sight upon his young sister & widowed dad whom the vampires intend as their next target unless he can stop them. NEAR DARK was pretty good for a 1980's vampire movie, the score was fantastic, it's acting & directing fabulous & it's special effects was also well done! As well as having that perfect well balanced amount of suspense & horror as well as humor to help it rise above many horror projects that deal on the subject of vampirism. And although it's well done, the film falters in it's climax which (in my opinion) seemed flat & somewhat disappointing. Still it's a great movie & one recommended to horror buffs. Sadly at the time of me writing this review, I can see that it's in the remake stages (How pathetic!) Hopefully that idea will disintegrate like a vampire in sunlight (pun intended) because NEAR DARK is a good movie that certainly don't need the remake treatment! **** stars "},{"Title":"Love It!","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Near Dark is not a great film, but it is truly a classic and I love it! I love this movie! And I am in no way a fan of horror movies or even a lot of gore but somehow I fell in love with this movie. I had originally decided to see it because I'm a huge fan of Bill Paxton and had read about his performance in this film. I had read some reviews for this film and most of them were not so great. But I decided to see this movie anyway. I ended up liking it and it wasn't as gory as I had read. Now, I will admit that it is a little campy at times and some of the special effects, even for 1987, are a little cheesy but this is just a fun film to watch. And I don't like vampire movies but I did like the fact that these vampires don't have fangs or green eyes and their faces don't change when they attack. I loved that about the characters. I loved how they were just normal people who thirsted for blood and slept during the day and hunted at night. I loved how it was sort of a renegade/road flick. And, as strange as this may sound, I loved how they were all badass! They were so nice and charming at first and then you realize just how badass they really are! And the bar scene is just classic. Even though it is very cringe-worthy with all the brutality of the killings it is such a cool scene. Bill Paxton as Severen the vampire was so good! He played this careless, ruthless biker/cowboy vampire to a T! And Lance Henrikson as Jesse the captain vampire was incredibly creepy. And I liked everyone else too. But I will have to admit that the character of Homer, played by Joshua Miller, did kind of get annoying after a while. I wanted him to be disposed of! But this was just a cool, fun movie to watch and even though it's not great it's still a classic. I'm so glad I have it in my collection! thank you for reading my review! "}{"Title":"I like the nightlife, baby.","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In a small American southwest town, a young country lad Caleb Collon is mesmerised by an elegant out-of-town girl, Mae. She's no ordinary girl and Caleb finds out the hard way when she sinks her teeth into his neck. Soon enough he his pick up by Mae's family of drifters, when he was struggling to get home with the after-affects of the bite kicking in. This is when he comes to realise that his life has changed and now he must quench that taste for blood with this enigmatic group led by Jesse. Not only do they have the daylight to face, but also the cops and Caleb's father are on their trail. I can see why this ambitious project gets labelled one of the best landmark vampire films of all time. So, anyone going in expecting something of that category surely would have high hopes and I for one was. I admit it lived up to its promising hype, up until its underwhelming climax and overly sweet conclusion. Where we are in freeze frame heaven! That said, Near Dark is an extremely memorable and slickly uncanny contemporary take on the mythical folklore of vampires with a road movie style on the side. Like mentioned by many of the IMDb reviewers it never really stated or implied that they are vampires and most of the basic traditions don't see daylight. Sadly this well-made and well-disguised low-budget independent feature went by unnoticed when it hit cinemas and The Lost Boys which came out the exact same time took most of the glory. Director Kathryn Bigelow gave this wickedly slick cult item a down and dirty feel amongst its lustful grit and tenacious brutality for thrills. There's a cross genre where the horror (vampire phase) successfully gels with the western element. The ultra-cool and energy packed story was drummed up by Bigelow and Eric Red. Streaming through the pairs' intelligently concise script is sardonically dark wit, the furious prowess of addiction (namely blood here) and a neat allegory on family bonds. This tight knit nuclear family of fringe dwellers was made possible and totally believable by the exceptional performances of (gravel like) Lance Hendrickson, Bill Paxton (who simply rocks), Jenette Goldstein, Joshua Miller and the very enticing Jenny Wright. This dynamic ensemble cast really did give the film much-added spark to the sparse nature of it. Adrian Pasdar is above par as the sympathetically likable and rather clueless victim Caleb. Another star on the production would the Tangerine Dream's atmospherically edgy and downright brooding music score sounded superb and how can I forget that of Adam Greenberg's moodily clear cut photography that captured many blistering imagery's that plastered this high-octane piece. Brutal, rough and unflinching horror shines in this freshly acted and directed b-novelty. While flawed, it's a very engrossing exercise. "},{"Title":"Rebellious vampires, Excellent!","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is no doubt is the original one, far better that Lost Boys, is films violent by far style, with vampires very cool. I am one fan of films of vampires and a friend recommended to see this old film to me of the eighty and I was surprised! They are vampires outsiders, outside the system, try to survive like strangers, of town, in town and its sentence is to want to establish relations. In spite of the violence, one includes/understands the dramatic situation of the vampires. The scene in the bar is chilling, sometimes give desire to close the eyes, an inspiration for Tarantino. But this it films is serious with good performances of the actors, everything filmed in a small American town, without great budgets but with much atmosphere and an elegant work of camera. "},{"Title":"The best non-vampire vampire movie ever!","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Near Dark is special because it's a totally obvious vampire movie, without actually being one. Not one character uses the word vampire, not one character has a bad reaction to a cross or holy water, hell, religion isn't even involved in the movie. It's about addiction, and family. This is a one of a kind film. It can never be replicated or duplicated, and I feel sorry for anyone who watches the planned remake over this piece of art. Sure, Bill Paxton steals the show, but, so does the family. Nobody really cares if hero Adrian Pasdar turns out all right at the end, you're more worried about whether or not the villains will. That to me is brilliant film-making. When you care more for the family of villains than you do about the lame ass eighties hero, you've got a very wonderful, dynamic movie. I love this film and can't see it enough times, and will NEVER stop recommending it. "},{"Title":"Great 80's vampire film without CG, but its got Lance Henriksen!","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Notoriously released around the same time as The Lost Boys, Near Dark is a take on a vampire troupe who look for their blood-lust throughout the Midwest states in the US. When one of the girls in the troupe, Mae, is encountered by Caleb, a small-town guy looking for love from Mae, she turns Caleb's life around for the next few months when she feeds on him, turning him into one of the gang. The gang consists of the older leader, Jesse (wonderously played out by Lance Henriksen), his love-interest Diamondback, Severen the bad-boy type, Homer the young kid-turned-vampire, and Mae, the quiet, innocent type-turned vampire. Now enter Caleb, who's having some issues with making kills to stay alive on the blood of others. That, and he has a family who has been looking for him and his abductors for a while with the aid of the police, who end up tracking them down but were unsuccessful in keeping them in one place, even during the daylight hours.Watching this for the first time nearly 20 years after it was released brought to mind recent vampire-esquire films like the Blade trilogy, Underworld 1&2, and just a host of others that keep the vampire legend alive (Interview with a Vampire, etc etc etc), but there are none out there which deal with the humanistic viewpoint of how they get by through the day when in a setting like the Midwest (with flat land, hardly any shade), and then tackle the issues of what happens to them when they are exposed to sunlight (and eventually what happens with too much exposure) and what about vampires being transfused with normal humans' blood? All very interesting, and all are in this movie.The music was typical fare from the 80's gems Tangerine Dream, who are known for their great music on many other films. The director kept the relationships between everyone very well known and draws you into their circle. The acting was pretty well done (even when Bill Paxton thinks that he's in the Breakfast Club more than he's in a vampire film). The best scenes are in the bar (when everyone in the tiny rundown bar gets annihilated by the hands of this troupe) and the shootout between the cops and the vampires. There were early camera tricks with flames being added onto the film when the vampires would catch fire, like it was CG or something, but earlier.I didn't like some of the basics that made the film end the way it did, like when the vampires forget that the sun's coming up and start frying in the station wagon while they start to try and block out the sun while its clear that the sun has been up for a while. I thought Diamondback's character was almost a waste of space (well, that could be said for Caleb's character, too, but then there would be no story for the film). And while the rest of the characters had a back-story, there was no backstory on Severen, which I would've liked to know (and maybe more about Homer, since he was so young and all).I gave the film 7/10 stars. It's definitely better than average, and it tells a better, solid story than some of the newer vampire films, which IMO spend much too much money on CG and visuals than they do on a solid...anything. It's a classic from the late 80's and definitely not one to be missed. Go rent it with Lost Boys and decide for yourself which type of 80's typification of vampires that you like best! "},{"Title":"Near Greatness, a Dark Story","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Evoking the many fears associated with the after-hours, this is the movie which really needs to be seen on a dark night (a full moon is OK). Director Bigelow captures the sense of threat from those unseen predators lurking around after the sun goes down, popping up to prey on the unlucky few - mankind, not the top of the food chain in this story. There's no mention of 'vampires' during the film; the only mythology present associated with those bloodsuckers is the burning under the sun's touch, an effective countermeasure against otherwise unstoppable killers. The film relies on the viewer's own knowledge of old vampire tales to fill in all the gaps; no explanations are necessary within the film. The group of killers here, a strange family arranged like a wolf pack, are led by Henriksen, the oldest of the pack. They usually get around in a black van, moving through a bleak countryside somewhere in Texas or thereabouts. The youngest member (Wright) infects a young man (Pasdar) out of loneliness, but the newbie doesn't take well to a new lifestyle of murdering in the dark.The film also touches on some truly eerie themes one of the pack looks like a young boy, but is chronologically a 40-year old man. He laments his lot in 'life' - stuck in a boyish body for eternity. All of the pack is potentially eternal; this is not necessarily an enviable prospect. There's a haunting subtext to all the proceedings, since we know these predators are, at best, doomed to this nocturnal activity for, well, forever. The photography also excels in suggesting this feeling, adding a gloomy style to the whole picture. Of course, a possible cure surfaces in the film's 3rd act, which kind of reduces the gloominess, but it also accentuates the importance of the young man's 'daylight' family (Thomerson), who do not give up on him.The central set piece of the film takes place in a typical rural bar, where the pack decides to slaughter the patrons for food and show the newbie what his new 'life' is all about. It's truly unforgettable and showcases the talents of Paxton, the most flamboyant member of the pack. His character fully embraces the aspects of being a super-killer and he's incredible to watch - mostly in this scene, but also throughout the movie. The scene goes down as a modern classic and most viewers will be compelled to see it over and over, chilling as it is. This film came out the same year as The Lost Boys - the other vampire movie of that year; that other one doesn't measure up to the moody stylistics provided here. "},{"Title":"Cult Viewing of the highest order","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Near Dark follows the travels of Caleb (Adrien Pasdar) as he is lured into the world of blood sucking, daylight fearing strangers when he falls for the beautiful Jenny Wright. What ensues is an incredible fusion of horror and action, which echoes eternally of undying romance, while adhering to the classic western theme. Brimming all along with black humour.The performances are something to be amazed at, whether it is the the restraint and fear of Adrien Pasdar's Caleb, the seductive powers of Jenny Wright's Mae, the calm creepiness of Lance Henriksen's Jesse, the all out off the rails lunacy of Bill Paxton's Severen or the Jenette Goldstein's tough diamondback. This combined with Bigelow's wonderful cinematography creates a truly unbeatable atmosphere; that you cannot help being sucked in by.Overall the very definition of cult, a majestic exploration of vampires. "},{"Title":"Near Great","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a wonderful vampire movie . . . until the end. I love the taped up van, vampires driving in the daylight! The bar scene is without a doubt the best vampire slaughter scene ever! They don't even refer to them as vampires, but they sure aren't like any of my neighbors!The cast is first rate and do a great job. Lance Henriksen and Billy Paxton shine as villains. Adrian Pasdar is wonderful as Caleb, smitten (and bitten) by Jenny Wright as Mae.There are some lines that should be classic, Your skin's as soft as a preachers belly., The night has its price. and many more. Very good dialog.An outstanding score by Tangerine Dream runs the length of the movie. It really enhances the scenes and ups the enjoyment scale.The movie does have a few weak points, and they occur mostly at the end. It bothers me the vampires have different burn rates. Mae is being chased out in the open in daylight by Homer, he burns and she doesn't. Where did the simple rancher get the IV equipment or enough blood for 2 adults? I'm sure it's something every rancher has laying around just in case your son is bitten by a vampire and you need to cure him!There is an nice version out there with interviews with the Director Kathryn Bigelow and the cast. Overall it's a highly enjoyable movie, I recommend it for all but the faint of heart. "},{"Title":"A classic film, that doesn't try to conform","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have read through many of the reviews on this film and felt I needed to add my thoughts. Near Dark is, in my opinion, a classic vampire movie, though the ending does leave something to be desired. The review contains spoilers.The disappointment of the ending does not rest in the way in which Caleb is cured, whose to say that transferring all the blood and replacing it with clean blood would not cure someone bitten, though not actually killed, by a vampire. Precedent is there within vampire lore - Van Helsing tries similar with Lucy, in Bram Stoker's classic novel. It's just that the ending is so saccharine sweet it is untrue. After the darkness of the rest of the film, this is jarring.I feel it unfair to complain because a film changes the rules, so long as the rules contain their own inner logic. Besides which, all vampire folklore is very different depending on which country one looks at. This film works within its own, consistent, logic.The film takes the genre and moves it in other directions and, so long as it works, that is a fine thing to do. In this case it works extremely well. The cast is solid, creepy and sinister in turns and the atmosphere of the movie sends chills up the spine.I recommend watching the movie whole-heartedly. "},{"Title":"lovely","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'll be brief. Counting all vampire and monster movies being spewn out every year, and all following the same idiotic execution, Near Dark stands out, and remains apart for over a decade. Perhaps it's most notable strenght are the characters themselves, and the way they were thought of. Instead of mindless monsters flying around and hissing with gaping mouths, the vampires in near dark and utterly human, creating the very beleivable idea of what a vampire really is; immortal human that can't stand sunlight and needs blood.The movie follows a group of vampires after a country boy falls in love with one of the pack and inevitably becomes a bloodsucker himself, then has to decide, and ends up rebelling against his new friends (with a twist however). There are several scenes of pure good old brawl, suspense and even a little bit of parody. By the end of the movie, you actually feel for the characters, and them being vampires becomes 2nd to them still being people. This is the first vampire movie which i have seen that has managed to achieve that in such a great way, making it a must see if you remotely enjoy horror flicks. 7/10 "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  very good vampire flick this is in my top 5 in vampire flicks it has good gore excellent acting and a cool plot and is never boring always entertaining and has a excellent script and is just very well made in all aspects a must watch **** out of 5 "}{"Title":"I Love this movie!!","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the BEST vampire flick ever made! I absolutely love it and it is an absolute joy to watch. Especially if you're a Bill Paxton fan, like I am. This is his movie. He steals every scene he's in. He's not really the kind of actor who plays really sadistic characters but he perfected Severen! I really enjoyed the storyline. Good ol' country boy meets a girl from out of town named Mae and he is smitten with her. But unbeknownst to him, she's a vampire. And she's out for blood. And she nips him on the neck. Well, a while later he's picked up by an RV with all the windows covered in aluminum foil. It's Mae and her family. He becomes hungry for blood but he doesn't have the heart to kill. So he drinks from Mae and almost kills her. I think that's interesting. And I loved the fact that these vampires don't have fangs and they don't even use the word vampire in this movie! That bar scene is the greatest scene in the whole movie. I absolutely love it! Severen (Paxton) totally stole that scene. He had all the greatest lines and you could just tell that he enjoyed killing. But I think Jesse (Lance Henrikson) was very creepy as the head vampire but he was also great. Loved the part where he coughed up the bullet after Caleb's father shot him. Diamondback (Jenette Goldstein) was fun to watch as a total badass woman who enjoyed killing as well. But Homer (Joshua Miller) got on my nerves so bad! He was irritating! We could've done without his character. But the movie still rocked. I thought the ending was a little bit cheesy, but it didn't keep me from enjoying this awesome movie. I am so glad I own it on VHS! This is definitely one of Bill Paxton's greatest performances. He acted like being a vampire was the most fun he'd ever had. I loved it! Near Dark is definitely a classic and it is not to be missed by fans of this genre! Thanks for reading my review.  "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Near Dark is an unusual approach to a vampire movie, but a good one at that.  I like that they don't talk about crucifixes and garlic and holy water, but rather just have the sun be their worst enemy.  All of the characters (especially Bill paxton) were just cool, and they did their share.  This is one good vampire tale that they didn't wreck by having a sequel.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dark Victory","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Caleb and Mae (Adrian Pasdar and Jenny Wright) are a star-crossed pair. Mae turns Caleb into a vampire, but he can't bring himself to kill anyone. This leads Mae's vampire clan to hate Caleb, and they're bent on destroying him if he doesn't prove himself - soon.Director Kathyrn Bigelow's Near Dark is a rare find in the tricky vampire genre. Sporting great gory gags, nasty humor, and haunting romance, Near Dark succeeds where so many have failed. A great modern horror film, with bonus points for excellent use of George Strait's This is Where the Cowboy Rides Away. "},{"Title":"a few thoughts on the mix of horror, western & Bigelow...","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Essentially you have the plot points and visual style of The Terminator intersecting a strange collision of two film genres (vampire flick and classic western). Kathryn Bigelow (who clearly shares an attraction to certain key plot & visual elements with her now ex-partner James Cameron)creates here something that has many elements of familiarity but just enough of a unique twist to keep it interesting and feeling new. What strikes me is how much of The Terminator is visible here, from the extended chase plot to a continued obsession with cheap motels, all kinds of trucks, and even a fondness for particular weapons.It doesn't quite have the sheer kinetic energy of The Terminator, and there are a few awkward plot turns that could've been better executed, but the whole enterprise is ably held together by the manic glee with which the key 'bad guys' tear into their parts-- Henrikson & Paxton particularly keep all eyes riveted on their no holds barred performances.It's not the perfect 'darkness' film, but it's very near. "},{"Title":"so much is good but something should...","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...be changed. Anyway, let's start with the positive remarks.Certainly a good vampire movie. A fresh infusion to the genre. Its play on Western cliché and road movies makes it unique. A good cast makes it worth seeing. The only sad thing about Near Dark is the ending which is odd and seems to be a bit reactionary (which fits the general horror movie approach) and even illogical. Considering the opposition living as a vampire vs. living a normal life, why does Caleb not decide to add his family to the vampire family? The other way round it is not that logical - how can he keep Mae with him then? And why does a simple blood transfusion make him bear the sunlight?A disappointing ending. Could have done better. A nice idea, nevertheless. "},{"Title":"A nice addition to the vampire genre","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Along with The Lost Boys, this is one of two decent vampire movies to come out in 1987. While The Lost Boys has a lot of humor, this movie is more serious. Though Bill Paxton always adds a bit of humor, albeit not always completely intentional. Near Dark adds some interesting ideas that I hadn't seen much before. It shows a very personal side of the vampires, especially the recently turned Caleb and his love interest Mae. It shows his struggle between trying to be accepted by his new vampire compadres and his love for his family that he's been forced to leave behind. It really goes into detail about the fact that they have to kill nightly to survive. It also added an interesting concept on how to bring back a person who has been turned. It does have a bit of 80s cheesy feel to it, but the strong story and quality acting and characters provide a nice addition to the vampire genre.*** (Out of 4) "},{"Title":"Very stylish and well filmed","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was an interesting (if a little badly written) vampire movie with beautiful  cinematography.  Lance Henrikson, the beautiful wonderful man, really stealsthis movie.  But an interesting note, there are three Aliens cast members here,  a fact jokingly referenced in one scene, where a flashing movie marqueedisplaying Aliens can be seen in the background.  A good way to while away a  couple of hours.   "},{"Title":"Greatest bar scene ever!!!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was listed as one of the 100 greatest movies to rent that you never heard of.  True enough.  It is, as mentioned here, an oddly overlooked gem of a film.  Kathyrn Bigelow (who cowrote) lends a real convincingness to the vampire myth here (the v word isnt mentioned once in dialogue).  The midwest rural setting is made at once both earthy and otherworldly- you wont find an atmosphere like this in any other film.  The scene in the bar undoubtedly ranks as one of the greatest scenes in horror movie history, with clever dialogue and dramatic tension that you can cut with a knife (pun)?  I hesitate to classify this as purely a horror film, though- it has more depth than that.  A real treat... "},{"Title":"Near flawless...","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Director Kathryn Bigelow's one-of-a-kind road movie somehow got lost in the shuffle back in the late '80's; more's the pity this is one of the most polished productions to ever grace the genre- and one of the best. It's innovative and interesting and intelligently mounted. What more could one ask of a film in ANY genre? (The irony is that while lesser efforts like THE LOST BOYS- geared toward younger moviegoers, particularly those of a male persuasion- received all the press, it was NEAR DARK that featured one of the only genuinely interesting young male performances by Joshua Miller, as the geriatric juvenile locked forever in the body of a child.) Highly recommended viewing.   "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 ot of 4.","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Young man (Adrian Pasdar) picks up a female hitchhiker (Jenny Wright) who turns him into a vampire headed by Lance Henriksen by taking a small bite on his neck. Well directed vampire flick is very entertaining, very atmospheric. It is one of the best horror films made in the 1980's. It features well developed characterizations and the acting is very good all around. A real treat for horror buffs.Rated R; Graphic Violence and Profanity. "}{"Title":"An excellent vampire movie!","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has to be the best vampire movie that I have ever seen. One of the reasons why it is so good is due to the fantastic casting. This is one of the few movies ever made where the casting is precise. When local boy Caleb meets the beautiful stranger Mae, he tries so hard to get to know her, though not the way he intended. When Caleb is bit by Mae, the other vampires in the group don't exactly take too kindly to the new guy. He is given a few chances to attack/kill victims to prove that he is strong enough to stay with them. Great acting by Bill Paxton, Lance Hendriksen & Jeannette Goldstein, along with great makeup make 'Near Dark' a movie you cannot miss. It's a instant classic! "},{"Title":"Finger-Lickin good!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some reviewer here commented that they don't make vampire movies like this any more. Fact is they never DID make vampire movies like this! Quite simply it is the best of the rest, marginally edging out FRIGHT NIGHT, THE LOST BOYS and INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE  (which remains inconceivably so unpopular with hosts of viewers!)This had everything, including Bill Paxton's greatest performance. As unlike the wussy characters he came up with in TITANIC and more lamentably TWISTER, he plays the vampire Severen with unreal gusto. Cruel, evil, soulless, mega violent and just plain hellish, everything a vampire SHOULD be, he delivers lines such as I hate it when they ain't bin shaved with over-the-top relish. This is in fact a superb study of modern-day vampirism in backwater USA. Henriksen strikes the perfect note as Jesse, head of the family with more menace than a truck load of SWAT teams! Love the scene at the motel where he addresses the decrepit old proprietor as Sir and is forced to retrieve the key with a scarf as the daylight edges along the counter. Great stuff!Pasdar is excellent (despite numerous inexplicably negative comments here) as the country boy drawn into a labyrinth of horror, simply because his eyes fell on the wrong girl....cute Mae (Jenny Wright)  Jenette Goldstein, the third ALIENS member is good though barely used in her supporting role as Diamondback, Jesse's woman.By far the most stylish, well-filmed and even emotional vampiric demise you will ever see in a film. Bigelow (who curiously later married Jim Cameron) produced a masterpiece with this effort. There appear to be many who recognise that! Equally influential to the film's unique appeal is the stunning musical score from Tangerine Dream. If you have never caught up with this movie, you owe it to yourself to rectify that oversight! "},{"Title":"Both influential and a tribute to vampire flicks.","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the greatest vampire movies ever. Well acted and well directed this is a highly influential film yet echos some films of the past. First off I'd like to say Kathryn Bigelow is a brilliant director, she has both the visual appeal and gives the movie some sense of depth which keeps it from being Just another vampire movie. I love her use of lighting, I would not be surprised if her favorite color is blue, she uses it a lot in all her movies. Anyways, this film has an interesting spin on vampires, it cleverly depicts what it would be like to be in a pack of vampires and to see how they live. Most films just show them sleeping in a crypt or sucking blood like that's all they do. This film is very creative in portraying a life of a vampire. The characters are all well developed and played. Each one represents a different type of vampire from previous films. Caleb is new at being a vampire and has a difficult time conforming to the pack due to strong moral values, Mae sadly accepts what she is and has no sense of hope, Severen plays it cool yet his coolness is actually his insanity caused by his curse, Jesse the eldest vampire knows exactly what he is and exactly what he does yet has done it for so long he has no sense of moral value left and just doesn't care, Homer is a bitter man trapped in a child's body yet has occasional childlike characteristics, and Diamondback is bitter and angry yet is growing weary of her curse. All these individuals are an excellent mix of the cool and the disturbing. The film is both tragic and frightening due to believable characters and unbelievable directing. This is a definite must-see for vampire fans.    "},{"Title":"Comprehensive and original vamping material","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  They don't make films like NEAR DARK anymore.  Not only since the gore force of the 80's is gone as well as the faith in the horror genre, but since the film's scope is now an ancestor of the 90's and more recent hip and witty imitations that (pardon the expression) suck.  This was really a one of kind film.  I've been a fan of it since it was released, and over the years I've noted that its unique, unconventional approach to such a commercialized subject is exactly what gives the film such a quiet, eerie impact.If you listen and watch carefully, the term vampire is not even mentioned in the film - not once by any of the characters.  Nor do any of them say blood, eternal life, etc.  The cliches of the previously mentioned vampire flicks are not here, and thankfully so.  And the reason why... because the filmmaker's had more faith in their audience.  The audience knows about wooden stakes and crucifixes.  Or if that doesn't work use silver and holy water, and sunlight is always an ally.  I'd be stunned to find another vampire flick that dared to compare to this one for its originality and style.Interesting to note is how these vamps are of a different breed, so to speak.  They're grungy, outlaws who roam the empty highways of the Midwest looking for unsuspecting hitchhikers and - in a spectacular scene of macabre necessity and violence - a bunch of barflies who must be thinking they ain't from around here. The characters are unique in every way.  Especially the young Homer (D'oh) who's 11 year old body can't put up with his elderly vampire ego.  Very much like Claudia in INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE, where Anne Rice may have even got the idea.Jenny Wright is Mae, a rookie vampire who's just initiated Calub into the pack.  For what a vampire represents, metaphorically, she is the perfect embodiment of her character.  Young, timid, afraid of growing up (or growing older).  Without giving out spoilers for the ending to those who have yet to see this, imagine Mae as someone who has found a way to cheat death.All in all, this is definitely worth the ride for vampire fans.  While NEAR DARK still has the upsets of resulting to occasionally bleak gunfights or senseless acts of stupidity, its design is candy enough alone.  The craft here is in how it avoids being restricted to the mythology of the vampire, that almost every other film has nailed their script and premise onto for a plot.With James Cameron's reunited ALIENS cast and a marvelous tone, NEAR DARK is most definitely on my top ten for this genre.  Until next time, Off the Rock, On the Ball and Very Low Key. "},{"Title":"Stylish silly fun.","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you're not a big 'Vampire movie fan' (see other reviews) you can still enjoy this sleek production out of the 80's, and even enjoy the haircuts and fashion!  Well cast (where IS Jenny Wright?) and beautifully shot, this comes close to being another case of 'style over substance', but survives intact. Bill Paxton chews up the   scenery and the wonderful Lance Henrickson steals every scene he's in.  Fun fun fun. "},{"Title":"An important evolution in the vampire mythos","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *** SMALL CHARACTER SPOILERS ***An interesting film that is rooted in Anne Rice angst, skips right past the slapstick monsters of Dusk 'til Dawn, and shows glimpses of the mundane vampire verite quirks later to appear in Buffy.From Rice, we have a child vampire and a chilly stalker, while the wild and irreverent Severen wouldn't look out of place on Buffy or Angel, and the reluctant innocents, Caleb and Mae are familiar to both milieus.  There are some delightful character touches, e.g. the salacious Diamondback occasionally showing unexpected maternal protectiveness towards the ancient child vampire Homer.What strikes most stongly about these vampires (apart from the slightly arty pretentiousness of not using the word vampire) is that their mythos is more closely related to Nosferatu than to Hammer's Count Dracula.  The old vampire conventions (stakes, holy water, garlic) are left behind; these creatures are fearless and all powerful by night, but are terrified of dawn and the burning light of day.  It's a nice take, and works well.There's a lot to like in here; solid acting, the concept of family ties among the undead, tenderness among monsters, redemption and revenge.  It's a shame that the plot slips into Deux Ex Machina as it nears the conclusion, but forgive that slight slip and there's a worthy and enjoyable piece of filmmaking here. "},{"Title":"Instant Classic","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ****Spoiler at the End*****>What can I say about this movie?  As stylish as Lost Boys for starters. Let's take the evening dress away from the Vampires (I hadn't noticed, until reading reviews of the movie, that the word is never used) and put them out in the Great Fried Empty.Fantastic casting from end to end, esp Lance Henriksen.  There's a man who's got (dark) charisma.  Even when he smiles, there's a brooding intensity to him that I can't stop watching.Bill Paxton is his usual slightly off-kilter self, but he gets to be a bad boy in this film.Adrian Passar and Jenny Wright are true innocents, no matter what they see or do, while the youngest of the family, Homer, is the most jaded and cynical.SPOILERS HEREThere are also, IMO, two incredibly well-written bit characters.The Cop in the Bus Station.  Notice Caleb's reaction to the wound on his hand?  The body knows what it needs, even this early into the Change.  Go home... and be a good boy.  Could the movie have ended this easily? Wouldn't have been as much fun.And The Truck Driver. You kids running away from home?  Sometimes home is bad.  If he only knew...  And he gives Caleb the clue he needs to deal with Severen, one of the meanest vamps in years. "},{"Title":"Darker than average vampire classic.","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Young farmhand Caleb (Adrian Pasdar, who should have moved onto something special after this), has his sights set on some lovin' when the pretty but spooky looking Mae agrees to let him drive her home. What Caleb doesn't know is that Mae is something very special, but this not special in a good way. She, after giving him a peck on the neck he'll never forget, tries to initiate him into her society of friends, the kind of horrible no-goods you normally wouldn't want to associate with. It's easy to draw comparisons with this film and The Lost Boys. Plotwise, there really isn't much difference between the two, but the mood, tone and atmosphere of both films are very different indeed. Near Dark is a stronger, meatier and darker vampire film. The idea to set the film in the West (Oklahoma) was a smart, different move and the desolate visuals are frightening and eerie. The music is strange and subtle and the performances are all very good. There are many superb moments in Near Dark. The opening is a classic example of tension, and the parts when we see the vampires looking out for food by picking up hitchhikers, hitching lifts themselves and one very spooky bit when the junior bloodsucker pretends to be injured to lure some poor man to his aid show the films more subtle side to its horror at its best. Subtle horror goes out of the window in the film's best sequence, which is the murder sequence in the bar. Equally funny (in a very dark way)and frightening, this deserves to go down in history as one of the best scenes of all time.  Near Dark's ending is a little conventional however. Still, that's the only flaw in a great film that takes the vampire myth to darker depths than any of its contemporaries. A minor classic. "},{"Title":"Texas Vampires!","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Off-beat vampire flic about a cabal of nasty vamps who want to initiate a new member who won't kill.  Director Bigelow directs stylishly, and the veteran cast of Lance Hendricksen, Bill Paxton, and Jenette Goldstein (from Aliens)makes things interesting.  Weak plot relies on too many coincidences and stretches believability a bit much (I mean, even in Texas a killing spree is going to get noticed...), but does deliver the action.  Paxton is a howl as a s**t-kicker vampire, and Hendricksen is his usual solid self.  Newcomers Pasdar & Wright are fine as the young, recent initiants.  Offers an interesting, if puzzling, addition to vampire lore the ability to turn back thru blood transfusion.  As this is never explained, the viewer is left alone to figure out the implications.  The MooCow says Near Dark is a decent addition to the body of vampire flics haunting your local video store, if a bit too deep-fried. "},{"Title":"good vampire tale","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can say I liked this one; and I can't say that about most in this genre. It was a little holey in spots, but overall it was an exciting film. A band of vampires capture a boy and turn him into a vampire. The ending left a lot to be desired, but was still satisfying. Lance Hendrickson made a fine vampire leader. "}{"Title":"not as good as i thought it would be","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Caleb Cotlton (Adrian Pasdar) is a young man living an unspectacular life in the dusty wilderness of Oklahoma. One night he encounters at lusty femme fatale vampire and this small town boy is changed forever... or at least for the next 80 minutes.Near Dark has garnered a reputation as the thinking mans Lost Boys. Over the years it has attracted a cult following and retrospective critical plaudits. There is no denying that the film has many strong elements that are worthy of considerable praise but as a whole this film falls flat when faced with closer scrutiny.The first thing that strikes you when watching Near Dark is the thick atmosphere that the dusty twilight generates. The numerous low angle long shots help carve the inhuman creatures into the scorched landscape and the moody, tension building score just about manages to avoid that oh-so 80's feel.The ensemble cast, featuring Bill Baxton and Lance Henriksen amongst others, is a delightfully perverse and diverse bunch of freakish and menacing killers. But they are given neither back-story nor the exposition of time and space in which to grow or develop.Kathryn Bigelow is a filmmaker comfortable with directing action. In fact she excels at it. A sequence in a redneck bar where our motley crew of vampire desperados massacre the patrons is expertly done, the sense of grotesque fear and hopeless desperation is emphasised with a series of fixed shots on straddled limbs and open wounds when most directors would flinch after a few seconds and point the camera elsewhere. Similarly the shootout with the police at the motel is a fantastic and gory adrenaline fuelled piece of slightly soggy popcorn entertainment.While Adrian Pasdar's Caleb is both bland and one dimensional, Bill Baxton shines are the psychotic Severen. Paxton's wild eyed portrayal of a cowboy killer is one of the highlights of the film.As the end of the movie approaches it becomes clear that all the promise is slowly being squandered alongside any sense of plausibility. The bad vampires burn up in the sun after only a few seconds, the good vampires last for weeks, Caleb blows up a truck but pulling a handbrake, a simple blood transfusion administered by a farmer cures our hero of his carnivorous tendencies and the once powerful uber-vamps cannot seem to kill a little girl and her teenage brother no matter how hard they try.Overall Near Dark deserves praise; the evocative atmosphere is second to none, the action is brutal and stylish. But there is complete lack of plausibility in terms of plot. The lack of motivations for the characters and an unwillingness to grant even the most prominent with a back-story make Near Dark a near miss. More money and a longer running time and this could have been something very special indeed. "},{"Title":"Outlaws with fangs","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Very rewarding and original vampire movie. Nice performances, tightly directed, sparingly but exiting scenes of action, moody, beautiful photography, low-key and dreamy atmosphere, romantic fairytale-like story, great synthesizer score by Tangerine Dream. And the lovely and hauntingly beautiful Jenny Wright.Near Dark could shortly be described as an urban-vampire-western version of The Hitcher(1986), with a downplayed Romeo and Julia theme. Not surprisingly Eric Red was involved in the writing of both these two movies.On the negative side. The midsection slightly drags along to much and doesn't move the story forward. Then suddenly, like the filmmakers were in a big hurry to wrap-up the story. The movie makes a huge leap forward to the last action filled, third act. This made the movie feel slightly out of sync at times.Near Dark isn't very suspenseful. But that is of less importance and I didn't miss that much at all. Instead the movie had a fantastic dreamy and strangely romantic quality to itself. The movie also makes one feel the zen-like melancholia of how it must be like, wandering as an outsider, forever at night. Leaves one thinking a longtime after the end credits has rolled by. About what was shown up there on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Original southwestern Vamp flick","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Near darkThere are actually 3 southwestern Vampire films( From dusk til dawn, Carpenters'Vampires), and Near Dark is the diabolical best. Features B- movie greats from Lance(frank black) H. to Tim Tomerson (Trancers and Dollman fame). Bill Paxton as usual steals the show with his over the top redneck vampire that looks strangely familiar to most of his other over the top redneck roles from the eighties.The acting is all pretty well done for a film of it's budget, in fact everything is well done for a film of it's budget. The writers were going for western vampire crossover. When I watch this I reminded that westerns do not have to be period films. The wild bunch is not exactly in a traditional western time and Sean Penn's the pledge is very much a western.I digress. Near dark is a excellent Vampire film that was written and directed with intelligence and despite's budget almost never falls into camp. While a there are few moments the sun just appears I will forgive the film. For those who don't find the film scary they are failing to do the one thing that makes horror films scary. You must put yourself in the shoes of the characters. More on that in the spoilers section of this review.Near dark succeeds on every level for me, above all it never fails to entertain. Highly suggested for horror fans of discernible taste.Spoilers ahoyImagine for one moment you were just some redneck hanging out playing pool at a bar. Jessie and his crew of Vampires come in. They bully people and then kill the waitress and drink her blood. Yes you would scared, or if you were the main character when he discovered his sister in the hotel room. Yeah you would be freaked. Good stuff. "},{"Title":"If you're going to see one vampire movie, make it this one!","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just saw it again on DVD, and it still rocks.  The last scene is quite haunting, and is surely K. Bigelow's finest bit of filmmaking.The performances are all great, especially Bill Paxton's. It's fun to try to determine which of the lines in Lance Henriksen's face are real & which are made-up. "},{"Title":"One of the best vampire movies ever made rests in this horror classic","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Near Dark is one of the films that you olny know about if you're a film buff. It's a horror classic with stylish cinematography, good performances and a nice script. Adrian Pasdar is good in the lead but as always Bill Paxton gives an over the top performance. The film is tense features action and good diretcion by Kathryn Bigelow. If you've never seen this film check it out on DVD. "},{"Title":"Impressive vampire flick.","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Near Dark begins with young man named Caleb,who wants more than anything to leave Texas-until he meets beautiful yet mysterious Mae.Predictably,Mae is a vampire-and after Caleb attempts to score with her,she accidentally brings him across into the world of the undead.Now,while being hunted by his worried father and young sister,Caleb is forced to join a band of evil vampires,of which Mae travels with.Here it is-possibly the best modern vampire film ever made.I absolutely loved it!This film is amazing in every aspect-it has brilliant acting,truly mesmerizing score by Tangerine Dream and lots of gore.Bill Paxton is amazing as a sadistic vampire Severen.I love the scene in the bar-a total killing spree.Near Dark is an excellent horror and I can safely say that Kathryn Bigelow never made a better film.Highly recommended.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Truly marvellous vampire western","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Near Dark has been one of my favorite films since I was about 13. Nearly a decade later I watched it last night for the umpteenth time and was still enormously impressed. One thing which struck me though, was that this isn't actually a particularly gory film at all. For a horror movie from the Eighties there is a surprising absence of all that much grue and there is no nudity either. This led me to view it more as a kind of mythical western than as a horror film and it is in this capacity that the film is a comfortable 10/10. The film is simply a majestic piece of cinema. The acting ranges from the merely good in the case of Adrian Pasdar, to the excellent, Bill Paxton, Lance Henriksen. Its interesting that the film contains several of the cast from Aliens, and this works nicely, as they have great chemistry and work off each other nicely. The script is damn fine with lots of memorable lines, some occasional dark chuckles and far more depth and feeling than most vampire pictures. The direction by the great Kathryn Bigelow (Blue Steel, Strange Days) is amazingly stylish and the typically Eighties Tangerine Dream score fine too. Like with all the best westerns I felt genuinely moved at the end and had a feeling like I just watched an epic. I can't recommend this film enough, if yr reading this and you haven't seen it yet you really, really should. "},{"Title":"Good Movie, If Your Like 12 Years Old and Really Bored","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I finally got to see this overrated film after hearing about it for years. Anyone that claims that this is the greatest Vampire movie of all time has never seen another Vampire movie. The acting is pretty weak at times, especially from a young Bill Paxton. Even the often underrated Lance Henriksen is pretty bad in this dog. The story is reasonably interesting but the execution is uneven and stilted. There is a cheesy 1980's feel to the film and some of the scenes with Bill Paxton trying to act like a crazy vampire are downright laughable. I will admit that if you are 11 or 12 years old and having a slumber party, this movie is probably pretty cool. But if you are an adult who has seen a lot of good movies, this one will be a big disappointment. This is maybe the worst liked vampire film of all time. I gave this movie a 3 instead of a 1 because of the first 10 minutes, which is the only decent part of the movie. "},{"Title":"Not for horror fans","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This one is not for horror fans. The only thing that has anything to do with the horror genre is the fact that the main characters are vampires. There's not a single scary, gory or even creepy moment in the entire film. Shaun of the Dead was more horror than this one.It's just a road movie, and a very boring one at that. Also, the plot is full of holes, and some very important questions are left unanswered.I would recommend it only for those that must see every movie with vampires in it. Horror fans should avoid it. I've wasted 94 minutes watching it. 2/10 "},{"Title":"a ,Mix bag","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Near Dark (1987) I did see this once before but' it's years ago and I could not remember anything from movie, so I gave it another. With out sounding like broken record, I not big fan of vamper movies, most are pass for me, there are some I enjoyed , From dusk till dawn, Vampire 1998, 30 days of night and stake land and samles 'lot are the only ones that I actually like. I thought Near Dark was okay movie, i didn't think it's all that great, I liked how the movie didn't take long to start of. The movie flowed okay but for me, it's stayed one level, they didn't even try to get another stage, I wasn't bored or anything. it's just that I was hoping for more, I didn't like how they burn in the sun, was good, I liked the fact that they could fixed. I found the ending to be bit meh! 5 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Better Than Average Vampire Flick","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A young man (Adrian Pasdar) reluctantly joins a traveling family of evil vampires, when the girl he'd tried to seduce is part of that group.I had heard that Near Dark is one of those modern, cult horror classics that needs to be seen. Well, now I have seen it. And while I think it is a bit overrated, I still enjoyed it.I suppose it is hard not to like a film that reunites three cast members from Aliens (which I assume happened because director Kathryn Bigelow knew and ultimately married James Cameron), or any film with Lance Henriksen, Bill Paxton and Tim Thomerson. This is a little piece of genre heaven.And I find it interesting how kid vampires work. In Twilight, Edward Cullen has the body of an 18-year old but the mind of someone who is 100. Yet, he seduces a teenage girl. Is he 18 or 100? Here, we have a young vampire whose physical age may be around 10. His mental age should be much older, yet he seems to have a childlike mentality. How does one have a childlike outlook on life after decades of memories? It is an interesting thought... "},{"Title":"Not THAT bad!","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie wasn't all that bad really. I can see why people didn't like it but usually those who give one star reviews often pick technical issues as their reasons like 'oh that could never happen in reality' or certain continuity flaws and the like. I mean, they're watching a FILM for God's sakes! They miss the point entirely IMHO. Films like this aren't meant to be taken too seriously. I thought it was pretty bloody funny in places and would've been a good film to take a date to. Yeah, it did drag in places but Paxton was great and you could do worse than I did and that was kill a couple of boring hours of the Sunday afternoon void with this and a couple of cans of Stella. "},{"Title":"Early Biglow rural traveling vampires teenage action","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" How I ever ended up with this in my queue I will never know. A vampire road action movie set in Oklahoma & Kansas. Wow. I guess I was so disappointed by Hurt Locker I decided to see some of Bigelows other films by her (I loved strangedays) & wanted to see Lance Henrickson in something else other than Millennium (I love Millennium) PLOT Kathryn Bigelow has re-imagine the night ghoul as a gunslinger, a Western icon recast in a roving family of bloodthirsty banditos, carving a trail of terror & torn throats from one part of the Southwest to the other Caleb Colton (Adrian Pasdar) is a young cowboy who meets, & falls for, a beautiful drifter named Mae (Jenny Wright). After spending the night in her company, she bites his neck just before dawn & then runs away. As the sun rises, Caleb finds that the light burns his skin as he struggles toward home. When he is almost there, he is pulled into a passing RV that has all of its windows covered with aluminum foil & whisked away. Inside, he finds Mae & a rag-tag collection of vampire nomads led by Jesse Hooker (Lance Henriksen). As they travel, Caleb is torn between proving himself to his new family & hanging onto the shreds of humanity still within him. As situations escalate, he realizes that not only does his love for Mae hinge upon this decision, but also his life. If you see a 4 or 5 star review for this movie the reviewers are cult movie & b movie buffs. don't get me wrong its not a bad movie but not a good one either. The acting was OK. Film has an amazing 7.0 rating on IMDb. Kathryn Bigelow was married to James Cameron at the time this film was made & she has three superb cast members from Aliens that made this film. Bigelow created here the most hard-edged, violent action film to be directed by an American woman. I at least give her that amount of credit. Bigelow stages her gun battles so that the bullets punch holes in the walls to let in the dread sunlight The soundtrack by Tangerine Dream was good "},{"Title":"It's dark.","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" So there is this teenager and he meets this girl one night and before he knows it, he ends up being a vampire. This teenager ends up in a family of vampires and they are some tough vampires. They are real, they burn in the sun and they have awesome fangs. The movie is suppose to be about the dad looking for his vampire son and that's nice but I really like the horror aspect of it all. It has perfect music and the lighting is just great. I liked the bar scene the best and the part where he first spends time with the girl he met. I think it's one of the greatest vampires I've ever seen. Another one that would be a close second would be Lost Boys. So forget all that whimpy Twilight stuff and watch a real vampire movie. "},{"Title":"they're more afraid of daylight than  we are of them!","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched Near Dark as a child, and although I didn't think it was scary, I thoroughly enjoyed it. It was only 2 years ago that I bought it on DVD. I find this film very different to other vampire films. It's the only film I've seen so far that you actually get to find out what it's like to be a vampire, instead of being afraid of them. Caleb is a good-looking young guy who meets a strange girl and quickly becomes a attracted to her. Just when they're starting to get to know each other, in sheer panic as daylight approaches, she bites his neck. Caleb, confused and shocked at the same time, is at first unaware that he is 'turned' and it would change everything... No sooner than he is bitten is he speeding away in a van with a group of strangers, who have a hunger for human blood. Throughout the film we get to see the excitement, frustration and even fear of being a vampire. As Caleb's father and sister's search for him takes off, he begins to accept that he is no longer an ordinary human, but 'one of them.' We as viewers are taken along with them on their journeys in which they clearly enjoy causing mayhem and murder everywhere they go. This movie seems realistic as there are no supernatural things involved with being a creature of the night, apart from their skin burning when exposed to daylight. They are eventually caught up with and the whereabouts of Caleb begin to unravel. Caleb soon realises that although he is made welcome by his new companions, they are a danger to him and his family, and as his romance with his new girl deepens, he must do all he can save the both of them before its too late... "},{"Title":"this one caught me off-guard and I was pleasantly surprised","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I began watching this on DVD, I had no idea what it was about. It started slow, and just as I was about to turn it off, I found out it was a vampire movie. Was I ever shocked. I soon became engrossed, especially with the characters.I originally was afraid this would turn out to be a standard Vamp movie, but this one was way different. It was a well-done movie with the occasional error, but a good musical score accompanied by some good acting. (for that genre, anyway) I'd highly recommend this movie to those who really don't like the same old vampire movies. It was refreshing to watch, despite problems others complained about.My rating is based on the body of work in this genre, only. "},{"Title":"Such a good movie, why not a sequel?","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a truly unique film (in a good way). This is by far my favorite Vampire flick. Although this film has the classic Hollywood ending with the blood transfusion, it sure beats The Little Mermaid. They build up the reality up so much that a semi-realistic blood transfusion (which you could associate with the answer to REAL medical difficulties), does not become a flaw. The acting was amazing and the whole cast was in character. Funny how it was basically the cast from Alien. It is also funny how some director hasn't come out with a second Near Dark. It could not be as good as the original...ever. "},{"Title":"Unique take on the old Vampire Myth","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The twist of never actually calling the monsters in this movie vampires, yet they had the same qualities that a typical vampire does was definitely a welcome change... The bar scene has to be one of the best I've seen in a long time...Also there is a child vampire in the flick, who was almost more evil than Claudia (from Interview with the Vampire)... Loved him!There was one element in the film that I thought was a bit lame, but it is a bit of a spoiler, so I won't post it... Overall, this movie had an interesting storyline, wicked visuals, and a cast of vampires that you just loved to hate... Good flick... Grade A.  "},{"Title":"film synergy at its best","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The combination of the cast, character setup, dialogue and music set up against a southwestern desert backdrop makes this a one of a kind at a time when vampire movies are becoming a dime a dozen. Kathryn bigelow utilized her artistic talents by using beautiful desert backgrounds while taking the cast from Alien and giving them another challenge.Perhaps the most enjoyable in this film is seeing Lance Henrikson and Bill Paxton in murderous villain roles, roles that unfortunately neither of them have played since, even though it suits them naturally. Henrikson's cool demeanor as he is about to make a kill combined with raw and uncut Paxton as the happy, sarcastic, sardonic killer is both great film and good comedy. The music of Tangerine Dream in this film is fitting. It compliments the background and the sexual tension between Caleb and Meg. Another element in this film worth mentioning is the American Rebel in the family of vampires. There is a definite undertone of freedom and ones feeling of ownership of the American highway, especially after dark...The cd to this is a worth while buy. Try taking a drive in the desert while listening to it and you'll get a feel for how well this movie was put together, just be mindful of boys in bicycle accidents, hitch hikers and the older couple driving behind you as the sun fades and the moon rises.  "},{"Title":"Essential Vampire viewing","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For fans of the vampire genre, this film hits all its marks.  Bill Paxton plays the rascal vampire, the one who gets a little too big a kick out of killing his prey, Lance Henriksen plays the angsty-teen who's grown into an angsty middle-aged heavy, and Adrian Pasdar of Top Gun cameo fame plays the film's moral center.  This film is the first in my memory that tries to cure vampirism through science rather than techniques used by 1987's other vampire movie The Lost Boys which relies more on the magic and the myth of Bram Stoker's original incarnation.  A small debate has sparked over which of the two 1987 vampire films would be better put head to head.  The Lost Boys is a campy-comedy, shamelessly showcasing it's 80's glam-metal influences, while Near Dark is a much more timeless B-movie from an era of film-making when B-movies were becoming independent films.  If it's scares and an economy of production values you crave, nothing beats this film's bar-brawl scene, a scene so stunning in its savagery you'll remember that you are indeed watching a vampire movie where nice people die (as opposed to The Lost Boys rowdy teens who have it coming anyway).  It's not a better movie, just a completely different movie altogether.  Near Dark is that unknown gem you find in the bargain-bin and you marvel at how such a well-done film was relegated to second-class status next to 1987's other vampire hit.  Rent or buy Near Dark today and see why it's the scary answer to The Lost Boys. "}{"Title":"One of the best vampire movies","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Don't be misled by the cheezy box cover at the video store. This movie is fantastic. It's elegant. The western landscapes are beautiful . . .the whole cinematography speaks of Kathryn Bigelow's background as a painter. And the Tangerine Dream soundtrack works perfectly.If you see one modern vampire movie, see this one!One of my favorite parts - the elegant special effects when a vampire catches fire in the sun.  "},{"Title":"Daylight, dark...it's all the same","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tagline  Pray for Daylight.   Synopsis  From back cover  In this chilling tale about a gang of bloodthirsty drifters, sexuality and the supernatural combine to create a most powerful film. It starts when Caleb, a spirited but naive young man, catches his first glimpse of Mae. Her dangerous sensuality lures him into a secret clan of savage vampires who prowl the night seeking victims. It is in this setting - the dark and desolate highways of the American heartland - that Caleb's worst nightmares unfold.   Story/Plot  I enjoyed this movie but not sure on my final thoughts of it. I think I waited to long to see this film and had I watched it years back I would have finished it and said 'WOW! THAT ROCKED!. It definitely didn't stick with normal standards of vampire movies, slow burning in the sunlight (no immediate combustion) and I am sorry, a blood transfusion can turn you back to human? Maybe I need to locate a special edition extended version so I can understand this more.    Cast/Characters  A young, annoying Bill Paxton, veteran Lance Henriksen and pretty boy Adrian Pasdar. Good selection on actors and each played their role to a tee.     F/X  They never say the word vampire in this film so therefore we see no fangs or vamp face. The slow burning flesh when they entered the sunlight was impressive and once they got around to wanting to show us, blood was minimal but got the point across.   Jekyll's Final Thoughts  A cult classic that needs to be viewed, especially by those who like the vampire films. You may come out of it wanting questions answered but who said every movie is supposed to make sense? I give this one a 3 star rating          "},{"Title":"Great Movie!! NICE!!!","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've always seen this movie on the shelf at this movie rental store but never bothered to pick it up. I'm glad i check it out. This movie is great for all those Vampire loving horror fanatics, n its even good for those that aren't into vampire movies. I for one am not into vampire movies but this movie kept my attention for the whole 87 minutes.It starts off with a local farm boy taking home a beautiful, innocent looking young lady. He tries to kiss her a few times but she freaks out and tells him you have to take me home before dawn (u know where I'm getting at.) They're almost at her trailer, and he turns off the ignition takes out the keys and tells her to kiss him and he'll take her home. She does and then takes a glance at his neck, n BITES HIM! From there the movies follows 6 vampires through town wreaking havoc.The vampire movie The Forsaken that came out a few years ago tried to steal the same concept of this film, but it didn't work. That movie failed terribly to be like Near Dark.I highly recommend this movie to horror movie fans, its very entertaining and Bill Paxton makes a badass vampire.8/10  "},{"Title":"Great 80's vampire film","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great 80's vampire film that introduces 2 things 1) Vampires with no fangs but who still will burn if caught in the sun 2) the gorgeous actor Adrian Pasdar who as the lead character makes you geniunely concerned for his sake to stay human and not become a part of this vampire gang.Bill Paxton is really chessy as a one-line spewing vampire,while Lance Henriksen again makes the horror genere his as he plays the vampire leader Jessie to the menacing hilt with the great character actress Jenette Goldstein as his lovely but deadly concubine Diamondback. And also good work from 80's B- movie actor Joshua Miller as a little boy vampire who in his little boy flesh prison only wants a young girl that he can sire to make himself a mate. Good special effects of the vamps bursting in flames and this had a great plot for a tired formula. Did lack a bit on the gore when it could have gone all out as other 80's films did but i give it a **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Must see for vampire flick lovers.","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Any lover of the vampire flick genre who hasn't seen this suspensful piece of 80's vampire fare is missing something. This movie maybe low budget but it's stylishly made nonetheless and pretty creepy-I myself am neither a vampire movie fan or not-but I liked this.(mildly). You just have to be in the right mood for it-probebly better to watch in a group as I seem to remember I did. It's great to view as a late night as well.This differs completely from an Interview with a vampire type flick, it's almost the exact opposite-No fancy sets or high budget wardrobes...etc...Although I liked Interview I viewed it as a more entertainment type movie-this is more thriler oriented-has alot of creepy suspense-vampire fans should definetly check it out.  "},{"Title":"Well Done Trash","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I haven't hated a supposedly great film this much in quite some time. From what I read, 'Nark Dark' is supposed to be one of the most innovative and interesting vampire horror films of all time. It didn't take me long to realize how truly awful it is; however, I sat through the whole thing nonetheless. Here's what initially confused me how could anyone call this innovative when it has cliché written all over it? Everything from the unlikely love between a vampire and a human to the police search subplot and everything in between is trash.Sure - it's well done trash - but that still qualifies it as trash. Some of the special effects are impressive, particularly the combustion that occurs when the vampires touch light. The subtle, haunting soundtrack by Tangerine Dream deserves all of the recognition that it has received over the years. And Bigelow's framing is surprisingly beautiful at times - a shot of the vampires on top of a moonlighted hill and Adrian's second wrist-sucking scene amongst oilrigs are both not to be forgotten, but these occasional bright spots do not save 'Near Dark' from being anything more than a mindless slasher flick.Fans seem to love the fact that these vampires have been modernized - they certainly don't wear long cloaks or suddenly turn into bats and fly away. What I'd like to know is - so what? The film doesn't actually go anywhere but down with this premise, and if vampires must be depicted as insanely irrational murderers then couldn't it have been done in a slightly less juvenile, idiotic way? There are no good characterizations in this film - everyone fits a stereotype, right down to the unfortunate patrons of the bar that the vampires terrorize. The vampires act so over-the-top that, combined with Bigelow's in-your-face direction, makes the film more forcibly laughable than creepy or frightening in any way.The traditional vampire story is very interesting, but this film is in no way an intelligent riff on the genre. The better part of this film is basically about showing how incredibly stupid these vampires are by coming up with newly creative ways of offing people - and no doubt they are creative, which probably accounts for the cult following that this film has of people who get their kicks out of watching mindlessly exaggerated killings. The acting is awful all around, although there wasn't really much of a script to work with anyway. The dialogue is horrid - perhaps if both the vampires and the humans talked like everyday people then the film would've achieved the gritty, realistic tone that it was clearly going for.The film even contradicts its overall aim in showing us that humanity perseveres by having the protagonist happily endear himself to the amoral vampires (witness the scenes following the police shootout escape.) The plot relies on coincidences to progress the storyline - wow, Caleb's father and sister just so happen to be staying at the same motel! And there are some hilarious inconsistencies - it turns from night to day unbelievably quickly at that same motel. And I had to repress my laughter when we see Caleb ride his horse through an open street - this juxtaposition just doesn't work well at all.The way that the film moves along even has a made-for-TV thriller quality about it, with standard cutting between the distraught father and the vampires' murderous actions.  'Near Dark' could have at least tried to be slightly complex or remotely thoughtful instead of simply focusing on how entertaining it can be to see people getting their throats slashed open. It's really is a shame too, because Bigelow's obvious visual flair - when coupled with a plausible screenplay - can potentially produce a great film. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was one of the better vampire movies.  Lance H. and Bill Paxton were really good as the two head vampires.  The guy who played Caleb and the other vampires sure had their work cut out for them. 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Decent vampire flick, nothing spectacular.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Near Dark features a nice cast, some good direction, and an excellent soundtrack, but the movie is nothing to get all worked up about. A boy falls in love with the wrong girl who just happens to be a vampire. After being bitten, he begins to get a feel of the vampire life on the road as he travels with a mean group of vamps who terrorize areas of rural Texas. The thing that is actually the most shocking next to some nasty killings is that the word vampire is not used in this movie once. In fact, despite being allergic to sunlight and having to survive by drinking blood, these vampires have nothing in common with the traditional tales. Jenny Wright is good as the vamp torn between her new lover and being loyal to the gang, but her sweet face and kind nature make it hard to believe she's a violent killer. In fact, it's hard to believe this group of vamps made it as long as they have. They can't seem to keep themselves out of the sun and have the tendency to get chased by cops and shot at. For as many scenes I had to watch the gang taping up the windows in their car because they are too stupid to get inside before daybreak, I thought I deserved a better movie. Sadly, the ending goes way over the top, leaving a bad taste in your mouth. Besides that, the whole thing really adds up to nothing. Just a pointless vampire movie with a little style, maybe better than most efforts. But nothing really comes out of it. A boy experiences the world of vampires, finds a love. That's it. Due to the ending, every scene is pretty useless and serves up nothing. This movie balances on a line between slightly above average and pretty good. Certainly not a must-see. Good direction, some nice lighting, and a good effort. Not too bad.  "},{"Title":"stylized horror with distinctive music","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The great Bill Paxton (Aliens, Frailty, a Simple Plan, Weird Science), Jenette Goldstein (Aliens, T2) and Lance Henriksen (Aliens, Millennium, the Right Stuff, Terminator) teamed up for Near Dark as a coherent outfit that actually consists of outsiders.  Directed by Kathryn Bigelow (Wild Palms, Point Break), they are really able to make the viewer afraid of inevitable eternity, although we are clearly invited to sympathize with the 'turned' ones in the middle part of the story.  In that way we completely stand and feel with protagonist Caleb during the entire movie.This is actually the only movie in which I like Tangerine Dream's synthesizer music.  Tangerine Dream (Thief, The Keep, Miracle Mile, Legend, Sorcerer) normally is more appropriate for Miami Vice, but their adhesive and slightly mesmerizing (and dated) style works nicely here.  It contributes to the distinctive atmosphere and the not very complicated story.  Near Dark is not only a stylized teenager horror, but also a road movie that comes across as a continuing nightmare.Adam Greenberg's empathizing and intense cinematography (also the Big Red One, Terminator 1+2+3) is perhaps the most appealing factors of the movie, without being anything like poetic.  But he is able to make sunlight as deadly as bullets and nighttime as soothing as lotion.  Without trying to be intelligent, the movie succeeds to deliver, because all factors are tuned exactly right and create a unique thrill inside the genre.  I didn't mind the flaws, especially because I stumbled upon it at 2 a.m. on the BBC.  Shivers down my spine.  8/10 ... and stop watching Buffy already "},{"Title":"So-So Movie, nothing spectacular.","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not really a huge fan of vampire movies, but I thought I'd give this one a chance anyway.  I do really like the directing of Kathryn Bigelow (Strange Days and Point Break), so that kind of swayed me into seeing it.  And the cast is really good too (gotta love Bill Paxton).  Anyhow, I thought the movie was pretty good, but nothing spectacular.  I have to say that I really liked Bill Paxton a lot, I've always enjoyed his acting, and he didn't let me down in the film.  I also liked Jenette Goldstein and Lance Henriksen.  I have to say that I was less than stoked about the kid in the movie (Josh Miller, Homer).  No disrespect to Josh, but he was kind of annoying in the film as was the star Adrian Pasdar, Caleb Colton.One thing I thought was odd about the movie is that this is a vampire movie and NOT ONCE did we see any vampire fangs.  Not that I'm complaining, but I thought it was odd.Here's a small piece of useless movie trivia for you too.  There are three actors in the film that were also in Aliens Jenette Goldstein, Bill Paxton, and Lance Henriksen.  Also, Aliens was directed by James Cameron, who was later married to Kathryn Bigalow.  Kind of interesting.Anyhow, on with Near Dark.  Overall, I thought it an alright movie. It definitely had some cool shots and some pretty cool ideas, but it just didn't strike me as anything great.  If you like vampire movies, then this is probably worth a look, but if you aren't really into vampire movies, then I would guess you would feel the same as I do.  Anyhow, thanks for readin'.-Chris "}{"Title":"Great film with just one flaw...","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An almost perfect vampire/western horror movie atmospheric, cynical, funny.Unfortunately, one gets the impression that the ending of the movie was, as in so many cases, completely ruined by US test audiences. (Merkins, especially the mid-western country bumpkin test audiences, love happy endings and usually do not understand sad films. Apparently, this caused production companies to stick an artificial happy end onto Blade Runner and several other films.) The extremely cheesy, unlogical and badly acted ending of Near Dark (spoiler it's got to do with a vet who can cure human vampirism...) just about ruins this film every time I see it. Suggestion Leave the cinema, or turn off the DVD player, just before the vampire guy returns home.  "},{"Title":"Triumphant Vampire Opus of the Eighties","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Simply stated this tale of vampirism set in Texas is forever enthroned in gothic glory forever! Adrian Pasdar is beyond compare as the breathtaking hero pitted against the full-throttle forces of Darkness to which he succumbs. REQUIRED VIEWING FOR ALL LOVERS OF VAMPIRE CINEMA. Original material, splendid direction by Bigelow, incomparable ensemble acting, exhilarating and best of all, fun. Classic, classic, classic.  "},{"Title":"The New Vampires.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was extremely refreshing to see non-Anne Rice, non-Gothic vampires for a change. This film brings us a vampire that is aware of the modern world he lives in, they even carry guns. It sort of reminded me of The Lost Boys. The characters definately inspired the modern day vampires we see in Buffy, The Lost Boys, etc.I didn't think the film was really scary, with the exception of the bar sequence which is one of the most brilliant and scary scenes that you will find in any movie, specially a vampire movie. But it makes up for lack of scaryness through good action, solid characters and a consistent story that comes down to good vs. evil.The characters are amazing. Caleb is great in trying to become a vampire but not actually sure he can do it. Lance Henriksen is great as Jesse he's probably the darkest character. Severen is an amazingly evil and entertaining vampire played to perfection by Bill Paxton. As for the rest they all do a pretty good job.The movie is very enjoyable. If your looking to get really scared watch something else (The Shining or Phantasm), but if you want to see a great vampire flick that does away with the cliches you have to see this movie it's great. "},{"Title":"a gem that twists the vampire traditions","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Never will you find a vampire movie gory,violent yet entertaining like this one.It has a great score by Tangerine Dream(should've won an Oscar)and has a good line-up of actors. It takes place in Oklahoma where Caleb(Adrian Pasdar)gets bitten by the ever-so-elusive Mae(Jenny Wright).To ad even more to the bizarrness,he soon meets and joins herfamilyJesse Hooker(Lance Hendricksen),Diamondback(Jennette Goldstein),Homer(Joshua Jon Miller),and Severen(Bill Paxton).But to really become part of their family,Caleb must prove that he can kill,in which he says he won't.And to add more to the suspense,the vampires are soon after Caleb's father and little sister(Marcie Leeds). If you like vampire movies you'll love it,if you like gory movie you'll love it too,but be warnedif it's your first time watching this,don't be eating something. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Being a big vampire flick fan, I have to say this ranks up there as one of the best (note that the word vampire is never spoken in the movie). Basically, nomadic redneck vampire bikers, played by Aliens alumni Bill Paxton, Jenette Goldstein and Lance Henriksen, as well as Jenny Wright and Joshua Miller, kidnap Adrian Pasdar's Caleb after he has a passionate run in with Wright's vampire character and she bites him. What follows is fun, sexy, beautifully shot and compelling. The Tangerine Dream score is a plus. Bill Paxton's Severen is one of his best roles and he makes the most of it. Adrian Pasdar should've been a big star after this movie. "},{"Title":"An often forgotten but great movie","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I never had the opportunity to see this on the big screen which was a shame but I was impressed nonetheless. This is one movie of a few vampire flicks from the 80s that I like, I am a fan of the old movies that make up for their smaller budgets and lack of effects with tons of atmosphere.Bill Paxton was my favourite character in this film, his somewhat psychotic personality never ceases to amuse. Although this is more of TV B-movie, it's still entertaining and one of my favourites. All in all, a great nights viewing.  "},{"Title":"Excellent, innovative film","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What can I say about the photography? It's fantastic, beautifully shot, amazing orange glows, oh my, this is a film fan's wet dream.The film is about Vampires, and instead of the usual cross and garlic stuff, this one is more rooted to the original history of the bloodsuckers, thus making it more interesting.The film works very well, the direction is excellent, the score gives it atmosphere, and the photography is amazing.The screenplay is a little weak in parts, but the director takes the material and really produces something quite special.The acting is excellent, Paxton as a vampire is superb, hated his character, which is what the director wanted, I think.The photography is beautiful, you really need to see it to believe how powerful it is. This film is probably my favourite Vampire picture because it features the more historical vampire mythology. "},{"Title":"One of the best...","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's not the tired, overly romantic vision of vapirism, but what I feel is a more realistic and horrifying tale of modern, blood-sucking beasts.  It's not in your face (other than the bar scene), lowest common denominator horror, but subtle and solid film making.  Well cast, well acted, and very well shot.Of course, if your only idea of vampires is romantic, translucent, sexual deviants, running around in capes and speaking in riddles, then this film is not for you. "},{"Title":"Not scary","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I expected this to be a lot scarier. Apart from Bill Paxton's talk of tearing people's faces off, this wasn't really that unsettling. Entertainment Weekly rated this among the top 25 scariest movies of all time. It's a solid film, but how it can be placed alongside Texas Chainsaw Massacre, The Shining and The Omen is beyond me. "},{"Title":"The best vampire film of all time.","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although the likes of The Lost Boys, Fright Night, The Fearless Vampire Killers, and From Dusk Till Dawn are all classic examples of vampire comedy/horror fusion, Near Dark remains the best example of this genre. "}{"Title":"One of the first modern vampire-movies","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A must for vampire-fans. This movie is one of the first, and probably one of the more bloody, modern vampire movies and sets the trend for movies that follow. Raw and aggressive in its visual aspects, dark and deadly in its mood. A forgotten classic? "},{"Title":"Entire film structured around a single 10-minute sequence.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Of all the summaries/reviews, I have yet to see one that states the most obvious fact That this movie was ENTIRELY built around a single 10-minute sequence that is no doubt the inspiration for the rest of the film.At this point I think I should caution the gentle reader that the following may be considered a SPOILER.Without question, the sequence in the redneck roadhouse---wherein the entire principle cast comes together for the ultimate carnage--is the virtual CORE of Near Dark.  By that I mean this sequence was the conceptual seed of the rest of the movie.  If you rewind and watch the roadhouse sequence closely, you will see that every character is given an opportunity to express his/her deepest, coldest inner nature (except for Caleb, of course, but he does come across as an initiate, and this device lends itself well to the antics of Jesse and Severen); accordingly, this sequence stands on its own two legs---the redneck bar scene could stand as a complete short independent film all by itself, without further explanation. When viewed in this light, it becomes easier to explain the flaws of the remainder of the movie---the rest of the film was built OUTWARD from this single 10-minute sequence.Far from being a negative critic, I consider Near Dark (or, at least, the redneck roadhouse sequence) as the best original vampire film of the latter 20th century. "},{"Title":"Fresh and Innovative","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Who would have thought that before Lance Henrikson was catapulted to fame with Millennium, he would have co-starred in this fine piece of filmography. I first saw this movie when I was seven or eight, and I couldn't get it out of my head.  I never thought I would see it again until I picked it up at a rental place in another city.  Vampires... RV's... Cowboys... it has everything that a movie needs to impress people.  The only thing that would have made it better would be the scenes which showed the other vampires lying in wait for their victims. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and recommend it for anyone who likes action and comedy spun together. "},{"Title":"A classic struggle between good and evil in a horror flick.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie.  Not only because Jenette Goldstein co-stars, but for its unique portrayal of the dark side of a person's soul.  The terror begins when a 22 year old farmboy (Caleb Colton) falls prey to a seductive, not to mention demonic, blonde teenage girl whom he picks up off the street.  But little does he know that the chic is a vampire!I rented this movie thinking that it was going to let me down.  Much to my surprise, I was taken in immediately by its mesmerising musical score and excellent cast of characters.  In addition to the dark atmosphere of the setting, there are some entertaining action scenes which are often hilarious (courtesy of Bill Paxton) and lots of twists to keep the viewer in suspense. And in spite of the dark tone that the movie conveys, it has an uplifting ending.  The only disappointment for me was the omission of scenes where the vampires played possum for their victims, something which should have remained intact.If your a fan of John Carpenter's Christine(1983) or the Phantasm series, you will absolutely enjoy watching this one. "},{"Title":"Near Dark Is Da Scariest Time Of Da Day","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film was so scary I could barely watch. I like horror movies, but not scary ones. It has a very clever idea, and it is set mostly at that time of the day which is near dark, hence thy name. It is not dark, it is not light, it is not in between. Just those few moments before they sun is finally swallowed by all encompassing darkness. I suppose I was so scared by this movie as this has always been the time of day I was most scared of. Me and my bro Andy when we were younger both hated this time of day. Day time was okay because there were only wasps to worry about, and at least you could see any spiders that were trying to get you. Night time could be bad as you couldn't see any spiders, and night time is when all the baddies come out. This was compensated by the fact that once it was dark we would go to bed, and when you hid under the sheets nothing could get you. But being Near Dark- ARGGGH! The baddies could sneak out and get you before you went to bed and the spiders are hungriest around that time. I decided to watch this film to overcome my fear of this hour and when I heard it was about vampires I thought it might be enjoyable.This is a film about a cowboy who meets a family of gypsy vampires romping through the deserts of New York. One of them is a sexy feline girl and they fall for each other. He decides to join the vampires so he can be with the girl, but doesn't realise that being a vampire has consequences- you have to kill and eat people's brains; you can't have garlic on your pizza; you have to wear black or you look like a tool; you think you can fly but really it's your vampire mind playing tricks on you, and when you try throwing yourself off a building you always land in a bush and get nettle stings; you smell like dust. He decides that he can't be a vampire and wants to change back with the girl. Naturally the rest of the family aren't happy. In fang, they are biting back! They vant blood! Hudson, Bishop, Vasquez, and Short Round are the real vampires and they hunt the pair down, killing innocent people and creating scary moments I couldn't watch; Someone hears a scratching at a window and looks out- phew it's only a rat. They turn round only to see the vampires inside their house! BOO! The main guy is watching TV, he sees Bishop (the matriarch of the family played horrifyingly by Lance Armstrong) on the news commenting on a local tragedy. The main man is concerned. Suddenly Bishop jumps through the TV into the living room! The main guy's little sister is being chased by Short Round in a mine cart throwing stones at her and biting at her neck, just missing by millimetres. She escapes when his cart tips over and she runs home. She closes the door, locks it, sprinkles holy water over it, sets garlic all over the door, puts crosses on it, and gets her dad to stand beside her with a shotgun. They turn round only to find Shorty (played with real vengeance by Data) in their living room! These moments were about as much as I could handle. Suffice to say there is a big battle scene where all the cowboys and vampires fight through the desert, into a local bar, and finally the survivors face off in the living room. There are good special graphics used here, the best since Lords Of The Ring, but not quite as good as The Land That Tim Forgot. Seeing thousands, perhaps even hundreds of vampires and cowboys clashing is truly a sight to behave, but I had to watch it from behind my book and through my fingers. The bit with the pub was quite intense, very much quite. Hudson dances with a corpse and stalks his victims with a smile before kicking their throats open and impaling them on his long, hard, pool cue. This is not for the faint minded or open hearted and I found it quite upsetting. He quips the whole way through 'chicken lickin' good!' he shouts, and 'no way man, no way!' and of course when speaking of his vamp biting skills he comments 'I could suck start a leaf blower!' Luckily it all ends OK because the vampires see the error of their ways and set themselves on fire in the motel living room, and the dad makes his son and the girl drink a cup of anti blood to make them better.Best Scene When the sun finally rises at the end and we know it's safe to get out of bed. "},{"Title":"Sleak, Sexy & Violent - Before Twilight There Was Near Dark","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Near Dark is a film that falls into the unenviable position of being too arty for the gore crowd and too gory for the art crowd.A short description can not do justice to the films complexities, but here goes; Near Dark is the story of a close knit family of vampires who travel around the Southwest in a Winnebago motor home looking for fresh victims and how their newest convert, because of his innate humanity, ends up destroying the group. That brief description, although accurate, does nothing to convey the erotic timbre that suffuses the film. Indeed the opening scene says it all.Our hero is Caleb (Adrian Pasdar), pick-up driving cowboy who works with his veterinarian father. While out for some Saturday night fun, Caleb spies Mae (Jenny Wright), sauntering along (in luxuriant slow-motion) licking an ice cream cone and he is immediately smitten with her. After some good-natured flirting, Caleb drives Mae home just as the dawn begins to break. Stopping his truck along a dusty field, he tries to get a kiss from Mae, but instead of a soft kiss, she bites Caleb's neck actually drawing blood. After this, Mae hurries away and a puzzled Caleb is left to walk back home when his truck stalls.But something weird has happened to Caleb, the bite seems to have turned him. As Caleb stumbles home through a dry field, he begins to feel queasy; it almost seems like the morning sun is going to burn right through him. As a perplexed Caleb staggers across the road with smoke pouring off his body (a neat special effect), the Winnebago from hell roars into the scene and snatches Caleb off the road while his father and little sister watch this kidnapping helplessly.We now have our introduction to the vampire family and while they NEVER use the word vampire, it is clear that they must be something like that because sunlight is deadly to them and we soon learn they need a constant supply of fresh blood to survive. Normally, the family would just kill Caleb and drink his blood, but Mae has taken an interest in Caleb. She has bitten him on purpose in an attempt to turn him. Apparently she wants to have a mate and Caleb fits the bill. The other members of the family are not happy about this. They include Severen (Bill Paxton), Homer (Joshua Miller), Diamond Back (Jeanette Goldstein) and the leader Jesse (Lance Henriksen) who now has to decide whether to let Caleb run with them as a new member of the pack or just dispose of him at their earliest convenience. Reluctantly, he decides to keep Caleb with them, providing he proves that he has the capacity to kill.Now, vampire purists usually get up in arms about Near Dark because it doesn't observe the standard conventions of your average vampire movie. However, I see this as a good thing. Since when did becoming a vampire become as rigid as say joining the Priesthood? There really are no rules. Remember most of the behaviors and weaknesses associated with movie vampires are simply the creation of other screenwriters and have little basis in the original myths and folk tales.So Near Dark comes up with new rules for its characters to live by, OK, at least they're original. Late in the film when Jesse is shot point blank in the chest, he simply coughs up the bullet and hands it back to the shooter, who later notes rather obviously, That's not normal.Unlike other vampire films where the monster is often a tortured soul, in Near Dark, some of the vampires positively love it! For instance, Bill Paxton's Severen comes across as a good ol'boy who really has found himself since becoming a vampire. Unlike Caleb, Severen doesn't suffer any misgivings about having to kill people on a daily basis. His life of sleeping all day, prowling all night is one that he has adjusted to very well thank you. But there are moments of strange intimacy in the film as well. Consider the sequence where Caleb has to ingest blood from Mae to survive because he can't bring himself to kill another human being. Mae opens up a vein for him and as he kneels before her, he sucks the life giving blood from her arm with a ferocity that nearly drains her; until she is forced to kick him away. Caleb then lays back and looks up at Mae with a wicked smile indicating that he has gotten more than mere sustenance from this contact.If you have never heard of Near Dark, there are reasons for this. A little over a month before the October 1987 release of Near Dark, Warner Brothers released their more widely hyped vampire film The Lost Boys which swamped Near Dark at the box office. Add to that the fact that The De Laurentis Entertainment Group (D.E.G.), which was releasing Near Dark, was near bankruptcy in October of 1987. Because of this, Near Dark had its theatrical run cut short and it was quickly sold to HBO so DEG could recoup some money. Yes, Near Dark lost the box office battle, but ironically it won the classic film status war.Today no one watches The Lost Boys or even considers it a worthy film, but Near Dark continues to grow in popularity and gain new fans with each passing year and this happens in the best possible way, through word of mouth. With its compelling characters, exciting action sequences, moody nighttime cinematography and brilliant score by Tangerine Dream, Near Dark is the best cowboy/vampire movie you'll ever see. Although that may be faint praise when you consider that the next best cowboy/vampire film is the 1966 John Carradine classic Billy The Kid versus Dracula. "},{"Title":"Underrated, Great Classic","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Long before the fluffy Twilight or the brilliant Let The Right One In was Near Dark. During the 1980s vampire films became quite popular in the horror genre. The Lost Boys, The Hunger, and Fright Night are some examples of the flashy and neogothic romantic vampires. Near Dark broke the rules of vampire clichés and became (what I love to call) the rebel vampire film. Directed and co-written by the great Kathryn Bigelow (Point Break, Blue Steel, and Strange Days) Near Dark tells the story of young Caleb (Adrian Pasdar) who one night meets the beautiful and mysterious Mae (Jenny Wright). They get along until she gives him the ultimate kiss and love bite that turns Caleb into a vampire. From that moment Caleb is thrusted into Mae's family of caravan vampires consisting Jesse (Lance Henrickson), the leader of the group; Diamondback (Jenette Goldstein), Jesse's deadly lady; Homer, a little boy who acts as Diamondback's child and is basically an old man trapped inside the body of a boy; and finally, but not least, is Severen (Bill Paxton) a maniacally enthusiastic vampire. As Caleb travels with this band of roadies his worried father and little sister are on his trail to bring him home. Along the way Caleb also witnesses the horrors of Mae's family and he is placed in the position of proving himself to the group kill or be killed. Why this film breaks all rules of the vampire genre are the following 1) not once ever is the word vampire ever uttered or even totally suggested; In fact, the use of the word is not even necessary because the characters make historical references and the obvious symptoms of vampirism they drink blood and sunlight can kill them. 2) the vampires are not the conventional vampires we have seen before or even after. They are grungy and dirty. But they still have the sex appeal only not the Gothic traditional kind we are also accustomed to. Sex for them is entirely meant to lure their victims. 3) the environment and setting of this story is out in the open fields, plains, and roads of the Midwest. Most vampire stories tend to take to the metropolitan or mountainous areas. The desolation and openness makes one feel like there is no where to hide or run from these monsters. The film is brilliantly directed with such honesty and roughness. Kathryn Bigelow is very much a fearless and yet respectful director. She is amazing and one of my favorite filmmakers. It is also terrifying and at times, funny! The acting in this film is also quite striking Lance Henrickson is creepy as the cold and meticulous leader of the group, Jesse. He is perfect in the role; Jenette Goldstein is sexy and deadly as the vampire vixen, Diamondback. She acts a maternal figure for the young Homer and she is an equal to Jesse. Homer is played by Josh Miller (ironically his older brother Jason Patric starred in The Lost Boys released the very same year as Near Dark) who is also creepy as the vampire child that could most likely scare the hell out of Claudia in Interview of the Vampire. My favorite performance and character is Severen played with relish by a young Bill Paxton. Watching this film I was absolutely terrified and grossed out by Severen. Watch the scene in the bar which is both bloody and yet silently chilling. There is so much obvious enthusiasm by the actors playing their roles that it carries the film's personality. I highly recommend this film to vampire fans such as myself and to horror filmmakers. "},{"Title":"Near Dark is near perfect","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's love at first sight for young Caleb (Adrian Pasdar), a bored Oklahoma farm-boy who while driving into town one night, spots the lovely Mae (Jenny Wright) coming out of an ice cream parlor. What at first seems like innocent teenage love-at-first-sight quickly turns into blood-lust, and love-at-first-bite, when Mae is revealed to be a vampire, and Caleb's neck is looking mighty sweet to the young maiden.And this is just the first 10 minutes of Near Dark, a beautifully shot and stylish horror film directed by Kathryn Bigelow and written by Bigelow and Eric Red. Near Dark is a multi-layered and potent hybrid vampire/western tale, one with special effects, some surreal and bloody violence and a subtext on the definition of family, love, lust, and the eternal battle between good & evil. But the movie seems to forgo an engrossing vampire flick with a rather hasty and confusing conclusion that apparently concedes to Hollywood happy-ending conventions.After the opening sequence with Caleb and Mae, the dazed Caleb attempts to return to his farm where his widowed father Loy (Tim Thomerson) and younger sister Sarah (Marcie Leeds) are. Before he reaches the farm, however, a van swings out of nowhere and picks up the smoking Caleb, who is already turning into something beyond his worst fears, and meets his new family, a clan of highway-roaming vampires that not only includes Mae, but also consists of pack leader Jesse (Lance Henriksen), Diamondback (Jenette Goldstein), Severen (Bill Paxton), and the adolescent Homer (Joshua Miller). The pack decides that they're going to let Caleb roam with them on their trek up and down the American heartland, but he must feed, and decide whether or not to draw a line between letting go of his innocence and edging slowly toward the darkness.One thing that Near Dark truly succeeds in is crafting a transitional world that is alternately drenched in light and darkness so much that you better heed the tag-line pray for daylight. The cinematography really captures the eerie beauty of the American Midwest, with sweeping shots of crop fields and the sun during the day, and fanciful, rain-slicked streets at night. The dichotomy rising from the two conflicting worlds of good and evil is given a frightening life of its own during these scenes.The performances by the main cast are daring and memorable. On loan from Aliens (1986), are three of that film's principal actors (Henriksen, Goldstein, and Paxton). As Severen, Paxton has the most fun and gets some of the best lines. In the film's most memorable and gory special effects sequence, the clan stops off at a redneck bar and proceeds to terrorize and kill the patrons. After offing one unfortunate victim, Severen quips, Finger-lickin' good! while of course, licking the blood off his fingertips.But the film's central conflict is the doomed romance between Caleb and Mae, and whether or not Caleb will live with his new family, or if he has the strength to escape, and whether or not the conflicted Mae can come with him. They both ache for each in some rather heartfelt scenes, even if it's uncommon for them to be seen exchanging kisses at the dismay of the other members of the pack.Near Dark is something unique to the horror genre, even if it retreats to a formulaic Hollywood ending. It's got class, style, a moody, effective score by Tangerine Dream, and special effects that are indeed more sophisticated (and gorier) than the ultra-hip MTV-influenced The Lost Boys. But Near Dark doesn't promise to be anything more than another great vampire tale.9/10 "},{"Title":"The only Vampire flick that did it for me..............@#$&!  Lost Boys","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an Eric Red and Kathryn Bigelow Masterpiece. I'm really not a Vampire fan, I prefer Werewolves, but if I had to chose one, it would be this one. Any Vampire fiend who opposes this movie is obviously hung up on the whole Gothic thing or is probably used to the romantic bloodsucker from the 1800's. Any movie watcher who dislikes this movie is obviously part of the CGI generation and enjoys more elaborate make-up and art direction. Sad, very very sad; and you have my pity. The original story of this feature is kick-ass great. Just like there are a variety of heroes in comic books, there are also many different types of Vampires. Once you can believe that, then you can accept this movie as an authentic rare keeper. No Capes, No Flying, No Pendulum, No Shape-shifting, No Stakes, No Pointy Ears, No Cruise, No Black clothes, No Holy Water, No Pitt, No Melting, and no bunch of weird looking morons sitting in trees or caves talking about how cool all their Mystical Powers are like they're the X-Men or something. No Clichés what-so-ever. Thank God. These Vampires are a rare breed that, most likely, killed all of those pretty faced girly vampires from the 1800's that flew in from the Old World. Yeah, Baby!! They carry guns and use them. Why would a Vampire use a gun? you ask? Well, Why Not! They're bored, bitter, and are upset over their cursed lives. They're dirty, raunchy, filthy and love being outlaws. Even the movie itself is an outlaw among the other bloodsucker flicks. I love the story.Every one knows about Vampires, so just look at this as an alternate world, with alternate vampires, with alternate powers. Their origin isn't really important. It really isn't. C'mon, you heard it all before. Trust me when I say this covers totally new ground. Even the end will make you go, Wow, that's different. The vulnerability to sunlight is the only set rule that is put.One of my all time favorite fantasy is to be turned by Diamondback, one of the female Vampires that is quite handy with a knife.Watch it. If you don't enjoy it, just say you do anyways. Trust me, You'll come out sounding a lot more cool and not like a geek boy. After you watch it, then watch BLUE STEEL. "},{"Title":"Finger Licking good","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Forget about the garlic, the crosses, the stakes through the heart, the blonds navigating around Gothic mansions. Instead near dark confines these conventions to the crypt. Near dark takes vampire lore and crafts a dystopia noir anarchic rendition around the blood suckers. The story unfolds in the underbelly of a remote surreal desolate dust bowl.A young cowboy, Caleb, falls for a girl, Mae (the alluringly innocent looking Jenny Wright). Unfortunately she is not like other girls as she understates, but a Vampire, who drinks blood, lives in an eternal twilight existence mostly detached from ours, and has a really nasty sensitivity towards daylight.She is a member of a band of travelling vampire nomads, who by night reap casual carnage and chaos in seedy night clubs, committing random acts of murder, just in time to seek shelter by day from the suns murderous rays. Lance Henrikson as Jesse acts as the surrogate patriarch, watching over this rabid band of dysfunctional outcast fugitives, and the life of a vampire is portrayed in startling detail. They drive around in a black van, to protect them from the sun. They have black spray canisters to spray windows in emergencies. They pack judicious levels of fire arms and juicy domestic ordnance, while always keeping a thick blanket at hand to shield them from the sun, their one discernible weakness. Every microscopic detail of their lives is provided in such meticulous detail, that it makes you seriously wonder if Katheryn Bigelow hired a real life vampire as a technical adviser.After being bitten by the vampire girl of his dreams, Caleb slowly starts transforming into one of these scourges of the night. Symptoms include. - Fever - Profuse sweating - Nausea - Insatiable lust for bloodWith the exception of the last one his condition resembles drug addiction as he slowly descends in to the dark twisted other world of the vampires. This is a masterful analog which immediately tugs vampire drags vampire lore in to modern day.Nothing in this film is obligatory. Bigelow has refused to be shackled by Hollywood convention. Instead she offers a rare treat. A wholly unpredictable road trip, a dark edgy tale of anarchy in a twilight odyssey, in which nothing is predictable.Although Psychotic, i actually found my self warming to these twisted freaks. I actually wanted to tag along, ( if only to get in with Jenny Wright's Mae!). This film doesn't force you to sympathise with them. Their are no nauseating monologues to suffer through, no clichés to grind your teeth against, about how in retrospect they wished they'd behaved in more civilised fashion. Even after Bill Paxton's Severen has throated his latest victim, mostly like minded booze hound degenerates), there is not a hint of remorse, and you pity him for it.Instead you realise that their depravity is a result of their perpetual isolation and that although once human, any humanity has since rotted, and they are cursed to suffer a prison like existence, in eternal darkness in a brutal lawless world.Watch out for some surprisingly clever dialogue. When asked how old he is, Jesse simply replies i went down with the south,... We lost. When i first saw this on TV i initially dismissed it as just trashy Saturday night fodder, but like Caleb i was gradually subverted by it. To summarise, if you want a white knuckle road trip vampire romance movie that doesn't succumb to convention, then watch near dark, it's finger licking good. "}{"Title":"It Was Bloodsucking Good","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was a great modern-day (for this decade) vampire movie. A twisted mix of your typical bloodsucker movie and The Hitcher (1986). The story follows a young ranch hand that gets bitten by a seductive she-vampire and has no choice but to roam around the Southwest with a nomadic clan of vicious vampires. There are a few things that make this movie different from your typical vampire saga is They don't make any reference to being vampires. They never talk about it, they never mention it, and they don't even say the word vampire. It's like a teaser, just when you think they are about to say it, and you know they want to, they say I think I'm a &#133;monster. This works really effectively. You know they are vamps but how can you be sure if they don't talk about it.Another great way this movie is so vastly different is they don't react, let alone use, standard means of destroying a vampire. There are not crosses, no holy water, no blessed cloth, nor silver and no stake through the heart. The only thing that stays true and is utilized is the power of UV rays from the sun. They do react to the sun and it is used in a very violent manor. This strengthens the fact that this movie is not the standard vamp flick.There aren't many scares but there are plenty of good effects, action and violence. I don't know what more scary, a twelve-year-old who kills and drinks peoples blood or Bill Paxton's Severen roll. Yes, Bill Paxton was excellent in that movie. He was in fact a lunatic. Despite some dull and stale moments, this movie has a kick and it is one of the best vampire flicks made. "},{"Title":"Original take on vampires","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Caleb (Adrian Pasdar) is a young man from the mid West who unwillingly joins a family of vampires when Mae (Jenny Wright) bites him. Father Jesse (Lance Henriksen) isn't sure about him and neither is his wife Diamondback (Jenette Goldstein). Their son Severen (Bill Paxton) is a borderline psycho and the other, Homer (Joshua Miller) is a sullen 13 year old. Caleb must kill to get blood and survive...but he's not sure if he can do that. Meanwhile his father and little sister are out searching for him.Unique take on vampires. These vampires ride around in cars and vans and just park in dark garages or such to sleep during the day. Sunlight doesn't kill them...but they slowly start to smoke then catch fire. No fangs are shown either (although Caleb does have the marks). This movie made director Kathryn Bigelow...and rightly so. It's very stylishly shot and directed on virtually no budget. The storyline is a little skimpy but the visuals carry this through. The attack on a bar is a highlight.The acting is mostly good. Wright and Miller are OK but Pasdar is pretty bad. He's handsome but is very blank during most of the movie. Paxton rips into his role full force but (truthfully) he got on my nerves quickly. Henriksen and Goldstein nicely underplay their roles.This was barely released when it came out but quickly gained a strong cult following. A low budget gem. Worth catching.I hate it when they ain't shaved "},{"Title":"Original, intelligent, very sexy vampire movie","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Where to begin? This is one of the top horror movies, not just of the eighties (my high school years) but of all time. There may be others that get more explicit, but for me, one of the most strikingly sexy images EVER is Mae (Jenny Wright)allowing Caleb(Adrian Pasdar), a newly turned vampire (although no one in this film ever uses that word), to drink from her as an alternative to killing people himself to get the blood he now needs to survive.Then, of course, there's Bill Paxton's performance as Severin - especially in the bar scene - Lance Heinreiksen's as Jesse, and Jennette Goldstein and Joshua Miller. This film undoubtedly had one of the best casts of any horror film. "},{"Title":"Near Boredom","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After reading all the positive reviews of 'Near Dark', i thought id check it out. I wasn't expecting anything like the films its been linked to (aka 'Lost boys'), i was hoping for it to live up to the hype in at least some small way. The story line is really bare bones stuff, guy meets girl, girl bites guy, guy becomes a vampire. Pretty standard Vampire movie criteria, done many times before and since, with a few variations thrown in here and there.Whilst watching 'Near Dark' i couldn't say i was unhappy with the acting, all concerned put in good performances. I noticed a similar pattern weaving into the story line as takes place in 'Interview with a vampire', in that our main hero is fighting his conversion into the undead, yet at the same time cannot help but give in to his nocturnal hunger.This is where i feel the movie falls down, since it subscribes to the long held legend that vampires cannot wander around during daylight, most of the film takes place at night, as does 'Interview with a vampire' made a few years later. The problem being is that the latter film was able to furnish the vampires nocturnal hunting missions with wonderful backdrops and eye catching visuals, where as 'Near Dark' only offers the viewer dreary motels, dark highways and unlit barns.Since the subject matter of killing people to drink their blood is a dark enough concept, the film really needed to be balanced out with either some witty in jokes, or stunning night scenery, which 'Near Dark' has neither of. As i said earlier, the acting is good as can be expected, most notably the ever reliable Bill Paxton, but the constant darkness and repetitive nature of the script simply bored me. A good opportunity wasted. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Near Dark is near perfection","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In 1987, two vampire movies were released. The teen audience went to see The Lost Boys; the older audience went to see Near Dark. Perhaps unfortunately, more people went to see Lost Boys than Near Dark, forcing the latter to drop off the face of the earth for years. Until 2002, actually. DVD wonder company Anchor Bay released a 2-disc special edition of the film, prompting a new generation of horror fans to investigate the film. One of them was me.The biggest problem with Near Dark is that it is somewhat pointless until the end of the film; there is little or no story at all. The film begins with young Texan Caleb (Adrian Pasdar), who wants more than anything to leave Texas - until he meets beautiful yet mysterious Mae (Jenny Wright). Predictably, Mae is a vampire - and after Caleb attempts to score with her, she accidentally brings him across into the world of the undead. Now, while being hunted by his worried father and young sister, Caleb is forced to join a band of evil vampires, of which Mae travels with.That's just about the whole story.This film is another dated eighties film - but then again, most films of the decade were dated. Tangerine Dream, a popular 80's band, contributes the very fine, sometimes creepy score. The cast is very good. Lance Henriksen is cool as the leader of the vampires, but its Bill Paxton who steals the show as a badass, reckless vampire out to have some bloody fun. Paxton is terrific every moment he's on the screen.Kathryn Bigelow, who most recently directed K-19 The Widowmaker, directs and co-writes this film. Her direction is one of the highlights of the film, which is very dark but in some bizarre way, poetic. The script is something of a mix between violent horror and dramatic western - which works out well in creating an eerie vampire film.The biggest question, other than how good the film is, is would I have gone to see Lost Boys or Near Dark? I have to answer both. They are both excellent films, two of the very best featuring vampires, and it's hard to choose which is my favorite. Lost Boys had a mixture of teenage style and pre-teen humor, while Near Dark has a mixture of bloody violence and dark drama. Both are great, and I'll leave it to you to decide which is the better film. "},{"Title":"Extremely Different Vampire FIlms","Date":"7 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Okay, where The Lost Boys and Fright Night gave us new and fresh takes on the vampire legend, there was another 80's gem covering them in a South-Western story. Captivating are the two leads played by Adrian Pasdar and Jenny Wright. Equally fun are the lifer vamps who are sinister foes then friends then foes again to the extent that you sort of wanted to see CALEB'S acceptance into the clan or posse. However, luck of fate happens for an eventful conclusion of stunts, special effects and an exploding little kid who dates back to, at most, the Civil War era! A western gang of nomadic or gypsy vampires; they are almost like some hard-core criminals and Truck drivers at the same time. I could see JESSE as a gunslinger at one point and know for definite that he fought for the South. Each of these characters could have an interesting tale on how they came to be vampires. This one is Caleb's Vampire Phase and Mae's ultimate finding of eternal love over eternal life or immortality. Our young, vampire lovers are mixed into a dark tale of engrossing horror/action, violence and passion.The three adult vampires are played by actors who played Marines in James Cameron's Aliens. I must say these 3 gave great performances in both films.Though not as well known as some other 80's vampire films, a definite classic among fans of the genre or vampires. "},{"Title":"A Vampire Movie Like No Other","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There were two vampire movies during the 80's that changed the genre, The Lost Boys and Near Dark.I was attracted to Near Dark due to the cast that shown so brightly in Aliens. To us fans, to have that cast together again was just what the doctor ordered.The story, a great story on top of having a great cast and one of my favorite directors Kath Bigelow, make this movie a must have for me.I won't go any further as I don't want to spoil any moment o fthis film for the uninitiated. I remember when I first moved to Los Angeles and wondered if I'd ever meet one of my favorite actresses Jeanette Goldstein and had just rented Near Dark and the next day I'm in the post office and who is standing right there at the counter? Jeanette Goldstein! So for people who love a good horror movie, with suspense, wry humor, and great, great characters, this movie is for you.The twist that makes this movie unique is that it shows the relationship of the vampires to one another like a family brought together by horrific circumstances. You don't hate the vampires but you sympathize with them which really caught me by surprise as the cast pulled it off magnificently.Again, a must have good film about parental love, relationships, courage, history and good ol' fashioned monsters. "},{"Title":"Timeless, classic, awesome.","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I love this movie. I watch it regularly. One of the most impressive qualities that this movie has is it's timelessness. I watched it with my girlfriend a few months ago, and she thought it had just come out. She was surprised when I told her this film was made twenty years ago. The rural setting and realness of the characters gives it that quality.I think Near Dark is the coolest vampire movie out there. I'm not a huge fan of the genre, but I'd put this up against anything I've seen. You can see the influence this movie had on newer films like From Dusk til Dawn, Dust Devil, The Devil's Rejects, Desperation, and others.The acting is brilliant. I love the part where Bill Paxton starts the fight in the bar, that whole scene is one of the most bad ass things I've ever seen in a movie. The special effects are pretty good too, for 1987. The music is also excellent.In short, if you like western/rural horror flicks, check this one out, you won't be disappointed. It's a little slow starting out, but it grabs you and doesn't let go until the end. You'll like it.9 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"The best vampire film ever!","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was absolutely beautiful - The most realistic portrayal of how vampires would exist in my opinion. Lost Boys sucked compared to this piece. Very sad and emotional with strong performances by the entire cast. I wish they had made a sequel to this film. Kathryn Bigelow shows that she has amazing talent when she is allowed to make the films that she wants to. The movie opens with Caleb who is out and finds the girl of his dreams. It turns out that she is a vampire who has a family of other vampires that surround her. Caleb is turned into a vampire and has the internal struggle not to kill other humans. Very beautifully shot - a haunting tale that stays in your mind long after watching it. "},{"Title":"Normal folks, they don't spit out bullets when you shoot 'em&#133;Near Dark","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Before cult classic Point Break and sci-fi winner Strange Days, Kathryn Bigelow had an 80's vampire gem called Near Dark. Having heard a lot of good word of mouth on this one, and my love for Days, I needed to check it out. Vampire films have a tendency to become redundant, always following rules and never being creative. Seeing 30 Days of Night add a little something to the genre, it was interesting to see what Bigelow and co-writer Eric Red brought to it two decades earlier. For one, the word vampire is not used even once to my knowledge. Our lead character has turned and is experiencing all the symptoms, yet when asked what is happening, all he can say is you won't believe me. It is just too easy to say, I think I've been bit by a vampire, and that's why I love the innocent naïveté here. He is just scared of what he's been seeing; there are no words to explain it. I also must say that I enjoyed the way in which the story was told. Rather than be about the clan killing, it is instead about a new convert and his understanding of the situation. This is the victim's film, not the monsters.I don't quite know the complete story on Bigelow, but it appears she has many friends in the sci-fi genre. For one, James Cameron wrote Days for her, and we have a connection with actress Jenette Goldstein, who appeared in Terminator 2. Oh, and she was married to him for a couple years. The thing I don't know is her relationship with Ridley Scott. Between Bill Paxton and Lance Henriksen being in the cast and a movie theatre marquee in the background having Aliens on it, I have to believe there is a connection. One thing is for certain, however, she should keep using them. Point Break, is nothing but a guilty pleasure, K-19 The Widowmaker is solid, but unspectacular, and I've only heard bad things about The Weight of Water. Hopefully Bigelow will get a project that has a bit of ingenuity in it again. Heck with Cameron back behind the camera on Avatar and Eric Red back in the biz with 100 Feet, a new collaboration would be welcome.Back to the film at hand, despite it dripping 80's-cheese, complete with a soundtrack from Tangerine Dream, it is quite well made. Visually, the effects are kind of outstanding. While it never goes too crazy, these aren't the vampires of stories we might think of, the gore factor is nicely orchestrated. The burning from daylight is realistic, the smoke emanating off of the characters is great; when Paxton is hit by a truck, his face is bloodied and pulpy, but never cartoonish; and when a character at the end is running in the sun, the effect of adding flames on him is pretty astonishing for 1987.Then there is the acting. No one does crazed mania better than Bill Paxton. Channeling his great over-the-top role in Aliens, his Severen is the best part of the movie. Between the one-liners and the facial expressions, the guy creates a persona like no other. He carries the best scene of the film, a bar fight, with ease. Well, he does get some help from his ragtag bunch of friends. Henriksen is just plain scary as usual and Goldstein is a good companion for him. When they ask the waitress for just a glass, although you know where that will go, it is a vicious sequence nonetheless. Little Joshua John Miller also brings something to the group. I like the concept that he is an old man in a small body, being immortal that is, and his attitude and smoking/drinking is pretty jarring and impressive considering I'm sure his parents needed to sign off on the part.True, although the supporting cast is what becomes ultimately memorable from the film, the two leads do a nice job as well. Jenny Wright has the look and delivery needed for her role of the girl in love trying to keep a bit of humanity in her life of darkness. Then there is Adrian Pasdar as Caleb, the young man thrust into a life of nightwalking. I had never seen or heard of him until TV's Heroes, but he does well in an early role here. With his morality coming in direct conflict with his survival, not only as a vampire, but as a member of Henriksen's gang, his lack of being able to commit murder adds a layer to his role that lets the audience truly relate to him. His struggle is the most interesting plot line of the story and he holds it up well.As a final note to the ingenuity of making a vampire film without ever falling into the traps of one, comes the blood transfusion thread. Besides the immortality, need for blood, and aversion to sunlight, there really isn't much more to the myths you hear. The most intriguing of the changes is with the ability to cure oneself of the illness. I cannot think of another instance where one could be cured of the affliction. When Pasdar's Caleb asks his father whether he had ever transfused a man, I was blown away. The concept seemed so simple and surprisingly foreign to me. The ability to pull it off could never have happened if these monsters were verbally coined vampires, though. Like Danny Boyle's 28 Days Later, not being constrained in the conventions of the genre leads to innovations that may never have been possible otherwise. As far as the three characters involved in the transfusing having the perfect blood type match, that's a completely different question. "}{"Title":"Bad, real bad....","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" OK, even though vampire movies is not my thing, I must admit that I've actually seen better vampire movies than this (From dusk till dawn and Vampires). Near Dark is just a stupid vampire movie about a farmer boy that falls in love with a vampire girl. You know what I mean by stupid now? The whole plot is just lame. I don't even understand why I saw it. The farmer boy turns to be a vampire after the vampire girl bites him, but the thing is, he doesn't want to be a vampire. He rather want to stay at the farm with his father and his sister, instead of hanging around with the vampire girl and her buddies in the van. I can't blame him for that. I don't understand why even Lance Henriksen wanted to be a part of the movie. I've never seen him worse. He was so much better in Powder and Alien. Oh well...it all can't be good I guess. "},{"Title":"The worst!!!","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the worst vampire movie I've ever seen by far!  Don't rent it, don't borrow it, don't even touch the box that the movie comes in.  It might even be the worst movie I've ever seen, regardless of genre.  If I hadn't been forced to see Agent On Ice, Near Dark would be hands-down winner.  (Or should I say loser?) "},{"Title":"Near Dark is near dead","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  -- This 1987 Vamp movie, states that it is a classic on the cover box, and perhaps it is.  But this reviewer doesn't think so. First off the plot line, story arch  whatever you want to call it doesn't really mesh all together. Jesse ( Lance Henrickson) and his clan go from bar to bar, killing people and stealing cars. Add in Caleb and his refusal to kill and you have would a good storyline.  It just doesn't all come out as well as I think it could have. Though there are good moments, like how each member has their own way of attracting their prey. But their are bad, and I mean bad moments, such as a blood transfusion being the cure to vampirism.  Um.. No, that simply goes against the principals of all vamp. movies. The body is dead, just pumping some blood back into it  isn't going to bring you back to life-- see what I mean  it is moments like that, that just grind against the good parts.  The production looks mostly stylized and why it never really gets to the point of being creepy, or ominous-- you can tell it really tries to get there.  The acting is very good, Bill Paxton gives a crazed performance as only he can do. And the rest of the cast hold their own.  The special effects are typical Vamp movie effects, Karo-syrup blood and sun-light burnt skin. But one irritating thing, at no point do the Vamp's ever have fangs, they bite people,  but no fangs??  Another moment that just grinded my nerves like nails against chalkboard.-- Let's face it, there is only a couple of good vamp movies, Dracula, The Lost Boys, and Interview with a Vampire. to name a few. The rest are nuts, trying to recreate the vampire rules every time, some things can kill them, some things can't. It begins to become overwhelming.  Unfortunately Near Dark falls into the bad category. At no point were the vamps, scary or even sexy  in that shirtless Lestat ( Queen of the Dammed) way. "},{"Title":"This movie is painful","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was written by a 13 year old girl I believe. One who had ideas that would be cool for a movie. So with that being said, this movie was horrible. The worst part of the movie is the ending. SPOILER ALERT All throughout the movie the vampires could not even get hit with sunlight before being burned/exploding. But at the end, the vampires are in a car driving off. The sun hits them and they all explode except 1. The love interest of the movie. So she is flung out of the car DURING THE DAY without any form of protection. She THAN wakes up in a hillbilly farm where she was given a blood transfusion by the farmers and she is human again....worst...movie...ever. Unless you are blind and deaf...but you will probably still hate it. It has bill paxton and bishop so I gave it a 3 "},{"Title":"Burnt by the Sun and Illuminated by the Moon.","Date":"26 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Early writing/directing venture by future Oscar winner Kathryn Bigelow ends up being a fascinating, but very underwhelming entry in her list of cinematic credits as Oklahoma cowboy Adrian Pasdar is bitten one night by the beautiful Jenny Wright (really a vampire). As Pasdar goes through his demonic change he falls in with Wright's small group of drifters led by Lance Henriksen and Bill Paxton as they terrorize small towns and deserted roads late at night as they continue to keep their strength feeding on unlucky strangers. As day comes in they must do all in their power to stay out of sunlight or be burned beyond recognition. Nothing really new to speak of here as vampires were all over the place in the mid-1980s with bigger-budgeted and better though-out ventures (think Fright Night and The Lost Boys). Bigelow shows potential here as a relatively new film-maker, but in the end Near Dark is little more than a late-night cable dud which does nothing to distinguish itself from three dozen other films of the genre and the time period. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"innovative","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, after the classic vampires Peter Cushing exorcised...dark gentlemen riding horses in Victorian times...we get 1. Vampire splatters when the vampire motif is barely a vehicle for litres of SFX fluids oozing and exploding from everywhere, but it might be cannibals from Mars for all we know. 2. Blade/Underworld vampires...basically a high tech version of Al-Quaeda equipped with the latest buzz technology and- in Underworld- dressing what, Gothic Prada and riding Lamborghini?! 3. LOST BOYS and NEAR DARK are the third ( and best ) option. Near Dark is a sub-urban travelogue in which vampire rednecks roam dirty suburbias driving wrecked vehicles while feeding on other rednecks. The atmosphere is great...not too pretentious and that's why it delivers; one iota of philosophy but not too much...baggage ala Underworld tends to be boring and anyways it was copied from BLADE. It am amazed that Jenny Wright did not skyrocket to stardom given her solid performance...or rather...why was't she propelled to stardom by the same babe-magnet producers who propelled less worthy individuals such as Sharon Stone? A real shame... "},{"Title":"Maybe the Creepiest Movie I Ever Saw","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think the bar scene in this movie is probably the creepiest scene I've ever seen in a movie. Bill Paxton is great as the extremely over confident vampire. When the bartender nervously pulls out his sawed off shotgun to take care of the bad guys, who would ever think that the lead character would get shot right in the gut with blood and gore hanging out of his stomach. And when Lance Henrikson breaks the neck of the bar patron after the patron pleads with him, it just creeped me out. I watched Near Dark for the third time and it just gets better and better. When the bartender had his throat repeatedly slashed by Bill Paxton's razor sharp spurs, that creeped me out, too. This movie is a must see. If you like unconventional terror, you'll love this movie. It was very eerie to watch Joshua Miller catch fire due to the sunlight near the end of the movie and then, eventually explode in a ball of flame. And when Lance Hendrikson's girlfriend gently caresses Hendrikson's hand as they're burning up and the girlfriend smiles like she's relieved that she's finally going to cease to be, that's strange. The leading lady in this film isn't that pretty but she's got a great body and I thought she was very sexy in her role. The smart alecky child vampire (Joshua Miller) is easy to hate and when he gets his in the end, I thought it was very fitting. "},{"Title":"a great start  for a sort-of vampire story fan","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think this story is perfect for a vampire fan beginner . it grabs you quickly into the life of vampires , but also gives you a way out !! For an eighties movie ( sorry ) I think its great . It's very typical of movies in the eighties.. less plot more silly .. yet for some very odd reason it pulls you in ( probably bill Paxton , and his aliens one liners ) . Despite my criticism this is one of my all time favorite vampire films . Does that mean this movie is great ??? I think its very entertaining however I think it really says something about the genre . I can only give this movie a six but I would rather give it a six point seven strictly because of its entertainment purposes . "},{"Title":"Dead pole cats and fangless vamps!","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A widely different take on the vampire genre yes, better than Lost Boys...nah. This has it's moments to be sure, Paxton is great, Jenette Goldstein effective, Jenny Wright beautiful, Adrian Pasdar on par. Lance Henriksen mugs a little too much and Josh Miller as Homer can be flat out annoying. He's slightly less distracting in this than in Rivers Edge. Maybe it's time for an Electric Shoes reunion. At any rate some bunk editing and gaping plot holes make it hard to say that this at the level of the Lost Boys. I'm not saying that Lost Boys is the almighty of vampire pictures it's just that these two films are constantly compared due to their release dates. Now I wanna say I enjoy Near Dark wholly. Bill Paxton delivers big time as Severn and Jenny Wright is amazing to look at as well as turning in a great job as the on the fence vamp-clan member Mae. The gore is there and the idea on the whole is downright brilliant it just suffers from to many inconsistencies to be A list horror. Wait is that an oxymoron? "},{"Title":"one of the few modern vampire movies can be taken seriously as drama and horror","Date":"7 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kathryn Bigelow was ambitious on her first solo directing feature, and it shows someone who took the premise where it needed to go, fleshed out characters that in other hands could be flimsy cardboard cut-outs, and made sure that we took the vampire myth presented seriously even as it had one or two minor twists. Near Dark kicks all kinds of ass as a horror movie, and is also quite heartbreaking in a lot of instances. The romance between the two leads works, the villains of the story (mainly Lance Henrikson and Bill Paxton, both going between dead-serious and camp like jumping rope) are frightening and sadistic and with that touch of crazy that makes them indelible, and the violence is gruesome and raw and full of intensity for what Bigelow is after. A sleeper.The short of it is that a good ol' boy in Texas (Pasdar) meets a girl (Wright) one night in town, the two hit it off very well - so much so that they make out and the girl bites the cowboy on the neck - until he turns into a vampire pretty soon after. It's an infection as we hear, which is conveniently left out (though with good reason since Bigelow doesn't want the obvious cutting into the semi-realism), as the cowboy Caleb is picked up by the girl and her possee of other vampire degenerates who cruise around, hitchhiking, going to bars, eating and sucking the blood out of whatever's on the menu. All of the dialog surrounding the characters is never forced or pumped up too much for exploitation; when Pasdar runs into his father and little sister again- and the father manages to take him back home to get a certain blood transfusion done- it's handled carefully, without hefty cheese or pretension.While one may want to argue about if the blood transfusion bit makes sense with the vampire myths, it can also be argued whether or not these are exactly by definition vampires. I would undoubtedly argue that they are, but that also Bigelow is tooling around with the genre to make it fit, in part, as a bloody good western. If it were set specifically as a real western, Caleb's turning into a monster would just be as a kind or prisoner, maybe as a forced gunslinger or other. As it is here, the vampire angle is a modus operandi for Near Dark's scary and chilling take on rural outsiders who are doomed to their way of life hunting by dark, staying out of the sun at day. But, thankfully as well, Bigelow pulls out some really amazing, show-stopping scenes to mark it as something of an under-looked classic, like with the deliberately paced scene at the bar (can a bartender mess up loading his gun more?) or Paxton's last stand against the truck.Actually, if for nothing else, a genre fan should watch the one-year-after-Aliens re-teaming of Bill Paxton and Lance Henrikson, both playing variations on scum who act mean and lean and cruel and laughing maniacally all the way while burning to a crisp. One is reminded how good an asset one or the other could be - and then together make a really awesome package for fans. Near Dark is what it looks to be from the cover, what it lives up to be exceeding expectations on the modern vampire movie, with limited camp and honesty to its treatment of vampirism as a blasted infection as opposed to a curse. "}{"Title":"A Very Cool Movie","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Usually vampire movies are on the cheesy side. Usually when they mix romance in there, its awkward. And usually if its a western, its bad. These are not the case with Near Dark.Near Dark is a very cool Horror Western with some not-too-dramatic romance thrown in to make this a favorite 80's horror movie.The cast was well chosen, with Adrian Pasdar playing a very good Caleb, the protagonist of this movie. There's also Tim Thomerson as Loy, and Marcie Leeds as Sarah, Caleb's father and sister.The cast of the group of vampires was the best part though. Jenny Wright played Mae very nicely, as a shy, not-so-evil vampire who falls for Caleb. Joshua Miller plays a good Homer, the bratty kid of the group. And 3 stars from Aliens appear in the group the unofficial leader of the group, Jesse Hooker (Lance Henriksen, who played Bishop in Aliens), his girl, Diamondback (Jenette Goldstein, who played Vasquez in Aliens) and the wild person of the group, Severen (Bill Paxton, who played Hudson in Aliens).Over all this was definitely one worth watching. A million times better than 30 Days of Night.9/10. "},{"Title":"What a movie )","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" First time I saw this movie I was amazed and left with the feeling of holy sh.t! Now that's a good movie! Saw it again after purchasing it last night and again I was just sitting there. Even bigger surprised, cause I thought it might be outdated or maybe I remembered wrong or something. But no. Again I was left with the feeling of holy sh.t! Now that's a good movie! Truly it is.The plot, the actors, the locations, the atmosphere, the music all thrown in a pot and mixed together makes it breathtaking.It is beautiful and it works for 2 reasons only; 1) It's so simple and we have in fact seen tons of times before, but here's no. 2) it's vampires. So simple and yet what a nice twist.When it comes to effects, there's not many transformations seen. Actually you don't see one fang at all, which is prolly why it still holds. The burns form the sun and gunshot wounds just do what they are supposed to do and do look real, even to this day.The casting for this movie are excellent. Couldn't even think of who could replace any of them. Lance is just so superb for a movie like this. So are the rest.The music also hits bullseye; Tangerine Dream; Do I need say more ? It's just so sublime and perfect under laying music for a vampire road movie.All I got left to say are watch it and I hope you'll get the same feeling as I do. "},{"Title":"Why are Henricksen and Paxton in so much trash?","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Especially Henricksen. Although they'd both been around for a while, I never noticed either of them until ALIENS, where everybody involved turned in a great performance. Not do here. The makers of this POS tried to update the vampire theme,but it just comes out very stupid and amateurish. No fangs, no stakes, no silver, not much of anything when you think about it, including a plot. Sheesh-you have to write at least ten lines on this piece of garbage, and some movies just don't justify that. This is probably the one IMDb rule that I personally think really sucks. If you want a vampire update, watch either LOST BOYS or FRIGHT NIGHT for humor, or MIDNIGHT KISS for a serious story. Henricksen must have needed a new car or some porch renovations. "},{"Title":"Total rubbish","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The cast is made up of many of the cast from Aliens that was made a year earlier.These include Bill Paxton (colonial marine), plus Vasquez from Aliens and also the cyborg dude from Aliens...Unlike Aliens (which is a classic) this is a steaming pile of excrement. The story line is your typical vampire one. Sometimes however these vamps can withstand a fair bit of light before igniting and then exploding...The whole movie reeks of being C grade at best...Not worth watching. "},{"Title":"Weird vampire road movie","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kathryn Bigelow's directorial debut Near Dark was released within a few weeks of 1987's The Lost Boys. On a basic level they both revolve around a young man who is taken against his will into small collective who thrive on the night. Whereas The Lost Boys had a hip, late-eighties aesthetic that somehow made bloodsucking perfect date movie fodder, Near Dark takes its similar subject matter far more seriously and offers up a much darker alternative. There's no mention of the word vampire, no visible fangs, no bats, or any of the other predictable conventions of this sort of flick. Instead it tells a story of survival that believably occurs unrepentantly over many centuries. The fear of the light and the overall sunrise rituals that are exhibited on-screen sell a sympathetic reality often removed in such stories. It's an intriguing film with some very strong cinematography. A meatier story would have been nice, but Near Dark is definitely a forgotten near gem. "},{"Title":"I sure haven't met any girls like you.","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Vampires in cowboy country? No, this is not some western, but a tale of drifters in the west that just happen to be children of the night.Kathryn Bigelow directed a winner her with familiar stars such as Adrian Pasdar from Heroes, who falls in love with a vampire played by Jenny Wright. Don't get excited. Wright keeps her shirt on unlike her previous skintastic appearances in Pink Floyd the Wall, The Wild Lfe and The World According to Garp.The drifters? How about Lance Henriksen, Bill Paxton, and Jenette Goldstein from Aliens. Cool, huh? One thing I have never seen in a vampire movie is the transformation back to human. This was a first. Of course, it had the usual fire and explosions after sunlight hits.An interesting twist on the usual and a fun flick. "},{"Title":"Overrated, but still watchable","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Near Dark is an overrated film, but there's still some good parts to it.**SPOILERS**Desperate to get home, Caleb Colton, (Adrian Pasdar) manages to give young Mae, (Jenny Wright) a ride home, and she freaks out if they're not home by dawn. Wandering home after their encounter, he is abducted by Jesse Hooker, (Lance Henriksen) and his gang, Severen, (Bill Paxton) Diamondback, (Jenette Goldstein) and Homer, (Joshua John Miller) and offer him to join their group. Reluctantly accepting, he is soon ingrained into the group, and after a couple of encounters with other people on the road, he soon learns that he's not a human anymore. When his family, Loy, (Tim Thomerson) and Sarah, (Marcie Leeds) track them down to get him back, and when he must decide where his allegiances lie, forcing a fierce battle to the death.The Good News This here felt overrated, but it did have some good moments. The best qualities in the film are it's three solid action scenes. The bar scene is quite fun to watch, simply due to it being the first time there's some actual victims. It's hard to pick out the best scene there, as there's some great stuff here. From the stalking of the bartender to the assaults on the patrons and the short little intermission with the teenage cowboy make up some great scenes. The later shootout in the motel amounts to the film's greatest action scene, as the bullets fly around inside the small room, with the sunlight filtering in burning the vampires, and a fiery, gory climax really make it stand out. The final showdown, which is right up there as a really standout moment and allows for some really nice gore scenes as well. The one main gore scene in the film, where one of the vampires is seen after being hit by a truck with the side of the face completely smashed to a pulp, bloody bruises across most of the head, the side caved in slightly and a large amount of wounds on the arm. We see it very briefly but clearly, and it really manages to seep in and become memorable. There's a nice, fiery ending as well that really gets the film out at the right spot and high, and is one of the film's best points. There's also one of the most novel and interesting ways of having a vampire walk around in sunlight, with the constant blackening of windows on their cars. It's remarkably creative and original, and is another bright spot in the film. Otherwise, this was a really overrated film with just a few things to like about it.The Bad News This isn't all that great of a film. There's a lot to dislike here, including the fact that the villains here are so obviously vampires and nothing is specifically mentioned about that. As there's no mention of the term, fangs or even the traditional methods of dealing with vampires, such as being staked in the chest, garlic, crosses and holy water, are completely missing in any way, shape or form from the movie. The only one it manages to get right is the being exposed to sunlight. The change in appearance and behavior are enough to cause some grievances with vampire fans. These don't act like the traditional impression of what vampires, and the change is kinda out-there for a lot of the old-school to adapt to. That accounts to a lot of what's wrong, although the complete lack of action. Since the beginning is relegated to just having the new recruit around and his ability to accept what has happened, which just drag on and on. There's only two big action scenes, and they're both near the end of the film, leaving it to wallow in boredom at the beginning, what with all the rules being explained and what's going on biologically. This is just deathly boring and nothing of much happens during this part, rendering it so hard to sit through. The ending is also one of the film's biggest flaws. The reversal of the vampiric condition applied to the one character is quite believable, as it was a short while ago that it occurred, but to have it done to the second participant is a little out there. It's been mentioned that the one had been a vampire for several years before the film started, and with the amount of time to get used to the specific variations between the two, and to have that simply changed in a simple operation is quite stupid. All things considered, this one felt overrated.The Final Verdict With only a few good moments in this, this is a severely overrated vampire film that will disappoint. This will mostly be recommended for those new to the vampire genre, but veterans or hardcore horror fans will be severely disappointed with this one.Rated R Graphic Violence and Graphic Language "}]