[{"Title":"Seagal is a martial arts hero in serious trouble...","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Born in Palermo, Sicily and raised in Chicago, Nico Toscani (Steven Seagal) is a martial arts hero in serious trouble... When his eyes are about to be opened, he is recruited into the CIA by a crazy drunk guy named Nelson Fox... Toscani holds the record for having more relatives under federal indictment than any other cop in the city... He hates the cocaine lawyers and the bad weather, but he is a loving husband and a caring father with no sins to confess... Nico is a narcotics cop who can't swallow his pride... He smashes crack dealers' faces into their cocaine mirrors, and wiretaps bad guys' phones without asking for permission... He assaults his opponents in bars and starts putting them in orbit... Nico wants to be number one on the most wanted list...Toscani makes a big drug bust, and discovers some plans to kill a senator who can't be bought out... He stands against a psychopathic leader who have used his 'little beauties' many times to extract information... 'Above the Law' is the first Steven Seagal movie which reveals the chilling truth about a powerful institution always political, largely ineffective and frequently corrupt... "},{"Title":"Seagal Unfairly Criticized As Actor","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"30 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This was Steven Seagal's first movie and pretty much summed up the way his films were going to go marital arts-crime stories with overly despicable villains and our hero saving the women by out-fighting everyone. Jean Van Damme and others followed with the same recipe which, by and large, has been pretty successful.Before I saw this, I had read national critics blasting Seagal's acting talents but that was unfair; he's not a bad actor. It was also a surprise to see Sharon Stone playing a nice role and without makeup! That certainly changed quickly with her Basic Instinct-type persona.It was fun to see Henry Silva again. As a kid growing up in the '50s and '60s, I used to see Silva on television a lot. He always played a bad guy, and played the part well....as he still does.Overall, a decent action flick but not one of Segal's more memorable films. He make a big upgrade with his next film, Hard To Kill. "},{"Title":"ENTER....Steven Seagal.","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Steven Seagal made his debut with this lean and mean actioner filmed on location in Chicago(My Hometown)Illinois.Seagal is Nico a Chicago-Cop with a bad past.Once a CIA operative in Vietnam who quit over a torture loving Boss Zagon(Henry Silva)from hell.Cut to the present where his past rears up to bite him in the ass In the form of a Drug Dealer he is trying to put away with Ties to Zagon.As a mini war erupts on the Streets of Chi-Town.This is Seagal at his best.He starts with the pain right away in a nifty scene that recalls 1985's Underatted Chuck Norris Actioner Code of Silence.(also Filmed in Chi Town)From there on its shoot outs,Bone-breaking's,Heady car chases,and Intrigue.Just when you think its gonna let up it starts roaring again.Seagal actually does a neat Job channeling Dirty Harry.He's engaging,intimidating,and funny.Veteran actress Pam Grier is along for the ride as his partner.What more can I say?She's Pam Grier!Sharon Stone Pops up as his wife displaying some early acting chops.The always fine Henry Silva adds the slimy menace needed.He very cool.The rest of the supporting cast is just as good.Michael Rooker pops up for a blink and you'll miss him cameo.Andrew Davis(Code of Silence,The Fugitive) gives the movie style,pace,and gets the best acting out of Seagal yet.At least until they re-teamed for the even-better Under Siege.8/10 "},{"Title":"Seagal's starter hit","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" It's near the end of the 80's, and this movie Above the Law will be one of Steven Seagal's starter hit. It was not a sleeper from the beginning. The action there was almost non-stop, I liked the part where one of the thugs had a machete, that was used against him, that person ended up sliced and diced Seagal style. Unlike those thugs there, the real deal were inside law enforcement, and that's where the fun begins. Pam Grier as Jacks maintains her toughness in this movie as she did in other blaxportaion films. Gregory Alan Williams was there way before Baywatch, Sharon Stone, way, way, way, before Total Recall and Basic Instinct.Seagal character was just as a juggernaut in this movie as he was in Hard to Kill. He was still driving the car with its front wheels shot out, and he shrugs off the cocaine murder attempt by one of the rogues. Everything turns out well in this movie, and the reviews should go well with the fans as well. Rating 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Above The Law(called Nico in Norway)is Steven Seagal`s first film, and it`s still a good film.  Steven Seagal plays Nico Toscani, a hard-boiled cop, who`ll do anything to get the bad guys.  On a bust, Nico discovers C-4, with which he is familiar with from his own past as a CIA-agent in Kambodja. The FBI drop the case against the man, who had C-4 in his car, but Nico continues to investigate on his own. Above The Law is good, violent and oldfashioned fun, and is definetely worth a look for the hardcore actionfan or Seagal-fan. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Terrific Film","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I was watching television the other day, just flipping through the channels when I came upon 'Above the Law'. I hadn't seen this movie in years, and was anxious to watch it again. I must say that I was impressed. I believe it deserves no less than a 9/10. Why? The martial arts in superb as well as the action in general. Moreover, this movie operates on many different levels of meaning. M.A. Rogers, in his commentary believes that Seagal's behavior contradicts his affirmation that nobody is above the law. This is not so. I believe that his actions are morally justified, inasmuch as there exists in the plot-line no other way for justice to be done. If the police force is corrupt and the C.I.A. are up to no good (not to mention the usually scum), what is one to do? It is therefore up to Toscani (Seagal) to take on a 'poetic license' of sorts and bring the transgressors back to justice.   M.A. Rogers, however, cogently points out in his commentary, that Seagal portrays a double-edged character. On the one hand he is easily angered, while on the other he puts out this Mr. Cool who is rife with obnoxious comments. This is why the film does so well. Important also is the scene in which his wife (Sharon Stone) pleads with him. She asks him to put down his 'pride'. She loves him because he is not like other men, but begs him to think of his family and back down. One cannot help, upon viewing this scene, to think of book six of The Iliad by Homer, where Andromache pleads with Hektor to stay in Troy for her sake and for the sake of his new-born son Astyanax. The emotion of the scene in Above the Law is heightened because of Seagal's show of restrained emotion one isn't convinced that he is a 'family man'. He is. His stern face shows that he is a hard man, with a burden on his shoulders and an obligation to save his society as well as his family from an ailment that abounds everywhere. There is lots more to say on the matter, but I will leave that to another commentary. If you are at all a fan of the genre, than you must see it, even if you care only for the action. But I must make it clear that this movie is just as deep and sophisticated as any current drama. One just has to look beyond the surface.Michael W. Helfield  "},{"Title":"Seagal goes above the law in Above the Law","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Before he was out for justice on the mean Brooklyn streets and under siege by terrorists on a U.S. Navy battleship, he was above the law. Yes, I'm talking about that quick-fisted, pony-tailed martial arts hero Steven Seagal and his 1988 starring debut Above the Law.Though his career hasn't panned out the way this debut promised, it is nonetheless a dynamic introduction to the mysterious world of Seagal, who plays Nico Toscani, a Chicago cop who as a child took up the Japanese martial art of Aikido and was some time later recruited by the CIA for covert operations in Vietnam.After witnessing the cruel torture and executions of some Vietnamese hostages by ruthless CIA chemical interrogator Zagon (Henry Silva) and his cohorts, who also seem in on a secret drug running operation, he walks away from his career and retires to life as a cop on the streets of Chicago with wife Sara (Sharon Stone) and partner Jacks (Pam Grier). Things get dicey when two suspects collared in a recent drug bust are allowed to go free. The department silences concerns by announcing that the two men are part of a huge undercover investigation. But Nico doesn't buy it.He suspects that something bigger is underway, and he's right. It isn't long before he stumbles onto a covert drug running operation right under his nose that involves his old CIA buddies, a local drug kingpin, some corrupt FBI officials and old nemesis Zagon, who is also involved in a political assassination plot. So Toscani, Jacks, and his Aikido fists of fury go to work on some really bad guys.Directed by Andrew Davis and co-produced by Seagal (who also shares a story credit), Above the Law promises a mean and gritty portrait of law enforcement with the magnetic screen presence of the charismatic (if not necessarily wooden) Seagal in the lead. The picture opens with some black & white home movie footage of Toscani and accompanying narration, showing us this mysterious man's history. Seagal, who became the first American to open an Aikido dojo in Japan and at the time held a sixth-degree black belt in the art, was a world-renowned security expert before he started appearing in the movies and snapping necks, bending limbs, and using his opponents' own momentum and strength against them.Above the Law does has some script problems, but it's balanced out by some rough & tumble action shoot-outs and nasty fights where Seagal throws his opponents into things and breaks and twists limbs 180 degrees in the opposite direction. But that is what his chosen sport Aikido does, as it employs joint locks, pins, and other methods meant to redirect and utilize an attacker's own strength and power against him. And Seagal does it perfectly.Is Above the Law a sensational debut for Steven Seagal? Certainly, at least for his loyalists. As a casual fan, he has certainly made better movies since then and improved his acting skills but what will always dazzle us are the nifty arm-twists and breaks that prove he is a master of his Aikido craft.8/10 "},{"Title":"Segals best one.","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is my favorite Steven Segal movie. Some of the attributes portrayed are not that far from the truth with this guy. In a fight, I'd like to have him on my side, most definitely. As a martial artist myself, I know Mr. Segal  knows from where he speaks, unlike many of the run-of-the-mill action stars we see on TV and the movie screen. Segal can back it up. I actually have met Mr. Segal and his beautiful ex-wife ( then his co-star )and a few of the other cast while they were filming  Hard to Kill  in Ojai, California in the late 80's when I was employed by the State of California. My experience is remembered as Mr. Segal being gracious to us  cops  who were working the movie detail, and Kelly Lebrock...she was a knockout! "},{"Title":"his best movie","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This was Steven Seagal's best movie. It was the only one where he focuses mainly on his outstanding Aikido ability. His fight's always look real in this movie and it's not overdone with automatic weapons like his latter films. The story is very believable because the CIA was covertly involved in illicit operations in Vietnam and Cambodia and Laos. One of the best scenes (martial arts) is a simple one In the middle of the movie he chases a suspect (thug) through the streets to finally catch up with him and get some information out of him . A friend of the thug is walking towards them and says to Seagal  get your hands off him or words to that effect. Seagal walks casually towards him and drops him with a very realistic punch to the stomach. Fight over. If you've ever done Martial arts you know that the punch was realistic. Seagal can really do that. Watch this scene and believe me, it's how it really is after practicing to Seagal's level (many, many years). "},{"Title":"Good action flick *Possible Spoilers*","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Good action flick that's entertaining with a fun performance from Steven Seagal. The main villain is very menacing and there is some great action scenes. Now this isn't anything spectacular but it does entertain you while your watching it. The direction by Andrew Davis is pretty good it has a pretty good pace and had some pretty cool shots as well. The opening is way cool and the story is pretty interesting but the clichés are there but who cares!!! it's an action film!!!!!. Put your brain in check and you will enjoy yourself. There is a bit of blood and violence we get lots of harsh bloody beatings, bloody gunshot wounds, and some people get cut up very badly. The acting is fine. Steven Segal is great here he is a VERY good action star and was just plain fun to watch. Sharon Stone is STUNNINGLY GORGEOUS but wasn't a well known actress at this time when she was on screen she did fine. and had decent chemistry with Segal. Pam Grier is great here and was pretty good looking , plus she had good chemistry with Segal Henry Silva is great and menacing as the main villain overall well worth the watch! *** out of 5 "}{"Title":"Seagal's first movie and it was great!","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie once it came out in the 80's and recently I got on DVD for fun and I realized it was a terrific movie.  Nico Toscani has done it all, Martial Arts, CIA, has a mafia family and now is happily married, has a new born son and has a partner he can talk naughty to in front of his wife. Whilst getting his young cousin out of a bar her boyfriend immediately tells Nico of a deal about to take place. Nico follows up on that tip and finally finds out that the guy he arrests is involved with the FBI. He gets a warning to back off from their turf, but Nico is consistent when the local priest is murdered. Seems the local priest wasn't supposed to be killed but another priest who was hiding in the basement was to die due to information confessed to him from someone. Nico discovers that a group of assassins are in town. When his family is put in danger he goes on a rampage.Note Did anyone notice the scene where Nico is a fighting a bunch of guys in an Indian's guys store and one minute he is wearing leather boots and when he jumps out of the window he is wearing a black pair of sneakers? Oh and if I am not wrong Someone said Steve instead of Nico when the FBI starts searching Nico's house. A great movie to watch!  "},{"Title":"Pretty entertaining","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie obviously isn't deep, but it is fun. The plot moves along quite nicely, there's plenty of humor, and the martial arts scenes are very well done. Seagal actually does have a presence on screen (as opposed to say, Chuck Norris or Claude Van Damme). The movie is low budget, but it has the virtue of recognizing the fact and not attempting effects shots that don't work (as opposed to Under Siege 2).-------- "},{"Title":"Excellent Debut of Steven Seagal","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" In Japan, the Sicilian martial arts expert Nicolo Nico Toscani (Steven Seagal) is recruited by the CIA Special Agent Nelson Fox (Chelcie Ross) to join the Special Operations Forces in the border of the Vietnam and Cambodia. In 1973, Nico witnesses the torturer Kurt Zagon (Henry Silva) interrogating prisoners of war and he is disgusted and quits the CIA, returning.Fifteen years later, Nico is married with a baby with his wife Sarah (Sharon Stone) and they live in the same house of his mother. Nico is a tough and incorruptible narcotics detective of the Chicago Police Department very close to his partner and friend Delores 'Jacks' Jackson (Pam Grier) and his friend Detective Lukich (Ron Dean). When Nico and Jacks investigate a drug traffic operation, they arrest the gang of the drug dealer Tony Salvano (Daniel Faraldo) but they find that they are smuggling the plastic explosive C4 instead. However there is an interference of the FBI and Salvano and his partner are released by FBI Agent Neeley (Nicholas Kusenko) and the detectives are forbidden of proceed with the investigation. But Nico does not stop and is suspended from the police force. But when there is an explosion in the church of his neighborhood and his friend and parish priest Joseph Gennaro (Joe V. Greco) is murdered, Nico chases Salvano and discovers a corruption ring that is planning to kill the American Senator Ernest Harrison (Joe D. Lauck) that is investigating the involvement of the CIA with drug traffic.Above the Law is the excellent debut of Steven Seagal in the cinema industry. When I saw this movie for the first time twenty-five years ago, I immediately became fan of this actor that used the style of Charles Bronson and Clint Eastwood associated to great fight choreography and violence. Today I have seen it again on DVD and the story is still full of action and has not aged after all these years. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Nico Acima da Lei (Nico Above the Law) "},{"Title":"One of Seagal's best!!","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This and Under Siege are Seagal's best easily. The rest of his movies are strictly average or below, and he has been responsible for some real crapsters, like Ticker and On Deadly Ground.This may not have a great story, but, this film, better than his rest, really showcase Stevens Aikido skills. The fights in this a great, and theres a lot of them. In his first few films, which all felt remarkebly similar, this, Hard to Kill and Out for Justice, he had lots of fights, simply filmed. Under Siege was a fun movie and great but had very little in the way of fights, since then his films have been poor and he hasn't worked with as good directors in terms of action.Add to that fact that this is Seagal in the best shape of his career. He's not the muscleman, oily chested, cheese grator ab's, hardman like Lundgren, Van Damme and Ah-nuld. He seems more of an everyman with a real toughness to him. He had a real don't mess with me aura in his old films, now it is sad to see him looking as old and out of shape as he does.He seems to have got worse over the years as an actor. This is the best performance I have seen from Seagal, he actually seems human and plays his character with some personality. Andrew Davis seems to get the best out of him, in this and in Under Siege.This film boasts a good cast, including sexy ladies like Pam  Grier and Sharon Stone. There is a good pace to it all and a message, as with most Seagal films, but the message is actually given subtlety, not ramned in your face like in his horrible eco-warrior films. Overall this is a good fun movie. *** "},{"Title":"Cop, ex-CIA in Vietnam, repelled by torture and drug-running of agents runs into drugs and explosives and CIA in Chicago","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" People miss the strong political message in this first of Seagal's movies the Amnesty movement sponsored by religious leaders in the US especially in the Catholic church that is hiding refugees from death squads in Central America has learned of a plot to assassinate a US Senator investigating CIA involvement in drug-running and torture and assassinations in Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua. Seagall learns that the same people who were involved in drug-running and torture in Vietnam are behind plot to assassinate the Senator during a speech in Chicago sponsored by groups against US involvement in Central American civil wars. The open anti-war position and critique of US policy by an honest cop gets ignored as is the tie-in between mafia drug dealers and the CIA. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This was an amazing beginning for Steven Seagal. He actually acts in this film unlike his recent work and actually portrays emotion and feeling into the role he plays. He is a good actor who genuinely got mixed up in the same role over and over and I think he realized this and it simply dulled him. As for the rest of the film, Pam Grier is bad ass as always here and doesn't disappoint. The plot is a typical police plot but executed well with the help of director Andrew Davis, director of another great cop film, The Fugitive. With help from Sharon Stone and villain Henry Silva, this film is an excellent action/drama that is filled with emotion and excitement for all. This film is class. "},{"Title":"One of the best examples of the action hero sub- genre of movies.","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Steven Seagal was one of the more established action stars that have emerged from Hollywood. Unusual for the fact that unlike Eastwood or Bronson, he had a relatively more action hero background he was a 6th degree (presently 7th) black belt in Aikido and has served as a personal bodyguard for numerous personalities. In short, all that he needed was a movie camera to follow him around and somebody could have made an action movie already. Most action movies of the era were rather low in the script department (Commando, Cobra etc.) and of course that would be very understandable since producers were undoubtedly banking on the popularity of the stars and the individual amounts of carnage each would inflict on screen. This of course would sit poorly with the more educationally inclined people and they have made it a habit to criticize each of the new movies of the genre and their countless spawn. But then let us face the fact not all of these movies are bad, brainless or both. I have learned that one must sift through each of these movies to fully know if they have delivered what they were supposed to deliver great action. It would be unfair if we would generalize the capabilities of action movies for we all know that not all dramas or thrillers are top notch. Above the Law is a shining example of the Action Hero genre. Story wise, it had a degree of complexity to it, obviously not found in Seagal's later works and the works of his contemporaries. It had the script that involved death squads, political assassinations, illegal immigrants and other questionable elements of the American government. While no one would mistake the script to be an adaption of a Ludlum novel, it gave a rather meaningful and resonant thematic edge to the movie. (Like the recent Edge of Darkness)Add this with the inner dynamics and daily interactions of city cops and you have a movie that balances perfectly without becoming too preposterous. The script made you watch the movie even if no one was getting shot on screen.Now the greatest question would be Does the movie deliver the action? Seagal here is in top form lean and mean. His Aikido skills provide the main source of exhilarating entertainment of the movie. Here he bloodies and throws around me twice his size and dispatches assassins with acute and deadly precision. The blood and violence quotient might not be as high as Seagal's later works (Marked for Death, Under Siege, Out for Justice) but it pops out when you least expect it and you are offered shootings, bone breakings, some dismemberments etc.Acting wise, Seagal actually delivers here. Playing a former Special Forces agent turned cop, he delivers the right mixture of toughness and sincerity in his role. He is joined by an equally believable cast (including the menacing Henry Silva as Zagon) that delivers their roles without overacting. In a movie that is only supposed to deliver action, I was quite surprised at the attention given to the performances. Overall, a very exciting marriage of a political thriller and a down to earth action hero movie.PS Seagal's movies have been less ambitious about the plot after this one. Most would focus on the action elements. He has also been less ambitious about losing weight for the past six years. "},{"Title":"Beginning of the Seagal Era","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is a great guy movie, A awesome example of the Lone Hero movie. This particular movie is great because it is Steven Seagal's first movie, in addition he produced it and was one of the writers. Seagal was the rebirth of the confident tough guy, threatening to defeat his enemies and then proceeds to snap his enemies like pencils. Seagal started to form relationships with his special effects guys to masterfully show martial arts can be used to detach body parts like mr potato.This movie was low budget, yet a brilliant fresh story with plenty of action. This is a solid Seagal movie, for more see Under Siege and Glimmer Man.Well worth renting or buying used. "},{"Title":"Great debut film for Segal","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Above The Law is the first and one of the best Steven Seagal films.Steven Seagal is a man who is now releasing direct to video films but back in the early-mid 90's, he was a very big action star.I would say he is actually one of my favorites from that era.I just love his movies. I love how he never gets scared and just beats on baddies by breaking their bones.His older films such as this, Out For Justice, Marked For Death and Under Siege are classic action films.Exit Wounds was his last very good film.I have seen a handful of his straight to video fare.They are alright but nowhere near as good as his older films.Urban Justice and Pistol Whipped come fairly close though.Any Seagal fan owes himself to watch this movie! It's one of his better ones! "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal, Action Star!","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Above the Law (1988) was the first (and best) Steven Seagal film (with the exception of BELLY OF THE BEAST). The movie showcases Seagal's action prowess (certainly not his brilliant acting skills). The film makers knew what his limitations were and carefully worked this film around them. This is the hardcore Seagal that we have grown to love. Nothing but bone breaking, limb popping, hand lopping, bruise making and bull crap spewing ultra violence from Steven Seagal. Watch him jump through a plate glass window and throttle some dumb punk who gives him lip. Seagal plays a former vet turned crime fighter who's out looking for those who are above the law! Watch out world, Steven Seagal is looking for the ones who defy the law!! Co-stars the always evil Henry Silva and Sharon Stone.Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Good display of martial arts.","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Seagal really started with a burst, compared to other action heroes of those days he really had a different style. To me, only Jeff Speakman had a stunning style like that in his film ¨The Perfect Weapon¨ (if you leave the Chinese films out of the equation). Seagal's style is fast, fluent, and without compromise. You can see that he is learned in Aikido and Jujutsu. He's a joy to watch. The story, however, is a much used formula in the action movie business. In this film Seagal plays the narcotics police officer Nicola Toscani, who had a martial arts training in Japan, gets recruited into the CIA, fights in Cambodia or Vietnam (I'm not sure), gets involved in CIA drugs business and therefore, quits the CIA and joins the police force in New York. Here he gets into a lot of trouble because of his unorthodox police-work. Then he gets into even more trouble when he gets into CIA territory with one of his investigations. The film is not for mainstream movie-buffs, because the storyline is simple. You don't have to think a lot, just follow Toscani's experiences along his life as a police officer. Seagal's acting hasn't changed along the years that we have seen him in all the movies that he has made. But that isn't a thing to complain about, we have a lot of actors who do act good, but they aren't as good in martial arts as Seagal. For these reasons, I give this movie a 6 out of 10, but as for watching it, I have watched it over ten times. "},{"Title":"Pre-Pony-Tailed Seagal and Pam Grier kick-ass and take names","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  A B action flick that entertains dutifully with slickly choreographed scenes of Seagal's character, Nico Toscani, an Italian martial-arts- trained cop with a determined chip on his shoulder that more than a few try to unsuccessfully knock off.  The fight scenes are inventive and fresh with a believable quality in Seagal's flat-footed stance and serious hand speed.  He's also pretty good with a gun.There's some Dirty Harry-esque comedy too in the lines and fight scenes that assists in amusing and, Above The Law rolls quickly along with well-timed musical score from David Frank, plus help from solid supporting players like, Pam Grier, and Sharon Stone, as Nico's wife and, the always irrepressible, Henry Silva, as CIA rogue and druglord, Zagon, who believably menaces in a few choice scenes.Seagal nicely underplays his character, Nico, and though this action vehicle heads in a predictable direction, it makes somewhat of a political statement while mixing underworld dealings with the shadowy side of the CIA and, perhaps tacit reference to the Iran-Contra affair. "},{"Title":"Seagal's best","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  ABOVE THE LAW is still Steven Seagal's best. He's done many entertaining films since, but this ones remains his best. It's a great urban crime drama with Seagal in peak form as a cop with lightning-fast moves and a knack for delivering justice. Okay, the story of a cop being suspended and ignoring orders to finish the case on his own has been done a gazillion times, but I've never cared about repetition. I just care about the overall outcome of the film. The story isn't great, but keeps you interested and moves at a good pace, with Seagal dispensing bad guys left and right. I love the gritty urban feel of the movie. Director Andrew Davis makes good use of his hometown Chicago's locations. Pam Grier is good, and (avoiding convention) isn't killed off for being the star's partner, and Sharon Stone, as Seagal's wife, has learned to act in the three years since KING SOLOMON'S MINES. Henry Silva is creepy as the bad guy, surrounded by a group of weasel henchmen who eventually all get their ticket punched by Seagal. David Michael Frank also composes a great contemporary-styled soundtrack that deserves a full soundtrack release; it's great music, and a great theme. The action is fun, the pace is good, and Seagal does a good job as always with his slick moves. It may not be great, but it sure is fun. "},{"Title":"Fun for action fans","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Although I have never been a big Steven Seagal fan, I instantly liked this film when my uncle gave it to me for Christmas one year.  It is one wild ride.  I enjoyed the awesome stunts and action scenes in the film, and I had to laugh out loud at some of the scenes because it was fun to watch.  Although I didn't care for Sharon Stone's acting in the film (she seemed to be too much of a weakwilled whiner, as opposed to her later films), Steven Seagal and Pam Grier were excellent as the main heroes.  The film reminded me of the fun I had watching cop movies like Dirty Harry mixed with martial arts movies, so I recommend it to fans of those kinds of films. "},{"Title":"Infra Dig","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"23 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I think I've got it figured out, why we like action movie heroes so much. It's the sudden escalation of violence that they unepectedly initiate. There may be a verbal encounter between the hero and a heavy. The hero asks a simple question. (Here, the question is, Did you ever see this girl?) The heavy makes some rude reply. Why doan you get your greazeball face outta here? The hero smiles silently, half turns away, then quick as lightning swings back and cracks the guy's face open like a cantelope. This generates the sort of adrenalin rush in the viewer that is missing from the viewer's own life. The psychologist Daniel Berlyne called it an arousal jag.The action sequences themselves have reached the zenith of gore, so blood is no longer very exciting. Their success depends on choreography, turning the fights and shootouts into a kind of Singin' in the Blood. Of course, let's face facts, there are only so many bridges to fall off, so many tall buildings to dangle from, so many ways a car can spiral through the air after hitting a dumpster -- so you have to borrow things. Remember how Clint clung to the roof of the heavy's car as it plowed through the alley in Magnum Force? Ditto here. Let's give the hero a partner who belongs to a minority group too, just to show that he can banter with the guy (or, in this case, the woman) and isn't prejudiced. Come to think of it, a partner who is a member of a minority group AND a woman kills two birds with one stone. Come to think of it, I imagine it's pretty easy to banter with Pam Grier. We ought also to give the hero an odd-looking gun but they forgot to do that here. We should have a romance between the hero and his female partner, but not in this case because she's black. I don't believe white folks would object to such a liason but African-Americans might and I wouldn't blame them. But we can have the hero be either a tragic widower (his wife offed by bad guys preferably) or a happily married man and a father.Seagal cannot be described as a good actor or a bad one because he doesn't seem to enact any role other than Steven Seagal. That's not a put down. The heroes in these action flicks are interchangeable. Willis, Schwarzenegger, Bronson, Norris -- it doesn't matter. They may look and speak a bit differently from one another, but those are accidents, not essences. The essence of their similarity is this they escalate the violent encounter suddenly and unexpectedly. They don't use much in the way of strategy, it's all physical skill. What I mean is, they're not Philip Marlowe or Sam Spade. They're Superman. I recommend seeing this only if you're REALLY mad at somebody that you can't punch out or hit over the head with a number nine iron. This should do a good job of displacing your anger and may even stop you from kicking your dog. "},{"Title":"great start to a great career","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" now we all know Steven seagal is one of the greatest action stars ever and he is my favorite. what i like about Steven seagal is that he is different from all the other action stars. all the others are to much of the same thing. they do the same thing over and over again which seagal does but he does it different from everyone else. seagals movie above the law was excellent. great acting, great script, great action. what i liked a lot about this movie is that it covers certain things that other action movies don't cover. also i liked that seagals family in the movie, half of them were cops and half of them were the mob. so you would think that he is an untouchable cop. he's not. and i like that seagals character (nico) doesn't use his his half family thats is part of the mob to his advantage. he's a tough cop that does whatever he has to do to protect soon in the movie not just the people but his own family. see it. you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie is full of action and a great plot. I particularly like the way he employs his aikido skills and combines these with a great script. This was one of my first movies seen of his with the anticipation of seeing a different type of martial arts movie-with no disappointment. This movie will hold your attention throughout until the end. An easy 8/10 rating. This writer has many of Steven's movies. It seems as though this particular one always winds up being watched over and over again. If you are a martial arts fan, and enjoy endless action combined with a well-written script,you will be not be disappointed with this picture. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"The Best film Seagal ever did","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The whole CIA thing was magic. No one had ever done a story like this on them before. Well not a believable one anyway. Henry Silva was what gave Above the Law acting legitimacy. His character Kurt Zagon easily makes my list of top ten favorite villains. Henry Silva was 60 years old at the time. I hope I look that good when I'm 60. Wow. A guy I knew once said when he first heard Silva say I'm gonna teach you never, never to fu@k with my opium! that he had only one reaction. Whoa. That sums it up better than anything I could have come up with. This is the side of the CIA that nobody publicly wants to talk about. Wars, drug dealing, assassination, torture, illegal arms dealing, money laundering, and the epic sized criminal conspiracy that naturally accompanies it. If anyone can be truly be above the law, these guys are it. No oversight, no accountability, and no rules. Not the kind of individuals you want to mess with. Unless you are Steven Seagal. Lol. "},{"Title":"The start of it all","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" When I watch a Steven Seagal movie, I liked to come back to this movie Above the Law. This is the starting point of Steven Seagal career and I enjoyed this movie too. Andrew Davis is a good director for this film, Andrew and Steven did a lot for this film. I enjoyed this film and the other Steven earlier films he made before his career went bye-bye but I will always be a Steven Seagal fan forever and this film will be known for me. Steven will always be the great one and Andrew Davis will always be a great director and they should make another film together and I would watch it from start to end.I give a 8/10 "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal's  bone crunching debut","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" back in 1988,a new action hero emerged on the scene.exploded is a more apt description i guess.that action hero was named Steven Seagal.he makes quite an impression in his first film,exposing the masses to a little known fighting style known as Aikido.Seagal shows some acting promise as well,in this film,and even in a few more subsequent films.one thing is certain he captured the public's interest,in a big way,for awhile at least.as for this film,it has all the ingredients that are necessary for a good action film.is it his best film to date?i don't think so,but it does rate fairly high among his films nevertheless.for me,Above the Law is a 7/10 "}{"Title":"You might be above their laws, you not above Mine!","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Having spent a tour in South-East Asia with the CIA back in 1973 Nico Toscani, Steven Seagal, saw what out-of-control and protective government officials could do when their deed are sanctioned ,as being above the law, by their superiors and those in high places. This has to do with trafficking in drugs and using the profits in funding their illegal operations. Now some 15 years later Nico sees the same thing happening as a member of the Chicago Police Department and he doesn't like it one bit.Slowly uncovering in his work as an undercover cop a major plot to assassinate US Senator Earnest Harrison, Joe Blauck, through a number of illegal South American immigrants and their courageous priest Father Tomasino,Henry Godinez. Tomasino knows about the impending hit on the senator and is terrified of being murdered right here in the US by his own governments, and CIA sponsored, deaths squads. Nico goes beyond the usual standard and boring police procedures to prevent it from happening thus stepping on the toes of those in the department who are secretly behind the plan. Nico and his family are later in the movie almost killed while attending services when a bomb explodes killing seven persons at the church that they attends and where Father Tomasino and the illegals are secretly hiding in.Told by higher ups in the Chicago Police and FBI to keep away from drug dealers Salvano & Ramon, Daniel Faraldo & Meguel Nino, Nico finally realizes that someone high up in the department and FBI is involved in the city's drug operations. This lead to the bombing of his church when Nico earlier saw the same two hoods stake it out, days before it was bombed. Deciding to take it on himself to uncover who's behind the bombing and bring the full weight of law down on them Nico puts his life on the line.By far Steven Seagal's best movie with the usual heroics deeds and bone crunching action that you've learned to expect in films with him staring in them. The film has a very strong and penetrating story-line that at the time, 1988, when the film was released was a lot like the news coming out of Washingto D.C involving drug trafficking by a rouge element in the CIA and the US government itself, that went as high as those in President Ronald Reagan's inner circle, in the infamous Iran-Countra scandal and following Senate investigation.Sen. Harrison is about to expose this criminal operation and because of that that is marked for death by the head of the illegal drug trafficking gang non other then Nico's former commanding officer in Cambodia Kurt Zagon, Henry Silva, who's now a secret and protected government operative which leads Nico, in his attempt to prevent the assassination from happening. Nico is Kidnapped by Zagon hoods and viciously tortured by them in order to find out if the senator, and his staff, were informed or tipped off by Father Tomasino. Who was earlier murdered by the Zagon mobsters after he refused to talk, of their plans to assassinate him.Beaking free from his captors Nico almost dead on his feet from a near-fatal drug overdose, that he was given to him by the sadistic Zagon, puts them and Zagon away with his or Seagal's usual chop chop heroics. All this happens just in time to save Sen. Harrison's life before Nico collapsed from drug poisoning and thus had, because of Senator Harrisons investigation, the entire illegal drug and explosives Zagon operation put on ice. Besides Above the Law being Steven Seagal's very first motion picture there's also a very young, and plain Jane-looking, Sharon Stone playing Nico's long suffering wife Sara. There's also the veteran and still very sexy actress, of 1970's black-exploitation movie fame, Pam Grier playing Nico's partner Delorse Jax Jackson who almost doesn't makes it alive by the time the movie's over by not listening to what Nico told her; not to try to do the wild and crazy things that he did in the film. "},{"Title":"Good debut for Seagal","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" It was films like this that built Seagal a fan base that are willing to put up with the rubbish he has made since his last decent film Exit Wounds in 2001. I know this film as Nico and Seagal puts in a great performance that set him out as an action star to watch. The film has great fight scenes and a great villain in Henry Silva. Another bonus is a pre Total Recall/Basic Instinct Sharon Stone. I would probably rate this about Seagals third best film after Under Siege and Hard to Kill. I would like to think he could escape the DTV films he makes now and return to these sorts of movies. Pam Grier completes a pretty strong cast for an actor making his debut. "},{"Title":"Top notch action film","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  My favorite Seagal film and one of my favorite films out there.  The action scenes are amazing, and the actors in it are great too. Sure Seagal's not the greatest actor ever but you dont watch his movies for acting abilities, you watch them to see him kick the sh*t out of bad guys, and he does so throughout the movie.  The best action scenes being the parking garage chase, the part where hes on the roof of the car, and the gunfight at the apartment building.  In all this is one of the best action movies out there and I recommend it to action fans.  9/10. P.S. Its too bad Henry Silva is not more well known cause hes probably one of the coolest actors out there. "},{"Title":"What more can I say? Classic segal, too bad he is terrible now","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Steven Segal was a quality actor and martial artist. He was also a supremely versatile actor. The man could play bad ass Cuban, native American, or sometime unknown races that always seemed to be above the law, and take out a bad guy one by one, piece by piece with a Cuban/native American martial arts unseen by anyone while dropping monotone one liners that got the audience laughing at the slaughter that just took place. No one stood a chance against him, Segal hardly ever takes a hit from the bad guys, he just disposes of them like medieval wenches standing in the kings candle light. Brilliant movie, pretty straight forward and the bad guy was pretty rotund for the athletics he performed. "},{"Title":"Seagal's First Masterpiece! The Best!","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of Seagal's first action packed masterpieces! If you like hardcore violence and true justice, then this movie is for you! If we had more cops like Nico today, we wouldn't have a need for maximum security prisons!! or the courts for that matter! Keep makin' movies Nico and Thanks!  "},{"Title":"Great debut for Steven Seagal and to make it better its directed by Andrew Davis!","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The debut of Steven Seagal in Above the Law is great,action packed film!It has a good cast and very good direction by one of My favorite directors Andrew Davis!Look for some of the same guys that was in Davis' other films such as The Fugitive and Chain Reaction!If you like action and Steven Seagal and haven't seen Above the Law then your in for a good time of non stop action! "},{"Title":"Don't knock Seagal!","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Seagal's first was a very good introduction into the movie business. A gritty action film made with little budget, a pretty good screenplay and a director who knows how to direct Seagal. Seagal, a Master in Aikido and different other Martial Arts, is probably one of the best action stars out there. His style is impressive and you should know that he actually can fight just as good in real live. (Check The Path Beyond Thought out.) His acting here was very good for a first try, and not achieved by many others. I have to admit though that his later films lacked of the substance presented here. Also acting wise he never accomplished what he performed here which is a pity as I'd love to see him having more films like this. It's definitely worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Below the hairline.","Date":"29 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Before the hair transplant, before he ate all the pies, before he went mad, and before everything was uttered in an inaudible whisper Seagal made his debut with this confusing, over-plotted thriller directed by Andrew Davis. Seagal plays Nicola Toscani, a ludicrously-named ex-CIA cop (as are virtually all Seagal characters) with family in the Mafia. Seagal conjured up the story (which was then expanded, of all people, by Steven Pressfield and Ronald Shusett) and it's probably his first effort at ego-massage. The opening narration is semi-biographical and the beginning of Seagal confusing fantasy and reality.The plot, despite being from 1988, still comes across as contemporary and relevant. Nico quits the CIA in the 'Nam after witnessing a crooked superior taking advantage of the war to become a drug baron. Many years later he encounters that same villain who is abusing his status of being 'above the law' to seize more drug territory and pump more drug money into the CIA. War is always profitable.It would be an intriguing plot for a 135-minute movie. But Above the Law tries to cram it all into 99 minutes and in the style of early 80s Charles Bronson. Don't get me wrong, Andrew Davis has always had muscular direction and takes the material seriously, but the heavy story and ambitious commentary are mostly squandered for the sake of making sure the credits roll after an hour and a half. The ending seems rushed, leaving just a little to much confusion and too many dots unconnected.Still, it's interesting to see Seagal young, thin, and talking clearly. "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal Rocks!","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Steven Seagal Rocks! A Genuinely Talented, Charismatic, Action-Star, with a charm, that very few personalities have. In his first outing, 'Above The Law', Seagal delivers a winning performance, proving that his then-euphoria, was indeed justified.'Above The Law' tells the story of Nico Toscani, played by Seagal, a detective in the Chicago Police Department's vice squad, who decides to get back to the bad-guys, at any cost.Violent, Gripping & Memorable, 'Above The Law' is without a shed of doubt, amongst Seagal's best films. The Power-Packed, Unforgiving Action-Scenes are terrific, while the Screenplay, written by Steven Pressfield, Ronald Shusett & Andrew Davis, is Gripping & Fast. Andrew Davis's Direction is decent. Cinematography & Editing are crisp.Seagal's winning performance deserves a special mention. The action-star's fight scenes, like always, are a pleasure to watch. Sharon Stone delivers ably. Pam Grier is superb, while Henry Silva plays the ruthless villain, most convincingly.On the whole, 'Above The Law' is a complete entertainer. Go For It! "},{"Title":"a decent debut for Seagal","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" above the law is Steven Seagal's first film and is a pretty decent debut.Seagal plays a tough cop Nico who is a Vietnam vet and martial arts expert (whats new) who is up against a drug lord who is also a expert in torture.with the help of his partner played by a sexy Pam Grier Seagal must take down the drug lord whilst protecting his family. Seagal deserves top marks for his acting same goes to henry Silva who plays the evil villain. there are loads of action scenes in the film The only problem is some of them are a bit short and boring but there are some funny one liners.the direction is good as well by Andrew Davis who is a very good director and made such films as code of silence and The fugitive all in all Nico is a good Seagal movie with some flaws but not major flaws i give it 6 out of 10 "}{"Title":"A good start for the upcoming aikido master / action movie star... Ladies and gentlemen... Steven Seagal","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" He was a covert agent trained in Vietnam. He has a master 6th degree black belt in Aikido... and family in the Mafia. He's a cop with an attitude... With this tagline, we show welcome to legendary action star Steven Seagal, who made his debut in this good, high-voltage action film.End of the 80s were a fine period for Seagal to began his movie career, a tall, handsome, dark, with quiet voice and corrugated eyes, BUT... no acting talent what so ever. The director of the film Andrew Davis was probably the only director who could direct Seagal in proper and excellent way, just like Sheldon Letich with Jean Claude Van Damme.First... martial art of Aikido was never presented on screen before, we had Karate, Kung Fu, Tae kwon do, Jujitsu, Kick boxing, Muy thai and some other kick-and-punch fighting styles. You can freely say that thanks to Seagal, Aikido is even more popular than ever. I think in that time, we needed something new and Seagal proved that his Aikido is bad-ass... alltough his movie fighting style is more poke a guy, than the guy attacks him, so that Seagal can perform a tough self-defense technique (Aikido being a primarily a self-defense martial art) and kick his ass. What am I trying to say here... is that Seagal used a more combative style of Aikido. Seagal's tough guy image was also very, very new to us, (without pony tail at first), dark clothes (wow, here he also had white shirt), his Seagalism style of acting, giving us his point of view about the law and other things. That was the boring side of him. That acting of his... well... crossed arms, angry eyes... what kind of acting coach this guy had? Jeez! Story is very solid and classic. There are no some big time miracle action scenes, not some piece of work, it is a fine, classic 80s action and it's good. Acting and fighting scenes are good. Script is fine, altought Seagal put some of his freaking point of view, booooring!!! Other actors Pam Grier (Nico's Parter Jax), she was fine and sexy a first African American partner (even female) to Seagal, Sharon Stone, wow, that was a surprise, as worried, sexy Seagal's wife, Henry Silva, I liked him a lot, the first Steven Seagal villain ever. A perfect choice! Cold, heartless with a creepy goal to kill senator of US.Anyhow, enough of that! This is good action film and enjoy it. Watch it! "},{"Title":"A pretty bad cop still gets the job done","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Essentially, if you have watched the Lethal Weapon series, you have witnessed character Sergeant Riggs using some black-bag martial arts techniques. If you like this black-bag action, you will adore Steven Seagal's martial arts acting in Above the Law.Like similar action movies like Batman Begins, The Blues Brothers, and Code of Silence, Above the Law is shot mostly in Chicago. So I can recognize some of the Chicago sights like the elevated tracks and the Pilsen neighborhood.One scene where a lady in a black robe carries a hidden bag containing a bomb in front of the pulpit in a big Catholic church, leaves the bag in front of the priest, runs away---tells you what is going to be the outcome. You see the deadly explosion afterward, which kills the priest on arrival at the hospital. Seagal realizes that the explosive in the hidden bag was C4, because he had been involved in this explosive during his Special Forces duty in Vietnam. Seagal tries to find out what caused the church bombing. The Chicago police and FBI find out that the ringleader was Nelson Fox with the help of agent Silvano....Seagal tries to figure out by meddling into the police investigation. He finds out that the C4 explosive was also bought by Nelson Fox. But he finds out that he gets penalized for interfering with the investigation. Seagal gets harassed by unwarranted search warrants, and even death threats to his family.He does not give up despite the barriers against him.In his private investigation, with the help of a Japanese friend, Seagal finds out that this band of mercenaries, with help from the CIA, were trained in covert terrorist tactics, concentrating on counterinsurgency and guerrilla warfare---similar to what the FARC is doing in Colombia. And this same group is led by Nelson Fox. In the end, Seagal realizes that these bad guys have blended in with a group of Latin American missionary immigrants who were going underground in the basement room of the same Catholic church that was bombed.Seagal now realizes that this group is planning to assassinate a senator....so he goes all-out to try to stop them. Seagal eventually is kidnapped by the mercenaries and is tortured but he finds a way out of his trap and eventually kills all of them, saving the Senator's life. "},{"Title":"Not his best, but still good","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Above the Law, Steven Seagal's first movie, is not his best, but it's still good.  As Chicago cop Nico Toscani, Seagal shoots his way thru an endless (and confusing) conspiracy to assasinate a senator.  The action is good, and his performance is better than usual, but there could have been more martial arts fight scenes in it. "},{"Title":"Seagal's first film  with  lots of violence , suspense , struggles and action-filled","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is Steven Seagal's film debut , here he also co-wrote and co-produced . The pictures in the opening credits , including the one of the baby Nico , are actually real pictures of Steven Seagal in his youth . It deals about Nico , a tough Chicago cop , he's a CIA ex-agent , Vietnam veteran and Aikido expert . He teams up with a police woman (Pam Grier) , forming a two-fisted duo . Nico takes on drug smuggling ringleader (Daniel Faraldo) and undergoes a violent confrontation against corrupt Cia agents (Henry Silva) and criminal gangs.The picture packs noisy action , buddy movie , thriller , shootouts, suspense and results to be quite entertaining . Violent and not particularly literary but worthy entry in action genre . Wooden Seagal plays the violent Nico , he cleans up Chicago city by means of punches , kicks, bounds and leaps , martial arts abound with fights certainly slick . The sword-fighting sequence was staged using Steven Seagal's own martial arts . Steven Seagal personally selected every weapon seen in the film . The Aikido expert Seagal saves the day in this exciting movie which co-produced and wrote developing some autobiographic events about his real-life . In the film appears Sharon Stone in role secondary , as Nico's wife , furthermore Michael Rooker, almost extra and Ron Dean , an actor which director Andrew Davis likes to use in most of his movies . The picture contains enough action and violence for fans of the genre and the addicts will give this a passing grade because being professionally directed by Andrew Davis . He has shot most of his films in Chicago and he's an action movies expert (The guardian , Collateral damage , Chain reaction , The fugitive) and previously gave credibility in a vehicle for Chuck Norris (Code of silence) and again directed to Seagal in his best movie (Under siege) . This one is an acceptable thriller , exciting and tense at times with fine work , as always , from director Andrew Davis . If you're a former Steven Seagal fan you'll like it because is a strong outing for action buffs . "},{"Title":"The birth of Seagal-mania","Date":"5 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Above the Law is Steven Seagal's debut film - and one of his best films ever. It's a great action-thriller dealing with corruption and illegal CIA activities. The film was co-written and directed by Andrew Davis, who also directed the equally great first Under Siege film with Seagal. The story is good and captivating and the action is superb and highly satisfying. I like that the film addresses certain uncomfortable topics, like torture of POWs, police corruption and the state's involvement in criminal activities (such as the CIA's involvement in opium dealings). I also like that the Italian mob plays a vital role in protecting Seagal's family.Long before he garnered a reputation as an egotist stuck in straight to rental hell, he was an action star worth watching by the action movie faithful. Above the Law was his first official film and it's undoubtedly one of his best. It showcases his considerable skills as a martial artist whilst providing plenty of thrills and high octane action spills. Plot is hardly original, but it matters not in the grand scheme of things, and yes some of the acting from Seagal is stiff, but it never gets dull, the support cast are strong and, well, quite frankly, the film kicks butt! Overall rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Above the Law / Steven Seagals best Movie","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Above the law was Steven Seagal's cinematic debut in 1988 and it is one of his best with decent action scenes a thought provoking storyline which gets you involved from beginning to end a decent supporting cast in particular Henry Silva as the movies antagonist and thoroughly likable and courageous performance by the lead actor Seagal whose films have been savaged by critics and some audiences his films are an acquired taste you either love them or hate them . Seagals performance in this film is believable and solid as tough cop Nico . Than other portrayals by other action stars such as Bronson , Norris in particular who cannot act his way out of a paper still . I encourage fans of Seagal and non seagal fans to check out this film which is undoubtedly seagals best film and will change you opinion of him and you will rank higher than all the other action stars such as Norris , Bronson , Eastwood , Schwarzenegger , Stallone . He isn't as good as Eastwood who is the best of this group but he is definitely up their way above the likes of Norris , Schwarzenegger who are definitely not up their . "},{"Title":"An action classic masterpiece, Steven Seagal's best and his first action film!","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Above the Law (1988) is an action classic masterpiece from the 80's it is Steven Seagal's first action film that made him in to an action star. This is my second favorite best Steven Seagal action film. The first one will always be Under Siege, this one (Above the Law) is the second one and Out for Justice is the third one favorite Steven Seagal film. After On Deadly Ground and Under Siege 2 Steven Seagal's film career went down hill. Steven Seagal was very popular and beloved action star in the 90's by my family. We all loved him, my dad is still his fan today, I used to be his biggest fan, but today the actor lost my respect and I stopped watching his crap direct to video movies. He is fat with a beard and ugly. He is in Serbia now and he treated women like sex toys. But still I like his early movies he did, I love this one Above the Law it is my favorite action film and it is the first time in any action film that CIA was involved and that they were the bad guys and the main villains.Plot Steven Seagal stars as Nico Toscani, a Chicago cop with a CIA past and family in the Mafia who investigates the assassination of a local priest that may be part of a government conspiracy. The film (which was also released under the title Nico) was directed by Andrew Davis, who would also direct Steven Seagal in Under Siege.This was the second Steven Seagal film I saw as a kid, the first one was Under Siege, but this one was the second one, that I have watched on VHS. It is the first Steven Seagal debut with director Andrew Davis who 4 years later teamed up together in making Under Siege film. This is also my Andrew Davis favorite film and it is a police action drama, before this film was made, Andrew Davis made a police drama 3 years earlier with Chuck Norris Code of Silence. A lot of actors from that film teamed up with director Andrew Davis to make this film. Everyone does an awesome job including the director. Acting is very human believable and realistic human portraying. In the opening scene you have a biography portrayal of the character Nico Toscani, which it was based on Steven Seagal's life. This was the first time I saw Steven Seagal crying when his best friend and partner Delores 'Jacks' Jackson was gunned down, I saw the first time Steven Seagal in the church. This flick is fast paced, entertaining, goes very fast, it has a lot of action, a lot of human drama and emotion in it. A lot of heavy automatic weapons and gun are used, plastic explosions C4, you have priests, CIA agents and a doctor and a political assassination and you also have martial arts in it from Steven Seagal. You also have a beautiful theme score from David M. Frank that I love it.I love this film to death, in the opening scene you see Nico been in Japan in the Dojo studding Aikido in kimono and you see used real martial arts, I love that scene since I trained karate I always wanted to be like master Steven Seagal. Four guys coming at Nico with a car and one has a machete in his arms, the other guy has a baseball bat in his hand, the third one has a gun in his hand and the fourth one has an iron stick in his hand and Nico kills them all with his bare hands, which it is awesome. You have five hit man guys firing with heavy automatic weapons on Nico (Steven Seagal) and his car and they all missed, Nico puts them in a gun point, shoots one guy, kills him, than they go in to Arab's store and Nico beats four guys with his martial arts Aikido, while his attackers are using karate on him, that scene was awesome and a bad ass! The shooting in the parking garage was sensational I love that scene Seagal hits Salvano (Daniel Faraldo) with Fox's car and than hits the car in the brick and Salvano fall's down of the building, hit man's again fires automatic gun on Steven Seagal's car but doesn't kill him. I love the ending scene when Steven Seagal kills five guys at once with his bare hands, he breaks Kurt Zagon (Henry Silva) nose, arm and his neck and I see the first time Steven Seagal bleeding and been drugged on heroin I love it.Overral This flick get's a solid 10 for been one of the best action flick ever, I love it Above the Law to death! Steven Seagal's acting is believable and very human realistic and Sharon stone was awesome at acting before she went making Basic Instinct. Above the Law (also known as Nico) is a 1988 American action film written, produced and directed by Andrew Davis, and also produced by and starring Steven Seagal in his film debut. The film co-stars Pam Grier, Sharon Stone, Daniel Faraldo and Henry Silva. 10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Warner Bros. Starring Steven Seagal, Sharon Stone, Pam Grier, Henry Silva, Ron Dean, Daniel Faraldo, Miguel Nino, Nicholas Kusenko, Joe V. Greco, Chelcie Ross Director Andrew Davis Producers Steven Seagal, Andrew Davis Screenplay Steven Pressfield, Ronald Shusett, Andrew Davis Story by Steven Seagal, Andrew Davis Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 39 Mins. Budget $7.500.000 Box Office $18,869,631 "},{"Title":"I'll kill you in your kitchen.....","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Nico Toscani is a martial arts expert who was recruited by the CIA and sent to Vietnam. While there he witness the sadistic treatment of prisoners by Zagon, an interrogator, when he clashes with him, Nelson Fox, his friend tells him to get away. Nico goes home to Chicago and becomes a cop. 15 years later, when he busts a major deal going down, he discovers a haul of plastic explosives. Not long after, Fox calls Nico to warn him to back off and later he is arrested and suspended from the force. But when a bomb is detonated at his church, and kills the parish priest, Nico wages an all- out war on whoever's doing this......The years really haven't been kind to this movie, and as a debut for Seagal, it's pretty mediocre stuff. But films like this were very unique, and are scarcely seen now.The budget for the film wasn't huge, but marketing for the film was very heavy if I remember correctly, and Seagal was a no name. Imagine a studio like Warners releasing a 50 million budgeted movie, where the only advertising was of someone you'd never seen or heard of before holding a gun? It sounds bonkers. Something fishy must have been going on, Seagals always been shady about his past.But that's the exciting part of the film over with, and considering its directed by Davis, its a pretty dull film, with admittedly good fight scenes, but they are few and far between.The big problem with the film is that there are too many caricatures on display here. The Mafia are always in restaurants and dress like prohibition is still going on, men of the cloth are almost too religious, and don't get me started on the owner of the shop that gets destroyed, I think the casting director just flicked through a cultural match book and picked the cheapest actors.But it's all about Seagal, and he can carry a film, his screen presence is definitely remarkable, you could see his star quality. Seagal is very restraint in this, but I feel like a lot is missing, the relationship between him and Grier is very rich, but on feels like something was edited out for time sake, because it appears that they are more than just friends on more than one occasion.His trademark swagger came into full swing with Hard To Kill, and he was unstoppable until Fire Down Below, but seeing this now it's amazing how culturally offensive and borderline racist the film actually is.Still great fight scenes though, which really is the only reason to watch this. "},{"Title":"Impressive Steven Seagal debut","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" When it comes to action stars, they are at first, calm and collected in some scenes in an action movie. Some of those action stars tend to show off their skills like martial arts. But even though they may have that gift of turning the audience with their screen presence, we can sometimes forget that they are playing an character. A character who is essential and important to the movie.In Above the Law, Steven Seagal is the star of the movie. However, this is his first one. Seagal plays a Chicago cop who was recruited by the CIA in 1969 in Japan. In 1973, he was sent to Vietnam and while there, he witnesses a brutal torture of a Cambodian resident under the spell of a vicious man, (Henry Silva). Seagal's friend advises him to leave Vietnam and go home. 15 years later, Seagal is a Chicago policeman, working with a partner, (Pam Grier), who is retiring in a couple of months. When he learns that a major shipment is going down in Chicago, Seagal's character, Nico Toscani, finds out a cache of explosives. Things get worse after that. Toscani father's church is blown up and it's up to him to find out who is responsible for the bombing. This leads Seagal through a change of pace as he breaks the rule and risks his entire police career by trying to rights the wrongs.Seagal does an impressive job of playing an main character who is believable. In some scenes, he knows how to act calm and play it straight. When it comes tot he action scenes, Seagal knows how to show off his martial arts skills. Most action actors tend to lost their character by putting too much emphasis on their skills. But not Seagal. He may be different than Charles Bronson or Clint Eastwood, but you got to give him credit for what does best. It's a shame that he wouldn't repeat the same thing twice because after he starred in Above the Law, Seagal starred in another film called Hard to Kill and Under Siege. His career then started to take a turn for the worse when he decided to drop out of Hollywood and starred in a number of bad action movies. Those ween't really worthy of his career, but Above the Law certainly shows what Seagal is meant on the big screen.The supporting cast is also very good. Pam Grier, who was also a major star in the 1970's is very good and sort of surprising to see her starred along aside Seagal. Grier is very convincing as Seagal's partner. She is noticing just how his behavior is getting in the way of his police appearance. The movie was directed by Andrew Davis, who also directed Code of Silence, which is, perhaps, the best Chuck Norris movie ever made. Davis certainly knows how to make a city story interesting. He photographed Chicago very clearly and very skillfully. When it comes the action scenes in this movie, Davis knows how to step back and let Seagal perform his fighting skills, which is pretty impressive. After he made Above the Law, Andrew Davis directed Seagal again in the 1992 action thriller, Under Siege. According to my perspective, I believe that with the teaming of Seagal and Davis being strong, I think that with the tools they have to make a decent action picture, they certainly do know how to make them exciting, not nauseating. It's rare to find a bonding between actor and director, especially in the action genre. Most action directors now don't really work together to make scenes seem exciting.With the exception of Seagal's performance, Above the Law has a plot that is sort of complicated if you follow everything very carefully. But as an action movie, it is effective even when Seagal is on the big screen. This movie proves that he can act in character and even, if I dare to say so, out of character. He is that good. ★★★ 3 stars. "},{"Title":"Seagal's debut isn't bad,...but is close to being average","Date":"20 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The 1980s were a decade of Hollywood being claimed by several different actors and franchises. Horror films exploded and action stars became the next thing. The biggest of action stars to turn up at the time would be the obvious, like Sylvester Stallone & Arnold Schwarzenegger. Then came other actors like Chuck Norris, Dolph Lundgren, Bruce Willis and Jean Claude-Van Damme. All of which these actors had played some type of action role prior to the film that made their action star debut. As for Steven Seagal, his debut was an action film with nothing prior to it either. He was lucky because if he had started any later, who knows if his career would've taken off. To most, audiences find this to be one of Seagal's best. It is by no means executed badly but there are various problems.In his film debut, Seagal plays a cop named Nico Toscani who like many other cop films at the time, considered themselves to have the authority to do whatever they felt was right. Upon being introduced to Nico, viewers are also dropped into what seems to be a very convoluted plot that at times is clear, while other times is confusing. I'm surprised the three writers couldn't handle this, considering Ronald Shusett writer of Alien (1979) and Total Recall (1990) was apart of the trio. What isn't clear is the main plot. Nico begins to think the department he works for is corrupt, but on what exactly they are dealing with is foggy. The elements involve drugs and politics, yet the order at which its described is all over the place which makes it hard to follow. That like other police thrillers, so many names are referenced at which half don't mean squat or are connected thinly to the plot.What the writers did accomplish was fleshing out Seagal's character nicely. At the very least, audiences will understand why Nico thinks his say is the final say. Understandably, after what he went through early in life, who wouldn't feel the same way? Seagal in his first role performs well. He is not able to spout out lines as memorable as his other action counterparts but there are times where his charm does shine through. The supporting cast is all right. None of them are bad and none stand out either. The only two actresses that are worth mentioning is a young Sharon Stone (before she was famous) and Pam Grier. Never saw that coming. Background wise, these characters don't go through much an arc but they at least give human performances that blend with Seagal's showing.Since this is also Seagal's first movie it was certainly important that he displayed his skills and he does do that. His hand-to-hand combat skills are phenomenal. The introduction that shows him in slow motion implementing these moves is mesmerizing. It'll have people saying to themselves, I want to learn how to do that. I know I did, it looked awesome. The only downside to this, is that the action doesn't happen as frequently as one would think. For an hour and forty minutes, the action is spread out. Why? This is Seagal we are showing here. Along with that is the steady camera-work and editing. The music provided by David Michael Frank was nice too. Again, his forte is more in synthetic instruments (i.e. Showdown in Little Tokyo (1991)), but that doesn't mean it's bad quality. Frank contains a main theme and the Asian element at which co-exists in Nico's background is appropriate. It did work as movie, it just had more issues than expected.It has appropriate music, visually appealing hand-to-hand combat and a good first performance as Steven Seagal's film debut. Unfortunately, it could've been stronger if the plot wasn't so muddled with vague details. "}{"Title":"Below the standard of Under Siege - 55%","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Having given a couple of Steven Seagal film a right good kicking recently, I felt kinda bad for him and sought out this, his debut feature film. My reasons? Well, I figured that he would be in the prime of his youthful exuberance and not the overweight has-been he is today. He also has a respected action director in Andrew Davis (who would later helm The Fugitive and Seagal's best film Under Siege) and Blaxploitation legend Pam Grier as co-star. The signs were good that this might not be a total bust along the lines of Hard To Kill or Half Past Dead. Sure enough, it's a refreshing change to see Seagal do what he was meant to do as he looks and sounds every inch the legitimate tough guy. Sadly, the film's overly complicated plot tends to get in the way of the action and makes the film strangely dull. This is the first time in ages I've seen a film to fail my patented Nokia test (ending up playing games on my phone halfway through) which isn't a good sign for any action film.I'm gonna have to refer to other sources for this synopsis because I simply couldn't follow the film well enough but Seagal plays Nico Toscani, a Sicilian living in Chicago with his wife Sara (Sharon Stone) and infant daughter. Nico was recruited into the CIA by agent Nelson Fox (Chelcie Ross) during Vietnam but quit upon witnessing a torturer named Kurt Zagon (Henry Silva). Fifteen years later in Chicago, Nico works as a cop alongside his partner Delores Jackson (Grier) and arrest local drug pusher Tony Salvano (Daniel Faraldo). To Nico's disgust, the Feds get involved and release Salvano, citing an existing investigation and warn them both to stay away. But Nico doesn't take no for an answer and soon begins his own independent pursuit of Salvano and those involved, especially when his family are threatened by dark forces...There is also something else about immigrants living below a church and Nico's friend and pastor Father Gennaro (Joe V. Greco) being blown up during Mass. In truth, Above The Law crams in far too much story for a film of this type that I reckon if they stretched it out a bit, you could have had enough for a trilogy. Thankfully, they kept it to just the one. It's not that the film is a bad one as action movies go. Seagal moves much faster and smoother than he does in his later work and for once, he is impressive in the film. His acting style and delivery aren't so much of a distraction here as they usually are and he works well along with Grier and Stone (who are both criminally underused). But for a movie about a go-it-along cop taking the baddies down, it loses its focus by introducing more and more elements into the story. For example, is it not a huge coincidence that the very man who made Nico distrust the CIA is the same man who is behind the numerous schemes happening around Chicago? And when some two-bit hoodlums are thrown in with the CIA, the FBI and the Mafia were probably in there as well (he's Sicilian, remember?) then what you end up with is a series of shoot-outs and fist fights that don't really seem to have any connection or cohesion with the plot. At some point, I completely lost track of whether Fox was a good guy or a baddie. To be honest, I still don't know and I have the film's Wikipedia page open as I write.Above The Law might not change the world but like most of Seagal's back catalogue, it is a macho and meaty action flick that satisfies the undemanding fan but leaves most viewers wanting something more. In his debut picture, Seagal acquits himself far better than he normally does - he even throws in a nod to the story about how he broke Sean Connery's arm on the set of Never Say Never Again as a stuntman. But Above The Law is a largely unmoving experience, devoid of any real charm or substance but at least it has some ambition behind it instead. It isn't as dumb as many of Seagal's later films (Half Past Dead is a prime example) which seem to specialise in rounding up anonymous thugs so Seagal can do his martial arts on them or shoot them dramatically. Sadly, it simply isn't as engaging as an action film can be - take Die Hard where you cared about McClane's struggle against Hans Gruber or Terminator 2 when the future of civilisation was at stake. You neither care about the story (even if you could follow it) or the characters who merely perform to genre stereotypes (the partner who needs protecting, the Godfather impersonator at the family gathering, the nun who doesn't say much, etc). Above The Law might be a faintly boring cop film and compared to his later films, one of Seagal's better efforts but it certainly isn't above the standards we have today. "},{"Title":"C-4 my man, C-4","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Nico Toscani is a martial artist and ex CIA operative who served in Vietnam. Who now serving as a Chicago cop stumbles upon a drug ring run by a dangerous criminal with CIA ties that not only threatens the streets of Chicago but his very life as well.Steven Segals first film and a film with decent action a semi clichéd story with stunted pacing. The film while not the best action film or best of Segal's film has some witty dialog and some decent moments with its action. The pacing is a bit off as one may get confused with where the story is trying to take us and how certain plot points are just plainly forgotten. Segal does what he does best which is to deliver his hard hitting action style with charm and bravado, but seemingly as a whole this film is a bit of a let down compared to other action films from the era. Though worth a watch for its action and to see Segal in one of his better films compared to his later entries. A decent but not perfect action film that has its high points with its action and its intensity but lacks in other important areas such as story, characterization and pacing but what can one expect from a Segal film to begin with. "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal Debuts","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Andrew Davis directed Steven Seagal as Chicago cop Nico Toscani, a Vietnam veteran who was recruited by the CIA in Japan, who was then sent to Vietnam, where he objected to the harsh interrogation techniques of Zagon(played by Henry Silva) but could do nothing. 15 years later, Nico has busted a drug gang and discovered plastic explosives. He is later shocked to learn that those he arrested were released, and is stonewalled about the reasons why. After he is suspended, Nico discovers that his old Nemesis Zagon is behind it all, and must be stopped... Seagal certainly can perform well in the action scenes, though despite the good direction, this film is just too routine and predictable to work. Sharon Stone costars as his wife. "},{"Title":"Good Seagal","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Nico Toscani (Steven Seagal) is a Chicago cop. As a young man, he went to Japan to learn martial arts. He's recruit by the CIA to go to Vietnam, but he quits when he's supposed to work with the sadistic drug smuggler Zagon. Now with his present day partner Delores Jackson (Pam Grier), his investigation into the drug dealer Salvano runs smack into a conflict with the CIA and a face from the past.This has Steven Seagal's three favorite things. There's the eastern influences that he loves so much. And also there's the drug infested underbelly that he finds fascinating. The biggest thing is that he is undoubtedly the big hero fighting against a corrupt system. If you love these three things, you'll like this movie. The action is pretty good and the story has enough bite. The pacing do slack off for big stretches of time. However it still works enough as an action thriller. "},{"Title":"Seagals First and Best Martial Arts Movie","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is by far the best movie Steven Seagal ever made. I think it was his first movie, and because of this, I surmise, he probably left the people alone that had the creative control. He was also younger then, and in better shape then he is now. His most recent movies appear to have action stunt doubles, whenever there is any jumping around required, and that's really a let down. In this movie the martial arts moves are crisp and believable. The writing in the movie was great and some of the lines, particularly by the bad guys like Zagon, I remember to this day. The actors that play the CIA spooks are good, as is Pam Grier, Seagal's partner in the movie. A great Martial Arts action movie, and definitely in my top 10 list. "},{"Title":"You're right! But I'll get an A for effort.","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Above the Law (AKA Nico) is directed by Andrew Davis who also co-writes with Steven Pressfield and Ronald Shusett. It stars Steven Seagal (co- writing the story with Davis), Pam Grier, Sharon Stone, Chelcie Ross, Ron Dean, Henry Silva and Daniel Faraldo. Music is by David M. Frank and cinematography by Robert Steadman.Ex CIA operative in Vietnam, Nicolo Toscani (Seagal), a martial arts expert, is now a Chicago cop. Upon shaking down a drug pusher, Nico learns of a major drug ring in operation, an operation that appears to have links to a foe back in is CIA days.Seagal was once a box office draw, he really was. Long before he garnered a reputation as an egotist stuck in straight to rental hell, he was an action star worth watching by the action movie faithful. Above the Law was his first official film and it's undoubtedly one of his best. It showcases his considerable skills as a martial artist whilst providing plenty of thrills and high octane action spills. Plot is hardly original, but it matters not in the grand scheme of things, and yes some of the acting from Seagal is stiff, but it never gets dull, the support cast are strong and, well, quite frankly, the film kicks butt! 7/10 "},{"Title":"Lean and Mean (but Sensitive)","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" One of Steven Seagal's best Movies was this debut and it had Critics and Action Fan's buzzing for good reason. It was all here in this Cop/Mob/CIA Film that pulled few punches and was as Plot rich as these Flicks get.Bad guys can make a Movie and here we have Zagon. From the beginning he is presented as a Masochistic Psychopath that is on the Government's Black ops payroll. He is a drug dealer, needle wielding, Above the Law, Mega-Criminal that will be the Heroes biggest Fish-Fry.Segal is a lean, mean (but sensitive), and relentless purveyor of pure here and he is charismatic on screen announcing that he will be a force to reckon. This is in his Top-5 for sure with more than competent Direction from Andy Davis and the Movie looks great. The Action never stops and is helped along with a strong, if maybe too full, Script that raised the bar for the other Martial Arts/Action Stars.After this one Seagal never looked back and is still making some instantly forgettable and slightly entertaining DTV Movies to this day. Recently he showed up in a strong Cameo in the Robert Rodriguez Funfest, Machete (2010). "},{"Title":"One of Seagal's best movies","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I'm not a fan of Steven Seagal . He's probably the worst action movie star in history of cinema. He can't act , but that's not his biggest problem. He doesn't have any sort of charm or charisma that other action stars have. The other action stars ( Stallone , Willis , Schwarzenegger) also allowed themselves to be more human , vulnerable characters that we could feel sympathy for.This never happened with Steven Seagal. He almost always played a tough,mysterious man who didn't show any kind of emotion. Not to mention his enemies were barely able to touch him , not to mention hurt him. It was hard to believe that Seagal was in any kind of danger.Steaven Seagal was able to make a career only because he was something new to the audience. People didn't seem to mind the low budget or uninspired screenplays . Seagal was good in Aikido and that was enough. All along the way he made some big budget movies (Under siege , Under siege 2 , On deadly ground , Executive decision , Exit wounds) that helped him to survive longer than he should. Now , thankfully Seagal is making only straight to DVD stuff (Machete was an exception).What I said above doesn't change the fact that Seagal's debut Nico above the law is shockingly decent action movie. Seagal was also the producer and one of the writers for this film. Made in 1988 it was a good introduction into the movie business for Seagal. A gritty action film made with little budget and a pretty decent screenplay.It's the first and one of the best Steven Seagal films.The screenplay has a degree of complexity to it , something that it's hard to find in Seagal's later films or other 80's action movies made at that time. Wars, drug dealing, political assassination, torture, illegal arms dealing, money laundering , criminal conspiracy , corrupt FBI agents , old CIA enemy and drug lords.The movie obviously isn't deep, but it is fun. The plot moves along quite nicely , but at times can be preachy. The message is about the corruption of people in the CIA (or any other government institution) being who feel that they can do whatever they want and never have to answer for it. It's not a Bourne movie , but it's still a nice touch.The martial arts scenes are very well done. Composer David Michael Frank scores Above the Love like a typical 1980s movie. Director Andrew Davis (The Fugitive , Under siege) is a solid craftsman and gives a solid direction.Seagal actually does a neat job as Nico. He shows some emotion and the movie makes him a human character who gets hurt and has got some Dirty Harry feel around him. Henry Silva as Zagon is menacing. Ron Dean gives a fine support . Sharon Stone is a little whiny , but still OK. Pam Grier is nice as Nico's partner.Overall a decent movie. I give it 6/10. "},{"Title":"Seagal's First Feature Film","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Steven Seagal is surprisingly lean and mean in Code of Silence director Andrew Davis' hard boiled crime thriller Above the Law co-starring skull-faced heavy Henry Silva as a knife-wielding psych . When I say 'lean and mean,' Seagal appears almost skeletal compared to the way that he looked in Machete. Reportedly, Seagal got into the film business because one of his students was the Hollywood agent Michael Ovitz who paved the way to the silver screen. Making his motion picture debut, he is cast as an Italian-American who was born in Palermo. Chicago Sergeant Nicolo Nico Toscani was initially recruited by the CIA while he studied and taught martial arts in Japan. He wound up in Vietnam and saw some things that he should haven't seen. Back in Chicago, Toscani has married and begun a family. Above the Law is a straightforward law and order epic with Seagal defeating the slimy villains with ease. The title refers to nobody being immune from prosecution. Nothing surprising happens as our stalwart hero pursues the bad guys with a vengeance. The villains here are Colombians and Nico doesn't give them any slack. As it turns out, the CIA has ties with organized crime. No sooner than Nico has begun his investigation that he finds the Feds exerting muscle on him. Composer David Michael Frank scores Above the Love like a 1980s movie. "},{"Title":"Who else wants some?","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The beginning&#x85; the very beginning of Steven Seagal. Like most action stars, their best work mainly fell in their early years and Seagal doesn't break that trend. And I'll keep on living in the past, because most of his latter stuff from the last decade doesn't peak my interest.Nico Toscani is a Chicago cop that uncovers an political assassination involving ex-CIA operatives trafficking drugs. His constant quest and involvement to put these men away puts his fellow officers and family in danger. 'Nico' is a solid debut, but he went on to better things later on with director John Flynn's 1991 'Out for Justice' being the pick of the crop for me and following that probably his most recognizable film 'Under Siege' (1992).Andrew Davis is no slouch directing action films with titles like; Code of Silence (1985) starring Chuck Norris in probably his best effort, The Package (1988), teaming up Segeal again in Under Siege (1992) and The Fugitive (1993). Davis' accomplished style works here offering punishing stunts, crisp pacing and lets Seagal go about breaking some bones. It's lean and tough, but feels automatic despite some thrilling, tour-de-force set-pieces. However I found the textbook material to be quite disjointed in its morals and intentions with it trying too hard to get some points across and incorporate a sense of humour. I could've done without some of these saggy developments (where it seemed to lose itself) and issue-pack script. It goes for the heart, but at times can be manipulative and preachy. For some reason though, the main villain (Henry Silva presenting full of menacing glee) is sorely underused and thinly examined.The softly spoken Seagal goes about things accordingly demonstrating a nice combination of consciousness acting and no-bull martial arts. He's explosively accurate when he's in his element and Davis knows how to shoot the activity. A fine looking Pam Grier is solid as Nico's conservative partner. Daniel Faraldo makes light of his slime ball role. Sharon Stone appears in a small role as Nico's wife and there's fine support by Davis' regular Ron Dean. Look out for Michael Rooker as one unlucky barfly. The soundtrack offers plenty of smoking tunes.'Nico' is an acceptably decent, if sometimes sidetracked late-80s action romp. "}{"Title":"in Seagal's top 5","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Nico Toscani (Steven Seagal, in his first starring role) is a Vietnam vet turned veteran cop. When he captures a low-time drug dealer, using what else, his martial arts prowess, the dealer tells him of bigger fish out there. Which in turn leads him to a fiendish plot that goes deeper than he knows and he finds himself on the wrong side of the law. Can Nico survive this onslaught? Of course he can, he's Seagal!! Fuggedaboutit. As I strongly suggest for this and other Seagal films is merely turn off your brain and just enjoy the action packed ride. It may not be his best film (that would be Out for Justice), nor his second best film (Marked for death), but it's definitely in the top 3, and that's good enough for me.My Grade C "},{"Title":"Not The Best Martial Arts Film, But Far From The Worst.","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I'm a big Martial Arts fan, & I think Bruce Lee is the greatest Martial Artist ever. But since I've only been able to find The Chinese Connection & Enter The Dragon, I've decided to concentrate on other guys for awhile. I had heard whole buttloads about Seagal being 1 of The Greatest A$$-Kickers of All Time, so I finally decided to see what he's really made of by starting from the top. I knew it would it be nothing more than your typical brainless actioner, but I'm not averse to watching these kinds of films, so I rented it, turned my brain off, & sat down for some good ol'fashioned entertainment.It was quite a good film & much better than I expected it to be. The plot was pretty thin, but I didn't really concentrate on that too much; the action scenes were well done, though I strongly feel there should've been less gunfights & more Martial Arts @ss-kicking. Seagal is a very tough man, even though he was 37 when the film was released in '88. His acting is quite lousy, but that's not why we watch these kinds of films. His style, Aikido, is mostly ground-based, so he didn't do any Van Damme-style jumpkicks or whatever, but he's still not 1 to be trifled with.The film's message is quite unclear. It seems to be that no one should be above the law, but Seagal has no regard for the law himself He goes to extreme lengths to take down these criminals, thus becoming no better than they are; what's more, Nico is the kind of person who'd break every bone in your body if you looked at him cock-eyed. The film is kinda like the Clint Eastwood classic Dirty Harry, only not as good.But unclear message aside, Above The Law is still a good, fun actioner that delivers for genre fans; not the Greatest Martial Arts Movie I've ever seen, though all I have seen are quite good, but still entertaining & a good starting point for those unfamiliar with the great Seagal. "},{"Title":"Seagal's best","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Seagal has given us some of the best action movies ever, but in this case, the first is still the best. the action scenes are still electrifying, and the story makes a valid point without being heavy-handed like some of his later features. Solid support from Sharon Stone, Pam Grier and Henry Silva also helps. "},{"Title":"NICO is a waste of film.","Date":"29 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" nico above the law 1988 review , so this is my opinion on this bad action flick , so if you like my opinion good but if you don't then people who want good action films will avoid this like i am going to do , do not watch any steven segal film , boring the nico story is boring and the acting is horrific and the action is so forgettable . Nico is a Vietnam prisionor investigator who reired from the missions and went up against a drug cartel for the war efforts , so nico is segal who is using a paper bag script , he hardly says anything and the film has them horrid pixels . Nico is loaded for bordem . Highly ovverrated 15 certificate for moderate violence and language , hope my review helped i just wasted my time with this garbage . "},{"Title":"A poor start to Seagal's career.","Date":"14 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This early on in his career, Seagal has not mastered emotion or facial expressions beyond 'serene', 'angry' and 'concentrating'. Luckily, the film attempts to bypass the leading role's lack of acting talent by placing as many humanoids in his way for him to punch, kick, throw and shoot. With a script that is so far into parody it makes Black Dynamite look like a subtle treatise on inter-race relations, it is surprising that the film started up a career considering action films by 1988 had produced some stone cold action classics (Die Hard, Predator). The inclusion of FBI bigwigs, Vietnam buddies, mafia connections and terrible, terrible clothes means that this film is frankly laughable at several opportunities and only means to be funny less than half of the time. Sharon Stone stars as Seagal's wife and is easily the best acting talent in the film, no contest. Add to this ol' Foxy Brown herself Pam Grier in an underwritten role (she's an action star in her own right) and you have a reasonably enjoyable film.This film's attempt to introduce Steven Seagal as a new martial arts star works fairly well, it gives descriptions of the character's martial arts prowess which oddly mirror Seagal's own. It is strange then that there is remarkably little martial arts in the film, there's a lot of shooting and foot chases and car chases but considering I was expecting a 'martial arts' film, I was hoping Seagal would have had more akido to do.All in all, not a good film.Not a good film at all. It is interesting (and a little odd) that Seagal became the action star some of us know and love today off the back of this vehicle. "},{"Title":"The Pain Begins...","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Seagal, making his movie debut, was almost slim in this run-of-the-mill cop thriller. He plays Nico, a principled maverick cop who takes no smelly brown stuff from anybody. The story has something about the CIA trying to assassinate a priest who may or may not have told someone about their plans to assassinate some crusading senator who's been giving them a hard time. It's on the sort of level you'd expect from a Seagal movie, perhaps a little better than most of his efforts. The direction is adequate, but the dialogue is poor.The trouble with Seagal in most of his films is that he's usually portrayed as some kind of superhero with no character defects. Here he's a loving family man, a churchgoer, beloved by everyone apart from his niece, who wants to get it on with a sleazy local gangster, and the police hierarchy for whom he's too much of a loose cannon. Unless he's tied to a chair and therefore defenceless, nobody ever gets to land a punch or a kick on those resolutely inexpressive features of his. The fights lack any kind of finesse. When done correctly, martial arts fights are like a kind of intricately choreographed, lightning-speed ballet which can take the viewer's breath away, but in Seagals' movies the fights are simply a succession of clumsy villains launching themselves at our hero so that he can sidestep and maim them with one block-like fist.Pam Grier is Seagal's sidekick, but she doesn't have much to do other than repeat his character's name endlessly and adopt a variety of expressions that range from mild irritation to outright adoration. Nico treats her like a helpless naïf most of the time, which is kind of a waste. The wonderful Henry Silva is the bad guy, and he's not given nearly enough screen time. "},{"Title":"Not a bad start at all.","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Above the Law is full of cheese of course (with a classic, He's just trying to do his job, stupid Chief!, suspension scene) but a very lean and trim Seagal is in fine action form and yet again he plays a delightfully cold blooded character who blows away bad guys without a second's thought. You have to love it when he disarms a bunch of guys and then shoots one of them dead anyway when he walks towards him saying he can't drop us all. Blam! One dead unarmed bad guy! That's justice! Seagal style! Seagal is okay in the acting stakes but nothing great (with yet again too many sappy morality speeches), Henry Silva chews the scenery all to hell as the lead villain (in a film packed with villains), Pam Grier looks foxy and a very curly haired Michael Rooker has one line of dialogue in a bar scene!Not as fun as, or quite as violent as, Out for Justice but still an enjoyable no-nonsense bit of bone snapping action.The 'R' print (the only one available i think) is certainly trimmed though where a hand is chopped off and when Nico is being beaten by Silva. "},{"Title":"Anytime we have people immune to investigation, we'll always have those in government who are above the law.","Date":"27 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" OK, so I have been a fan of Steven Seagal since I was a kid (I can't remember why my parents allowed me to watch early Seagal films, by the way), and lately I have been going back and watching his oldest and best movies. Out of pure curiosity, I looked him up on Youtube because I realized that I had never seen a single interview of him, and the first thing I find is an interview where he says, I was born clairvoyant, I was born a healer, and I was born very different. He then goes on to claim that he, along with everyone else who shares his beliefs, is God, and then he apologized for any pain or suffering that he has ever caused any sentient being. Unbelievable! I don't know this guy at all!Anyway, Above the Law is totally different from how I remember it. I mostly remember Out For Justice, which remains my favorite Seagal film but which I hadn't seen for about 15 years until yesterday. In watching Above the Law again, I was struck by how gritty and poorly made it is.It starts out almost like an autobiography of Seagal. He tells his own story, about how he studied Aikido in Japan and soon found himself studying with the masters, but then he gets drafted by the CIA to go to Vietnam and all ties with reality suddenly end.Not that there's anything wrong with that. Seagal is a powerful action star, and the film moves along at a fast clip as he is brought to Vietnam and almost immediately begins lashing out at military corruption as he sees a group of superiors mistreating prisoners. He is promptly booted from the military and becomes a cop in his hometown of Chicago. We jump to years later, he's married and has a kid and a comfortable life as a police officer, but it seems that he never lost the bad taste in his mouth after seeing those officers interrogating an Vietnamese prisoner about drugs. Soon learns of a pretty major smuggling operation involving drugs and plastic explosives.As he investigates deeper and deeper he discovers an intricate plot to assassinate a senator. And when I say intricate, I mean far more involved than the rest of the movie is able to carry. The movie is slow-moving and confusing, and the action is sloppy and careless. Nico, for example, at one point is on the roof of a moving car being fired at by two bad guys inside the car, neither of whom can manage to hit him even though he's less than a foot away from their heads. Makes me wish I was a bad guy in an old Seagal movie! There is, of course, not an ounce of subtlety in the movie. I especially love the characterization. There is one scene where Nico is driving his car and he stops for some schoolkids to cross the road, waving and smiling to him as they do. Seconds later, the bad guys jump out of a nearby van and shove the kids out of the way and start shooting. Real deep character development there, guys!Ultimately the movie makes a comment (which is spoon-fed to us as the end credits start to roll, by the way) about how as long as we have people who can escape investigation we'll always have people who are above the law. That strikes me as a little self-explanatory, but I can understand the message about the corruption of people in the CIA (or any other government institution) being who feel that they can do whatever they want and never have to answer for it. "},{"Title":"You f*ckin Italian puke. Steven Seagal's first film back when he was thin!","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Above the Law is set in Chicago during 1988 where Nico Toscani (co-producer Steven Seagal) works as a tough narcotics cop, while forcibly removing his niece from a crack house he beats some information out of a punk & learns of a large shipment of drugs being imported into the country. Toscani sets a bust up & local drug dealer Salvano (Daniel Faraldo) is arrested, however instead of drugs Toscani finds lots of C4 explosives. After a C4 bomb goes off in his local Church Toscani digs deeper & discovers a plot by evil corrupt CIA agent Kurt Zagon (Henry Silva) to assassinate a senator who might expose him, once Zagon realise Toscani knows his plans he also becomes a target...This American Hong Kong co-production was co-written, co-produced & directed by Andrew Davis & is probably more notable for being Steven Seagal's feature film debut back when he was thin than for being any good, to be frank I don't think it's one of Seagal's better action films but it's far from his worst. The script by Steven Pressfield, Ronald Shusett & Davis is actually a touch dull, it aimlessly wanders between OK action set-pieces without much of a story to maintain ones interest. The basic message of Above the Law is that it is dangerous to have organisations which are, well, above the law & not accountable to anyone. It's not much of a message to be honest & the only reason anyone would be interested in watching Above the Law is for the action & violence, there are some trademark brutal fight scenes with Seagal chopping bad guy's hands off, breaking necks & beating people with baseball bats but it's a little low key at times. The character's are a bit clichéd & not particularly good, there is also a lot of profanity & bad language. In fact by the end of Above the Law I thought everyone's favourite two words were 'f*cker' & 'mother', not necessarily in that order of course...Director Davis & Seagal team up for the first time & would reunite for the much better Under Siege (1992) a few years later, here he directs the action in a rather workmanlike fashion with competence but nothing outstanding or that memorable. I just didn't think the action scenes were 'big' enough if you get what I mean. I couldn't quite believe how young & thin Seagal looked in this, I really can't. Despite his stupid looking pony-tail he's quite impressive in this & looks as if he could kick your ass.Technically the film is fine, it's well made & functional but nothing that's going to win any awards. Shot on location in Illinois in Chicago. The acting is OK but everyone seems to swear constantly which gets annoying, Pam Grier & Henry Silva have roles while Sharon Stone gets almost top billing in the credits for about three minutes of screen time.Above the Law (originally called Nico here in the UK) is an average Seagal action flick, the only really notable aspect of it is that it was Seagal's feature film debut but that doesn't automatically make it any good, does it? "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal Makes An OK Film Debut","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Real life martial arts expert Steven Seagal first brought his talents in that world to the big screen in this 1988 Warner Brothers release. The film's surprise success marked him as a promising newcomer in action films. There's not much to say about this film when it comes to its plot (Seagal portrays a tough cop who takes on a powerful drug felon) but it's the well staged fight scenes that always manage to steal the show in Seagal's films anyway. Seagal's second film, Hard To Kill was better but despite this film's occasional storytelling shortcomings, it is not bad.  "}{"Title":"Seagals best","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Seagals first and best film. OK plot with few holes, good supporting cast, and good action sequences. Dont see the European DVD release though because its heavily cut thanks to the Germans. (Germans have heavy censorship but where I live, in Sweden there is no such thing at all, so the Swedish cable version was more gory) "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Seagal's best action movie","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is easily the best of Seagal's action movies.  Might not be the best plot or supporting cast, but those of us who watch Seagal's movies to see him kick some serious a** have to think that this is the best. "},{"Title":"First Seagal flick is still the best","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  ABOVE THE LAW (1988) *** Steven Seagal, Henry Silva, Pam Grier, Sharon Stone.  Seagal's first action packed film casts him as a martial arts-trained cop onto a drug cartel and proceeds to wreak havoc and look tough in a pony-tail. "},{"Title":"Where It All Began...","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  While battling a CIA torture specialist, a Chicago cop unravels an international conspiracy. Under the suave direction of Davis, this is actually Seagal's best work. The script works. Seagal makes a nice debut and Henry Silva is especially menacing.   "},{"Title":"Typical hero action-fare storyline...","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" 1st watched 12/19/2004 - 4 out of 10(Dir-Andrew Davis) Typical hero action-fare storyline with decent portrayal of a Chicago cop by Seagal in his first movie. Seagal plays an ex-CIA who's now a cop who's still battling the bad guys within the system like he was when he was in the CIA. Seagal not only acts in this but co-produces and co-writes the script and probably put a lot of his own money out to see this released. He definitely shows a good anti-establishment action hero presence, who's also a family man with a cause and sold us to him enough to get himself in many other movies. This movie, though, is not a great vehicle for him. He does a lot of shooting, which doesn't show-off his martial arts skills, and the plot is so contrived and fit for this type of film that there's no real suspense. Of course, he's the hero in the end and life goes on despite extreme hazards along the way as he fights drug-lords, bad cops, even bad priests to it's dutiful ending. Pam Grier is wasted despite her awesome presence as the backup cop and Sharon Stone is only given a couple lines as his wife, but of course he is the star of this one and a couple of great talents take the backseat. All in all, after viewing this we know he's going to be back but hopefully in better films. "},{"Title":"Seagal's debut...","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A cop fights police corruption after learning the martial arts and coming back from Vietnam.Also there seems to be a conspiracy among the politicians and therefore it's up to him to prove nobody is above the law. Steven Seagal made his debut with Above The Law and while it's a fairly well made action flick, I was often times bored with the standard story and overall assembly line villains put in the way of Seagal. That's not to say the movie isn't fun, it is. Above The Law is too routine though to grade higher than guilty pleasure. Although Seagal and Grier have good chemistry. However I enjoyed Seagal's next three movies a lot more.* * out of 4-(Fair) "},{"Title":"Stone  behaved in this Film","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Enjoyed viewing this film as a great many of the scenes were shot on location in the City of Chicago and I recognized some of the neighborhoods. Steven Seagal,(Nico Toscani), shows off his great talents in this film and of course he was slim and trim and full of action through out the entire picture. There was lots of action scenes with a car in a high rise parking lot almost falling into the street below. Subway rides around the loop and South Side car chases and plenty of beatings and needles being stuck in arms. Pam Grier (Delores Jackson), gave a great supporting role as Nico's partner on the police force. Sharon Stone,(Sara Toscani), Nico's wife and mother of his child, played a sweet and loving mother and wife and you would hardly recognize her this picture. Seagal did an outstanding performance and is truly a great actor. "},{"Title":"Introducing Steven Seagal","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Seagal's debut was this low key 1988 effort, directed by Andrew Davis who later directed Seagal's Under Siege and the superior The Fugitive.Seagal plays tough cop Nico, an ex Vietnam soldier who's now living happily with wife Stone and young baby. But he needs to clean up the streets every once in a while and deal with a powerful adversary from his past.Relatively slow moving but never boring. Film showcases Seagal's excellent fighting skills and his acting debut is very impressive, he makes a strong impression and a likable hero. All the action is handled skillfully by Davis, except for a few badly edited scenes, though that may possibly be that I have a drastically cut version of the film, I simply don't know. "},{"Title":"not Seagal's best, but still worth it","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Steven Seagal makes his movie debut in this ho-hum crime drama as a cop breaking every rule in the book to expose corruption. He spends a good deal of his time shooting, yelling, and breaking necks while some comically bad eighties music plays almost constantly. The fight scenes were very well done, though, and the plot actually moves along nicely, unlike most films of this genre. Overall, it's not bad, and definitely worth a night's rent.  "},{"Title":"When Segal made good movies","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Above The Law is a hands down action classic. This was the debut of one the early nineties biggest action stars Stevn Segal. The direction by Andrew Davis was tense and the fight sequences are cool. Steven Segal's first is still one of his best. "}{"Title":"Hasn't aged well - I mean the film AND Steven Seagal...","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" In honour of the 2010 news regarding one Mr Steven Seagal's employee hiring policy, I decided to revisit one of his best. Admittedly he only has a few real good ones.Stevie is Nico, a half bald, half mulletted pre-ponytail guy with an eyebrow you could rest a coffee cup on and pitch black eyes. Nico was once a good soldier in Nam who deserted after some naughty CIA dudes held an interrogation that he felt got out of hand. He is also a martial arts master and as I later discovered, totally runs like a big girl.Back in tha worl'. Nico makes what might then have been an OK move in marrying Sharon Stone and popping out a kid, he is now a cop and his partner is Jackson (Pam Grier), who hopefully is a better cop than Grier is an actress.Nico loves two things - his family and tank tops - and hates only crime. After rousting a bar one day to find his mischievous niece who was seduced by the dark side Nico gets a big tip that a big deal is going down, the cops plan a way to make a bust. Of course the sting goes sour when the CIA get involved, but don't worry kids ol' Nico will get it right! Once he fixes things though, the CIA let his guys off anyway and they are freed to blow up the very church Nico and fam frequents.You know sh*t's going to blaze up now! The CIA pull some strings and Nico is incorrectly framed for a crime he did not commit. No longer an active cop, Nico goes off the grid to get the info he needs while Jackson does some research for him.We know where this is headed don't we? Apparently 5 guys with machine guns aren't enough to get Nico, even when they have the drop on him, and Nico obviously trained at the 1 assailant at a time dojo, as in each fight the background guys wait patiently for their turn to flail aimlessly and get smacked in the back of the head.This is far less violent than I remembered, but then I did first watch it when I was in my teens. But I distinctly recall more snapping of limbs than I witnessed last night, I am positive there must be an unrated or R rated version running around that I missed. I mean what's the point of watching a violent action film without the violence? This film also wins the award for using the word Motherf*cker more than any other non-urban film I can remember&#x85; And when I say non-urban, I mean a film without many black guys in it.Final Rating &#x96; 5.5 / 10. Nico hasn't aged that well, and I mean that both as a film, and as Steven Seagal. "},{"Title":"Nothing like the first","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is his best movie ever. I mean Under Seige was good too. I liked the movie Hard to Kill with his wife at that time. But there's nothing like the first. It was the first time, other than Bruce Lee, seeing a martial arts dude kick ass with ease the way he did. He's still good but aged.I remember taping this one and watching it over and over. I can't even remember what it was about other than the usual cop corruption and some BS he had endured during some Vietnam flashbacks. And the window scene he jumps out of with some guy. Gosh, that was cool.It was also the first time I had seen Sharon Stone play a nimwit. But you gotta do what you gotta do. She was still the bomb then but, it was about Steven anyways. And it was good seeing Miss original (Pam Grier) Foxy Brown herself play supporting cast. All in all a good film. Action packed and never boring.  "},{"Title":"Henry Silva's Performance In This Movie Was Unforgettable!!","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Overall I thought this movie was corny and ridiculous as a big screen movie goes. I liked the Martial Arts scenes with all the arm bendings,bone breakings,and thumpings that Steven Seagal inflicted on his opponents.But, one thing I will say about this movie that I was really impressed about was the performance from Henry Silva. Mr. Silva is my favorite big screen and tevevision (villain actor) because of his wonderfully real, wicked, and sadistic looking facial expressions he makes and the cruel sounds he makes with his voice and breathing for his acting roles. Henry Silva was particularly great,effective,and perfectly fitting and cast for his role in Above the Law. Herny Silva was so believable as a sadistic Doctor in Above the Law that one could almost be fooled as to whether or not Mr. Silva was really acting or if that is the way he could actually be in real life. Mr. Silva looked like he was really enjoying himself when he was drugging,interrogating and tormenting his victims in that film. He really looked like he was taking fiendish delight in what he was doing. And I mean this as a compliment to the believable acting performance displayed that appeared so real and intense by my favorite Movie and television bad guy character actor, Mr. Henry Silva.I thank the makers of this movie for choosing Henry Silva for his role in 'Above The Law. And I compliment Mr. Silva for his wonderfully sadistic facial expressions that he made in this movie. "},{"Title":"not so bad, considering the low standards of the genre","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  (rating average) As low budget action-flicks go, this one ain't so bad. The story is standard and the dialogue is pretty stupid, but you won't get bored. As far as the acting is concerned Seagal has done worse things. At least this movie doesn't pretend to be anything else but a no-brainer low budget action-flick "},{"Title":"Seagal's first slap happy adventure","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A cop goes to do a drug bust only to find something bigger is being sold, explosives. He must get to the bottom of this crooked C.I.A. scam even though he is fired and told to back off, after his partner is shot and his family is threatened he wont stop until he brings the bad guys down.I like Steven Seagal and have enjoyed many of his early movies, but this was not one of them. It is his first and he co-wrote and co-produced as well. He had been in the movie business for a short while in other areas behind the scenes but this was his first starring role and he went from an unheard of no body to a big screen action super star almost over night. This movie featured many other amazing stars which helped it get noticed too like Pam Grier, Sharon Stone and the legendary Henry Silva.Andrew Davis who had done several really good films and would go on to continue as a prominent director in the business, did a pretty good job here. The movie is full of the clichés and even rips off other movies he had done with Chuck Norris. The movie is chocked full of clichés and a lot of dialog that is almost expected in these types of films. The bad 80's synth music doesn't help matters either. Seagal is a slapper and his fighting style is unique but very laughable, he sold movies so I guess it worked. I hate these movies though where one guy takes on dozens and they fire in open range machine gun sprays of bullets and still can't hit the guy.Hey, I didn't think it was horrible, but it and Marked For Death have always been my two least favorites of Seagals early work. If you like him though then you really need to see him here as Nico. If you like cheesy 80's action flicks then you cant go wrong with this one. 3/10 stars "},{"Title":"* *1/2 OUT OF FIVE","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Steven Seagal stars as Nico a cop who takes on corrupt cops in this standard police actioner which has good action scenes but has too much plot that gets in the way of the overall fun factor. Pam Grier as Seagal's partner though is a plus.  "},{"Title":"Dreadful, badly acted macho cop movie!","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is one bad movie! I first saw it on video and laughed so much because I could not believe how bad it was! Steven Segal is such a dreadful actor-he is so wooden. He may be able to fight but he certainly can't act!It was a typical 80's action movie with awful dialogue to match the awful acting and storyline. If you want a laugh then rent this on video and sit down and crack open a few beers and witness a truly bad piece of moviemaking!  "},{"Title":"Nice moves, but he runs like a girl!!","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" OK, he's not a very good actor. Kind of stiff an monotone like Arnold. Well, maybe not that bad! However, he does have some cool moves. I particularly like the clothesline move he does. He chops them down, they get up, he chops them down again! Sweet! However, he runs like a little girl! Seriously, if he was chasing me down an alley and I turned around and saw him running like that, I'd fall down from laughing! He'd, of course, then kick my ass all over the place though. He really needed a stunt double to run for him. What was the director thinking by letting Steven do that!? My guess is he bit his tongue, afraid he'd get his ass kicked if he mentioned it to Steven, and let it go in. I'd have loved to be on set when that scene was shot LOL. "},{"Title":"Repetitive","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Bent coppers, largely irrelevant dialogue, hard man lead actor kicking seven bells out of anyone who so much as stands in his way, scenes a little too ridiculous to believe, basically everything that's been done a million times before.It's unfortunate I've chose to watch 'Nico' having seen Die Hard & so many thousands of imitations previously. Had I done it in the reverse order, this film may have been a bit more popular & the others not so.I think the action movie genre is nearing a severe decline. We really need some new material & ideas. Having said that though, this was 1988 & there have been many worse films than this. I just wish Seagal would play either a 'baddie' or someone who ends up on the receiving end of a good hiding for a change. He may even be ok at it.Worth a look if it's on tele, but it's identical to most of his others.4/10 "},{"Title":"Typical Seagal rubbish","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I'll never understand why people watch films starring the likes of Seagal or Van Damme. It's not that I dislike action movies, when they're done right they can be amazing. But Seagal has yet to do one right. It's pointless even attempting to review one of his films with a straight face, the plots, the characters and the action scenes are all interchangable from film to film. Give me a Jackie Chan or a Bruce Lee anyday. Seagal needs to go to the scrapheap with Stallone and Van Damme. In the 21st Century does cinema really need these people fouling our screens? Abysmal. "}]