[{"Title":"'Tin Men' is the most underrated comedy in film history!","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"32 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Tin Men' is the most underrated comedy in film history. How's that for a bold statement? I'm sure you've heard of this movie. Many of you probably saw it. Then turned it off, and said, 'That was cute.' In fact, most will remember it more for launching the brief career of the Fine Young Cannibals. (A couple of their songs were featured in the film) I very well might have been one of you, if it hadn't been for my father's devotion to this film. It was because of him I saw it a half dozen times growing up, and much like 'The Big Lebowski' and 'Sherlock Jr.', the more I saw this film, the more I fell in love with it. 'Tin Men' is about two aluminum siding salesmen (working for competing companies) who get into a car accident, and both believing the other is to blame, decide to get revenge on one another. Richard Dreyfuss and Danny Devito (two of the more underrated actors around) deliver some of the funniest scenes you'll ever see. Things get complicated when Dreyfuss attempts to infuriate Devito by sleeping with his wife, only to fall in love with her. DeVito plays an emotional and financial disaster, struggling to keep his head above water, while tidal waves are crashing down all around him. (And does so, with the efficiency of a Third World sweatshop) Dreyfuss, a slick, fast- talking 'nickel and dime' hustler, whose ideas about life and love change when he discovers the truth about himself and his business through his own vindictive behavior. If you actors out there are wondering how to play 'quiet desperation' funny, rent this movie. 'Tin Men' uses a clever vernacular. Including several seemingly unnecessary dialogue driven scenes done way before dialogue driven scenes became commonplace. (See, Pulp Fiction 1994, and pretty much every movie to follow) With topics ranging from 'Bonanza' not being an accurate depiction of the West, to finding God at the smorgasborg. It also displays a devotion to detail, unparralleled by any big-budget movie of today. Everything feels real. The people, the conversation, the decor, everything.When I watched this movie again recently I came up with an hypothesis regarding its lack of real success, or longevity. It's quite simple, and when you first say it, feels lame. But the more I think about it, I believe it may be true Like most great movies that are under-appreciated, they aren't trying to impress us. They don't have to. "},{"Title":"Deserves More Recognition","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"19 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have never quite understood why this flick has not achieved more critical and popular acclaim.  I rate it a 9, which is very high for me (10s are reserved for a handful of all time classics).  Beyond the great acting, super dialogue, and tremendous comedy -- which everyone seems to recognize -- there is also a very serious movie inside.  Of course, as everyone says, it's an interesting slice of Americana Baltimore in the early 1960s (before the flood).  And on that basis alone, Tin Men is a great film.  Few movies have ever given such an accurate portrayal of a particular time and place in America as well as this one.But the movie is more than that.  Tin Men is a story in which the historical tension between America's atavistic entrepreneurial spirit (as exemplified by the tin men) and the regulatory forces of the state (as exemplified by the investigating commission) are at an important crossroads.  From the start it's obvious that the tin men have no chance and will lose this fight.  It's a passing of a way of life.  Much in the tradition of other great American works of art that examine the trade of salesman (Death of a Salesman, etc.), Tin Men is an indepth (and very funny) portrait of their psychological and social world.  Their world outlook is now dying and there is a touch of wistfulness about that passage in the film.  Are we as viewers supposed to be sad about it too? Or should we be happy?  After all, the life of a tin man was hard and brutal (as well as free) witness the death of one of them to a heart attack.On the other hand, is this way of life genuinely dying or just metamorphisizing?  The ending was excellent because it brought ambiguity to that question.  When DeVito and Dreyfus spot a new business opportunity Volkswagens, we realize these tin men are irrepressible!  They won't be stopped despite the new regulatory environment of the modern world.  For my money, this movie is Barry Levinson's best by far.  (Excellent soundtrack by Fine Young Cannibals, as well.) "},{"Title":"I know these guys","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I grew up with characters like Dreyfus and DeVito, hustlers out there selling anything. Somewhere between 1963 and the time the film came out, they disappeared from our streets, only to move into six story office buildings that dot the suburbs of Northeastern cities. Now they spend their time on the phone, trying to interest prospects that new windows will surely cut their fuel bills. I came to realize this great truth one day in 1988 when I went to rent a car and was told to come to Executive Plaza 5, Suite 414. As I walked the halls, all I could see in open offices were the Tin Men of 1963 at it again.The movie crackles and sets off sparks. You don't know who to root for, and for good reason. This is not a buddy movie, but I suspect a remembrance by Levinson of people he knew growing up. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and touching","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Few films can be laugh-out-loud funny and ultimately as touching and deep as this film.  Most people remember the dialogue, seemingly ad-libbed during the diner scenes by the cast (Danny DeVito, Jackie Gayle, Bruno Kirby)--and that looks like the same diner that Barry Levinson used for his first movie.  But the characters and their quirks are totally fleshed out before the conflict (DeVito's stiff neck, Dreyfuss's ladies' man schtick), making for a few truly hilarious lines and scenes (Gayle talking to DeVito about what a great dancer Dreyfuss is comes to mind).  The movie really has a sad story underneath about very unhappy people who delight in the misfortunes of others, until Barbara Hershey's character realizes what's going on.  All of these characters and story points climax in a rather sweet and yes, believable final sequence.  This movie came out during a spate of late '80s blockbusters and never really found its audience, I think.  But it is one of the few late '80s movies I rewatch every couple of years and find more to appreciate with each viewing.  I would rank it as Levinson's best film.  "},{"Title":"A Levinson Winner","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Chronicles the adventures of Frazier Crane's father, Mo, before he retired to Seattle on a bum leg.While very few Barry L movies ever make it past contrived unfunny nonsense, Tin Men is a definite winner. Barry takes us back to his revered 1960s Baltimore and the ensemble cast has graduated from Diners drifter 20 somethings, to of all things, aluminum siding peddlers on the threshold of middle age. For some inexplicable reason, its not as dumb as it sounds. The performances are, to a man (and woman in Hersheys lone case) first rate. The script witty and touching. Above all however, is Tin Men's ability to get a laugh. From the Bonanza discussions that Tarentino would later graft onto his own Reservoir Dogs, to the 'tit for tat' revenge storyline, its all very very good. Even old Richard Dreyfuss who is probably the most all round unlikeable dude to ever carry the title of 'leading man', gives an uncharacteristically suitable performance. The mincing, whining, face-making exaggerated body language, in this film all works to perfection. DeVito with his extremely limited range, again lands himself in a movie that totally welcomes his character.You would like to have seen just how Fraziers dad (Mahoney) injured his leg, but for some reason it is not detailed here. Levinson cant help being Levinson and strangely inserts the music of the Fine Young Cannibals into a film supposedly set 25 years earlier. Go figure. "},{"Title":"One of My Favorites","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tin Men is one of my favorite movies of all time. The thing that always strikes me whenever I watch this movie is that while the characters of Richard Dreyfuss and Danny DeVito are seemingly feuding non-stop throughout the movie, in reality they are actually kindred spirits. It's like they see themselves in the other but don't really like what they see. Barbara Hershey is great as the haggard housewife who looks for something more fulfilling in her life. All the supporting cast is excellent. I love the diner dialog which is reminiscent of Barry Levinson's previous film Diner. The background scenes of Baltimore landscape add to the realistic atmosphere of the movie. Overall, I think this movie is vastly underrated. I'd love to see a sequel with Dreyfuss and DeVito as partners in a VW dealership. "},{"Title":"An old friend","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  TIN MEN is certainly among the dozen or so movies that I have watched more than a dozen or so times, so I have no claim to being objective about critiquing it.  It's just one of my favorite movies.  Beyond the obvious praise it's due for its period detail and its terrific supporting comedic cast and the balancing act Levinson achieves between its overall tragic arc and its genuinely funny script, what keeps me coming back to this movie time after time are its many perfect moments, most of which come courtesy of Barbara Hershey.  I don't know if Ms. Hershey is indeed one of our best actresses... it's quite possible that her performance in THIS movie for THIS director in THIS setting is brilliant out of sheer serendipity, but her quiet, unmannered performance here is one of my Favorite Things in This World.  Her chemistry with Mr. DeVito is pitch-perfect, and their scenes together serve as the movie's thermometer. The dialog she is given and what she does with it are marvels. When her house is repossessed and she encounters her husband on the front porch, she complaints that her husband doesn't give a damn about her or about the many things of hers still in the locked-up house The headboard, that was given to me by my Aunt Josephine, that's gotta be at least a hundred... you know, 50 years old, or... you know, it's OLD.  If reading this bit doesn't convey the idea of perfect moment understand that Ms. Hershey's character is a person who so values honesty, in the midst of a life surrounded by professionally dishonest people, that she self-corrects on a trivial point.  So much information is telegraphed in that brief stutter--and in similar moments throughout the movie... I've seldom fallen so hard in love with a movie character as a result.Elsewhere, when Richard Dreyfuss's character professes his love for her in a rain-soaked scene, it culminates in I wanna... ... ... you know?  And the thing is, you DO know--again, all essential information about this character and his situation is telegraphed in the elipsis.These moments have become part of my personal movie mythos they serve as the nearest-in-reach examples of what a great movie is made of.  Certainly more--a lot more--is needed for a great movie, and whether Tin Men has all the other elements in place is a question I'll leave to the professional critics.  But I'm sure of the many moments of greatness in Tin Men.  This movie is NOT a guilty pleasure.  "},{"Title":"Diner vs Rain Man","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You can tell when you are watching a movie made by Barry Levinson. Diner, Tin Men and Rain Man all have a similar touch, even though they are different movies, they are made by the same artist. In Tin Men, the audience is treated to a comedy, and is rewarded with a hidden drama. Much like Diner and Rainman, the movie has its comical moments. Still, this is a story about people and a drama that they live. The comedy is the teaspoon of sugar that helps the drama go down. DeVito and Dreyfuss are nothing short of great. The supporting cast in Tin Men is just as good. You forget that you are watching a movie at times. The movie is at times up lifting as well as thoughtful with a strong ending that makes the rest of the movie great. A hidden gem / comedy. This is one of those movies that you can not go wrong with. "},{"Title":"Tin Men","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Rival aluminum-siding salesman declare war in another of director Levinson's returns to his hometown Baltimore, with Dreyfuss and DeVito playing the two feuding parties who constantly try to one up one another in a series of silly and childish gags. That's where the film falters, but it is in the charming performance of Hershey where the film is successful. Considering she's the only character with morals in the entire piece, she's the one you care for and root for. (An especially wonderful scene with DeVito on the porch when the IRS has taken his house.) Dreyfuss and DeVito, with exception to the silly gags the writers engaged their characters in, are in fine form, as always. Stand out performances from Mahoney as a real tin man, and comedien Jackie Gayle, who has a fixation with knocking Bonanza, are excellent.  "},{"Title":"Overlooked, funny gem","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Oddball, retro films like this never make the all-time top 100 lists &#150; like one of its characters, Tin Men comes across as a bit of a small guy, not one of life's winners. But you're missing something quite special if you let the sound of the film put you off. Two rival salesmen in a tough market play dirtier and dirtier in a childish tit-for-tat game, raising a storm of revenge and recrimination until they drag long-suffering wife Barbara Hershey into their fight, raising the stakes for them all. Crackling with expertly ad-libbed dialogue from actors who are clearly enjoying themselves, it's like a masterclass in flowing, naturalistic dialogue &#150; and it's very, very funny. Richard Dreyfus (he reminds me of Richard Widmark &#150; a reliable character actor who never gets his due) and Danny DeVito are a marvel of casting perfection. Scenes such as those in the diner where the rival groups of tin men chew the fat in their own unique and entertaining ways, show pale imitators how it's done shame on all modern Hollywood scripts that pad out a weak story by having actors babble a great deal of nonsense, very fast (Lethal Weapon 4, anyone?).I hate films about salesmen that isn't what this is. Tin Men has rounded characters in a believably drawn world (in which a man's car might just come higher up the list than his wife) and a story that's really just about human beings who laugh, fail, make mistakes and don't always triumph at the end &#150; shot and scripted with a light touch. I'd recommend you make this one you try and watch, if you can ever find it playing. A rare treat. "}{"Title":"Misunderstood Little Gem","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadI read so many attacks on this movie, I never understand why. It is very, very, funny. DeVito comes out from behind the camera where he struggled and returns to doing what he always did best being funny. There is a dramatic depth to the movie, a way of life is dying out. BB's partner has a heart attack and BB sees his future. A washed up aluminum siding salesman, all alone, with nothing to show for all those years. Even when DeVito tries to wreck BB's life by leaving him with his wife it doesn't work out well. The movie's dialog is the star here; both salesmen are embedded in social groups with annoying and irritating members (Mr. Breakfast, Mr. Bonanza). What is missed by many attackers on this film is these salesmen's inability to trust anything or anybody. They sling crap all day selling their overpriced siding and it cripples them emotionally. Maloney, BB's partner, right in the middle of one of their scams has a coronary. Levinson always has a deeply moral base to his movies like The Natural or Rain Man. Part of the reason this bombed is that people simply missed the costs of cheating people for a living. Levinson's moral theme is just not salient enough and the movie was accused of glorifying thieves like Used Cars. Maloney is the answer to that unfair charge. BB not only sees him damaged and all alone but filled with guilt leaving the business to become a shoe salesman.It features the great J. T. Walsh, one of the best character actors of the 1980's. Walsh always plays a creep like in House Of Games or The Grifters, Red Rock West. Here, he is the boss of DeVito's crew getting ready to groom declining salesman DeVito as the designated patsy for the government's investigative panel on aluminum siding sales scams. The banter is consistently funny and witty. The salesman's life of the up and down roller-coaster is not Glengarry Glen Ross but it is realistic. The feud between Devito and Dreyfuss, while hilarious, tended to obscure to viewers what Levinson is up to here. Both BB and Tilly are convinced that they are not effected by their dishonesty and swindling of customers. Tilly simply throws the IRS threatening paper out of the window; they have this Teflon psyche that soon proves to them how vulnerable they truly are. Tilly gets locked out of his own house, sleeping in his car, losing his wife; BB sees his lifelong partner almost die and comes to terms with loving someone outside himself which requires that unfathomable word for him Trust. We hear Tilly give the usual everyone is corrupt and evil, therefore my scams are standard procedure. It doesn't go well at the hearing. They have heard this crap before and goodbye sales license.No movie is perfect, The Fine Young Cannibals were thought, at this time, to be the next great musical group. Tragically, for Levinson, the group disappeared a couple years after this movie was released. They do the score, you will not enjoy it. All their songs sound exactly the same good luck understanding the words. Also, because it is so funny, the message gets lost in the movie long feud between Tilly and BB over the opening accident with Tilly ramming BB's new status symbol Cadillac. The movie, at its core, is these two men becoming friends and leaving the crooked business of siding. We see the costs of doing this for a living mixed in with great comedy. The sense of untouchability is one of the last things to go on both men. As we last see them, now friends, BB is talking Tilly into selling Volkswagens. I did not do justice to how truly funny this movie is but there is depth here; Levinson always has a deeply moral core to his movies it was more salient in Avalon and especially The Natural. Only on DVD right now, I could not wait and bought it but wish it was on Blu Ray. A Good, Misunderstood Movie. "},{"Title":"Tin Men brilliant and underrated","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" These days we seem to have increasing numbers of movies with special fx and huge budgets but poorly drawn characters and plots. Tin Men is one of my favourite movies for 6 reasons 1 It's set in a small world inhabited by Aluminium siding salesmen trying to sell cladding to cover up the characteristic Baltimore brick Clook and with the backdrop of a 'Home Improvement Commission' set to break all of the salesmen's scams. The scams and backdrop are really amusing. 2 The backdrop allows some real characters to shine - hopes and fears, they're very believable recognisable characters. And rounded characters. And the movie is full of fantastic cameos. 3 The plot is fantastic. It has a beginning, middle and end, and the it builds and is finely structured with the hints of what is going to happen woven in a carefully constructed progression. It has an economical structure with some believable and clear plot twists. Fantastic writing and editing. 4 The actors and setting are bullet proof. 1963 Baltimore is perfect and Richard Dreyfus, Danny deVito, and Barbara Hershey as the leads are perfection. 5 The sound track is just great. I hate most of this sort of music cold but it is an integral part of the plot. The Fine Young Cannibals, heading by the unmistakable voice of Roland Gift singing 'Good Thing' is also brilliant.Things to watch - when Tilly (deVito) has made what he thinks is his comeback sale and they go to the bar and FTC are singing,- the atmosphere shots in the bar of all the punters is one of my favourite movie moments. - When Sam describes finding God at the smorgasboard and then later when Tilly tries to have his own spirtual experience at a smorgasboard. - The sales scene near the beginning of the film where we learn about the industry - the growing feud between the two main protagonists - Tilly appearing before the commission - the diner lunches that Tilly's team have when they keep going on about TV (Bonanza and other shows).I think this is Barry Levinson's best work. "},{"Title":"You don't like it? Then you don't like real life either...","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think it is among the best movies i've ever seen. It gives me somehow a good feeling every time i watch it. The life of the two characters played by Danny DeVito and Richard Dreyfuss could be the life of any of us. It makes the movie smell like real life. It is a simple story about a simple life of some special tin agents struggling for survival in a non friendly political environment. They only want to sell their product. They have many tricks to do that. The two characters are in the same industry but they have turned against each other because of a simple and minor car accident. As the story develops we can look into the life of the two characters. See their friends, their family their problems their happiness. We don't know who is the good guy and who is the bad one. The point is, after the movie we just simple start loving both of the characters just because they are as human as just any of us. There is no action, blood and sex in this movie just the story of some ordinary people but with so much humor, love and sense that you can't miss it! "},{"Title":"Sardonic and fun nostalgia...","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although this is a drama of days long gone, Director Barry Levinson instills a brilliant sense of comedy here, tragic comedy of life.Tinmen is the term for aluminum siding film-flam salesmen, there are some fun scenes at the beginning with John Mahoney, showing how they gain a customers trust before selling them on aluminum siding which they don't need.Richard Dreyfus is B.B. Babowsky, who runs Gibraltar Aluminum. He has a call center filled with phone operators from the 1950's. The costumes and sets are funny and kitsch, way before Mad Men was a popular show.Danny DeVito as Tilly steals the show at the latter part of the film, he is being stalked by the IRS as well as the Home Improvement Commission, which seems a take on the McCarthy era of censorship.Set in Baltimore, this film is really a forgotten gem from the late 80's. Well worth a look. 10/10. "},{"Title":"More than just a funny comedy about rivalry between salesmen","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dealing with the funny rivalry between two aluminum-siding salesmen, Tin Men (as what these men are called in their business) excels itself in just being an ordinary comedy, it also paints a portrait of a decade with a updated look at it; the current 1980's seemed to shape a model for these characters and the situations they've been through. One of the films of the 'Baltimore quadrilogy' (the other films being Diner, Avalon and Liberty Heights), all directed by Barry Levinson, who lived in the area, this film looks back at the city of the 1960's, most precisely in 1963, where an simple automobile accident between two tin men started a small but funny war between them. On one side we have the energetic Bill 'BB' Babowski (Richard Dreyfuss), who recently acquired a new Cadillac but within five minutes of getting inside of it his car was hit by the too agitated for his height and size Ernest Tilley (Danny DeVito). The two promise revenge on one another and they spend their days trying to prank each other with some help from their friends. And that goes on, with smashing cars, fist fights that will never happen, one trying to score higher than the other until BB makes the smart move of going out with Ernest's wife (Barbara Hershey) and that might backfire in a surprising way for both of these guys.It's not all about rivalry between these two but it's also about how they guarantee their work (through hilarious scams selling aluminum-siding for houses, pretending to be part of Life magazine quoting that it will make the house look better in the magazine's photos and others scams too). Their work, now, is at risk when a commission appears to investigate cases of fraud in their sellings, and it is most likely these guys will be called to testify about what they do, if it's correct or not. But it is in difficult hours like that that the enemy of your enemy is your friend, right? The whole dispute, whether about the sales they do or the pranks these accident resulted, goes to show us a big game with no easy victories, no easy gains but with lots of dishonesty to compensate for the trouble. This was how the minds of the 1980's were looking at the 1960's period, as a place where people took advantage of each other through the simplest things, profit of any kind must be on top of everything. It's never about getting even, it's more about being the king of the game, the winner of all. Levinson is not trying to gives moralistic lessons about that era because he's more concerned about what was funny about all that. Most certainly, he was looking back at that time thinking that this was quite innocent and childish compared to the excesses of the Reaganomics era, period in which this film was made but somehow these two eras seem to be attached here in this nostalgic film. And in the following decades societies have gone way worst than just destroying someone's car... The premise, despite some lack of originality, perfectly works; the movie is warmly funny, not only in the arguments between DeVito and Dreyfuss but also in the talks they have with their friends (played by John Mahoney, Bruno Kirby, Richard Portnow, Seymour Cassel and others), one of these talks concerning about the irrealism during the cowboys talks in Bonanza (again, a contemporary look of the past, people wouldn't notice back then these kind of problems in the TV show). Notice the great soundtrack made by one of the groups of the moment, the Fine Young Cannibals, who appear in the film as band members of a nightclub often visited by both groups of tin men. Simply irresistible! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Vastly underrated comedy-drama - deep, incisive and very funny","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tin Men (Barry Levinson, 1987) is a nifty examination of the American Dream, focusing on a pair of aluminum-siding salesmen in early-'60s Baltimore who engage in an escalating campaign of retribution after their Cadillacs collide. Richard Dreyfuss is a sharp-shooting huckster in a powder blue suit, Danny DeVito a down-on-his-luck nighthawk trying to stay in the game. Just as they rely on sheen and trickery to flog their wares, so the film inveigles its way in with a succession of comic episodes, before revealing itself as an incisive take on the artifice of materialism and machismo - and a compelling character piece. It flirts with the hustlers' romanticised image of themselves, but also shows the reality they're just a bunch of fraudsters, flogging the American Dream.Tin Men is a subtle, masterfully-crafted little film, boosted by strong performances from the leads (rough edges and fluffed lines intact), nice supporting turns - including Barbara Hershey as DeVito's put-upon wife - and writer-director Barry Levinson's terrific ear for dialogue. His script is realistic but finely-honed and, years before Tarantino provided his own post-modern take on eatery conversation (and some five years after Levinson's own Diner), offers several servings of pop-culture-savvy squabbling that complement the movie's more ambitious elements.There's one excellent exchange in which DeVito tells his friends he'd never seen Dreyfuss before the crash, only to find that pal Stanley Brock won't let it lie. You musta seen him. He hangs out with Carly Benelli, Cheese... you know, that group, he says. Don't you remember, he was up at the Corral one night when we there... he's a good dancer. You must have seen him. Eventually DeVito tires of being told what slick moves his adversary has, retorting What do you want me to do, date him? What do I give a (expletive deleted) if he's a good dancer? I tell you, if I was a girl I would be very impressed, Brock replies. You're not a girl and you're impressed, counters friend Jackie Gayle.Another of the film's strengths lies in its original plotting it's almost impossible to second-guess where the story is heading, particularly in the first half. While the next hour does offer some concessions to conventionality, they're entirely in keeping with the characters' shifting mind-sets, and there's generally another trick or two up Levinson's apparently bottomless sleeve. The subplot about the Maryland Home Improvement Commission clamping down on bad practice is perfect. That's not to say the film doesn't have flaws - there are occasional lulls, and a bit more context wouldn't go amiss - but that it's welcome to find a movie so assured in its value, intelligence and razor-sharp sense of humour that the director lets you discover its qualities for yourself. A movie so well-handled that even the way busted scammers hand in their licenses is a snapshot of their characters. Levinson also makes a neat job of paraphrasing the era, with simple but effective production design, smart credits and a first-rate song score by '60s-soundalikes Fine Young Cannibals.What starts off as a lively story of obsession and revenge - a funny spin on The Duellists, if you will - ultimately ends up as something more intriguing, durable and worthwhile. And the draft drawings of my revamped house look just about good enough for Life Magazine. I'm covering the place in siding. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have watched this movie several times, and I am always entertained. Danny Devito and Richard Dreyfuss are both very good in their roles, and they manage to be both funny and believable at the same time. Those of us that were around in the early sixties can really appreciate the recreation of that time. The costumes, hairdos and and general look of Baltimore are dead on and transported me right back to that era. All of the supporting players who play the other salesmen are really entertaining, The scene where all of them are sitting around breakfast discussing Ponderosa made me laugh out loud and remember watching Ponderosa myself. I really recommend this to anyone who remembers that time or who wishes to see what the average person was thinking about before the sixties became the decade of sex , drugs and rock and roll. "},{"Title":"underrated classic","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This heartbreakingly funny comedy is lovingly rooted in Baltimore, giving it a nice cultural base. Devito and Dreyfuss give wonderful performances as a pair of con artists (common at that time) whose hard shell of sales shtick and dishonesty is merely a by product of the job. Each day they are aware of the slow chipping away of their integrity; its the price of admission into the high risk/high reward grift they ply. This is one of barry levinson's best efforts.  "},{"Title":"A must see movie for sales people!","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a must see movie for anyone who has been in the sales field!  De Vito is at his best, while the supporting cast is excellent.  This is funny stuff because it's based on (mostly) realistic scenarios.  I've watched the movie 100 times and never get tired of it! "},{"Title":"Funny and Smart Film!","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tin Men is a funny film that really focuses on the theme of man vs. man. When I mean funny, I don't mean it in the term of the general laugh-out-loud sense, but more in the reins of a smart funny. What I'm trying to say is don't expect much slapstick from this film despite being labeled as a comedy. That being said, this film is your typical 80's drama/comedy and is reasonably entertaining. It has good acting, good writing, and a good script. However, the movie felt just a tad long despite it being under two hours.This film, which is directed by Barry Levinson, is about two tin men who are both aluminum-panel sellers. After a fender-bender, these two men becomes ultimate rivals and do anything to create havoc with each other.This film is well-acted thanks to the strong leads by Danny DeVito and Richard Dreyfuss. They have good chemistry between each other and each shows off their comedic chops. Personally, I felt the film is at it's best when we see problem after problem occurring to DeVito's character, whose life goes sharply downhill over the course of the film.Overall, Tin Men is a solid film that talks about what happens when fate pit two rivals against each other. The back and forth between these two men are enlightening and often entertaining to watch. Not the best film on Levinson's resume, but it's still a solid, smart film. I rate this film 8/10. "}{"Title":"Two for the Road","Date":"16 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This oddly titled Tin Men has nothing to do with The Wizard of Oz (1939). It's about two men who sell aluminum siding, which was an apparently popular home improvement in 1963. The story takes place in Baltimore, Maryland &#x96; a favored setting for director Barry Levinson. Herein, after buying a brand new Cadillac, Richard Dreyfuss (as Bill BB Babowsky) backs his car into Danny DeVito (as Ernest Tilley). The serious fender bender results in a near-violent confrontation. To make matters worse, the men are rival aluminum siding salesmen. For revenge, Mr. Dreyfuss decides to take Mr. DeVito's wife to bed. Fighting over Barbara Hershey (as Nora) is complicated because she and DeVito were initially nearing divorce, and Dreyfuss decides he likes her more than he thought. Fine Young Cannibals provide untimely but oddly complimentary soundtrack songs. The setting is very well done, but the story is not engaging.****** Tin Men (3/6/87) Barry Levinson ~ Richard Dreyfuss, Danny DeVito, Barbara Hershey, John Mahoney "},{"Title":"Most underrated comedy ever.  Great movie about Sales.","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was a comedy near masterpiece and one of the best movies about Salesmen ever made. This vastly underrated and obscure movie really entertains as Dreyfus and DeVito deliver a bellicose duet of tit-for-tat with no holds barred ferocity. The dialogue, acting and pacing of this movie are wonderful and it's all about the sleazy world of Aluminum Siding Sales. There is not a shred of virtue among the two stars or their magnificent supporting cast. We are shown Sales techniques that we all suspected existed, and the Home Improvement Commission is also interested in these guys, but not in a good way.Mix into the fray of these questionable business practices the intense and violent personal feud between BB Babowsky and Ernest Tillie and the never-ending personal waterloos for the latter, and you have a recipe for hilarity. A fender bender with two Cadillacs erupts into full scale war and the ultimate outcome is hilariously surprising. I cannot say enough about the supporting cast and their continuous contribution to this movie, this is what made it great. The never-ending discussion about the deficiencies in realism of the time period show Bonanza (This show is about a 50 year old father and his 3 47 year old sons&#x85;from different mothers!) was genuinely inspired, as well as Sam's vegetable epiphany about god at the smörgåsbord (salad bar).Nothing goes right for Tillie, as he deals with setback after setback. His car is smashed, he is broke because he's lost his Sales touch, his marriage is in shambles and the Home Improvement Commission as well as the IRS are knocking on his door. BB Babowsky seems to be winning their violent feud, but in a surprising twist, his plan for the ultimate revenge has some very unintended consequences.These men love their dark and questionable careers as much as they love their Cadillacs and the continuous revelations about their trade, and its shoddy sales practices, are priceless. If you can find this movie, buy it. "},{"Title":"...if they only had a heart","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Barry Levinson's attractively lopsided comedy marked his tentative return to Earth (to be more specific, the city of Baltimore circa 1963) after serving time on the Steven Spielberg assembly line (in 'Young Sherlock Holmes'). The idea of a film depicting the cutthroat antagonism between two aluminum siding salesmen must have been alarming to the people at Touchstone Pictures, who no doubt insisted on certain commercial concessions, including a strictly gratuitous appearance by the pop group Fine Young Cannibals (out of place in the early '60s setting), and the casting of two high-profile names in the title roles (an allusion to the heartless hero of Oz). Danny DeVito and Richard Dreyfuss portray the disreputable rival salesmen who become mortal enemies after a minor fender bender dings their new Cadillacs. Both are reliable comic talents, but the highlights of the film are the lengthy digressions from the plot, with a (largely unknown) cast of supporting actors improvising loopy, crisscrossing conversation over coffee and donuts. Despite the effort Levinson may have put into his screenplay it's the unscripted banter that leaves the best impression, winning points for unpredictability in an original but otherwise uneven comedy. "},{"Title":"Dreyfus vs Louis Levinson's Entertaining Study of Baltimore Sales Scammers","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you really want to find the essence of American urban life in the 1950's and 1960's, just spend a few hours at either an east-coast diner or in a 1960 Cadillac. Sometimes I think Barry Levinson must have owned a Cadillac and driven to diners where he overheard dialog which he scribbled into a notebook. (His first movie was of course called Diner.) Levinson has captured the atmosphere of the era through his realistic dialog that seems lifted straight from the dirty tables and dry pancakes. A bunch of friends eating at a diner and yapping about TV shows and broads is what real east-coast urban American life is all about. And when these guys are not drinking coffee and dividing up the check, they're driving their Cadillacs to potential customers to sell aluminum siding. This is the second of Levinson's Baltimore trilogy.The term tin men referred to aluminum siding salesmen who were just a cut under car salesmen and just above con artists. In the 1950's and 1960's when competition tightened, some of these salesmen used seemingly innocent but deceptive tactics on a very naive and trusting public who have since gotten very wise to this kind of manipulation. These hard-sell approaches included bate and switch, falsely promising free extras, and fabricating associations with nationwide magazines. Barry Levinson thrusts us into the middle of a rivalry between two of the more devious of aluminum siding salesmen, played by two of the most nervous-angst actors in the business Danny DeVito and Richard Dreyfus. The casting of these two against each other has to have been from heaven. The smart-alec Dreyfus versus the self-centered DeVito makes for a clash of the urban sales titans early 1960's style.DeVito and Dreyfus literally run into each other and begin a heated game of oneupmanship that at first involves their cars and then DeVito's wife played with subtle realism by Barbara Hershey. (Of course the biggest mystery of the film is how Hershey ended up with DeVito in the first place but that could be the subject of a PhD dissertation.) The cars owned by the salesmen are important enough to also be characters. This game of king of the hill is at the forefront of the shady practices enacted by the tin men to get customers. Some of the most interesting aspects of the film are the games they play to make sales. Their customers are often very simple and trusting folk who don't realize they are being taken by sharks. But looming in the background is the US Housing Commission who are starting to become wise to their practices.A very enjoyable film overall, completely unpredictable, with fantastic performances by the three leads DeVito, Dreyfus, and Hershey. Of course, would you buy anything from these guys? I'm sure you never thought your house could use some aluminum siding. "},{"Title":"It is one of my favorites of all time!!!","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this when it first came out, and I said to everyone- this has one of the best soundtracks I have heard in a long while. I kept telling everyone that the song in the background-which is of course, Good Thing when Dreyfuss is kind of jigging thru the bar, was a great song, with a very catchy melody. So, I was not surprised at all, when the Fine Young Cannibals CD, The Raw and the Cooked released after this film- went all the way to the top (it contained 2 songs from this film) That said, I LOVE the storyline, the acting, Richard Dreyfuss is adorable, looks wise and character wise. I loved him in The Goodbye Girl but LOVED him in this! The funniest scene in my opinion involves Danny DeVito, at the buffet, I will not spoil it-but I thought it was hysterical! Barbara Hershey BEFORE she had collagen lips-is charming too. Highly recommend and I want this in my DVD collection!!! "},{"Title":"De Vito and Dreyfuss at their best...feud","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Some drama, mostly good comedy. Richard Dreyfuss and Danny De Vito, who work for two different aluminum siding companies as salesman, like to run into each other, and are very proud of their respective Cadillacs.Each are unscrupulous salesmen, and would do anything to achieve their goals, and I mean anything. De Vito's on-screen wife is a nice lady, and puts up with unreasonable mental cruelty in this role. Things needed to change for her, and they did--a scheming Dreyfuss saw to that!After all was said and done, the story ended in a touching manner. If you think revenge is sweet (in a comedy at least) you'll really enjoy this movie. If you enjoy comedy, you've got to see it! "},{"Title":"... He's a great dancer","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie dialogue is great, the scams they pull and the scams Dreyfuss pulls on DeVito's wife are so funny. The scenes about Bonanza, the garden salad, and Dreyfuss's dancing are way better than any sitcom on T.V. the best parts are when the two anti-heroes BB and Earnest are going for the jugular it's great comedy. "},{"Title":"Barry the Bellboy","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Who would have thought that the frantic Bellboy in Mel Brooks' High Anxiety could write and direct a script of this subtlety? Being in 3 Mel Brooks films thankfully did not seem to affect him.This film is a 9 if not a 10, and repays repeated viewing , for the script,the direction,and the acting (everyone is superb,but Dreyfuss, Hershey,and DeVito are absolutely terrific).The period setting,as far as I can tell,is spot on. The reference to a future VW dealership for BB/Tilley,referred to in other comments(hinted at twice in the film) seems to miss the 'Golden Arch' that fills the final frame. The future might have been burgers as well as beetles!High Anxiety, on the other hand,represented the beginning of the end for Mel Brooks after the brilliance of The Producers,Blazing Saddles and Young Frankenstein.The only good thing in any otherwise VERY boring High Anxiety is Mel Brooks' hilarious impersonation of Frank Sinatra singing the title song.The rest is a very laboured and dire parody of Hitchcock, where Young Frankenstein was fresh and sustained parody of James Whale's films. "},{"Title":"Great movie for admirers of 50's and 60's American cars","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't expect my comments to help potential viewers appreciate or not the performances of either Hershey, Dreyfuss or De Vito. My point is that, as an auto historian with a penchant for older Cadillacs, the movie did more than satisfy my interest in the old American iron. The sets were realistic too; the opening scene was shot in the Chesapeake Cadillac dealership owned, at the time, by the brother of a car-collector friend. If any of you ever bought a car from a dealership, you will enjoy the opening scenes and Dreyfuss' repartee with the car salesman.Car lovers need to see this funny movie! Would-be con artists can also learn a few tricks from it. "},{"Title":"This is an elegant movie about men who booze, cheat and wear suits.","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I love this movie. It's one of my all time favorites. Levinson's use of music and arrested adolescent imagery (cars, diners, women, cars and more cars) is subtle and hilarious. The film looks gorgeous and has a sadness that hangs over it as we can literally see change surrounding these men who refuse to be men. The home improvement commission, the new car that is the Beetle, actually loving a woman... all of this is new and scary to Dreyfuss and Devito. Devito especially is funny in how obstinate he is in ignoring the change around him.DeVito's buddy who I think is played by the old comic Jackie Gayle is particularly funny. I can go for some Won Ton soup...It's a wonderful movie. And the specifics are laugh out loud funny. This and Diner are the best of Levinson's Baltimore movies. "}{"Title":"A Comedy Classic","Date":"7 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you wanna kick back, relax, and really have a great laugh, this is the movie for you.Set around 1962, the title, Tin Men, refers to aluminum siding salesmen. This is the profession of both BB and Tilley, although they work for rival companies. Throughout the movie, we are treated to different shady tactics employed by these salesmen to peddle their wares. A wonderfully funny movie, Dreyfuss and De Vito play their parts so well, taking two fairly unscrupulous characters and making them somewhat likable. They are supported by an excellent cast including Barbara Hersey as Tilley's wife, John Mahoney, Jackie Gayle, Seymour Cassel, and Bruno Kirby. Overall, terrific performances by Barbara Hershey, Richard Drefus, Danny De Vito and, above all, the British-born actor, John Mahoney, make this film a treat at every viewing. Mahoney, whom no one would ever identify as anything other than 100 percent American in looks and in voice, almost steals the show with his portrayal of Moe, Dreyfuss's patient partner in scam.This is a great movie that stands alone in dozens of ways. It will remain one of my all time favorite period pieces. Great sound track, great acting, great capture of the early 60's.Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Something kind of tinny here","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Yeah I finally watched it. I heard my Dad commend it back a couple of years, after it's late 87 cinema release. Coincidentally it opened up the same day as Hellraiser, which is kind of what these two, smooth talking aluminum salesmen (better known in the field as tin men) bring down on each other after a little vehicular ruckus. Both roles are filled with the right shoes, that of talented Devito, as the ill cautious, and accidental hitter, Tilley and Dreyfuss, overzealous, fired up, BB as the reckless, backer out er, in what is a rental car too. What ensues, is a warring feud of car wreaking and insults, and near punch ups. Dreyfuss, the real eager vengeful beaver, ups the revenge, when he makes a move on Devito's wife, Nora (the always great Hershey, who like her co stars and some others were enjoying the fruits of their careers thanks to Touchstone video) Of course, he falls in love with her, and as for Devito's reaction, you could say it was like that of Ruthless People. Look, I did enjoy tin men up to a point. It just didn't live up to my expectations. Not enough things happened for starters, between our rivals, like a consistency of revenge tricks and stunts. There were not enough plot turns, or developments, or things happening in the movie. There was like holding back, where I did feel, short changed. The dialogue, although very good, was too serious to be funny, I only cracked a couple of laughs throughout the movie. What I did like, funnily enough, was Dreyfuss and Devito's reconciliation, where they finally made peace, and Hershey as the woman in the middle, made the right choice, I think. I loved the reconstruction of the period, 1963 (same as in The Wanderers) that was excellent, and I really enjoyed John 'Frasier' Mahoney's performance as tin man legend, Moe, one of BB's mob, as I did enjoy Brad Sullivan, (Slapshot's dirty old man) as the Grill chief of the union. Too the much missed J.T Walsh, a great actor way too soon. Take Tin Man, an entertaining well shot film noir, comedy drama, where if a salesman, you can draw your own verdict. Fine Young Cannibal's string of appearances in this, go together like chips sprinkled with sugar. "},{"Title":"Classy, Funny, Levinson!","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" These boys (which is what they are) even in this time frame, Richard Dreyfuss and Dann DeVito (who usually are unbearable, even then) are American saps, which makes this film quite enjoyable. Beside the great plot, these two actors (who personally have been annoying since FAME fell on their heads) give delightful and insightful performances of American males of the time and seem loose and into it. Levinson had some cool films and some junk, but this hits a bulls-eye with casting along (including the under-rated Barbara Hershey) in a tale (with slide supporting cast) that should have been made in the 70's and been appreciated.A 7 out of 10. Best performance = Hershey, Dreyfuss, or DeVito. American Dream town all the way with the usual bumps and divots along the way while staying in the realm of comedy while people yell A LOT. This is a cool flick that doesn't try to pander to (even the time frame) politically correct morons or whatever. Well-written, directed, with great cast that doesn't have answers for folks. It's unique. If you don't get these people, you might need to watch TV more. "},{"Title":"Finding God @ the smorgasbord","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I agree with the commenters who appreciate this movie because of/in spite of its languid pace, hysterical digressions like the one in the caption above, and lifelike mix of the ridiculous and the deeply serious. Since I live on the set, I'm partial to the Baltimore scenes and the only-in-Baltimore scenes, those that have survived and especially others, like Memorial Stadium (glimpsed in the background as two tin men ring their new victim's doorbell), that haven't. I'm not a particular fan of any of the players, and I never have liked Barbara Hershey, but they all fill their parts beautifully here - especially Danny DeVito, whose pitch-perfect Baltimore accent has never been equaled on film, not even a Waters film. An 8.  "},{"Title":"Classic levinson  film, about 2 men, who want to do  get something more out of themselves and life as they know it","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this was a fun experience when i  watched this movie! it was so much fun for me to check out a barry levinson film (diner, rain man, good morning vietnam, sleepers) that i have never seen before! this is a story about two middle aged men, who played by richard dreyfuss, and danny devito wonderfully, who unexepectedly meet up, when there car's crash into eachother. they soon, go to there own places meeting up with eachother, and, trying to  deal with there mixed emotions of themselves, as they discover what there doing with themselves. this film also includes funny performances by character actor Stanley Brock, and tv's frasier's John Mahoney, who was in many films. this film, i wouldn't  say is a buddy movie, but, it's very close to being a buddy movie. the complete opposite of one. this film was a wonderful comedy drama.  with a very funny line when he is fighting with his wife, i'm a free man! throwing her stuff out the window! the  biggest treat for me was seeing the wonderful 80's band from england, Fine young cannibals, doing the musical score for the movie, and singing a couple of there hits, as hard as it is and good thing  while making there fun scene in the movie. film's story takes place in 1963. great movie if you love dreyfuss and devito.  "},{"Title":"Tin Men","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A bit of weird film when I think about it, just about two guys having a bit of a fight but not actually doing much except seeing each other. But this is quite an interesting comedy like film. Basically Richard Dreyfuss as Bill 'BB' Babowsky and Danny DeVito as Ernest Tilley accidentally crash into each others cars. At first they both take it really seriously a say to each other that they are going to pay, literally and in the fight sense. After a little while I think they kind of forget what happened and only keep seeing each other to talk. And that's pretty much it. But besides just a tiny bit of a pointless plot it is a good film. Good! "},{"Title":"Very funny movie about two silly egotistical asses","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hilarious comedy. The antics of Dreyfuss and DiVeto were a scream. The sets were realistic, the dialogue was biting, and the acting was great. This was truly a comedy's comedy. "},{"Title":"Nearly good","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Director Barry Levinson returns to his beloved Baltimore with 'Tim Men', a film about two salesmen at war in the early 1960s.  Neither are very attractive characters, but both are well drawn the film contains a fair few funny lines (although few laugh out loud moments), and there's a note of poignancy in the end.  Yet overall the film is too stylised to work wholly as a character study and plotted (intentionally) with insufficient slickness to work as a comedy thriller.  The result is a low key exercise in nostalgia, kept entertaining by (especially) Danny de Vito but hard to really care about, by no means awful but more like a side story than the main event. "},{"Title":"Pushing Tin","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" TIN MEN (1987) **1/2 Richard Dreyfuss, Danny De Vito, Barbara Hershey, John Mahoney, Michael Tucker, Jackie Gayle, Seymour Cassel, Matt Craven, Bruno Kirby. Second in filmmaker Barry Levinson's affectionately nostalgic 'Baltimore Trilogy &#150; circa 1964, about two feuding aluminum siding salesmen (the film's title is their trade's nickname) Dreyfuss and De Vito in a grudge war after a fender bender involving their Cadillacs, leading to De Vito's wife, Hershey, being used as a sexual pawn in their immature fracas.Fine period detail and production values, a game cast, and witty repartee especially by Gayle and his constant bewilderment on the tv series 'Bonanza'. "},{"Title":"Why am I so ambivalent about this movie?","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that is extremely funny, well-acted, well-written, relevant, and irritating. So why am I so ambivalent about it? I can't quite answer that. There's something so totally off-kilter about this story that it weighs the movie down somehow. It's not the wackiness or the dark humor, there's an oppressive tone to this movie that doesn't quite fit with the story.That said, I loved Barbara Hershey in her role as DeVito's unhappy wife. She transcends the ethos of the petty war between Dreyfuss and DeVito, and you can really feel the humanity in her character. "}{"Title":"Hate Motivates . Hate Destroys","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The premise of this black comedy is far from complex - A couple of salesmen get caught up in an escalatiung feud . So writer/director Barry Levinson is left with the dillema of wondering what to do to fill up the running time and wisely chooses to concentrate on the human drama . Ernest sits in a diner discussing BONANZA wondering who`s going to pay the bill and goes home to his wife where he discusses picnics while BB sits in the office giving out advice to his collegues on how to make a fast buck . Thinking about it this is a good movie to show to aliens who are interested in what it`s like to be human* It`s not as crazy as it sounds after all everyone is motivated by if not love then at least a need for a sexual partner , everyone is motivated by greed , and alas everyone can be motivated by hate , without doubt the most destructive impulse within the human conditionLevinson`s screenplay is very good especially if you`re entertaining  Martians who are interested in film scripts as well as the human condition but I do wish he`d handed the script over to Martin Scorsese to direct . There`s nothing wrong with the performances of Richard Dreyfuss and Danny Devito but just imagine DeNiro as BB and Pesci as Ernest . Is that a sigh i heard you gasp at what might have been ? And let`s not forget Scorsese can make an audience laugh out loud at the most tragic of circumstances , look at TAXI DRIVER , MEAN STREETS and THE KING OF COMEDY , under Scorsese this possibly would have been a classic . It`s also strange watching a movie made in 1987 , set in 1963 with The Fine Young Cannibals performing a song that was a hit in 1989 * Best movie involving the human condition ? PINK FLOYD`S- THE WALL  "},{"Title":"A fine cast, but a boring pointless mess of a film","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A chance car prang by the two main protagonists leads to a drawn out snoozathon which seems to last way longer than its 110 minutes.Despite fine performances from both Devito and Dreyfuss, and the very occasional flash of laugh out loud humour in the script, serious flaws make this almost unwatchable.Firstly the characters' unbelievable reactions to events. Are we really to believe Devito is so unphased by a man stealing his wife? And are we to believe the wife Dreyfuss stole is really going to forget everything and marry him so easily, after she discovers he has lied and deceived his way into her pants simply to annoy a man who reversed into his car? And secondly, the two men's occupation hardly elicits shudders of excitement in the audience. At one point Dreyfuss says, to one of the undercover agents looking for corruption in his trade, something along the lines of we only sell aluminium siding. Why are you so interested?. He may as well be addressing the audience directly.Unbelievable, soporific nonsense, that cannot be saved by a fine cast and a few good jokes. "},{"Title":"Fast Forwarding Suggested","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS AHOY! Maybe it's because I consider Richard Dreyfuss one of the most annoying actors in history, or maybe it's the stupid way in which the plot unfolds. I don't know.  One reviewer here said that Barbra Hershey is the only character with morals in this film.  Pardon me, but when did adultery become moral?  If you're bored with your marriage, get a divorce and THEN go dating!  OK, enough preaching.  lol The ending was especially unbelievable, given the history of the two main characters...it was like watching the end of a Cheech and Chong movie--but, hey, I LIKE Cheech and Chong!  The most interesting character, Mo, is given a ... considering his fate.  Some of the aluminum siding scams were amusing, but were not properly developed, in my opinion.  The best gag, I thought, was the eggs.  But, then again, maybe it's because I consider Richard Dreyfuss one of the most annoying actors in history ;-) "},{"Title":"Pretty darn bad...","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just plain didn't like this movie. I didn't think any of the jokes were funny and it was boring. Who wants to watch a movie about TIN salesmen? I don't think Richard Dreyfuss or Danny DeVito are that funny. Plus, it was weird when Danny DeVito's wife had an affair with Richard Dreyfuss. I can't imagine Richard Dreyfuss having a romance in ANY movie. I'm sure plenty of people will disagree with me on this one, but I thought this was an awful movie. Bad comedies are the worst kinds of movies, the kind no one wants to watch. This is one of them. People who watch this movie are wasting their time. No doubt Richard Dreyfuss is a good actor, as we have seen from his Oscar for The Goodbye Girl. I also enjoyed him in Jaws. I just don't think comedy or romance is his vocation. As for Danny DeVito he plays the same role each time and is good at those kinds of roles, but he's missing humor. "}]