[{"Title":"harmless fun and very touching","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Arthur 2 may just touch your heart. It touched mine. It's really a very sweet and charming film and it's unfortunate that it's so underrated. Arthur 2 made me smile, laugh, and shed more than a few happy tears. It's been said that the original Arthur didn't require a sequel, but it's a pleasure spending more time with the characters. 99% of the fantastic cast of the original returned for this one. It's especially wonderful to see more of Dudley Moore as Arthur. I love Arthur! There are plenty of funny, cute, and charming moments in Arthur 2. The moments with Hobson and Arthur at Christmastime are especially touching. I'm very happy that they made Arthur 2. "},{"Title":"A beautiful little film.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be one of the most under-rated and under seen sequels in history. Arthur 2 is not as good as the film that preceeded it but it is NOT a bad film. Arthur 2 if anything gives us the film that Dudley Moore and Steve Gordon were trying to back in 1981. One of the main criticism's is that it gives out a bad message the alcoholism is good. The film does nothing of the sort, Arthur strives through out the film to change his drinking ways and succeeds in the final part of the film. The film itself is not as funny as Arthur was, but you hardly notice this because it tells a good dramatic story.Bud Yorkin handles the direction excellently, and the movie contains a magical back drop of Christmas time New York. Dudley is again funny and like-able, just as he was in Arthur, allthough both the Actor and the Character have matured. Liza Minelli is again kookie as Linda, allthough she plays the role like the preceeding seven years took place within a week. Nothing changes with her performance and one is greatful. One really feels for Arthur and Linda, as they struggle with the fact of first not being able to have children, and secondly being destitute. Without spoiling the movie for those who have not seen it, there is a happy ending. Burt Bacharach's score is again heartbreaking and wonderful and the title song sung by Chris De Burgh is as good as the Chris Cross original. And finally Sir John Gielguid makes a heart breaking and beautifull return as an Obi Wan Kenobi like Hobson. A christams ghost if you will.A Beatifull film. One ready for re-evaluation. Lets raise our glasses to Arthur and Linda. "},{"Title":"Maybe I'm crazy but I like it better that the first...","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"35 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Certain movies you see as a child and they stick with you, regardless of actual 'quality' per se. Such is the case with Arthur 2 On the Rocks. I'll be honest, I know it's not the best of movies, but darnit, it makes me laugh. It's almost surreal to watch the non-stop one-liners out of Dudley Moore. Even characters in the movie refuse to laugh at the jokes. I still find it funny! I tried to make friends watch it, they wouldn't bite. Perhaps it's an acquired taste. I have tried to watch the first Arthur and frankly I've found it dull and uninteresting. I can't honestly say I remember the ending of the first Arthur, but I can quote whole chunks of the sequel verbatim. I don't know what that says about me as a person, but there it is. Frankly, I think this is at worst an okay movie. I think too many people came into it with too high expectations leading to a ridiculously low overall rating. If you are around 8 years old, start watching the movie over and over again and quoting it with your sister to grow the proper appreciation. Otherwise I'm not sure if you will like this movie, but I say give it a shot. "},{"Title":"a Great feel good film with lots of laughs","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of my all time greats, and has a feel good feeling. The relationship between Arthur and Linda is outstanding, despite their change of fortunes throughout the film. The humour in this film is similar to films like airplane, where you need to watch it several times to catch every quirk. Although Arthur plays an alcoholic, he is so likable that you cant help but feel sorry for him.  "},{"Title":"He's Back!","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Arthur 2 On the Rocks is the story of how Arthur (Dudley Moore), the drunken title character, loses his $750,000,000 fortune and sobers up so he can adopt a baby. It starts out very good and right on target, but towards the last 45 minutes the film loses not only all credibility, but also all sense of cohesiveness. It's as if the writer wrote himself into a wall and tried to cut through it with a spoon. I'm not sure if that analogy was any good, but it's a bit better than the end of the movie.Of course, I haven't seen the original Oscar-winning Arthur (1981), which may be a part of the reason I enjoyed the first half of Arthur 2 (1988). I still remember when I first saw The Fly--I had read all the positive reviews, I was really pumped up and after the credits started to roll I just sort of sat back and let out a sigh. But I had already seen its sequel, aptly named The Fly II, and I had enjoyed it. Why? Because prior expectations can truly ruin a great movie. If I had gone into The Fly expecting nothing, I probably would have come out of it satisfied. But, in hindsight, I expected too much. And I hadn't expected anything going into The Fly II, which may amount to why I prefer it to the first film, despite its goofy nature and campy effects.Maybe that's why Arthur 2 On the Rocks didn't seem so bad when I watched it. I didn't find a single positive review of the film on the Internet. IMDb's average user rating is currently 3.6, and a year ago it was lower. Rotten Tomatoes' rating is 0%, with not a single positive thing to say. And I can understand why people might not like this movie, but if they think it's one of the worst films of all time...they've got another thing coming.Arthur and his wife, Linda (Liza Minneli), are living freely. They own five homes in and around New York City, and Arthur's only worry in life is that he may get some. Linda, on the other hand, has a single worry she can't have children, and she wants some. So they visit an adoption agency downtown, run by Mrs. Canby (Kathy Bates), who promises she'll do her best to fix them up with a kid. Joy!But then Burt Johnson (Stephen Elliot) buys out Arthur's family company, promising to sell out if Arthur is cut off from the family fortune -- all 750,000,000 dollars. Johnson's scheming is because he wants his daughter, Susan (Cynthia Sikes), to be happy -- and she still wants to marry Arthur. If Arthur divorces his true love, Linda, and marries Johnson's snobby daughter, he can get his money back. But soon Arthur learns that money isn't the most important thing in life.This is an interesting premise, of course, but the fact that the entire character of Arthur is one built upon the sole theory that there's nothing to worry about in life is contradictory. If Arthur were a television show, it would have been a decent half hour of laughs to see him hit the streets in an attempt to sober up. But as a 107-minute film, Arthur 2's premise just isn't Arthur, as far as I can tell. At the end, Arthur cleans up and gets sober, and -- without spoiling how -- wins the day (like there were any doubts as to whether that would happen). But the lasting image of a sober Arthur is far from the central idea of the character in the first place.And I must complain about something else I noticed -- something more disturbing than anything else in the film. At the very end, Kathy Bates delivers an adopted baby to the couple as they reunite on the street, only for Linda to announce on the spot that she's pregnant. Wouldn't Mrs. Canby (Bates) take the baby back and give her (the baby, that is) to a couple that can't have children? No, she just smiles and stands back from the scene. This is an example of poor scriptwriting. Arthur 2 On the Rocks is a hilarious film in its first half, and a bumbling message-driven snoozer in its second. If only all comedies could sustain laughs at a steady pace throughout. I can't necessarily say that Arthur 2 is a very bad movie, but I can't necessarily say I can recommend it, either.2.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Amazingly funny movie!","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Arthur two on the rocks is a great movie and is definitely one to watch.... it follows on from the first movie in 1981 about Arthur, a drunk millionaire. In this second movie he continues from his first role (with Liza minelli as his wife), in my opinion right from start to finish this movie is hilarious. some of the scenes and lines that he comes up with are truly brilliant. Right from the opening scene where he has a conversation with another millionaire out of the window of his car!! I really cant stop laughing. if you've lost everything in life this movie really gives you something to laugh at and relate to. Its a must watch in my opinion... and I am really sad that Dudley Moore has passed on... he was brill. "},{"Title":"You know I like this better than the first one.","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  To be honest, I sort of like this better then the first one! It's got some more humor to it and I think Liza Minnelli put some more effort in her role as the new Mrs. Linda Bach. At first, I think she was hesitant. She was probably thinking This is going to be a stupid movie and the Academy is going to hate it. My fans will despise me! Why am I doing this? And then, Liza thought, that there was this itty bitty chance that maybe her and Dudley could make the movie funny. Well, in the first one, they pulled it off. People wanted more of Arthur Bach and his hilarious antics as an alcoholic! Liza was mentally re-assured. My fans need me for this, She must've thought. And she re appeared. In this movie, we see Arthur finally begin to GROW UP, something we never thought he could do. Linda wants a baby but Arthur's crazy fiancee and her father are at it again! It's then that Arthur realizes that he'd rather have Linda and the baby then the 75 million. Oh, and a very young Kathy Bates is in here too! This is definitely worth while. Better than the first. A 9! "},{"Title":"enjoyable","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Yeah I know it's not popular to like this one. I know it's been derided for being an unnecessary sequel and that's one of the nicer criticisms. It's been called every nasty thing in the book, but now I've seen it and I'm not sure what all of the negative fuss is about. I went into Arthur 2 expecting the worst. Instead I discovered that it's actually a very lovable little film. I like the original Arthur and this sequel. My only major disappointment was that I was in the mood for a truly bad movie. Instead it turned out to be a wonderful little flick. Arthur 2 left me smiling and feeling good. I'm going to buy the DVD. Thanks Arthur! "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You may be shocked by my score but the current score is too low. People should remember this is a comedy. The acting is nowhere near as good as the first and truthfully the first is more special for many other reasons but the funny lines here never stop.I saw this the other day again on a big screen and I stayed amused almost constantly. I don't know if this is a British thing but this is a very funny film.I don't feel the need to explain the plot as you should know what it's about already from reading the synopsis here. The main positive of the film is the comedy.Not only is it hugely entertaining, it is also quite touching so it's definitely a good film to watch with a partner. The negatives are the hammish acting in places which don't match up to the great comedy. The plot development obviously isn't the greatest either and it starts off fairly badly too in the opening scene where Dudley is not at his absolute best. The main flow of the film is still believable enough or it wouldn't work at all as such an endearing film.The UK DVD is not available so I saw the R1 US version. "},{"Title":"It's great it's great. I just' fell out of the f*****n car. Is that the funniest thing ever? Pahhahaa!!","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I played the NYC Policeman in the scene with Dudley Moore and Sir John Gielgud. Where Hobson first appears to Arthur. It was an honor to share the screen with the two of them however briefly. This also was my feature film debut. Shucks. I know it was a small speaking part but to be acting with royalty such as Sir John of all people and Dudley of course. The original Arthur movie has always been one of my favorite comedies. I knew every line of the first movie. So, naturally when my agent called and told me about how small the role would be but, I would have the chance to do the a scene with these two pros. I jumped at the chance. I auditioned for Bud Yorkin and he cast me. After all is said and done. I'm proud of the little moment I shared with Dudley's Arthur and Mr. Gielgud's Hobson. God rest both of their souls. "}{"Title":"Caught between the moon and a hard place","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Arthur 2 was definitely not as good as the first one but then again, Arthur 2 was really the best that you could do with a sequel to the original. I mean, where do you go after the happy ending of Arthur?There were some very funny lines in the film and it was nice seeing the cast re-unite, but for some reason the original Susan who was played byJill Eikenberry was replaced by Cynthia Sikes, who looks very different than Jill. Anyone know why the change?Do I recommend anyone seeing this film? Only if you really enjoyed the first film otherwise you're not going to really be able to get into Arthur 2. "},{"Title":"Sobering Up.","Date":"31 October 2010","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've given this sequel '7' because I'm a Dudley Moore fan. But really, it isn't as good as the first.Moore's character, Arthur Bach, has made a stand and been cut off from his fortune. Indeed, his malevolent father-in-law-elect has cut him off from everything. He's unemployable, destitute and on the street.Never having worked, he desperately attempts to secure the most menial occupation, but each time those obdurate relatives put their boot in. At one stage he is cleaning windscreens at traffic lights and finally sleeping in a hostel for the homeless.Gielgud, as his ever-supportive butler Hobson - who died at the end of the first movie - makes cameo reappearances in ghostly form. Bach is depicted as walking and talking with him. He is only visible to Bach, who resembles any other alcoholic lost-cause conversing with invisible familiars.This movie is darker than the first, which was more a celebration of the wealthy, drunken, playboy lifestyle. Here, he is coming to terms with his demons, in the bottle and elsewhere. At one point he elects to visit his socialite would-be wife and resolve their dilemma once and for all. But by then he has become so shabby and neglected that the doorman will not allow him entry. There is conversation The doorman asks, 'Is she a friend of yours, sir?' Before Arthur can reply, invisible Hobson observes; 'That's a very good question, isn't it Arthur? Cuts right to the heart of the matter.' Perhaps inevitably,there is less comedy in this movie and sometimes what there is is slightly strained. Arthur's rehabilitation pulls less laughs than his drunkenness. Even so, there's plenty of funny moments, and a fairy-book happy-ending.Still worth a watch because the thoughtful elements make for a more in-depth character evaluation, but the first movie is the one for hilarious comedy. "},{"Title":"A Terrific Sequel to A Great Comedy Masterpiece!","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The critics panned this film as did many readers here and I can't believe they saw the same film I did. It had all the laughs and all the warmth of the original Arthur. It was great seeing this wonderful cast again, along with some enjoyable newcomers. I've seen it about 4 or more times and its storyline is a perfect fit for a sequel. Jack Gilford as the landlord was a stitch and Stephen Elliott as Burt Johnson was a most believable and cunning adversary. And what a great premise having wealthy Arthur Bach having to eke out a living to support his pregnant wife and pay the rent for his ramshackle apartment. It matched the original Arthur's charm and wit to a tee! I guess the mood you're in when you see a film can affect how you rate it. "},{"Title":"Give this jolly film a break!","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I watched the first arthur about ten years ago and it's still one of my all time favorite films that i watch when ever i can, but it took me until last week to watch on the rocks. I really don't get all the hate this film gets and why people on here say really bad things about it? OK, it doesn't have the charm depth of the first movie but it does a very good job of showing the viewer how arthur and his wife Linda ( Liza minelli) deal with life's problems without their wealth to fall on, and the fact arthur will have to handle that drinking problem now there might be a baby or two thrown into the mix.Moore's gags are as sharp as ever and you still cant help but fall for oddball arthur. All in all i feel on the rocks is a very moving film indeed. "},{"Title":"better than the first IMO","Date":"13 October 2010","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 3.9 is what this is rated get the #### out of here with that b.s score. this sequel is a lot funnier IMO every time I have watched it (5) I have laughed every time & the skeet shooting scene on the boat towards the end always makes me literally LMFAO hit the bullet, hit the bullet I heard RUSSEL BRAND is gonna be in a remake next year & I think he will play the part good cuz hes funny but I just hope he will be an alcoholic with endless ONE-LINERS like DUDLEY was in these ARTHUR's NICK NOLTE is gonna be the new BURT JOHNSON & thats a good cast choice I think as well but HOBSON is gonna be played by a woman I think I read which I don't think is a good change but hey what can you do. anyways thats my review & P.S this 10 lines or more thing is harder than I thought it would be (lol) "},{"Title":"Not the disaster it's been made out to be","Date":"9 June 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When it was first released, Arthur 2 On The Rocks got the reputation of being a big disaster, a stigma that it still has more than 20 years later. That stigma is why I put off watching it for so long, only deciding to give it a look when it appeared on free TV in my city. After watching it, I am puzzled by its reputation. To be sure, it's not as good as the first movie. It does have a number of faults with it, such as there not being any gigantic laughs, a surprisingly sedate tone for the most part, a limited amount of plot, and Minnelli disappearing for almost all of the last third of the movie. Still, the movie has some strengths. While there are no gigantic laughs, there are a good number of chuckles along the way. The cast is enthusiastic and has great chemistry with each other, and the characters (at least the ones not in the evil family that strips Arthur of his fortune) are very likable. So while the movie is no comic masterpiece, it's nothing to really be embarrassed about - it's a perfectly okay movie, especially when you consider how bad sequels usually are. "},{"Title":"Superior sequel","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The original Arthur was pretty much a cartoon where there was no consequence to behaviour, so Arthur could remain permanently sozzled, drink and drive, insult people and create havoc with impunity. In Arthur 2, he enters the world of adult responsibility. I guess that it is this element of reality, the drunk as a pitiful creature, which makes fans of the original hate the sequel. Those expecting more of the same were sadly disappointed. The premise of a man being forced to fend for himself after a lifetime of privilege is vastly more interesting to that of a drunken playboy and the film, for the most part, rises to this. The ensemble performances are much stronger than in the first film which relied heavily on acerbic one liners and Dudley's comedy drunk routine. Here the interaction between Minelli and Moore is more fleshed out and is delightful. It reminded me somewhat of Jane Fonda and Robert Redford in Barefoot in the Park. The comedy throughout is more subtle and more satisfying than the original. Unfortunately certain cartoon elements from the first film are introduced. Moore's previously innocent ex-girlfriend turns up as a Cruella Deville character before strangely reverting to her former self at the end. And her father hounding Moore wherever he goes is rather silly, it makes him seem like Gargamel. The denouement is especially feeble, with the sudden unexplained character change just mentioned and suddenly every-thing's alright. This terrible finale is the reason I cannot give this a higher mark, although I do consider it a genuine improvement on Arthur 1.It is a pity that this, even more than the original did not follow the courage of its convictions and end with him being poor but following his heart. Now that would be a lesson worth learning. "},{"Title":"No Money Somehow Still Funny","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this film a few years ago and wondered why would anyone hate this film and give it such a bad review?, Arthur 2 On The Rocks was a decent conclusion to the story of the most lovable millionaire.Liza Minnelli's performance as Linda was as usual terrific and comical, While watching the movie you get to feel for the main characters as they face being broke,trying to fix an apartment and have children. I loved Dudley Moore's role as Arthur as you see him finally facing life and most of all realizing that having money isn't everything.Since we last saw Arthur (Moore) he was on the verge of an arranged marriage to socialite Susan Johnson (Sikes) however he chose to marry his true love and keep his money.It's a few years later Arthur & his lovely wife Linda (Minnelli) are as happy as ever. When it's discovered that Linda can't have children they plan to adopt with the help of Mrs. Canby (Bates) an adoption worker. However a dark cloud soon comes around.Burt Johnson (Elliott) has seized control of the Bach company and as part of a revenge scheme forces Arthur's family to cut him off financially unless he divorces his wife and marries Susan. This film had taken a serious turn for Arthur as he finally decided to sober up and fight back to get his family and what belongs to him. I won't spoil the ending all I can tell you is that it's a happy one. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but better than its reputation","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The first Arthur is a very funny and very charming movie, if not quite classic status. This sequel gets a lot of flack, and while it is inferior it is better than its dubious reputation. I agree the plot is rather weak this time around, complete with a very predictable ending. Some of the script and jokes are hit and miss, the jokes about the drunkeness of Arthur were better than the ones about the rehabilitation, and the pace slackens in the second half. John Gielgud does do with what he can, which is still very enjoyable, but his material isn't as acidic or as droll, which was a disappointment seeing as that made his performance in the original even more enjoyable. However, there are many entertaining parts to make up for the misses as well as some touching parts with Arthur and Hobson, the film still looks great, and if I noticed two improvements I'd say Arthur is more likable here with some fun one-liners and the first half is slicker than that of the first's. The performances are fine, Dudley Moore and Liza Minnelli show good chemistry and are fun to watch, and John Gielgud and Kathy Bates do what they can. All in all, a decent sequel and better than it's made out to be. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Whether this was served straight up, or on the rocks, Arthur II would have been what Arthur became in this movie. Average","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Arthur is still married to Linda. Linda wants a baby, but can't produce one, so they decide to adopt. Arthur's dad merges with Burt Johnson, but little does he know he's being conned, so Burt can get revenge on Arthur for leaving his daughter Susan at the altar. Arthur loses all his money, and becomes completely broke. Linda wants Arthur to start taking responsibility, and quit drinking. Arthur has trouble doing those things, and Linda leaves himThis is a pretty disappointing follow-up to such a crowd pleasing film. On a positive note I don't think it's nearly as bad as the 4.0 rating may indicate. It's never boring, and managed to keep my attention throughout. It just lacks the original's flamboyance, and flavor. Everything in this movie feels contrived. Arthur doesn't quite feel like Arthur, with an opening drunk scene that infuriated me. It ignored all the changes Arthur made in the original. Yes. His character goes through many changes, but I was still angry at that opening scene. It even goes as far to make Arthur homeless, which was really stretching it in my opinion. It became an excuse in my opinion for John Gieglund to make a cameo as a ghost (Hobson) It was great to see the cameo, but all it did was remind me of this sequel's inferiority to the original. I also balked at the notion that Burt Johnson would go to those lengths, just to get revenge. It became overly silly. It felt like they were scrambling for material at times, just to make a quick buck. Dudley Moore's charm isn't as potent as it was in the original. It's not his fault, but he doesn't have much to work with. He simply can't perform the emotional tasks that this film called for. I also didn't like the direction of his character in the first half. Liza Minelli got a razzie for her performance. While, I wouldn't say she was that bad, she definitely wasn't that great. Paul Benedict makes for a dull butler as Fairchild. I kept pining for Hobson. Kathy Bates has a small role, pre-fame. They also replaced the original SusanFinal Thoughts I did criticize it quite a bit, but that's because the original was quite good. This was much better than I expected, but disappointing, considering what it should have been. It's much too artificial5.1/10 "}{"Title":"John Guilgud Steals The Show Again","Date":"30 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It was inevitable following the success of Arthur a sequel would eventually come along. Sadly it was also inevitable, it would be of inferior quality. so much so that Dudley Moore has actually disowned the movie. Plot in A Paragraph Burt Johnson (Stephen Elliot) is an unhappy man following Arthur (Dudley Moore) jilting his daughter Susan (Cynthia Sykes replacing Jill Eikenberry this time around) on their wedding day. He manages arrange for Arthur to lose his entire $750 million fortune. Will the former millionaire playboy be able to survive as a broke, unemployable alcoholic?? To add to Arthur's problems, his wife Linda's (Liza Minelli) biological clock is ticking louder than ever, and she's wanting to start a family (even looking at adoption) and starts putting pressure on him to start taking responsibility for himself. Watching the movies back to back was a mistake as Moore's drunk act is very annoying this time around, and Minelli aged a lot in between the two movies. Paul Benedict tries hard as Fairchild and Cynthia Sykes is OK as Susan. But once again John Guilgud walks away with the movie as Hobson. This time in a cameo, he is the movies only bright spot, and delivers the movies one genuinely funny line. "},{"Title":"Ah What A Shame","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I honestly wanted to like this movie so much. Because the original had so much charm and wit and it took you by surprise. In this flat, lifeless, darker sequel, you see the fun slowly fade into what could've been.I'm not going to give you the plot other than they really had to find a way to get Arthur back on the wagon, then off then find the new step to growing up. This is the point of the first one. In this one, it does become the next logical step. HOWEVER, digging deep for a villain, we're re-introduced to a familiar family. The Johnsons. Who, after over 5 years, still dwell on the pain which is Arthur escaping their clutches. I will never understand then (from the 1st Arthur) from this one, why they chose the most beautiful WASPy girl, clear beauty queens to fawn over Dudley Moore, other than it makes for good comedy (or a better contrast to Minelli). But I felt they swung a little too far having Cynthia Sikes be enamored with the over- aged, too short Moore, who offers, nothing to the table. I can see that this is a dilemma to most people. The original story wasn't about his relationship to Minelli. It actually was about him and Gielgud. A man-child who finally confronts serious issues and grows up. There is no sequel here. Other then for money people to break him down again, to build him back up, to use in name only Arthur.You know a movie is in trouble when you rely on ghosts of movies past to present exposition. Anyway, they really missed the boat (if they really wanted to make a sequel). This was a cheerless unhappy viewing of a train wreck. What a shame. "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Sequels -- Ever","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sequels are difficult. In many cases, it's just impossible to catch the lightning in the bottle the second time, no matter how hard they try. In this case, it looked like they plain flat mailed it in, hoping that everyone who loved the original Arthur would flock to the theaters to see this mess. The only motivation I could see for this movie was to make more money. Every aspect of the film was embarrassingly bad. We watched the 2011 Arthur (quite good in its own interpretation of the story), the original Arthur, and then this during one sitting. This was so bad we couldn't finish the viewing. Obviously money can be more important than pride. "},{"Title":"If you get caught twixt the Moon and Who Cares! Really.... it doesn't matter.","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sometimes lightning Does strike twice. And watching this lil' darling not only hearkens one back to that magical place twixt a lil' gibbous moon and a lil' suburb across town. I just have to say, how much fun can someone have watching something so delightful? I don't know, but I sure did enjoy myself, heck, I didn't even know the thing existed until now! But somethings are worth the wait. But I have to say, I did go into this like I'm sure so many others with terrible misgivings for its masterful predecessor we all hold so close to our lil' hearts, in a lil' special place, that lil' cubbyhole in which we are certain we are the only ones who can see the inner magic in a film we love Oh! so very much.... And going another round with these magical actors and a really neat script, well the best that we can do is fall in love Again! God what a fun time, the only thing is I would have kept the magical song from the first one. In fact, do what I did, as soon as its over play it over and over and just feel lucky, when a diamond comes your way one more time. If it was up to me, I would of made one of these with the same thespians every single year until death do us part, even if they can't find any conflict to overcome or hurdles to surmount, just a good ol' romp with these characters, especially that super cool angry old codger is more than I could ever need! Only in film can one really really love the biggest Hater in the world! hahahhaa... Charming! Thank you, we love you Dudley, super talent you are an angel. "},{"Title":"She should be embarrassed. Did you see Arthur 2?","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" So said Estelle Getty on an episode of Golden Girls when Bea Arthur makes a comment on Liza Minnelli's stint in rehab. In retrospect, the film is certainly not as bad as the critics said it was, and while a sequel may not have been necessary, it was certainly more welcome than the wretched re-make of the original. In fact, the sequel gives Liza more to do than the first one, since John Gielgud's Hobson is now relegated to a ghostly appearance to show Dudley Moore's title character what he was missing in a sort of It's a Wonderful Life spoof.Ironically, Golden Girls featured two appearances by the legendary Geraldine Fitzgerald, repeating her role here as Arthur's matronly grandmother, and also getting more to do. Liza takes on an interesting comparison to her own life, playing a woman unable to have her own child, and trying to find a baby to adopt. The main plot about Arthur's ex-fiancée's father going out of his way to bankrupt him in revenge is the only weak point, but that is overshadowed by the heart and soul of Moore and Minnelli's romance. So give this one a chance. You may not come out of it singing about the moon and New York City, but you won't be declaring it Ishtar either. "},{"Title":"Pointless sequel that has a few good laughs and good performances","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I agree with all of the other comments that the original Arthur was not a movie that needed a sequel.  It should have stayed exactly where it ended. But, taken on it's own terms, Arthur 2 On the Rocks isn't half bad and actually has some really funny moments.  Dudley Moore and Liza Minnelli convincingly reprise their roles from the original and exchange some really funny lines between each other; they work well together and are fun to watch. All of the other actors also, from the original (minus Jill Eikenberry), do their best to add spark to offset the mediocre material. In fact the movie gets as far as it does solely on the performances alone. The movie itself is bland and lifelessly plotted and totally lacking in the warmth, magic, and style, courtesy of the late Steve Gordon, that made the original so much fun and endearing. Plus the new plot plays more like a sitcom than pure comedy. But the stars manage to squeeze out a few laughs anyway and Moore still gets some belly laughs as the perpetually drunk Arthur. So if your looking for a sequel that is on par with the original you will no doubt be disappointed but if your just looking for an average comedy with a few good laughs to kill time with you might enjoy it. "},{"Title":"No Drama, No Comedy, No Nothing !","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" So (Arthur - 1981) was a nice movie which had a lot of reasons made it a classic (fine stars with fine acting, strong simple script, good comedy, impressive theme song,&#x85;). Plus how it succeeded scrumptiously also, to become one of the 1980s' big hits; and that's, regrettably, one main reason for the sin it left 7 years after ! They wanted to exploit that massive success (naturally), save (Dudley Moore) from some not-very-good-movies he was in (sadly), and to delude the poor audience as well as the fans of the first movie with that big vacuum (effectively !) It's surely not a decent sequel for such an original character and world despite its smart idea which had been handled stupidly. In fact to put that forever brat drunk millionaire into sudden poverty is one hell of a talented irony, but they didn't go much (or at all !) with that.It's not a whole movie, since the journey of the hero is so idiot and incomplete with nearly nothing to do along the way, totally nothing to change in him, and with his fortune comes back to him easily and provocatively at the end !!?? Not to mention the bad feeling it causes about the original movie since Arthur is still the same alcoholic lost and how his wonderful love story with (Linda /Liza Minnelli) didn't serve him right (Good punch for all the happy endings I suppose !).You'd find nothing to make you enjoy or laugh. Actually situations such as cleaning the cars' glass almost approached it to the threshold of the painful tragedy ! As odd as it may seem, there isn't anything here to be watched. Everything seemed out of gloss. It got strange sense of laziness all over it. The script miscarried any try to make thrilling time, touching moments, some comedy (or even situations to make comedy !). Look, for instance, at another movie with nearly the same plot (Mel Brocks' Life Stinks) and to where it went with its events. With or without comparison, (Arthur 2) looked Like a TV program about anticipated sequel more than a real one.However, I must admire  (John Gielgud) in his sublime cameo, a few of (Moore)'s lines (appeared like his personal diligence), Love Is My Decision the theme song, and the father-in-law cries his eyes out; that was extremely funny yet so fast.. Like the way of writing this empty false comedy. It looked written by Arthur himself, as a spoiled person who doesn't want to fatigue himself at all.A good example of a flop that didn't attempt anything but being one. "},{"Title":"Arthur sequel arrives seven years later...","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Had this sequel to 1981's Arthur been made immediately following that film's surprise success, maybe audiences would've been interested. Maybe Dudley Moore wouldn't look so stung by the career-bombs he endured throughout the 1980s. Alas, the biggest problem with this draggy, silly comedy is the absence of Steve Gordon, who wrote and directed the original and died shortly thereafter. This film has none of nuances of the first, none of the laughs or warmth, yet it does retain the forced drunken humor of its title character--and this in itself looked really out of place in sober 1988. What a shame, nearly everyone is here (including John Gielgud in a cameo), but it just doesn't pass. Blame it on a leaden script, a direction with no bounce, and too much time under the bridge for anyone to care anymore. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Arthur 2 The Search for More Money","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Simply said, this is a movie that does not need to exist. The plot line is simple, Burt Johnson, still feeling stung by Arthur Bach after the first film, and at the request of his daughter, Susan, buys out the Bach family corporation and forces the family to cut Arthur off unless he marries Susan. The idea is that Arthur will dump Linda and marry Susan once he realizes that he cannot live if he is poor. A subplot to this is that Arthur and Linda are trying to adopt a child. No explanation is given as to why Susan so desperately wants to be with Arthur after being humiliated by him in the first film, or why anyone would consider such an obvious alcoholic like Arthur to be a suitable adoptive parent.While Minelli and Moore have a great chemistry, the movie itself is boring. What was somewhat cute in the first film is simply tiring and obnoxious the second time around. "},{"Title":"Why Did They Do It?","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Tedious sequel to the hit of 1981 has Dudley Moore losing all his money and Liza Minnelli desperately wanting children. The film is just disgraceful to its predecessor. The death of the original's director (Steve Gordon) is way too much to overcome as it is made quite clear that the characters seem lost under a different writer and director. Even John Gielgud, who died in the original, makes an appearance in a dream sequence. A sequel we didn't need. 2 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"Good actors and writing but terrible plot","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw the original film in the cinema when it first came out, coincidentally with a girlfriend who looked not unlike Liza Minnelli. We both loved it. The script was well written and it had a good plot. I've just watched the sequel 22 years after it was made. The writing is as good as it could be and easily as good as in the original but so much more could have been made of the plot. Any character who can be as funny and talented as Arthur should be able to get a job doing stand-up or playing the piano in a nightclub to earn a living. At one point in the film I thought that was the way it was going but then, what a disappointment. Arthur simply finds a way to get his paws back on his inheritance and it all ends happily ever after. What a let down. I've given this 5 stars because Dudley Moore is always worth watching and also because the writers knew what they were doing. It doesn't deserve any more than that because it is pure pap and so obviously capitalises on the success of the first film; it is banal in comparison. "},{"Title":"boooooooooooooo","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is terrible. It is an insult to the original.It is ill-conceived, poorly written, and poorly acted. It violates the original by being trite and unhumorous. It is mean spirited.It wouldn't know subtle if it hit it on the head. It should be destroyed and never played again. The characters are overblown and not believable.John Gielgud does the only redeeming acting in the entire film.The treatment of Fairchild that is supposed to be dramatic is just insultingly cruel.This film totally misses the mark on every count, and should be burned. "},{"Title":"A pale imitation","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'd see Liza in anything, but Arthur was really a project that did NOT need a sequel. Everything fresh and amusing in the original seems tired and even desperate here, although the cast is game and there are a few funny lines sprinkled throughout. Overall, however, the script is a plodding, mannered bore. "},{"Title":"'The worst film of the entire 1980s' - Time Out.","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Arthur 2 on the rocks is remembered by many as possibly the worst film of the entire 1980s. Perhaps it could claim the title of worst film ever made? What I do know for sure is that Arthur 2 on the rocks is a poorly conceived, written, and preformed shadow of a film that deserves no credit or respect. The fact that people on this board would actually believe this film should be rated above 1 star reflects badly on their ability to honestly critique a motion picture.Arthur 2 on the rocks was garbage when I was watched it as a ten year old, and nothing has redeemed it now that I am an adult 20 years later.Avoid. "},{"Title":"A tragically stupid idea","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The film, though I love Dudley Moore as a comic genius (god rest his soul) and love seeing him play the hilarious drunk in the original cannot abide this film. It is stupid from the outset. The fact that Arthur is a drunk means that he is unable to commit to a full time loving relationship even though he is a romantic at heart and the most lovable drunk of all. The first film shows us that he can't find love at the end of the night because he is funny, lovable but ultimately a shameless rich playboy. Having him act drunk while MARRIED and IN LOVE with someone negates the comic preface of the first movie (lets face it there should only have been one), confuses any sense of filmic reality and makes a mockery of the fantastic genius of the original Arthur. I take my hat and anything else I can find off to the writers, producers, and director of the first movie whilst simultaneously defecating on the script and printed out name of the man who green-lighted the sequel. Arthur 2 is a stupid film with a terrible script, pace, and and and and and you should avoid it at all costs.RIP Dudley Moore, and long live the original Arthur, the best film ever shot in New York.Seth Hesio (on behalf of Stuart Rouse) "},{"Title":"I Can't Believe So Many People Liked This Movie","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" True, you're not going to top 'Arthur,' but the plot line of this one is really lacking. I guess that's due to the fact that Steve Gordon, who wrote and directed the first one, had passed away in 1982. Dudley Moore gives a great performance, but many of the attempts at humor fall flat. Stuff like when he crushes his grandmother's pen - there were no lame scenes like that in 'Arthur.' The I-O-L gag that was, um, not funny. And the subplot of Arthur and Linda going through the adoption process was boring, although you see an early performance by Kathy Bates as the social worker. It does have some laughs, and it's worth seeing if you really liked the original. But I think Steve Gordon would have done a much better job. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Arthur 2 On the Rocks","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Horrible sequel to the 1981 comedy hit with Moore returning once more as playboy Arthur, who after losing his fortune, has to do the impossible...Get a job! Unclever ideas and uninspired performances destroy everything that made original so splendid.  "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The Unnecessary Sequel, part two.","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Arthur 2 (1988) was just shameful. Why was this movie ever made? I know it was the 80's and it was filled with unnecessary and unwanted sequels to films. This was the prime example. It was d.o.a. at the box office and nobody cared about it when it hit the video shelves. Today it exists as a joke to movie viewers. The coke must have been flowing when this idea was pitched. Honestly, did anyone think that this would be a hit? Nobody thinks chronic drunks are funny anymore and Arthur is a mess. Before Dudley Moore died I was hoping for another sequel. Like Arthur 3The Rehab or Arthur 3 The Liver Transplant or Arthur 3 The DTs.Not recommended. "},{"Title":"Arthur 2 On the Rocks","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It was only when I watched Arthur on TV, and it was followed soon after by the sequel that I found out it had one, so I decided to see why it was rated one star. You remember Arthur Bach (Dudley Moore), the drunk millionaire, well, he's now married to true love Linda Marolla (Razzie winning Liza Minnelli), but he loses his whole $750,000,000 fortune when his former to-be father in law Burt Johnson (Stephen Elliott) takes control of his empire. Arthur and Linda are now broke and homeless, and just when they planned to adopt a child (Linda can't give birth) with the help of Mrs. Canby (Kathy Bates), so Arthur needs to sober up and get a job. After getting some advice from the ghost of his sarcastic dead butler Hobson (Sir John Gielgud), and Linda disappears for a little while Arthur tries to find out the reason behind losing his fortune. In the end, it turns out Johnson committed fraud, so the fortune is returned, and Arthur and Linda get their adopted child and a happy ending. Also starring Geraldine Fitzgerald as Martha Bach, Paul Benedict as Fairchild, Cynthia Sikes (replacing Jill Eikenberry) as Susan Johnson, Jack Gilford as Mr. Butterworth and Ted Ross as Bitterman. I can understand the makers having the wanting a child plot line, and fans of the original may appreciate Gielgud's cameo return, but there is nothing good to say about the unnecessary, boring and utterly awful sequel to a great comedy original, it's a complete waste of time. Poor! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Terrible","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am now truly dumber for watching this movie. Not once did I get close to considering to laugh. It was scary that this was classified as a comedy. Dudley Moore and Liza Minnelli seem to be competing to see who can do the worse job. This is definitely one of the worst five movies I've ever seen. "}{"Title":"A disgrace to the original","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Its not funny, clever, or anywhere near as entertaining as the first. Just a pure waste of time. 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not to empressive","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After seeing the first Arthur(wonderful classic comedy) I had to see the second one.  I was really excited when I rented and sat down to watch it, but I was a little dissapointed.  Dudley Moore tried to hard to be funny and that was the problem with the movie.  That and the acting was not really at all to good.  I was glad when the old butler came back momentarily.  I thought the new butler was absolutely horrible becuase he did a horrible job acting.  The storyline was okay, but this movie was a big dissapointment.  The ending is a little too storybookish.  The beginning of the movie was absolutely lame!  It kind of turned me off to the rest of the movie, but I did watch it all the same.  To sum it all up, I was a little disappointed! "},{"Title":"Annoying Little Man In An Annoying Little Film","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There's an early scene in ARTHUR 2 ON THE ROCKS that sums up this movie . It's the scene where Arthur taps on a fellow millionaires car window to be told  You're an annoying little man  . Couldn't have said it better myself sir . Annoying , that's the word and that's the whole film - Annoying Some people may say that's the whole point of Arthur Bach , he's supposed to be annoying and I'm not disputing any of this , my beef is not the way that he's written but by the irritating manner he's played by Dudley Moore who also executively produced ( Usually the sign of a bad movie when the executive producer and star are the same person ) this unentertaining sequel . Moore plays Arthur to the hilt and goes way over the top and never missing an opportunity to tell the audience that this guy's a drunk who thinks he's funny , and there's nothing less funny than someone who thinks he is . Portraying a drunken character is never easy at the best of times and Moore totally fails in his attempts He's not helped by the script though which has one of those premises that has a good idea but doesn't seem to be well developed at all  Arthur and his wife are trying to adopt a baby after falling upon hard times so Arthur must stop drinking and get a job . It's the kind of idea that personifies good drama of the main protagonist being split between need and desire ie Arthur must needs to stop drinking in order to achieve a better life but he desires to carry on drinking . Unfortunately the drama never really surfaces and the audience are mistreated to numerous scenes of Arthur telling unfunny jokes to the people he meets which doesn't make for a good film "}]