[{"Title":"Bird dog to the rescue","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Never saw this film when it was released originally in 1988. Not knowing what to expect, we decided to take a chance watching it on cable when it was shown the other night; it was a complete surprise. Director Peter Markle, working with a magnificent cast, headed by Gene Hackman and Danny Glover, does wonders to recreate this story of valor under the worst possible circumstances.The cinematography is excellent. The film relies on visual effects, that are not to be confused with the incredible special effects that we have seen in other movies. Yes, of course, we all know that they are special, but the movie relies in the interplay between the missing Col. Hambleton on the ground and Capt. Bird Dog Clark who had the courage to stay focused, first in his plane, and later in the helicopter as he searches for this man, who he didn't even know. It's a tribute that these two military men in caring for one another in a difficult situation. Gene Hackman is an actor that always project convincing character. His take on the colonel is the real thing. Danny Glover, on the other hand, is on target. He demonstrates he has what it takes to hold it against big stars, like Mr. Hackman, or in his films with Mel Gibson. He is a joy to watch in his portrayal of a man who is an honest professional.For fans of action war movies, this is a more real approach to the genre thanks to the vision of its director Peter Markle. "},{"Title":"Taut Vietnam thriller from different perspective","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Lt. Colonel Iceal Hambleton (Gene Hackman) is a respected, middle-aged strategist who has only seen the war from the air - and high in the air, too. During one reconnaissance mission, however, he's shot down behind enemy lines for the first time. Scared and out of his element, Hambleton must rely on Captain Clark (Danny Glover), a pilot, to help him keep his composure until a rescue can happen.Most of the scenes are of just the two leads, almost making this a two-character action play. Both men provide stellar performances, with Hackman putting a decidedly different spin on his tough-guy, in-control persona. Glover is equally aces as the tireless pilot. And just in case you think there's going to be more talk than action in this movie, don't fret. The Vietcong are around somewhere, and they know Hambleton's in the vicinity. Not only does Clark have to get Hambleton out of there before good ol' Charlie finds him, he has to get him out of there before U.S. forces carpet-bomb the entire area! Needless to say, there are bombs bursting galore. Jerry Reed, who plays Clark's commander, also turns in a fine performance - a bit above par for Reed - and served as executive producer and composed some of the songs on the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"A true master in Escape and Evasion","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  To this day I am still amazed at how well Lt. Colonel Iceal Hambleton was able to formulate a plan on as we say in the military, To Get the Hell out of Dodge.This movie didn't rely on the most sophisticated special effects to make it good. It relied mainly on the two main characters to create a good dialog between them.For any war buffs out there, this was a good movie to sit back and watch the some of the more unique tactics used to survive in  bad situations.  "},{"Title":"Gene Hackman is a real Ham...","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Possible spoilers ahead...On April 2, 1972, 53-year-old Lieutenant Colonel Iceal Hambleton, a SAC missile expert, was the sole survivor when the electronic-warfare EB-66 aircraft was shot down near Vietnam's DMZ.  He landed near middle of 30000 NVA troops who were launching an offensive.  This film is based upon that event, via a book that I believe is a fictionalized version of the actual events.  The film is excellent, but what I know of the real story would have perhaps made at least as compelling a movie.  Still, taken as a sort-of-based-on-a-true story kind of thing, Bat 21 succeeds on all levels.  It's one of those movies that I can watch over and over, and have.The acting is superlative, from all involved.  Gene Hackman is always excellent and here he's in fine form.  Danny Glover, too, is great in his role as the 'Bird Dog' spotter pilot who remotely helps  Hambleton through his ordeal in Vietnamese 'Indian country.'  Jerry Reed, the talented Nashville guitar-picker (his 1967 and 1968 work on Elvis Presley's sessions resulted in some of the tastiest material that Elvis ever produced) who achieved movie fame with his trucker roles in Burt Reymolds' good-ole-boys projects, is perfect as the CO of the air-rescue team.  He was also instrumental in getting this movie made.  Other actors in smaller roles are also great, particularly the 'Jolly Green' pilot played by David Marshall Grant.The character that Gene Hackman plays is singularly unprepared for his surroundings -- a departure from the kinds of roles that he had in films like The French Connection, The Package, Mississippi Burning, etc -- and is forced to face the reality of death up close for the first time in his death-dealing professional career.  the whole hiding-in-the jungle, avoiding-the-NVA, trying-not-to-get-impaled-on-punji sticks experience that he goes through is wearying and paranoia-inducing to behold.  The cinematography and use of locations in this film is spectacular, too, and really heightens the narrative effect.  It seems amazing that a combat-green 53-year-old golf addict could survive the conditions of the Vietnamese jungle, let alone while being hunted by North Vietnamese troops, let alone for as many days as he lasted.  On top of it all -- as in reality -- he called in air strikes on a crossroads at which men and materiel were massing.Among the more poignant scenes are his killing a Vietnamese man -- the failure to communicate that led to the fatal incident is a metaphor for US failure to understand the people that they were charged with protecting and fighting -- and his speechlessness when silently confronted by the man's family.  Also fairly profound is a scene in which the wounded Hambleton, about at the end of his tether, is saved from a booby trap by a young boy. That and other incidents, including the panicked flight of a Vietnamese soldier before an American carpet-bombing attack, highlight the inherent inanity of war and the price of the ultimately pointless Vietnam conflict. On the other hand, I defy anyone to watch the bad guys' treatment of the downed Jolly Green crew and not feel anger toward them.  Sure, that didn't happen (at least not in the real rescue of Hambleton), but it sure enough gives you a better understanding of how soldiers might torch a village and even commit 'war crimes' in retaliation.  All too good an understanding, actually.The real story was perhaps even more remarkable, with Ham on the run for 12 days in April of 1972 before being rescued by a team that consisted of a Navy SEAL (later awarded the Medal of Honor) and an ARVN Ranger.  The recovery of Colonel Hambleton was the biggest rescue operation of the Vietnam War.  The protracted rescue resulted in the award of 234 medals and the downing of helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft, including a second bird-dog and a 'Jolly Green' rescue helicopter.  Eleven people died to retrieve Hambleton, two were captured, and five aircraft were shot down. On the day that Ham was shot down, two of the helicopters sent to pick him up were also shot down.  Lieutenant (not Captain) Mark (not Bartholomew) Clark (grandson of a well-known WWII general...to further distance reality from the film, I believe that Clark was of Caucasian extraction), spotting from an OV-10A Bronco in support of the rescue mission, was shot down the very next day (with another officer, the actual pilot, who was captured after a few hours) and ended up evading capture almost as long as did Ham.  I know that the facts might have been changed to focus on the interplay between two men but that's a pretty big change and I suspect that the movie would have been just as great with both leads on the ground.  Hambleton WAS encouraged by the FACs in the Broncos and I guess that the producers (or the man who wrote the original book) decided to roll them all up into Danny Glover's Clark.  By the way, Hambleton was rescued by following a golf-based code but I believe that the idea originated with someone back at HQ rather than from the downed officer.  Okay, so it's all fictionalized, and I guess it's still 'based on a true story.' LOOSELY based, though.  William Anderson, who co-wrote the screenplay, wrote Bat 21 as a novel, so it's not that Hollywood took it upon itself to fictionalize because the tale was already so.Ironically enough, Hambleton is called Ham in the film but was known to his friends in real life as Gene, as in Gene Hackman.  "},{"Title":"A well-made Vietnam movie but ...","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" .... this was supposed to be a true story, so why not tell it as it really happened? Of course, there are always budget restraints and other considerations that come into play. But I can never quite work out why Hollywood changes crucial facts of a real story when making true-life movies of this type. Don't get me wrong - I saw this movie for the first time just last week, a full 13 years after it first appeared, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. It didn't glorify war at all, and some of the scenes were quite shocking and moving. However, having read the TRUE story of BAT 21 some years ago, I couldn't help thinking hang on a minute - it didn't happen like that!!! In reality, the actual 1972 mission to rescue Lt. Col. Hambleton was a very complex affair that lasted for 12 days, the downed airman finally being rescued by a two-man team consisting of a US Navy SEAL lieutenant (who won the Medal Of Honour in the process) and a South Vietnamese Army Ranger. Why not include this in the movie if you're out to tell anything like the true story? Also, several US aircraft and choppers were shot down in the process, with 10 American airmen killed and two more captured. But apart from the superbly done abortive helicopter rescue attempt and the shooting of the captured crewmen, the movie led us to believe that the rescue mission merely consisted of Hambleton (Hackman) escaping & evading on the ground with Clark (Danny Glover) circling above and talking to him on the radio. In reality, Clark was himself shot down early in the mission and had to be rescued, and his role in the actual Hambleton rescue was therefore nothing like that depicted in the film.But, that said, why let the truth get in the way of a good story? And despite its shortcomings on the historical accuracy front, this was a thoroughly enjoyable film that didn't gloss over or sanitize the horrors of war. Despite my nit-picking, I'd definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Film with Glover & Hackman","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Missed this 1988 film and just recently viewed this outstanding film concerning the Vietnam War. Danny Glover,(Capt. Bartholomew Clark),Missing in America,'05, who has a flying mission concerning the whereabouts of Gene Hackman,(Lt. Col. Iceal Hambleton),Class Action,'91, who experiences many difficulties and finds out the real truth about what WAR IS ALL ABOUT. They even map out a plan to use a golf course in order to accomplish their mission. There is plenty of action to keep you on the edge of your seats. Whenever Gene Hackman or Danny Glover appear in a film, you know it will be well worth your time. ENJOY "},{"Title":"Fine Vietnam movie that works on several levels   with solid acting  and rousing scenes","Date":"21 February 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" It's an exciting warlike movie that contains over-the-top performances , continuous suspense , poignant vignettes and unsparing action . An American officer , Lt. Col. Iceal Ham Hambleton (Gene Hackman) is a weapons countermeasures expert with knowledge vital to the enemy, when his aircraft is shot down , he is stranded in the wilds of Vietnam . Alone ,he must rely on himself and a whole army after him. Trapped behind enemy lines , an only one man (captain Danny Glover) with whom he has radio contact can save him and to get him out . Based on true life of a lieutenant colonel stranded deep in Vietcong territory , nowadays retired and living in Arizona near a golf camp.This stirring warlike movie mixes suspense , thrills , rugged action and dialog with lots of intrigue , without losing sight of the continuation of its interesting plot or necessities of war and works on all levels . Although relies heavily on the continuous relationship by means of radio talking among them and their solid interpretations through the enjoyable friendship by oral communication. It gets the right balance between the old-style ¨Objective Burma¨, ¨Battleground¨ and the modern wartime movies as ¨Hamburger Hill¨ and ¨Casualty of war¨ . Noisy action scenes punctuate the tension without breaking it . Gene Hackman is good as a stranded officer alone after his plane is gunned down and top-notch Danny Glover as reconnaissance pilot who becomes determined to save him . Gene Hackman and Danny Glover give terrific acting in this otherwise passable film . Secondary cast is frankly good as Jerry Reed , David Marshall Frank and Clayton Rohner .Atmospheric cinematography by Mark Irwin reflecting faithfully the wilds and woods from Vietnam . Moving musical score fitting to action by Christopher Young . Compassionate thinkers , lovers warfare genre , and pacifists will all find satisfaction here .The motion picture lavishly produced by also actor Mark Damon is well directed by Peter Markle . Peter is an expert on all kind of genres as comedy as ¨Hot dog , the movie¨, ¨Wagon East¨ the last film of John Candy¨ ; Sci-Fi as ¨White dwarf¨; Sports as ¨Youngblood¨ ; ¨Drama¨ as ¨Personals¨, ¨Nightbreaker¨, and suspense as ¨Through the eyes of a killer¨ and ¨Last days of Frankie the Fly¨ , and Wartime genre as ¨Bat 21¨. Rating  6,5 . Worthwhile seeing , better than average . "},{"Title":"It's too damn close...","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I bought this 80's Vietnam movie ('based on a true story') in the $4.99 bin at the grocery store, staring Gene Hackman as a missile intelligence Lt. Col. and Danny Glover as a reconnaissance pilot. The main story is that Hackmann gets shot down in enemy land and has to try to survive on the VC infested ground until the choppers can pick him up, something as a mere war 'strategist' behind the front lines he's never has to do before. The whole movie is basically him in radio contact with the pilot Glover and their emotional-moral dialog...think Bruce Willis' character is Die Hard's relationship with Reginald VelJohnson, it's like that but the centerpiece of the movie. It's a good patriotic story that has a more or less balanced and realistic portrayal of the war; the American's knowingly and reluctantly firebomb a village with civilians, but the VC sadistically kill wounded American soldiers, all based in reality. I didn't really recognize any of the other cast members, and the director it seems mostly does TV stuff. The movie was filmed in Malaysia, and has a lot of great helicopter footage. The napalm scenes are extensive and well done. More of a story about a man's personal struggle than a straight forward kill the bad guys plot, but definitely worth checking out and is fast paced action. "},{"Title":"Perhaps no Platoon or Full Metal Jacket, but it is a very good movie.","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I'm a fan of war movies and although I still prefer movies about WWI and WWII, I must say that I also like to watch a good Vietnam movie so now and then. Bat*21 certainly deserves that qualification, because it feels real, never exaggerates in the action scenes and certainly offered me a lot of 'pleasure' while watching it. (I deliberately put the word pleasure between brackets, because I don't want you to think that I find it fun to see people die in a bombardment, being chased through a minefield, being shot in the head... - I'm not a psychopath).Although I have some doubts, the movie claims to be based on a true story. It tells the story of Lieutenant Colonel Iceal Hambleton whose observation plane has been shot down by a V.C. missile. Hambleton is the only survivor and because of his expertise in missile weaponry, it is essential for the US Army to find him before the enemy does. The Vietcong is listening to his radio transmissions and comes very close, but one man, Captain Bartholomew Clark, will do anything to help and support him as good as he can.As I already said, I don't know if everything shown in the movie also happened in reality. I'm not saying that the man has told lies in his book, but Hollywood isn't exactly known for not adding extra's to a story if it makes the movie look better. Still, even if they have done so, I must say that it still is a very nice movie. In my opinion the movie is underrated at this time (6.2/10 after 1,467 votes). Especially thanks to the nice performances of Gene Hackman and Danny Glover, this movie really works well. Especially Danny Glover was a big surprise. When I first saw him in this movie, all I thought was 'What is that man doing in this movie?' When I think of him, I still associate him with the Lethal Weapon movies. But I admit, what he has done in this movie certainly made me forget about that very quickly. I didn't see him as a cop anymore, I soon started to see him as Captain Bartholomew Clark.All in all this is a Vietnam movie that certainly deserves a good rating, because it is one of the better in the genre that I've ever seen. It's perhaps no Platoon or Full Metal Jacket, but it is a very good movie and that's why I give it a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"An old colonel ejects and discovers what war is really like while waiting to be rescued.","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed the first 3/4 of this film, and was disappointed by the action- comedy ending.The story begins true to the feeling if not the details of the actual incident, and revolves around the relationship between Ham, who discovers what war is really about, and Clark, the Forward Air Controller responsible for coordinating his rescue. Ham's confrontation with what happens on the other end of the bombing, his own foolishness that results in his killing a civilian (a bit unbelievable, but dramatically useful), and the ugliness of war, is well portrayed by Hackman. Danny Glover is excellent and sympathetic, in a film that probably boosted his track to stardom.The special effects were not where the money was spent; seems like they had gas to burn, but no explosives, and the F-5s did not really fit, but these details did not detract from a story well told, until...SPOILER AHEAD -- the last 20 minutes could have been from a cheesy Golan-Globus action movie. Did they change the director? He did well for 90 minutes or so.Instead of the true ending -- more narrow escapes from passing VC, lots of bugs, mud, cuts, anxiety and disappointment, until a SEAL in face paint and an ARVN Ranger appear out of nowhere to lead him to an under-fire rescue LZ, we get a lot of silliness. No way would the Green Giant pilot attempt the pickup under fire against orders when no one else is with him. And he should have been taken for proper interrogation. But that could have been just another disappointing detail.But to have a fixed wing pilot even attempt to fly a helicopter alone was just ridiculous. Stealing an aircraft is not only a career-ender, he would never be able to land (twice) without a Class-A mishap. The whole sequence was stupidly unnecessary. And the pitiful pyrotechnics (little Molotov cocktails) of the final bombing sequence looked silly. Having the whole forest go up in a huge bloom of flame (Apocalypse Now) would have been believable, or ripples of plain old explosives throwing mountains of earth in the air. Air strikes are sudden, and incredibly destructive. And the idea of a PBR heading upriver for extraction through a couple of divisions of VC and NVA was just too much.If this movie had finished like it started, it would of honored the memory of the heroes far better. "}{"Title":"Two percent fact 98% distortion.","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Here is a movie that had they stuck to the actual fact s would have been so exciting and completely engrossing. Instead they used two great actors and got a piece of schlock not worthy of the film its printed on. The only parts that were close to accurate were the actual shoot down and the loss of the H-3 crew (who were not returned until 1995? for burial at Arlington). The Danny Glover character was a back seater in a OV-10 Bronco and was shot down the day after Hambleton and needed rescue too.Subsequently after 2 plus weeks several downed aircraft a Navy SEAL and SVN Navy PO stole a peasants fishing skiff paddled up river passing enemy machine gun nest and had a running gun battle on the way back. The SEAL was given the MEDAL OF HONOR and the PO the USN Navy Cross the only NC given to a South Vietnamese sailor ever.There's a book by the same name as the movie written by a Air Force vet and current airline captain that is very good and I'd recommend it highly.Aa sad postscript when Hambelton was asked how he could act as technical adviser on a movie that dishonored so many men who died trying to save him he replied When they offer you that kind of money you can't turn it down. Get the book, you won't regret it and you'll read about real heroes.Here's a movie that if remade true to actual events would full theaters with everyone on the edge of their seats. One final tid bit he was only 2 miles behind the lines. "},{"Title":"Good Vietnam war action/drama","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Good Vietnam war action/drama which has great acting but has nothing much different to offer to a person who has seen many other Vietnam War movies.Don't get me wrong,this movie is good but nothing really spectacular either.As I said,nothing new here.Some very touching scenes and also some very average ones as well.Good battle scenes although nothing original and not done before.Good for Vietnam war movie fans and big fans of the lead actors.For those who like this film,see FLIGHT OF THE INTRUDER also which is much much better than this one........... "},{"Title":"Well Done if Inaccurate","Date":"4 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Bat 21 is an obscure but intriguing Vietnam War movie. Avoiding the flag-waving jingoism of many other 1980s Vietnam films, it crafts a riveting tale of survival while chronicling the relationship between two men flung together by war. Hackman plays an Air Force Colonel shot down over South Vietnam, while Glover plays the pilot who guides him to safety.Glover and Hackman are both believable in their roles, but what separates Bat*21 from so many other 80s war films is its eschewing of politics. We are not treated to tirades for or against the war, and equal consideration is given to the violence employed by both sides of the conflict. Viewers are made to feel just as uncomfortable by the destruction of a village full of Vietnamese civilians as they are by an American pilot being made to march through a mine field.The main problem with Bat*21 is its lack of historical accuracy. The film takes a number of liberties with what happened. In particular, it plays down the fact that South Vietnamese soldiers were left without support during the rescue attempt, with casualties resulting. Furthermore, the final escape is played overly dramatically, with Hackman and Glover dodging American bombs while being chased by NVAs. Still, this is an entertaining, worthwhile film. "},{"Title":"Hollywood par excellence again","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Initially I thought this was a quite thrilling movie, based on a true story. I carried my usual suspicion for Hollywood versions and cringed as usual on the huge amounts of gasoline used in the explosions.Then I read about the true story about Gene Hambleton's rescue, and was grossly disappointed in the movie. What remains is some respect for Gene Hackman's acting, good footage and two good scenes (from an acting point of view at least, they apparently did not happen).Why on earth did they not stick to the true story? You can read about it in a thread on the IMDb board. It is vastly more exciting than this Hollywoodized version which I cannot understand.Do not watch this movie if you have any thoughts on the true story. But do if you just want some piece of Hollywood action with a very vague true background. "},{"Title":"Rescue Mission","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Peter Markle directed this based-on-fact account of Lt. Col. Iceal Hambleton(played by Gene Hackman) a weapons counter-measures expert during the Vietnam war whose plane is shot down over enemy territory. The military is desperate to get him back, but there is an unfortunate shortage of helicopters, so Air Force reconnaissance pilot Captain Clark(played by Danny Glover) makes radio contact with Hambleton, and they work out a means of secret communication based on golf course terminology. The area he is stuck in is going to be carpet-bombed, and Iceal must also deal with enemy soldiers, and gets a first-hand view of death, which he previously only saw from afar... Well-acted and directed film is also an intriguing character study as well as a rousing action piece. "},{"Title":"Separated top actors still good","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Lt Col Iceal Hambleton (Gene Hackman) is a high value target when his aircraft is shot over enemy territory. The Air Force is desperate to get him back and prevent him from falling into enemy hands. Capt Bartholomew Clark (Danny Glover) is the Air Force reconnaissance pilot who guide the down man to safety.Gene Hackman and Danny Glover are top actors able to project a relationship even if they don't have the face to face interaction. This is based on a true story, but there is still some action. It's not Rambo action, but it's compelling.The only problem is its predictability. There really isn't any surprises here. It's a functional Vietnam war movie. "},{"Title":"A Human Story Rather Than A War Movie","Date":"2 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is less a war movie than it is the story of one man coming to terms with the realities and the human cost of war that he had been largely shielded from. That one man is Lt. Col. Iceal Hambleton (Gene Hackman). Hambleton is a soldier who directs war but doesn't really fight it. When possible, he's on a golf course, perfecting his already excellent game. When necessary, he's generally either behind a desk or high up in the sky, where the effect of bombs and missiles aren't obvious. But one day, flying a mission over North Vietnam, Hambleton's plane is brought down and he finds himself behind enemy lines, waiting desperately to be rescued. His primary lifeline to the outside is reconnaissance pilot Bird-Dog (Danny Glover). Bird Dog isn't really happy to be directing the rescue mission. He's tired and he's resentful of this guy who might cost a lot of lives to get out. As a war movie, this is pretty standard, with nothing much to differentiate it from any other war movie. It's Hambleton and Bird Dog - and their growing relationship over radio - that make this movie move forward. Hambleton is the more interesting of the two. For a guy who's spent his entire adult life in the military, he has little experience of war and its impact. As he tries to get to a rescue point, he discovers the cost of war. He encounters a civilian and has to kill him or be killed, and then, having done the deed, he encounters the man's three sons as he dashes away. He encounters a young boy who does him a kindness and saves his life. He watches helplessly as, in an attempt to rescue him, the US Air Force bombs a village that still has many civilians in it - women and children as he cries over the radio to the pilots. He learns that war isn't anonymous, it isn't clean, it isn't sanitary and it has a huge cost beyond just those who fight it. Hambleton's change of ethical perspective is subtle but real, and well portrayed by Hackman.Bird Dog was less central to the story, but he also changes. Resentful of Hambleton and the risks and costs involved in rescuing him at first, he develops a compassion for Hambleton and becomes committed to getting him out at whatever cost - even defying orders and stealing a helicopter to get the job done. This transformation, as Bird Dog changes from seeing Hambleton as a mission to a person and then even as a friend, is also very real, and also well portrayed by Glover.So the movie has two fine acting performances from the leads, and an interesting depiction of two people struggling with pre-conceived notions and a lifetime of experiences and being changed. As a war movie it's not especially noteworthy, and it takes some dramatic license with the true story on which it's based, of course, but it's an excellent human story. (7/10) "},{"Title":"better this time around","Date":"31 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I wouldn't call this one of my favorite films, or among my favorite war films for that matter, but I did enjoy this much more than when I first saw this many years ago. Gene Hackman is the main reason I would recommend this, and Danny Glover also puts in a solid performance. If you don't know the plot by now, I'll give a short synopsis Col. Hambleton,(Hackman) who's a passenger in a plane flying over Vietnam, parachutes to safety, and is stuck there until Birddog Clark(Glover)figures out how to rescue him. Jerry Reed, who's not a country bumpkin this time, plays it straight as Col. Walker, who's Clark's superior and both men try to figure out how to rescue Hambleton. It takes some time for some action to kick in, although I wouldn't call this an action film per se, and I was pleasantly surprised at how well it held up over time. There are some disturbing moments, not that many, but it should satisfy the action fans in some of us. After some painful delays and a reference to golf(yes, golf) terminology, the man gets rescued while others trying to rescue him get killed, which left a bitter taste in my mouth, although this is a true but heartbreaking story.I had just a few gripes, the first being why was Hambleton the only man parachuting to safety, while the others perished? Perhaps it was the only seat rigged to eject, as I have no military expertise. Finally, during the ending credits, only Hambleton's story is revealed in paragraph form on the screen, which says that he currently resides near a golf course in Arizona and is retired. I thought perhaps a mention of Capt. Clark's present situation would've been appropriate. "},{"Title":"A Deadly Game Of Golf","Date":"25 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" In Bat*21, Colonel Gene Hackman is pulled off the golf links for a dry run on a planned bombing mission when his plane is shot down and he's on the loose in the Vietnamese jungle. Since he's a guy with a whole lot of knowledge the North Vietnamese regulars and the Viet Cong guerrillas would love to get their hands on him. Of course they'd only know how important he was once they did get their hands on him. Still he's someone that Army headquarters will go more than the extra mile for to see he does not fall into enemy hands. More than they would for some dogface private.Trying to reach him after Hackman's been shot down is rescue evacuation pilot Danny Glover. For a combination of reasons a couple of attempts go bad and Hackman watches the deaths of people sent to rescue him. Will it go right in the end?The film is based on a true story and Hackman plays the real life Lieutenant Colonel Iceal Hambleton who spent a couple of harrowing days in the jungle with the enemy all around. Bat*21 was Hambleton's real call sign and he and his rescuers work out a complicated route of travel based on a golf course he's played and the fact that Jerry Reed the man in charge knows the course as well. The Viet Cong listening in on their field radio conversations can't figure out what is essentially a private code.Ironically enough I saw a film based on a similar premise called Jet Attack involving the Korean War just recently. That one however was fictional and Bat*21 is a whole lot better. The film graphically shows and without really taking a side the difficulties of fighting the war in Vietnam where the guerrillas have no compunction about using civilians as shields. At some point Hackman succeeds in begging off a possible massacre like My Lai when a copter and crew is shot down and executed by the Cong who take shelter with the civilian villagers.Glover and Hackman work well together, there scenes as well as the well staged battle scenes are the best in the film. Bat*21 provides an objective look at the Vietnamese War as seen through the eyes of a successful rescue attempt and the men who sacrificed themselves to get Colonel Hambleton out of harm's way. "},{"Title":"the most underrated Vietnam movie ever!","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This movie is extremely underrated! Gene Hackman and Danny Glover are excellent (as usual), and an excellent supporting performance from Clayton Rohner! Some haters are posting that it doesn't follow the true story line...come on people, this is Hollywood... have you not learned yet? Cinematography is excellent and its unique in that it does not make war seem cool like so many other ridiculous movies. Danny Glover's best performance outside of the Royal Tenenbaums, i don't care what anyone says lethal weapons are utterly overrated. Gene Hackman has done so much good stuff that this is just a solid performance for him, but David Grant and Clayton Rohner are both great. "}{"Title":"Reality and Hollywood","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" While this is a very good film, it should not be confused with the reality of the loss of Bat-21 Bravo. The real events were more agonizing than the movie and many brave men American and Vietnamese died as a result of a seeming lack of comprehension, of the battle situation in Quang Tri, at MAC-V and 7th AF. In addition to the EB, an HH-53, UH-1H, AH-1G and OV-10 were downed with resulting crew losses either KIA or captured. This was not a piece of cake mission as the summary suggests. These aircraft EB-66 flew an electronic decoy mission to take the surface to air missile pressure off the bombers. The real downing occurred during the Easter Offensive. Many people tried to save LTC Hambleton, ultimately it was a Navy SEAL and a Vietnamese Sea Commando. "},{"Title":"Excellent War Film, That's Very Moving At Times, With A Great Story And 2 Amazing Performances From Gene Hackman And Danny Glover!","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is an excellent War film, that's very moving at times, with a great story and 2 amazing performances from Gene Hackman and Danny Glover!. All the characters are great, and the story is very engrossing, plus Gene Hackman and Danny Glover are simply amazing in this!. What really made the movie work, was the great relationship between Hackman and Glover, it also has many powerful moments,the village scene for example, plus the 2 main leads are extremely likable!. I really do enjoy a good War film, and this one was excellent, and i thought, the dialog was fantastic, plus it felt very real!. It does not have a whole lot of action, but it has a great story, and fantastic performances to keep you watching, plus the supporting cast was really good as well. It has realistic war scenes as well, and i felt for Hackman's character, plus i found the ending very satisfying. This is an excellent war film, that's very moving at times with a great story, and 2 amazing performances from Gene Hackman and Danny Glover, and i say it's a must see for everyone!. The Direction is great!. Peter Markle does a great job here, with excellent camera work, great angles, and really keeping the film at an engrossing pace!. The Acting is fantastic!. Gene Hackman is amazing here, he is extremely likable, had fantastic chemistry with Glover, was fantastic in the acting department, and you really feel for his character!, he also had some very good lines (Hackman rules!). Danny Gliver is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, is fantastic in the acting department, had fantastic chemistry with Hackman, also had some great lines, and was totally different then his Murtaugh character in Lethal weapon!, it was awesome to see him play something different!.(Glover Rules!!). Jerry Reed,David Marshall Grant and Clayton Rohner all do what they have to do very well. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall a must see for everyone!.****1/2 out of 5 (barely). "},{"Title":"A poignant and well-crafted true story of surviving any war.","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  A poignant and well-crafted true of surviving any war that observes a soon-to-be retired Air Force Lt. Colonel Iceal Hambleton (Gene Hackman), who volunteers for a piece-of-cake-like patrol in an U.S. observation plane during the war in Vietnam.  Unfortunately, the plane is shot down and Hambleton is the only crew member to bail out from the aircraft (and never seen any combat on the ground).  It's up to a determined recon pilot, Clark (Danny Glover), to get Hambleton out before the N.V.A. get him or a major air strike lights up the area that Ham's in.  Director Peter Markle lets the viewer have a chance to get to know Clark and Hambleton who start up a conversation at various times of the movie.  Jerry Reed and David Marshall Grant appear here and both give nice supporting performances even though the movie belongs to Hackman and Glover.  Mark Irwin also adds another key asset to the film by showing several terrific shots of the jungle and countryside. BAT 21 deserves plenty of credit for trying not to be the typical Vietnam war movie and it succeeds very well. "},{"Title":"Truth about mission","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  By the way, this particular mission displayed in the movie involved 2 sets of helicopters not just the 1 displayed in the movie. My brother-in-law was in the other group on that mission. His particular call sign was I believe, Blue Ghost 26. If any former Blue Ghost pilots would like to e-mail me about this mission or his involvement in this mission, please do so. "},{"Title":"Pleasant Surprise","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I picked up a copy of this not knowing what to expect. This is a highly enjoyable film.Hackman and Glover are great. Hackman puts in a solid performance... nothing spectacular but he is restricted by tight character lines. Glover has more room to maneuver and shines in the role of rebellious pilot of a light reconnoissance plane.I particularly liked the film score. None of the typical 60's rock and roll that you hear in most every Vietnam war movie but rather a very lush score of eastern instruments and full background orchestra. This combined with the night shots, rainy and overcast skies developed a very strong aural and visual feast.Most notable tense scene -- the first attempt by helicopter crews to airlift Hackman's character to safety. On par with work in the second half of Kubrick's Full Metal Jacket.Most notable moving scene -- a boy saves Hackman from a booby trap on a rainy bridge. There is very little verbal exchange between the two of them as they are soaked by a tropical downpour but the lighting, mood and direction is fantastic.  The humanity amongst the insanity was never more powerfully portrayed.My criticisms are few... the pace drags a couple of times. Take your next opportunity to catch this film. "},{"Title":"a fascinating study of the horrors of Vietnam","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  this little gem appeared as a late night movie on BBC1 a few days ago and it was quite incredible. Hackman is a missiles expert who gets shot down over VC territory and battles his way through enemy lines with the help of maverick reconnaissance pilot Danny Glover. Hackman witnesses young Viet Cong troops writhing in agony after a napalm attack, and kills a Vietnamese civilian, whose family return and find a dejected, disillusioned soldier viewing his great mistake. There are also scenes of horrific torture and cold blooded gunning down of surrendering Americans (led by the brave David Marshall Grant) by Viet Cong troops looking desperately for the prize capture of Hackman. The film is very emotional and fairly balanced with some terrific action scenes and poignant reflections by some of the men on the seeming pointlessness and shocking tragedy of a bitter war. Well worth a look on video, watch it together with Full Metal Jacket, Heaven and Earth and Born on the Fourth of July. "},{"Title":"Go Bats","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" In BAT*21, Gene Hackman plays a soldier shot down behind enemy lines during the Vietnam War and in desperate need of rescue by his buddy, Danny Glover. The plot would be resurrected a few years later for BEHIND ENEMY LINES, with Owen Wilson in the Hackman role and Hackman in the Glover role. The endings are virtually identical. But this 1988 feature film looks badly dated, and the special effects are laughable. The Owen Wilson version is on the mark for its eye-popping special effects and sheer suspense. Also, BEHIND ENEMY LINES portrays the Serbian effort at genocide very close to what we were reading in the newspapers and seeing on TV at the time. Anyhow, BAT*21 is for Hackman completists only. Serious movie buffs will recognize the explosion sounds from a hundred previous war movies. Unfortunately. "},{"Title":"Bat 21","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" An excellent movie with Danny Glover and Gene Hackman. Ironic that Col. Hambleton was born in Rossville, Il. and Gene Hackman grew up in Danville, Il. just a short distance away. Mr. Hackman has returned in past to Danville several times and is well know. I did not know Mr. Hackman, but attended schools with a few of his relatives from the Boiling Springs Area. While to movie shows only a few days, it was actually over 11 1/2 days from the ejection from his aircraft and the rescue by river. It still remains the largest rescue in Air Force History. He was actually met on the river by Lt. Norris (who received the Medal of Honr for his actions) and a Vietnamese ranger in a stolen boat. Over 230 medals were awarded to personnel involved in the rescue. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Bat 21 is a very good film that stars Gene Hackman and Danny Glover! Both actors are excellent in the film! Jerry Reed is also in the movie and his performance is also very good! Its amazing that this picture is based on a true story! The action is very good and the scenery is fantastic! I thought it was good how this movie is from beginning to end! This really is a great movie and I believe that it is very underrated and needs more attention! I think the film is very realistic. The music is also good and fits the film by composer Christopher Young! Overall I think that this movie is a great one! If you like Gene Hackman, Danny Glover, Jerry Reed, realistic war films, and unbelievable true stories then I strongly recommend that anyone should watch this movie today!  "},{"Title":"Two percent fact 98% distortion.","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Here is a movie that had they stuck to the actual fact s would have been so exciting and completely engrossing. Instead they used two great actors and got a piece of schlock not worthy of the film its printed on. The only parts that were close to accurate were the actual shoot down and the loss of the H-3 crew (who were not returned until 1995? for burial at Arlington). The Danny Glover character was a back seater in a OV-10 Bronco and was shot down the day after Hambleton and needed rescue too.Subsequently after 2 plus weeks several downed aircraft a Navy SEAL and SVN Navy PO stole a peasants fishing skiff paddled up river passing enemy machine gun nest and had a running gun battle on the way back. The SEAL was given the MEDAL OF HONOR and the PO the USN Navy Cross the only NC given to a South Vietnamese sailor ever.There's a book by the same name as the movie written by a Air Force vet and current airline captain that is very good and I'd recommend it highly.Aa sad postscript when Hambelton was asked how he could act as technical adviser on a movie that dishonored so many men who died trying to save him he replied When they offer you that kind of money you can't turn it down. Get the book, you won't regret it and you'll read about real heroes.Here's a movie that if remade true to actual events would full theaters with everyone on the edge of their seats. One final tid bit he was only 2 miles behind the lines. "}{"Title":"underrated Vietnam story","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Gene Hackman and Danny Glover star in this Vietnam story which in my opinion is underrated. Though it is not as gripping as PLATOON or APOCALYPSE NOW, it is still a strong film and is still realistic and exciting.  There are several scene's in the film that show the horror's of the Vietnam war on both American soldiers as well as innocent Vietnamese people who are caught in the crossfire of the war.  The two stars are also very good in the film, each giving a solid performance.  Overall, a strong war film that is highly recommended. 4/5  "},{"Title":"See it for the Skymaster.","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Okay, but the real story would have made a better movie, and is, ironically more dramatic than Bat 21. Oh, and for movie makers/prop guys reading this, don't use F-5s without bombs to simulate other aircraft. Even your younger audience is becoming miltech-literates and will catch this.Good points At least we have a movie with a FAC in it! 0-2 pilots were brave fellows, because there is no ejection seat and opening the door for a successful bailout low to the ground was not likely to work. If you can catch one at an airshow (the last O-2s retired in the 1980s from Shaw AFB) you can see and appreciate how small, light, and basic they are. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I watched this movie yesterday on the movie channel. Not knowing what to expect, I was pleasantly surprised. When Colonel Iceal Hambelton (played by Gene Hackman)was shot down over enemy lines he saw how ugly the war really was. And with the help of Captain Bartholomew Clark (played by Danny Glover)he navigated threw the woods in an attempt to escape. Rent this movie if you get a chance or watch it next time it comes on TV. I think you will enjoy it..... "},{"Title":"movie very poor","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" In 1969/70 I was a US Army Huey pilot in Northern I Corps of South Vietnam. I was on Hamburger Hill in the A Shau valley, flew in Laos and some in North Vietnam. BAT 21 is the first Vietnam War movie I have ever seen.The truth of the war and how it was done and flown is terrible enough. This movie is way off the mark as to who flew aircraft and how they were flown.When the UH-1N was in a left turn the the camera man made a shot out the left door showing the ground and the shadow of the aircraft, the shadow was a Bell Jet Ranger! Very poor quality. Of course the UH-1N was really a Bell 212, just look at the tail rotor. I have over 4,000 hours of helicopter time, 886 hours of which is in combat.This movie cheapened everyone in the war, I would assume it is the norm rather than the exception.From what I have read about the real Bat 21 I would say that truth is more interesting, shocking and horrible that this 10th rate film.Jimmy L. Ratcliff former US Army Chief Warrant Officer "},{"Title":"A rough lie.","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" It would have been easy to turn a story like this into a cheap action flick -- heroic downed USAF Colonel fights his way through enemy territory with help of heroic self-sacrificing black pilot.It doesn't happen, exactly. The story, as I understand it, is based on fact, but I don't know how much of it is factual. Maybe the evacuation pilot, Danny Glover, really DID take off alone in a helicopter (in which he was not qualified), rescue Colonel Hambledon (Gene Hackman) single-handedly, successfully crash the helicopter he was not qualified in, and maybe the two of them then escape a horde of North Vietnamese pursuers during a carpet bombing of the whole area, with Glover sustaining one of those nasty but not unphotogenic shoulder wounds in the process. Maybe it IS true but it sounds a lot like rather routine fiction to me because real life is seldom so tidy. I can believe the part that golf plays in the escape plan. It's so absurd that no writer in his right mind would dream it up.Still -- that having been said -- this is a truly worthwhile movie. Action fans will find lots of exploding fireballs if that's what they're looking for. There will also be wounded smoking helicopters spinning drunkenly downward and a man being blown up in a minefield.But that's not what makes the movie important. The action is usually nothing more than a means to an end. In this case, the end is the education and humanization of Colonel Iceal Hambledon, USAF.He's your normal military men, an expert on electronic countermeasures. He is 53 years old and has spent most of his life in the military. He's never seen combat. And his being shot down constitutes his introduction to what the film shows us is a pretty ugly kind of business.Behind enemy lines he spies a column of NV troops and vehicles and calls in an air strike. Boom. Afterward the NVA shoot one of their own wounded troops, which Hambledon finds nasty. Before he knows it, stumbling through the bush, he finds an empty hootch. While scavenging it for food and water, he is discovered by its owner. Neither man understands the other's language. A physical fight follows which Hambledon can only escape from my shooting and killing the Vietnamese farmer. The farmer's napalm-scarred family show up and rush sobbing to the dead body while Hambledon backs away, stunned, saying stupidly, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. There follows a scene in which captured American fliers sacrifice themselves to save Hambledon and the Air Force then demolishes the nearby village full of soldiers and women and children. Everywhere I go, people die, Hambledon comments sadly to himself. (I can't emphasize too strongly how much tragedy Hackman invests his lines with. They emerge as more than simply lines of dialogue. He's a fine, reliable, unflamboyant performer.) Hambledon vows that he's all done killing people -- and he is, even when he has to opportunity to shoot an armed enemy soldier who is chasing him. The Vietnames is disoriented, twirling about dizzily while a garden of slow motion flame sprouts around him. Hambledon has a bead on him but then shakes his head in disgust and looks away without firing.Danny Glover is good too. As an actor he may have more range than he's usually given credit for. Here, as in the Lethal Weapon movies, he's more of a supportive sidekick than anything else. He's the guy on the other end of the line who is there when you must spill your emotions to SOMEONE. Not that he's given trite lines in the part. Hambledon hesitates at one point, then tell him over the radio, I killed a man today. Roger that, says Glover. He understands what Hambledon's getting at -- but what is there to say? It's combat, not Oprah Winfrey. Also, anyone who wants to see Glover demonstrate that range might want to check out Switchback, in which he is a good-natured, avuncular, laid-back serial killer.Sometimes I wonder if some of us have forgotten just how lousy an experience war is for everyone involved -- for us, for our opponents, and for the civilians drawn willy nilly into it. This film is a decent reminder. "},{"Title":"A Vietnam era true-life war story with golf enthusiast  references","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" As a fan of Danny Glover and Gene Hackman, I picked up the movie at the video store, not really knowing what to expect. Having been a college student during the Vietnam era, living in Arizona's Valley of the Sun, I had also became a golf enthusiast. This movie had references to the war and to the game of golf which, therefore, held my interest. Knowing movies can sometimes exaggerate circumstances, I simply enjoyed the story as it progressed, and was delighted to be able to understand the terminology. When I noted that Lt. Col. Hambelton (retired and living near a golf course in El Paso, TX) was a consultant on the film and that it was based upon a book, my next course of action was checking out the novel at the library. I wasn't disappointed because, as is usual with books and films, there were some aspects of the story which carried more detail in written form. But the book stayed within the flow of the film. So, after enjoying both movie and book, I did what came naturally to me. I called long-distance information and got Lt. Col. Hambelton's phone number in El Paso. I explained that I was simply an admirer living in the little city of Victoria, TX and wanted to express my enthusiasm for the story. He didn't miss a beat...he (excitedly, by the way) told me that he had trained for service at OUR nearby Foster Field. This admission, in itself, added to my enthusiasm for the film and had me recommending Bat-21 to anyone who would listen. "},{"Title":"Underrated - Hackman at his subtle best; ditto Glover","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  BAT 21 (1988)  **1/2 Gene Hackman, Danny Glover, Jerry Reed.  Hackman stars as an army colonel whose aircraft is downed behind enemy lines during the Vietnam War and must rely on trustworthy bush pilot Glover to rescue him as the clock ticks mercilessly. "},{"Title":"One of the best Vietnam War films","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Gene Hackman portrays an American officer who survives a plane crash and winds up being stranded in the dark forests of Vietnam with enemy fire always not far behind him in this 1988 Tristar Pictures release. Fortunately for him, his means of radio contact have survived with him and he frequently contacts another officer (Danny Glover) to aid him. Hackman follows up Uncommon Valor with another action packed Vietnam War tale and Glover, fresh from the previous year's Lethal Weapon success once again demonstrates his excellent action film support.  "},{"Title":"Glover races against time to free shot down airman","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Based on a true story, this highly engrossing movie based during the heyday of Vietnam has Gene Hackman playing a bomber pilot who is shot down and Danny Glover must race against time to save him from VC and also from a future carpet bombing raid in the area where he went down This movie grabs you from the start. Excellent storytelling that really puts you there..even more so when you consider it was based on fact. Great acting and tension gives this movie its wings on a scale of 1 to 10... 8 "}]