[{"Title":"Street folks gotta eat too","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Fine courtroom drama which appears to be about a small change murder involving a pair of street people. But is it? An attorney takes on the case and begins digging deep into the case when evidence turns up that suggests the culprit may have connections other than with simple street bums. Interesting and exciting, though improbable. "},{"Title":"Cher surprises","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Before watching this movie I had some serious doubts about it. Not only is this a courtroom drama (and as you know the streets of Hollywood seem to be paved with this kind of scripts), it also featured Cher as one of the main actresses. I'm not really a fan of her as a singer, but seeing her as a good actress is even a lot harder. As you know, almost all pop diva's, young or old, seem to have that urge to appear in one or two movies and that almost always results in complete disasters. So why would Cher be any different...? When a judge commits suicide and his secretary is found murdered in a river, a homeless and deaf-mute man, named Carl Anderson, is arrested for her murder, because all indirect evidence points to him. Because he can't afford a lawyer, public defender Kathleen Riley is assigned by the court as his lawyer. Even though she doesn't always believes in his innocence, she still goes after the real killer. She gets help from the congressional adviser Eddie Sanger, who is called to be on the jury panel and together they find some important evidence that the murder has something to do with corruption in some high ranks...I must admit that Cher has done a better job than I ever expected from her. She actually was very convincing and interesting to watch as the public defender. Together with Liam Neeson she makes this movie work. Their nice performances and their difficult professional relationship in this movie are actually the best thing this movie has to offer. The story on itself certainly isn't that bad, but the plot is a bit far-fetched and gives this movie an ending that is a bit too abrupt.In the end this is a reasonably well-done courtroom drama / thriller that lacks the required tension to be fully satisfying, but which offers some nice acting and some good direction. It's not the best movie in the genre, but it is enjoyable enough to be worth a watch. I give it a 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"such a terrific film","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" i have just re-watched this film, maybe the 5th time since its release. What a treat!Smart, sexy,dynamic and compelling, socially relevant, with a good moral backbone.All the actors are spot-on. Cher easily convinces us of her serious attorney's commitment to helping society's outcasts;Liam Neeson in his first film role as the silent hulking Viet-vet street person accused of murder; Dennis Quaid at his cocky best as a razor-sharp lobbyist/juror, and John Mahoney and Philip Bosco. The screenplay ,directing and editing are all first rate.And if you pay attention, you can learn a lot about the inner workings of our government's congressional/lobbyist bedfellows and the scary fallibility of our justice system and its judges and lawyers. Some may think this is a piece of romance disguised as a get-into-your subconscious morality play, but i think it's just the opposite. How many films have you seen that convincingly made you put yourself into a street person's shoes and think about your attitudes towards them? I usually am close to agreeing with the IMDb average vote on a film, but not this time. For me, this is a real 10. "},{"Title":"More of a courtroom drama than a thriller","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Exciting, suspenseful and tightly woven suspense drama.Cher proves she can ACT.You probably will not immediately recognize Liam Neeson in the role of the deaf, mute, shell-shocked Carl Wayne Anderson.For someone that does not speak for the entire film he turns in a stellar performance.Dennis Quaid is very good as the juror that steps outside his assigned duties as a juror and becomes a detective.Also John Mahoney is almost unrecognizable as Judge Matthew Helms -- a polar opposite from his Frasier character.When I spoke to Tom Barbour (Justice Lowell in this film, stage actor and the father of Dudley Moore in the Arthur movies) he said when he got the script he was thrilled -- the film opens with him, it took place in his office, he had every other line, and then on page three -- well I guess you will just have to see it.Surprise ending goes right up to the last couple of minutes -- prepare to be shocked.  "},{"Title":"A tense courtroom drama that embraces deceit, suspicion, and stark realism","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie version of Suspect finds Cher portraying a public defender that has been given a murder case in which her client, played by Liam Neeson, is deaf, dumb, and homeless.  Unable to verbally communicate in his defense, Neeson has to rely on Cher's ability to search through the evidence to prove his innocence.Caught up in this courtroom scene is Dennis Quaid, portraying a member of the jury that is unable to keep himself from being drawn to Cher.  The judge in the trial also appears to have an overly sense of apprehension in the trial, and seems bent on preventing justice from being served properly. This movie does launch the viewer from one tense situation to another, and the climatic chase scene in the darkened courthouse does keep you guessing. "},{"Title":"Underrated Courtroom Drama Where the Homeless Meet the Political Elite","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Anyone who thinks that the United States legal justice system is fair and balanced has been watching too many movies. The poor and the marginalized get convicted and the rich and elite drive away from the courthouse. It's largely a matter of the size of the pocketbook. And it's still amazing how many innocent people are locked away with almost no hope of getting out. Suspect is how about a how a homeless man (Liam Neesom) and his public defender (Cher) find themselves in a case that has much larger ramifications than a simple matter of did a homeless person murder the victim for $9.The aspect that makes this movie a gem is the fine acting Cher as the overworked and underpaid public defender, Liam Neeson as the deaf/mute defendant in one of his first major roles, Dennis Quaid as a sexy lobbyist (often messing around with congresswomen to get votes for his industry) turned juror turned amateur sleuth, and John Mahoney as the stoic judge at the trial. A lot of it is pure fantasy but the moments in the courtroom are actually very much like a real courtroom in its obsessiveness with procedure and protocol.The story begins with the suicide of a prominent Supreme Court Justice and the subsequent murder of his assistant who has been slashed to death. When police investigate the surrounding area, they find a homeless man sporting a knife and in possession of the victim's wallet which contained a king's ransom $9. Cher is appointed to take the case, and Quaid ends up becoming one of the jurors. Because of the suicide at the beginning of the film, Judge Helms (Mahoney) becomes one of the people on the US President's short list to fill the Supreme Court vacancy. Helms requests to preside over the murder case to free up his later schedule in order that he be considered for the vacancy.Several scenes take us into the bowels of the homeless of Washington DC. We see a lot of lawyers, a lot of law libraries and a lot of knives. Every homeless person appears to wield a knife. Cher with the unlawful help of Quaid (lawyers and jurors in the same trial are not supposed to commiserate, let alone team up) stumbles upon some evidence that makes the case much more complex. A thoroughly enjoyable courtroom drama with enough action to keep you on the edge of your seat, and an interesting commentary on the justice system and how it handles the poor and the homeless. Unfortunately, public defenders are probably not as successful as Cher appears to be. "},{"Title":"definitely worth a look - much better than I remember!","Date":"27 June 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" You know, I watched this film for the first time since I saw it in the theater years ago, and I must say that in today's cinematic atmosphere, this is a very underrated and enthralling film. I find today's movies to be so dumbed down to accommodate the full spectrum of moviegoers (the debt, and Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy as SOME exceptions), and this thriller manages to combine a few genres (mystery, courtroom, thriller, drama, suspense) into one package.Cher stars as a lawyer, badly in need of a vacation, who gets appointed a murder case in which a deaf and mute suspect (Played by the ever-ready Liam Neeson) seems to have perpetrated the crime. As she delves into the case, and into to case precedent, she begins to unravel a mystery that goes much higher than a homeless deaf mute.A fresh faced Dennis Quaid is a juror who is intrigued by puzzle pieces that don't seem to fit and begins his own look at the case, culminating in a heart pounding climax that'll leave you panting and wishing there was another hour to go! Definitely worth a look - even with Cher, whom I had dismissed as a one hit movie wonder. She actually pulls this movie off.And watch for Frasiers dad, John Mahoney, as a judge here - don't worry, you won't miss him.Give it a look!! "},{"Title":"A Hugely Enjoyable Courtroom Thriller","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Suspect is a hugely enjoyable courtroom thriller in which a Washington D.C. public defender becomes convinced that the suspect in a murder trial is innocent and also that the case is unwinnable. There doesn't seem to be any way out of her problem until she's offered help from an unexpected source. Unfortunately, accepting the help on offer also involves taking some extremely serious and potentially career threatening risks.Shortly after a Supreme Court Justice commits suicide and a clerk/typist who'd also worked in the Justice Department is found brutally murdered, a homeless man called Carl Wayne Anderson (Liam Neeson) is found with some of the victim's possessions on him and is immediately arrested and accused of her murder.Burned out public defender Kathleen Riley (Cher) is assigned to the case and soon discovers that her client is uncooperative and prone to having violent outbursts. Communication with him improves gradually when she discovers that he's actually a deaf-mute but even then, she finds it almost impossible to find any significant information or evidence that could be helpful for his defence. To make matters worse, the trial judge Matthew Helms (John Mahoney) is unsympathetic to the problems she's experiencing and also seems more preoccupied with other matters as he's said to be the President's nominee for a seat on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.Eddie Sanger (Dennis Quaid) is a jury member whose interest in the case leads him to carry out his own investigations. He wants to assist Riley by passing information on to her but any such collusion is strictly forbidden and punishable by disbarment. The couple do, however, work together and find some pieces of evidence which reveal that the murder victim had discovered evidence of a high level conspiracy to fix a politically important court case in which the Supreme Court Justice had been involved some years earlier. Ultimately this information provides an explanation for the suicide and the murder and also leads to the discovery of the identity of the real murderer.Cher and Dennis Quaid both give good individual performances but are even better when working together. The differences between their personalities lead to some entertaining exchanges and the high stakes involved also create a certain amount of additional tension.Riley is overworked, lonely and in desperate need of a holiday. She's struggling to cope against what seem like insuperable odds and doesn't feel resilient enough to take risks that could lead to her being disbarred. Sanger, on the other hand, is a Capitol Hill lobbyist who's used to pursuing his goals in a ruthless manner and has no inhibitions about cutting corners or acting outside the rules if such actions are likely to produce the desired results.Suspect has a good plot with many moments of real suspense and the solid performances provided by Cher and Dennis Quaid are also complemented by those of John Mahoney, Liam Neeson and Joe Mantegna. "},{"Title":"Good story and performances","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I had missed this film during the many years since it was made, and caught it by chance on a Friday afternoon, after a particularly long and hectic week. I thought I might nod off, but instead I found myself engrossed in it very soon. It has some far-fetched aspects, and as the goofs section in this site points out, it wouldn't have been tried in a federal court, but in the local D.C. courts. However, given the rather surprise ending, this would be a necessary variation, given its circumstances.Cher is not a person whom you reference when thinking of leading, versatile actresses -- but this isn't so. This serious role, as well as a different type in the excellent Moonstruck, display both her competence and versatility. Dennis Quaid is always excellent, and a favorite of mine, and the remaining cast were as well. John Mahoney's performance is well-delivered, and an interesting performance, in contrast with his more pleasant persona in Moonstruck, also -- and particularly juxtaposed with his likable presence in the long-running Frasier series.As another pointed-out, there is a surprise ending, if somewhat more abrupt than seems necessary.But overall, an interesting, entertaining film. "},{"Title":"Convincing performances by all. Nice surprise ending.","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cher plays the role of a dedicated public defender who is given a case just as she is about to collapse from overwork. The poor guy has been living on the street for years and is accused of killing a young woman for a lousy $9. He won't talk to police and Cher has to draw him out before she can even begin to find some way to defend him. There are several well planned surprises and I never had the feeling any of the cast were acting. This is one movie that had me fooled as to who the real culprit was right to the end. I like that! If I can guess the outcome halfway through the movie it is a turn off and total disappointment to me. Seven stars is high for me. It takes a Lawrence of Arabia or Gone with the Wind to get 10 stars from me. "}{"Title":"Low-Key But Stylish Thriller","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When a deaf-mute homeless man is accused of murdering a federal worker in Washington DC, the public defender assigned to the case assumes he is guilty--until she begins to receive tips about the case from the most unlikely of sources a member of the jury seated for the trial.Any one even remotely conversant with the law will find the story so full of loopholes that it is more than a little ridiculous, but it scarcely matters the cast carries it off in fine style, playing the script with exceptional precision and poise and generating plenty of suspense along the way. Cher is particularly noteworthy as the public defender assigned to the case.Cher? Playing a Washington D.C. attorney? It's hardly typecasting, but once more Cher demonstrates the depth of her talent not only is she extremely effective, she is completely believable. The same might be said for both Liam Neeson, who plays the deaf-mute on trial, and Dennis Quaid, who plays the smarmy juror who begins to put two and two together; SUSPECT is clearly Cher's picture, but her co-stars are every bit as good as she.Although it has its share of courtroom pyrotechnics and suspenseful moments, SUSPECT is a surprisingly low-key and all the more successful for it. When all is said and done we like the characters as people, believe in them, and are glad we met them. While it will never compete with the likes of Hitchcock, SUSPECT is a good, solid, and very unpretentious courtroom thriller executed with a great deal of style. Those whose tastes run in that direction will be very pleased indeed. Recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"From a wreck to a human being.","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The plot is far-fetched and a lot of elements might seem questionablethe whodunit,Dennis Quaid's cynical character,the umpteenth courtroom drama...But everything vanishes when it comes to depict the Cher/Liam Neeson relationship.Both shine ,especially the latter,who ,being deaf and dumb ,has to express his emotions with his face .He is so good he seems to carry the weight of the world .He was once a man who had something in his life ,but he was betrayed by his country when he returned from Vietnam.How a man who gave the best years of his life (to mention a famous movie)can be treated like a dog (nine dollars ,it's much when you've got to survive says his idealistic lawyer)and end up one of the last lonely and wretched?Every scene where they are together rings true.And suspect becomes the story of a redemptionphysically,morally and intellectually,the homeless man regains his dignity his pride and the right to be a citizen again.There is a complex plot ,dealing with politics ,but it's the luminous Cher and the very moving Neeson,desperately trying to communicate, who will haunt the viewer after the movie. "},{"Title":"A keeper","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Glossy Cher vehicle, and one of her better performances as a defense attorney trying to save a homeless deaf-mute from the gallows.Quaid is excellent as usual as a juror with an agenda.And Neeson as the suspect was a find in what I believe was his first big American film.  He also is virtually unrecognizable in his early scenes, until he is cleaned up for his courtroom debut.  A bit dated now, perhaps, but still worth a look for Cher in her glory days, before she turned into the bizarre hag we know today. A side note In his most recent film, COLD CREEK MANOR, Quaid amazingly looks almost like he did in SUSPECT, which was made 18 years ago. Some genes. "},{"Title":"At times implausible but still a solid courtroom drama","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Very entertaining if not always plausible courtroom drama. Cher is excellent as a public defender who has her passion for the law restored by a special case, even if some of the outfits she wears in court are questionable (a leather jacket!? really?). Quaid also does good work keeping the smugness that often marred his work at a minimum but the real standout is Liam Neeson who was just starting to break out of the pack at this point and emerge as star material. Since his character is mute he has to rely on gestures and his facial expressions to convey his anguish and make the unsavory man he portrays someone you root for. An unusually strong supporting cast keeps this involving and Yates keeps the pacing tight. Kudos also go to the title sequence designer whose choice of music and a simple but evocative design set the tone immediately for the film. "},{"Title":"Cher delivers good performance in far-fetched courtroom drama...","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" SUSPECT is a very watchable little courtroom mystery that deepens as it goes along spinning a plot about corruption in higher places. And there's a nice surprise at the end for anyone trying to figure out who the guilty party is. But it still seems contrived and the quirky relationship between CHER and DENNIS QUAID doesn't help. He's a cocky juror with knowledge of the judicial system who gives her help in solving the case of a man wrongly accused of murder whom she's defending.LIAM NEESON is the wrongly accused and he's excellent in a role that has him as a homeless deaf mute accused of murdering a girl for a mere pittance. Cher is the lawyer assigned to defend him. She does so with sincerity and warmth but the plot line which has her discovering the truth is too far-fetched to be believable.Nevertheless, the tale is constructed in a way that will have you absorbed until the courtroom ending. Good performances by JOE MANTEGNA and JOHN MAHONEY help sustain some credibility. There's a well done chase scene toward the end with the killer revealed only in shadow or shown only from shoes to knees, so that the final revelation of the killer in the courtroom does come as a surprise.Watchable but easily forgettable, with a not too convincing relationship established between CHER and DENNIS QUAID. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, though formulaic and unexceptional...","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A no-frills role for Cher playing an over-worked public defender whose latest client (forced upon her by the court) is a homeless, deaf-mute male accused of murder. Despite the lack of sass, this is a good Cher performance focused, unselfish on the screen and quite natural, she's charming without effort. Dennis Quaid is a decent match for her as a Capitol Hill lobbyist and juror who wants to help piece together the mystery surrounding a murdered female clerical assistant who had information regarding dirty doings in Washington, D.C. A fairly sophisticated yarn, though one cut straight from a formula. Director Peter Yates does well at keeping the pace lively, however some of the early moments with Quaid are confusing (his role is half-written) and the script is weighty with contrivances and red herrings. A handful of the supporting performances are interesting, but why are the lesser roles--particularly that of a parking lot attendant and the victim herself--so amateurish? **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"An Outstanding Cast And A Great Courtroom Twist At The End","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The highlight of this movie for me was a wonderful performance from Cher. She was playing the part of Kathleen Riley, a public defender who gets caught up in more than she bargained for when she takes on the case of a homeless man accused of murdering a 24 year old woman. The case is a lot more complicated than that, and the story keeps viewers on their toes. We're quite sure that Carl (the homeless man played by Liam Neeson) did not kill the young woman. The question is - who did? And why? The movie disorients right off the top, beginning with a Supreme Court justice committing suicide. But them that seems to disappear. But surely it's connected? Basically, we settle into a waiting game, as we look for the connection.The movie settles down for a while into a pretty standard courtroom drama, and Cher (and Joe Mantegna as the prosecutor) are quite credible in their courtroom activity. Another twist is added to the story by Kathleen's growing involvement with juror Eddie (Dennis Quaid) - a congressional lobbyist who gets involved surreptitiously in helping to build the case for the defense. Quaid was also very good in his part, as was John Mahoney as the presiding judge. There really were no weaknesses in among the cast. I have to give real credit to Neeson. As Carl he did a magnificent job, especially given that he was playing a character who was both deaf and mute. His entire performance had to be conducted without voice, and he was very convincing. The whole thing builds up to a surprising courtroom twist that would have done Perry Mason proud, and that I didn't see coming at all.My basic criticism of the movie is that it tries perhaps too hard to keep the viewer off balance. So many layers are added on that there is a temptation every now and then to drift away, because it's hard to keep everything straight. But in the end, when all the pieces are put together and that dramatic twist comes, you're glad you stuck with this. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Ridiculous and implausible movie","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a completely implausible legal thriller/romantic thriller. The lack of credibility becomes more obvious as the movie grinds on. The things that Cher and Dennis Quaid's characters do would get them arrested and the case thrown out, and Cher's character would get disbarred. The case involves a dead Supreme Court Justice, yet the characters do things that would embarrass a first-year law student. I realize this is fiction, but even escapism has to be somewhat believable. The Perry Mason series was not reality, but at least it was somewhat credible. Also, the climactic scene is something that Agatha Christie would have been too embarrassed to use. A defense lawyer and a juror having an affair during a trial? Some have praised the chemistry between Cher and Quaid. It does help, but not enough. "},{"Title":"Well-done, but not as tense as it should have been.","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A reasonably well-done courtroom/mystery thriller, directed and acted with professionalism. However, it lacks the required tension. The library scene, played in total silence, is the only really tense one in the movie. The film is also marred by the abrupt finale. "},{"Title":"More holes than Swiss cheese","Date":"22 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not a bad film as such and Cher gives a reasonable performance as a lawyer, for someone who once believed the sun revolved around the earth(according to Sunny). The main fault is the plot. There are so many holes; for example, would a lawyer *really* get into such a relationship with a juror? What was Michael doing at the station? did he follow the juror? if so how? why did Cher go to the judges' home? to confront him? why did she back off when she saw the deputy attorney general? surely this was a chance to to present her evidence to him. Would the deputy a.g. allow all of the confrontation in the court at the end or would he have quietly called off the trial and have the judge arrested at home(he obviously knew what was happening or else why was he there?). And that sappy ending! perhaps it was a bad film after all...Really expected better from Peter Yates. "}{"Title":"Cliché(r)","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's embarrassing to see Peter Yates deliver up this hackneyed courtroom drama. But making a movie with this many clichés is easy, and I'm betting everyone got paid very handsomely for retreading every other legal meller you've ever seen. I knew we were in trouble when they started channeling Atticus Finch and Tom Robinson.Cher, one of the most abrasive and irritating human beings on the planet does underplay her character. She's nicely vulnerable, and she does reasonably well with what little she has to work with. Dennis Quaid plays Dennis Quaid. John Mahoney--sans toupee--is the evil judge (and a Republican to boot!). Liam Neeson, a force of nature in body, spirit, and voice, is a deaf mute.It's like John Belushi in The Blues Brothers--the sunglasses hide his most powerful tool.Oh, well. If this Suspect pops up on your Sunday afternoon movie, and you have absolutely nothing else to do, my advice is to curl up with a cup of coffee and a legal pad. Keep a running cliché total. "},{"Title":"Cher!","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cher and her role are what are special about Suspect. She is not only a convincing lawyer, but a convincing person. But of course, she might have been more, much more, if she wasn't so surrounded with such pat arrangements in plot, tone, and characterization. The Quaid relationship should not have caved in to romance, the judge should not have been a suspect, the prosecutor should not be so boiler plate, and so forth. In short, the whole project would benefit from more thought and seriousness, which would have also provided the real suspense, so lacking here. (what there is so strains credibility as to make it non-existent---you know, TV movie land) "},{"Title":"..Cher is suspect of being a good actress..","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...and being an icon of outrageously glittering entertainment, people resent their idea of a scatterbrain can actually being able to act and speak like normal people. If you stop to think seriously about it, you'll have to admit she's convinced us she's having a wonderful time in her costumes-that-weigh-a-ton numbers, or maybe 2 ounces.....not for a couple of years, but for decades. THAT'S ACTING ! Most pop-artists don't last more than a couple of years. Madonna is successful because she re-invents herself, we tell ourselves, but is a DREADFUL actress......well, maybe Evita. Cher makes no pretense this is it, folks. This movie is a good example of just getting lost in one without having to be overly intellectual. The twists in the plot are not earth-moving, but keeps me interested all through it. I, too, wondered why Michael was even in the plot, except to make for some scary scenes - worked for me. Also doubted the victim's auto would be left in the parking-lot, intact, for so long.....but, I got over that without having a coronary.The first scene with The Justice giving a clerk-typist an envelope with hope it's sufficient - use it well should tell you right now there's some hanky-panky going-on. Perhaps we tend to believe that justices in The Supreme Court are angels, and have no human frailties? Hey - they're APPOINTED by presidents, not elected. You think president's don't have agendas ? Wow! how naive you are ! Because the locale is D C, the incentive for ambition should always be suspect - politicians don't REALLY get there by kissing babies.Since Suspect has been released, we've had several good movies that depict just how our justice-system often works. With professional juror-pickers knowing every time you break wind, it's a toss-up whether the jury-system or a panel of judges should try EVERY case - BUT, both groups are homo-sapiens....lots of room for vulnerability and plain-ole stupidness and discrimination in there. The best way to remain unjudged is to be good and not get caught in situations you have to be......Dennis Quaid was great - I'm not familiar with Paul Mahoney, but his role was well-played. Also didn't know who Liam Neeson was at that time, but sure thought he did his role VERY well. The ending scene was surprising to me, because I suspected that OTHER justice-dept guy......I get my VHSs and DVDs from eBay - why pay $10.00 for a one-time shot in the theater, when the same amount lets you watch whenever you want - even if it isn't so often, and only for a change of pace? I'm one of those guys who can enjoy a movie if you give me a running description of the movie while watching it - but, I also like watching alone at home.....the restroom is a LOT closer !!! Lighten-up, Guys - this is a movie to be enjoyed without having to wrack your brains to figure-out. Gets a 9 from me - "},{"Title":"Good performances and storyline","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This production was a well-done piece of work. Solid performances by all the cast, especially Cher and Quaid, flow throughout the film. There was sufficient suspense and mystery to keep my attention, and the attraction between Cher's and Quaid's characters adds another dimension to this quality movie. I was especially impressed by Cher's abilities and attractiveness in this suspense yarn; I should view more of her works. This film was entertaining and thoughtful, with a cohesive plot and very believable characters, set in the reality of the nation's Capitol. An 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Preposterous","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This story had so many holes in it you could drive an oil tanker through each of them.Cher wore black leather in court as a defense attorney? The suspect is deaf and dumb, but Cher talks to him constantly? The suspect overpowers several policeman before he is subdued. But then Cher goes into his cell alone to talk to him? The suspect hits her, but then she continues being around him? What a wreck of a movie.At various points the dialogue was so bad it must have been written by a graduate of a junior high school creative writing class.In the middle of jury selection Cher has a lengthy tete a tete with prospective juror Quaid? In cross examinations the lawyers don't ask questions but speak in declarative sentences constantly? How can you take a movie seriously with so many preposterous moments in it? "},{"Title":"Love the movie and Love Liam - but question about character","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I wasn't sure if the character Carl Wayne Anderson was supposed to be deaf. I thought he was only mute because of the traumas he had experienced. There were also a lot of other actors in the film who were outstanding, including Cher who was very believable.Anyway, Liam Neeson is a great actor and is very definitely under-rated. He's also extremely appealing to a lot of women, me included. I recommend Rob Roy (another movie no one seems to have seen, with Tim Roth as one of the best villains in any movie, ever) and of course Michael Collins. Not to mention Schindler's List. It's very strange that Liam Neeson hasn't yet won an Oscar. I haven't seen Kinsey yet. "},{"Title":"I Suspect you'll love it.","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Can we say go Cher? In this low budget film Cher plays an overworked public defender that is given a high work load instead of her year vacation. In the impossible case ahead of her, she is defending a homeless mute convicted of murder. Dennis Quaid is a Lobbist that has his own problems, but is called to jury duty. In the first scenes of this movie you can tell that Cher needs more than a day off, she needs a man. This impossible case seems to get worse as witnesses seem to murdered, and juror Dennis Quaid illegally helps Cher with her case. This is a wonderful edge of your seat movie with a certin twist that will totally make you want more! "},{"Title":"Suspenseful. Engulfing.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Starring Cher and Dennis Quaid, Suspect is probably one of my most watched movies. It portrays to the viewer the state of the justice system and the criminal justice administration system. It shows that there a people that when overworked, still care about their jobs and the people they deal with on a day to day basis. This is all set alongside a murder in which a homeless man is being accused of. In going after the truth it can only lead to one thing... I reccomend that you consider renting or buying this movie. It is a great one for the family to watch! "},{"Title":"Great cast needs good defense.","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS.It's hard to figure out what makes Cher so exotically attractive. Except for her half-hooded eyes there isn't anything special about any of her features. It's just that when you put them all together they add up to a Gestalt that is more than equal to the sum of its parts. Maybe too it has something to do with her figure, which has been on abundant display for thirty years and hasn't changed a millimeter in any of its dimensions.I can't speak for Dennis Quaid's handsomeness but he's a fine actor, even with, or maybe cause of, that slight lisp. He almost always brings something extra to his roles whether they deserve it or not. (He was an outstanding Jerry Lee Lewis.) The director, Peter Yates, gives him a bare chested scene here but doesn't take advantage of the opportunity to have Quaid flex his muscles or anything. His torso doesn't even have a sun tan. Thank you, Mr. Yates. Your concept of masculinity doesn't include self display. Quaid is a lobbyist who cares about his looks only to the extent that they can help him pull off his con jobs. He's boyish and charming at the beginning, trying to manipulate everyone, but drops that insouciance aptly as the drama develops.There's a scene that demonstrates Quaid's range as a performer rather well. He's a suit, of course, and when he enters the abandoned Railway Express Station in Washington where all these unwashed dangerous-looking homeless people live, he actually seems scared. Good for him. He really doesn't have to be. The homeless are pretty harmless, most of them mentally ill, but it's the kind of reaction a person might have who wears gold-plated cufflinks and is unfamiliar with the milieu and its inhabitants.The plot is easy to follow but hard to believe. There's an awful lot of conventional action in it. Quaid dashes in unexpectedly to save Cher's hide twice. Not that Cher's hide isn't worth saving but we've seen this a hundred times. We've also seen a woman trapped in an empty building followed by a slasher, running up and down stairs, stabbing frantically at an elevator button so the doors will close before the razor is wielded. Ho hum. And suspicion is thrown on a homeless psychotic named Michael. There is a long search for this Michael. He's finally found with his throat cut and the thread is dropped from the story without explanation. Who killed Michael? And why? Nobody cares. And I don't know why it was necessary to make it clear that the stern, corrupt, and finally murderous judge was a Republican. So what? Someone should give Peter Yates a crack at a truly gutsy narrative again, like Bullet. Not that the director is a slouch. He has a wordless and very tense scene in a law library that Hitchcock himself would have preened over. But -- that aside -- I kept wondering what a lawyer might make out of all this. Cher, the defense attorney for a Liam Neeson who has very little to do and literally nothing to say, suffering from hearing loss and elective mutism. When asked on the stand whether he murdered a woman, he hiccups and gulps, N-no. It could have been worse. He might have thrown away his crutches and screamed, Look, Mein Fuhrer -- I can VALK! Paul Mahoney as the judge is very good too. He was superb as the tragic/comic William Faulkner in the Coen brothers' Barton Fink. But again it's hard to imagine a trial like this actually taking place. Cher not only is in contact with a juror. She's really in CONTACT with him. The judge and the deputy attorney general are both corrupt. A murder takes place for reasons, and under circumstances, that are a bit hard to understand. Is this really what the justice system looks like in operation? God help us. "},{"Title":"pleasantly surprised","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  i came upon this flick on TV a few years back. having never heard of it, i just figured it was one of cher's missteps to further establish a serious movie career. cher as a lawyer? please. but, i decided to give it a try.i must say it was a pleasant surprise. there are a few subplots that intertwine each other and the main plot, the acting was good and there were enough twists to keep in interesting, without too many to make it difficult to follow. it could have used some touches to fix the pacing and the court case from the 60s that links everything together could have been fleshed out a bit more and a bit sooner. but, in all, the movie offers plenty of suspense and a very interesting story. honestly, this movie has become one of my personal favs. give it a look.  "}{"Title":"Twists and Turns to Greatness.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Twists, turns and an unforgettable finish are the main attractions in this clever little courtroom drama. Cher is defending a deaf mute man (Liam Neeson) who is accused of murdering a judge and his secretary, but the case is not near as simple as it appears. Dennis Quaid helps out Cher and John Mahoney is along for the ride as the judge trying the case. Some smart moments from the screenplay and adequate direction make Suspect a success overall. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Good film worth you money and time.","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Cher was excellent - Kept forgetting that this was the pop diva. As the director said in his commentary on the DVD her eyes are so expressive that you know what she is feeling. Liam was excellent not a word spoken but you knew his thoughts as well. The only negative - political incorrectness the obligatory chase-the-woman with a knife scene and it takes a MAN to save her (twice!), and it took a man to feed her the tips that let her crack the case. The movie I'm sure was supposed to show Cher as the heroine but it is a creature of its time and its writer's time, so of course it takes a Man to save the day. Not any different than The Lion King, when the woman's main role was to find a man who could save the day for everyone. The anti-climax, the last two minutes of the ending also came a minute too quickly - you'd think there'd be a thank you before cutting to the chase. The Director said this was written by Cher herself - so you now know she was a great actress in this movie but should have left the writing to the writer. Oh well. Movie still great!  "},{"Title":"Suspect","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Suspect is a tremendously portrayed film chock full of suspense, thrills, and a tad of dry humor. Liam Neeson does an excellent job of playing a mute/deaf person, and is extremely believable. This movie is a thrill-ride and a splendid movie to watch when you feel like hunkering down on the couch with a bowl of popcorn and an icy cold coke and just relaxing. I give this movie 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Dry and predictable","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I watched Suspect last night. My expectations.... well, they weren't high, but I can't say why. I love courtroom movies with thriller and suspense elements. Anyway, I didn't like the movie very much. Here is why Suspect shows us a world of suspicious people. Denis Quaid's character wants to solve the case himself, but at the same time, the movie is supposed to stress on Cher's character. Still single, probably looking for the perfect man at her age. Of course, Cher's heroine receives one of the toughest cases with a deaf, violent man, accused in murder, played by Liam Neeson. In fact, I believe Neeson's performance is the best if I have to rank them. That doesn't say much, cause the movie obviously never tried to build up a character study so that the viewer could care about something more than just the killer's revelation. That's probably why I couldn't perceive the movie as drama.I didn't have any problems with the weak character build up, I didn't even mind the typical courtroom clichés. My main problem is connected with the plot, its beginning, its development and finally, its predictable ending that kinda destroys the whole 2nd and 3rd act. They could've done better than that. Suspect begins with a veteran judge, committing suicide and it turns out that his character has influence over the case, we follow through out the whole film. The plot throws some stupid details that turn a fresh thriller with potential into a boring courtroom drama with mini love story and tasteless dialog. I was bored by what was happening. Cher and Denis Quaid running around the city, trying to solve the case. Basically, that's all you are gonna watch after the first 15-20 minutes. And as I already mentioned couple of times, that predictable and happy ending doesn't fit. I mean, most characters in the movie doesn't live a happy life, the case is very difficult, the killer cannot be found. And suddenly, out of nowhere, we have a solution to everything. So, the most important part of the story is covered for like 5-10 minutes with Cher being chased by the killer who is revealed in the courtroom only 3 minutes later. Like the creators have tried to bring more and more details, but at some point, they've realized the movie shouldn't be longer than 2 hours and instead of editing the needless part of Suspect which is quite huge, they have destroyed an ending, I could've liked if it really was an ending with a long trial, tensed words, surprising findings and probably some kind of a twist or something.I gave the movie a 5, so, yes, it does have positive points. I already mentioned Neeson. Great character, good performance. Well, there is one weird, pointless shot of him getting all red, trying to say a word, but I can get over that. Aside from Neeson, it's hard to find originality and freshness. I can only say cheers to Neeson and his character. They brought that 5, no matter how strange that sounds. There are some interesting scenes that I can't consider bad at all, but they are too few to turn the movie into what I was asking for.Overall, watch Primal Fear. Suspect is not a good movie. It tries very hard to beat some other 80s suspense flicks, but it simply doesn't succeed. "},{"Title":"Just escaped an OK","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is no Grisham that much is for sure, well maybe a bad one (there are not many though, but it kinda levels a bad Grisham). I mean everything is OK in this movie and the only thing that actually helped this film get over a 5 out of 10 was the ending. I mean no great ending like A Time to Kill or anything but still some suspense some emotions. Just made it a tag better than OK.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Preposterous plot and mismatched actors","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm surprised that the comments on this title are generally favourable. I went to see the film when it was originally on release, just because Liam Neeson is in it. I think it was his first Hollywood film, but he'd done some excellent TV work in the UK before that. Though his character is the suspect of the title, he has a disappointingly small role.I found the film completely risible, for two reasons. First, there's Cher. I can't think of another actor who's so irritating to watch. She seems completely out of place beside the likes of Neeson and Dennis Quaid. Second, and more importantly, the plot is preposterous. Cher's character, a defence lawyer, cooperates with Quaid's, a juror, to investigate the case she's trying. Reputable lawyers do not communicate with individual jurors outside the courtroom. Ever. Even a disreputable lawyer would do so for one of only two reasons bribery or intimidation. The courtroom unmasking of the real killer was way over the top and added to the impression that the whole affair was not to be taken seriously. "},{"Title":"A relation between a defender and a member of jury","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Interesting film with a very good acting, as usual, of Cher. She is able to sing well and to act in a very relaxed manner as if she was the person she is interpreting. In this case she is the defender of a deaf-mute man, ex-soldier in Vietnam war (Liam Neeson), who is accused of murdering a lady who was closed to high level politicians. The fact is that a member of jury (Dennis Quaid) noticed that something wrong in the process from the very beginning and also felt in love with the defender, so he tried to help her secretly. At the end they both discovered that the same judge of the process was guilty and involved in killing the lady. Once the film is finished it informed that everything here is fictitious, it may be like that, but the plot of the film is possible to happen in real life anywhere.    "},{"Title":"Writing suspect","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cher plays a tireless, put-upon defense attorney who's handed a seemingly winless case, the murder trial of a homeless man (Liam Neeson) who also happens to be deaf and mute. With the aid of a trusty, nosy juror (Dennis Quaid), she solves the crime. The film is set in Washington, D.C., so you know there are machinations and duplicity and such, so it's really a question of whether Cher and company can make the twists and turns seem plausible. (Hint Not especially.) Stuck in a high-pressure, dead-end job as public defender, Kathleen Riley is handed a thankless assignment - defend a homeless man accused of killing a young woman. Physical evidence is on the side of the prosecutor, but her client insists he's innocent. A concerned juror decides to help her out, illegally. What follows in an intricate web of deceit and such that's a basic carbon copy of most legal thrillers.Cher's not bad, although she would fare far better the following year with Moonstruck. There is one scene in which she's carjacked (early in the film, nonincidental to the plot) and cries out a very stilted and unbelievable EEK! Seriously, it sounded like a pretend-yell, as in Eek, help, I'm being attacked by a killer beagle! Even so, Cher was appealing and acceptable in the lead role.Dennis Quaid was good as well, although his character wasn't exactly deep. First of all, I can't imagine anyone making a concerted effort to aid a lawyer in a case in which he or she is a juror - unless the juror has a vested interest in doing so. Second, the chemistry between Quaid and Cher was barely palpable - they looked like they'd be more comfortable playing siblings. Third, Quaid's character manages to show up at all the right times, sometimes incredibly so. Made it all that much tougher to swallow.Rounding out the notables in the cast are Joe Mantegna as the prosecutor and John Mahoney in a great role as the presiding judge.Suspect would have been a winner if the writing had been a little tighter. I think movies in which there's a strong female lead who's about to nab the bad guys but OH NO they're meaner and tougher and she goes to pieces. You know what I mean? You rarely see female leads that are strong emotionally, intellectually, and physically. "},{"Title":"Very suspect!","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a preposterous film, everything about it is forced and unbelievable. It is occasionally very funny but it's not supposed to be. From the gradual removal of Neeson's facial hair to the music score which sounds like it belongs to a completely different film to the ridiculous attempt at love story plotline to the laughably bad ending. The acting is of soap-opera standards and the plot development is not much better. Perhaps it's really a spoof in which case it's a classic!  (3/10)A V O I D "},{"Title":"...the worst movie based on a criminal trial EVER!!!","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was soooo bad I erased the tape before I finished recording it. Here is why 1. Jurors cannot contact an attorney during a trial, if they do... mistrial, and if the attorney gets caught it is an ethical violation that would effect their license. 2. No police dept would leave the decedents car in the parking lot, without collecting personal effects of the victim no less. 3. No parking lot would keep a dead persons car parked in their lot for as long as it takes a murder trial to be tried. 4. No female attorney for either side would wear a short, tight, leather skirt during a trial.For these glaring and about 10 others, this is the worst movie depicting a criminal trial EVER!!!  "}]