[{"Title":"sublime experience","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" OK, we all have our favourite poignant movies right?....you know the type - the ones that hold you in rapture - time and again, because it speaks to you on a very personal level and effortlessly touches some part of your emotions that you keep hidden from the world - evoking deeply sad or blissfully happy memories from our own passage through life. Biloxi Blues is that movie for me.Which of us do not carry emotional scars from; Our first time away from home. Our first time interacting with a group of strangers in a mutual climate. Our first sexual encounter. Our fist kiss. Our first love. Our first brush with authority. Our first glimpse at death.Biloxi Blues is a movie that embraces many of the rites of passage that we all face in life and deals with them using comedy as a foil to gently explore them, without diminishing their poignancy. Neil Simon is peerless in this. The casting is faultless. The acting is immaculate. The humor is intelligent.If you haven't seen this movie, do so. You can thank me later. "},{"Title":"character comedy/drama","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Biloxi Blues is a wonderful character comedy with strong dramatic scenes as well. Eugene Jerome (Matthew Broderick) is an anti-hero, who is typically concerned with making wisecracks, rebelling against the rigid drill Sergeant (Christopher Walken), and talking about wanting to become a writer. Similar to the dark pathos of characters in Catch-22, Biloxi Blues exposes men in the service who do not want to be there, who are incompetent, and basically as far from battlefield heroism as you can imagine. Mike Nichols directs, and his comedic and dramatic pace is pitched perfectly for the film.The movie has quotable lines throughout. But if you are looking for a typical war movie, this is not for you. There are no heros, at least in the conventional sense, as the story focuses upon the dusty boot camp in Biloxi, Mississippi. The story does deal with sharp internal conflicts, and the cultural topics addressed emerge strongly against the backdrop of one of the US's most traditional institutions the military. Although it has been over fifteen years since the release of the movie, the conflict in the movie feels timely and relevant for today's world. It's the type of tight, well-written comedy that rarely exists in current cinema. "},{"Title":"Neil Simon is a genius","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a fantastic movie that you will want to watch again and again. The story is perfect, the cast is perfect and the acting is perfect. A coming of age story that combines young recruits from all different sections of life that have come together and now have to learn how to live with one another as they go through the rigors of boot camp. Neil Simon always knows how to combine that perfect blend of realism, a comic touch and something you can identify with into everything he writes and makes you feel so comfortable in his story because you feel you're in the story. He makes you want to be become a writer. This is what makes Neil Simon unique. If only every movie could be written this well. This is what great Hollywood film-making is all about. "},{"Title":"Strangely Compelling","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It seems strange to say this about a movie that has very few moments of high drama and virtually no moments of great excitement, but Biloxi Blues has a strangely compelling quality to it. Once you begin to watch, you'll stay with this through to the end. Director Mike Nichols does an excellent job of bringing the viewer into the lives of the disparate group of young men who find themselves suddenly soldiers in 1945, facing the prospect of being sent to the Pacific to fight and quite possibly die for their country. From the very beginning, we want to know about these men who they are, what makes them tick, and, most important - what's going to happen to them?There are several fine performances in this movie. Matthew Broderick is excellent (he seems to have a knack for military roles, as in both this and Glory) as Private Eugene Jerome, a young, idealistic Jewish teenager, just out of high school, who dreams of being a writer rather than a soldier. Much of the movie is seen through his eyes as we see him come of age in many different ways. There's great humour involved as he loses his virginity with the understanding prostitute Rowena (Park Overall). Eugene is simply a likable young man who we enjoy watching grow up. Corey Parker put on a strong performance in a supporting role as Private Albert Epstein, who challenges military authority from Day 1. Another scene of brief humour is when Epstein presents a note from his doctor in New York, asking that he be excused from having to eat army food. Also offering a strong performance is Christopher Walken as the slightly off-balance Sargeant Toomey, who drives his platoon relentlessly.If you're looking for a classic war movie, you'll want to avoid this. But if you're interested in a story about genuine people, give it a try. I enjoyed this movie very much, and would rate it as a 7/10. "},{"Title":"great flick","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I must say I'm a little surprised this movie did not scoring higher with the IMDb readers. I really expected it to be marked higher. While the movie is a comedy I would not say it is hysterically funny, so perhaps that is why the score is not higher. Maybe people felt it should have been funnier. I don't know.Regardless, this movie is very well done and funny. Not funny as in a bust your gut kind of way - but funny enough to make you smile and laugh most of the time. It has a few serious moments that tie it into the reality of war and living in the armed forced. Although it is period sensitive the writers did well to make it applicable even years later.The acting is excellent, and Walken is brilliant as the complex Sgt. in charge of the young troops. I'm not sure Walken was ever better in a role, he is just pure genius.The rest of the cast is wonderful as well, from top to bottom you end up liking the cast more and more as the movie unfolds. And in the end it is impossible to say anyone was miscast or uncomfortable.I would say if you have not seen this movie, you should because it is a classic. "},{"Title":"Neil Simon has us loving these guys. Great movie!","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A wonderfully entertaining film. Everything seems to be in it's place. The only thing that one could grab at as being off somewhat, are some of the Simon jokes/funnies, which tend to sound too dated, corny or ill fitted. One must take into consideration on that point that this is a film and a story of an earlier time. A period piece and a script from quite a few years ago. Because of some of the tried for laughs, it seems that none of the Simon plays as they stand or the adaptations for screen will stand the test of time. A bit of re working on the script/dialog would help immensely Even with that BIG flaw that sticks out like a sore thumb, this film is wonderful. One might refer to or call these imperfections in the dialog,New York City Corn. Being form New York City myself, perhaps it's just the way it plays to me, but I doubt it. Most of today's viewers would have the same problem with some of the lines.The characters could not be more interesting or endearing. The scenes are right on track as one follows the other in perfect harmony. The acting and casting is superb with standouts being just about all of the main characters. Christopher Walken continues to take command. But it's also the great by play and perfect casting of his buddies of all religious persuasions that are just as marvelous. Terrific performances by Matt Mulhern, Corey Parker, Park Overall, and of course Matthew Broderick are all great. A perfectly cast movie I would say. Everyone was terrific but what stands out so nicely about this work is that we don't want the relationship that Simon creates between our beloved characters to ever end. There is always a Bully right? Matt Mulhern is cast as the lovable, honest, Bologna sandwich slamming cretin. Yet he is wonderful in the part he plays, and becomes my favorite. Then their is the enigmatic, always unearthly Christopher Walk en who endears himself to both the audience and to his boys that he makes into pretty good soldiers.The interplay between the different characters is what makes this work so well. There really isn't a single one in the group that we don't end up liking, at least to some degree. I really think this is where Simon's genius lies, what makes his plays so popular, so likable. We like both Oscar and Felix (opposite personalities) in the Odd Couple, right? Well, despite mostly minor bickering some major which is predictable among a bunch of guys from mostly different backgrounds and religions, in Biloxi Blues, the guys end up liking each other. They even end up realizing that St Toomey is a good guy. They understand that he is raking them over the coals in order to save their lives if and when they are shipped over seas during WWII The adventure really doesn't leave much out. Matthew Broderick goes through all or most of the adventures that we would expect. I found myself easily fitting into the group as the same kinds of things happened to me as I was growing into manhood. Somehow they grow together, they move threw some of life's more difficult moments as young men. In the end, Simon's or should I say Sgt. Toomey's bunch makes it, and we love it. I kept thinking that they really didn't have a care in the world. It was of course, a time of great anxt and worry as the guys wondered what in the world would ever happen to them. However, I couldn't help but go along with Broderick at the end, when the war is over, when none of the guys is actually sent over seas to fight. He states to the affect that as he looks back (narrating in talk over), it was the best time of his life that he seemed to bond with every one of those guys.I was surprised to find that there is no Sound Track available of any kind. Yet, the choice of songs, taken from the era, the WWII songs some refer to as a wonderful time for Romantic Tunes are perfectly placed throughout the film. I gave this movie a 10 despite the mentioned imperfections because it simply is one piece of great entertainment, and every time I decide to watch it again, it brings me home, home to the comfort of those great characters that I just love to watch and hear. "},{"Title":"Ho Yes! Ho NO! HO NOTHING!","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well I'm disappointed. -(  This film deserves much more than a 6.6 rating! If you watch Brighton Beach Memoires you will love this film. Personally the 1st film was better but maybe because I could relate to a younger Jerome. But this film, oh yes! Christopher Walken you are my GOD! He is so funny in this film in my view! The way he makes the wise-cracking Jerome (Broderick) and fellow NY boy Epstein (Corey) is great. Ok he is a nut but that is Walken- he would be the worst Army officer I would want! Great film- the scene with the 'escort' is great! You're not breathing! Breathe! Unbelievable! It is also heart-warming and I love it! Overall I must give it a 8.5/10. Give it a try dont let the 6.6 rating fool you! HO NO! "},{"Title":"Once you start compromising your thoughts, you're a candidate for mediocrity.","Date":"13 August 2011","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Biloxi Blues is directed by Mike Nichols and written by Neil Simon. It is based on Simon's semi-autobiographical 1985 play of the same name. It stars Matthew Broderick, Christopher Walken, Penelope Ann Miller, Corey Parker and Matt Mulhern. Music is by Georges Delerue and Bill Butler is the cinematographer.The second part of Neil Simon's Eugene Morris Jerome trilogy, the plot centres around Eugene's (Broderick) draft into the United States Army during the last year of World War II. Sent to training camp at Biloxi, Mississippi, Eugene is thrust in amongst people from all walks of life. Here he will not only learn about life, but also have it changed for him.Straight from the off I have to say that this has become one of my favourite films of all time. From the moment I first caught it back on release, where I only went to see it because it was written by the guy who wrote The Odd Couple, I have been humoured and charmed every year since without fail. On synopsis it seems to be yet another run of the mill coming of age picture, or just another tales from the boot camp time filler, but with Simon holding the pen and Nichols painting the narrative with careful nostalgic splendour, Biloxi Blues is much better than it's often given credit for. A film that is that rare old beast that strikes the right balance between laughter and sentiment. It was hard to believe these guys had mothers and fathers who were worried about them Although this is primarily Eugene's story, film is propelled by the bubbling concoction of a group dynamic. At training camp Eugene and the other lads have to face up to a number of challenges, not just growing up into men, but learning about bigots, bullies, homosexuals and intellectuals, all while under the borderline crazy command of Sergeant Merwin J. Toomey (Walken). They may all be different, from different backgrounds, but one thing binds them together, none of them want to be there! In other hands this group would have consisted of annoying stereotypes, but Simon and Nichols, courtesy of the writing and the garnering of acting performances, ensure this isn't the case. The audience isn't short changed with these characterisations because they are stripped down to being survivors by way of humour and naive honour. Thus it never feels false. I wasn't in on that Pearl Harbour thing One of America's most celebrated film critics said Biloxi Blues contains limp dialogue! That's something which I certainly can't begin to comprehend. For the film is an advertisement for witty retorts, where often responses are used as a survivalist tool, to de-heat a flare up or to hide nervousness. In this respect Biloxi Blues pays big on revisits, each time another little one-line gem registers where previously it had been missed, maybe because we are too focused on the airy sound track first time around? Or most likely because we are too lost in a Eugene or Toomey facial moment. One of the best passages in the story concerns a last week on Earth game the lads play, the writing is sharp, yet tender, funny, yet telling, it really is a case of laugh whilst being drawn into the frightening reality that these boys are a long way from home, and possibly soon to be fighting for their lives in some muddy trench. The cast are uniformly strong. Walken delivers one of his quintessential mania turns, marking Toomey out as being one click away from either sane or insane. Broderick holds court and narrates with earnest style, while Corey Parker is a revelation as intellectual Arnold Epstein, a guy who no matter how much he is persecuted by Toomey and the other rookies, refuses to be shaken and lose his principles. Miller and Park Overall get the two female roles of note, both memorable in short appearances, with the latter deliciously dry as a hooker with a heart. In the support there's macho mirth from Mulhern (stomach of a goat) and Markus Flanagan (he calls his mother Louise), homespun mystery from an excellent Michael Dolan, and wistful tunings from Casey Siemaszko as Don Carney (can anyone count on him?). The ending doesn't quite have the dramatic impact that many would expect, and there is indeed some mellow periods of tinted nostalgia that will have some viewers urging the pace to go faster. But these are mere fly specks on a mound of horse droppings. Biloxi Blues, a wonderfully rich comedy drama, and to my mind the best thing Simon has written. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Ferris Bueller as Neil Simon in the army.  What did we miss when we were all younger?!","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In one of the many looks at days gone by, Neil Simon's alter ego Eugene Morris Jerome (Matthew Broderick) and friends go down to Biloxi, Mississippi, in early 1945 for basic training. Once there, they have to cope with one bad-ass sergeant (Christopher Walken) and a status quo totally unlike the one in New York. But we also see how the experience turns Eugene into a very different person, partially due to his relationship with local babe Daisy (Penelope Ann Miller).Biloxi Blues, in my opinion, is far from Mike Nichols's best movie. I find it having strength in showing these young men's coming of age and wondering what to do with their future. But still, it's fun to see the environs of the WWII-era South. And I really liked Eugene's fake name when he met that one woman; I couldn't have come up with anything like that! Worth seeing, along with Brighton Beach Memoirs.When Matthew Broderick played Ferris Bueller, who ever would have guessed that he would later play the guy - or the alter ego thereof - who wrote The Odd Couple? "},{"Title":"Well written, well acted","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Matthew Broderick plays a Jewish youngster named Eugene Morris Jerome, who goes to the army in 1945.This young intellectual wants to be a writer so he writes some stuff down to his journal about his army buddies.He, for instance, writes about his suspicions about this also Jewish guy Arnold Epstein (Corey Parker) that he might be a homosexual.When Arnold gets to read what Eugene has written about him, Eugene wants to rip and destroy the page.Arnold stops him and delivers this great line; Once you start compromising your thoughts, you're a candidate for mediocrity.That's very well put.There are many other great lines and this is overall a well written movie.That's not any wonder since it's written by Neil Simon.The great director Mike Nichols directed it in 1988.The movie is full of terrific actors and characters.Christopher Walken is the somewhat obnoxious Sgt. Toomey.Matt Mulhern is the somewhat obnoxious recruit Joseph Wykowski.Michael Dolan is the much more sympathetic recruit Hennesey, who actually turns out to be homosexual and is sent to military prison.Casey Siemaszko is Don Carney, who Eugene can't count on according to his journal.Penelope Ann Miller is Daisy, the girl Eugene fancies.Park Overall is the prostitute Rowena, who delivers the boys some joy.There are lots of scenes to remember in the movie.One of the most memorable ones must be in the end where Arnold makes the drunken sergeant do 200 push-ups.The movie deals with some important themes, like racism, anti-semitism and homophobia.I truly recommend Biloxi Blues for each and every one of you who read this. "}{"Title":"The Hilarious Side of Basic Training!","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The timing for my catching of this flick couldn't have been more appropriate. I caught it with a few of my squadmates on a 72-hour pass at the post theater on Ft. Benning, in the middle of my 12-weeks of basic training and infantry school. It was the summer of 1988, Biloxi had just hit the screens, and it was the hottest summer on record in 25-years in the already quite sultry city of Columbus, Georgia (about two hours south of Atlanta). Just imagine, an army base theater -- that had changed very little from its WW2 days -- filled with 200+ Army recruits in uniform, on pass, watching a movie about Army recruits on pass! It was a hilarious deja vu, although I suspect that such irony was lost on the majority of the individuals present that night.Anyways, my favorite scenes in the movie include the following Matthew Broderick (as Pvt. Eugene Jerome) moving through the chow line at breakfast for the first time, when the army cook slings some unmentionable godforsaken gloop on his stainless steel G.I. mess tray. The look on Eugene's face is worth its weight in gold as it was almost as if he had been insulted and violated at the same time. (This is especially funny for anyone who has ever stood in a messhall chowline and eaten army food before.)My next favorite scene was when Eugene makes up a game with his bunkmates one night, about what they would do with the last 72 hours of their lives. What every man reveals about himself is not only telling, but an ominous harbinger of what is to come. Hennesey, for example, asks to be with his family. The others scoff. Little do they know, however, that soon enough, even that modest hope will seem like a pipedream to the starcrossed Hennesey.The funniest aspects of Neil Simon's mostly autobiographically inspired play though, is his comedic depiction of the inevitable culture clash that invariably occurs when the New York quasi-intellectualism and Jewish urbane sensibility that Eugene Jerome and Arnold Epstein are products of, confronts head on the southern white-redneck military subculture that Sgt. Toomey represents. This theme especially struck a chord with me, having come down to Georgia for boot camp from Chicago that summer. It was quite a culture shock for me upon my first visit to the south. when I stepped off the bus at Ft. Benning, as I quickly had to get myself accustomed to the almost incomprehensible southern accents, idiosyncratic differences in attitude and weird regional expressions employed by our mostly colorful, yet totally profane and predominantly redneck drill sergeants at Ft. Benning.Another aspect about this film that touched me personally is the fact that it was filmed filmed almost entirely at Ft. Chaffee in Ft. Smith Arkansas, where I had trained extensively when I was in the U.S. Army.  From WW1 to the early 1990s, Ft. Chaffee was an active U.S. Army reservation that has since been mothballed. Being able to see scenes of Ft. Chaffee, especially the exterior and interior shots of Chaffee's vintage WW2-era barracks on my very rare DVD version which I am most fortunate to have, always brings back some rather fond -- and not so fond memories -- of the times I spent at Chaffee. This movie mostly reminds me of all those days and nights I spent training in those chigger and tick-ridden forests, doing PT around post, and living in those godforsaken WW2-era barracks. Hats off to a great five-star WW2 coming-of-age flick!  "},{"Title":"Neil Simon's glimpse into WW II military life","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The characters in this movie are the one thing that make it worth watching. Matthew Brodeick's character is his usual wiseass as he plays 20 year old Brooklynite Jerome just out of boot camp and serving in Mississippi (the worst place at that time for a New Yorker to be) during the final days of the big war. Christopher Walken was great in his usual psychotic role, playing a nicer and more sympathetic version of his At Close Range role as their Platoon Sergeant. One striking note of how close-minded thinking was in those days; the most down-to-earth and likable guy in their platoon just happened to be homosexual and payed a nasty price for it and was sent to the San Quentin of military prisons-Leavenworth. And a final word of note if you look closely on the cover and read Eugene's blood type on his dog tags, it's B negative. In recent days, it's now been believed that a persons blood type is their personality, and Eugene fit the criteria for type B unconventional, intelligent, empathetic, free-thinking, and difficult to manipulate. "},{"Title":"Better Than You May Have Heard","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Full Metal Jacket it definitely is not. Nor does it intend to be. Biloxi Blues, a 1988 film directed by Mike Nichols and starring Matthew Broderick and Christopher Walken, is a meringue of light laughs. It doesn't offer profound insights into military life, but it does allow us to laugh at it.The film, the second of an autobiographical trilogy by Neil Simon, chronicles a group of young men enduring Army basic training during World War II. Their drill sergeant, Sgt. Toomey, played by Walken, engages an intersection between eccentricity and madness. Broderick plays private Eugene Jerome, a smart ass from New York. His fellow trainees include the whiny but weirdly courageous Private Epstein (Corey Parker), Private Wykowski (Matt Mulhern), Private Selridge (Markus Flanagan), Private Hennessey (Michael Dolan), and Private Carney (Casey Siemaszko), all of whom have the usual foibles. Absolutely no surprises here. Many reviewers have criticized this film because it didn't provide anything new. And it doesn't. But I enjoyed this film for what it was, an entertaining lark. The performances were credible and breezy. Not every film dealing with the military has to be emotionally searing like The Deer Hunter or Platoon. Sometimes we dine at four star restaurants and sometimes we dine at Denny's. Sometimes we watch a movie in which a marine private shoots his drill sergeant to death, and then himself, as in Full Metal Jacket, and sometimes we watch a movie that has an army private ordering his drill sergeant to do 200 push ups, which is the case in Biloxi Blues.I laugh every time I watch Biloxi Blues, particularly at the scene in which Jerome, while popping his cherry, is reminded by a good humored and patient prostitute named Rowena, played by Park Overall, to keep breathing. Keep in mind I also enjoyed watching The Hangover and The 40 Year Old Virgin. I enjoyed less Jerome meeting the perfect girl, played competently by Penelope Ann Miller. I chuckled at Private Jerome, during an arduous march, hoping for a subway, and upon arriving at Biloxi commenting that Biloxi was Africa hot, and if it stayed that hot he may not be able to stay. But, of course, he does stay. If he didn't, he would have ended up in Leavenworth, along with Private Hennessey, who is arrested for a crime that is no longer a crime.I suspect that Neil Simon's actual experience in boot camp in Biloxi, Mississippi, wasn't a light hearted romp. But, then again, my military experience consists of exactly one semester of ROTC. Still, I think If Neil Simon can laugh at his training in the army so can we. "},{"Title":"How High the Moon","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The year is 1945. Playwright Neil Simon's protagonist Eugene Morris Jerome (Matthew Broderick), from Brighton Beach Memoirs (1986), is off to join the U.S. Army. First, Mr. Broderick must complete ten weeks of basic training in Biloxi, Mississippi, with psychotic drill sergeant Christopher Walken (as Merwin J. Toomey). Broderick must also learn how to cope and bond with a diverse cast of fellow recruits. They philosophize about life, and fantasize about sex. Broderick's goals are to lose his virginity and fall in love, before shipping off to risk his life&#x85; This is one of Broderick's best roles (he played it successfully on Broadway); and, although he performs it very well, it really isn't the best written part in this comedy-drama (which is part of a Neil Simon trilogy). Broderick has a great dramatic scene with Mr. Walden, near the end of the film; he does his best with an only mildly amusing loss of innocence scene, with well-dressed prostitute Park Overall (as Rowena). The best-written role goes to Corey Parker (as Arnold B. Epstein); forsaking some end note about the future of Michael Dolan's Hennesey character.Mr. Simon's written words rise above the overall ordinary direction given the production; he has some very keen, and sometimes subtle, observations about life and love. Note that, upon first viewing, the characters are far more interesting than they initially appear. Biloxi Blues is a wistful tribute to the different people circumstances force us to relate to, after leaving home; how they inspire our lives, and become an essential part of our being.******* Biloxi Blues (3/25/88) Mike Nichols ~ Matthew Broderick, Christopher Walken, Corey Parker, Matt Mulhern "},{"Title":"How can you not like this movie?","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is a romantic, nostalgic look at an era gone by while capturing the innocence of youth. Walken is TERRIFIC in it, and all of the characters are developed throughout the movie. One of my favorite all time scenes in any movie is the scene where Jerome and Rowena are in the bedroom. I laughed out loud when I first saw it because you can so readily identify with the emotions that Jerome is feeling as he tries to figure out how to sort of lay down with her. That is a perfect example of what I mean when I say the movie really captures the innocence of youth. You will be disappointed, however, if you think that this is a war movie, as it uses the army as more of a backdrop to highlight the coming of age story. I agree, how can this movie be rated only a 6.4/10? "},{"Title":"I saw the movie and found it very funny","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie was very funny,entertaining and all around great. Although I have no complaints on it.Be hesitant on saying certain lines from the movie at work.As I was informed through an employer.Someone complained and I got was reprimanded for it.oops! , I was sent home for it.I just have to say; It was hot as Africa.. I just wish someone would explain that to the boss.And some of the employees who like to wig on petty lines as that. Has this sort of stuff ever happened to anyone else other than me? I was utilizing my freedom of speech as well as thought and this is what happened. I do believe it had places in it that were a bit much for young children in scenes. It does make for a good comical evening with adults. "},{"Title":"charming, simple comedy","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am not the biggest fan of movies about the adventures of obnoxious boys in their late teens, which is what the characters in Biloxi Blues happen to be, but I actually found that I highly enjoyed this film.The cast doesn't hurt. When Matthew Broderick is the star of a film he makes everything better, and he's a natural in the leading role of Eugene Jerome, a decent young Jewish boy who has joined the army during World War 2. Christopher Walken is a riot as the stern Sergent Toomey, and the supporting cast does a nice job as well, particularly Casey Siemaszko as Gene's buddy that he hopes he never has to count on, Don Carney.During the boy's stay at a basic training camp in Biloxi, Mississippi, a number of incidents occur, such as Toomey over-working them and being unfair to the seemingly hopeless Gene and his (slightly annoying)pal Arnold Epstein(Corey Parker, who's performance and character take a bit of getting used to), Gene being at odds with the tough guys on the squad(they read his journal and it turns out that he has written bad things about them), and a kind of pointless sub-plot about the guys working on losing their virginity(funny, until Gene actually ends up in bed.)The film was based on Neil Simon's hit Broadway play of the same title, and the adaption has remained faithful, as the film manages not to lose any of the charm it carried on the stage. I highly enjoyed my viewing and am proud to have bought the video so I could watch it again and again. "},{"Title":"Quirky and cute","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Eugene Jerome (Matthew Broderick) is a year out of high school and joining the Army in 1945. He is sent to basic training in Biloxi, Mississippi with various characters. There are the brutes like Wykowski, a brainiac Epstein, and the tough drill Sgt. Toomey (Christopher Walken). Jerome wants to write and has to survive this unstable collection of people.The Neil Simon script is quirky and cute. It comes off as a little light weight when compared to all the other great military training movie. There are every stereotypes in the book. The protagonist Eugene is sarcastic smart mouth. Epstein is a super effeminate Jew. Every character is a 3 word descriptive cartoon. There is only so much that director Mike Nichols can do with this Neil Simon recollection of his wartime life. "},{"Title":"Offers Big Laughs!","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I never thought Biloxi Blues would be endearing or compelling it turned out to be. In fact, I thought this would be a major rip-off of the first half of Full Metal Jacket, but with zany comedy. I see some similarities between the two, but thankfully Biloxi Blues turned out to be it's own film. This is more of a character study, a story about growing up only with the setting in the military. It's often funny and each character is instantly memorable thanks to the wonderful performances.Mike Nichol's film is about a Jewish teen from Brooklyn named Eugene Jerome who travels to Mississippi to serve in basic training for the army during the latter years of the second World War. Along the way, he has encounters with his tough sergeant named Toomey, his platoon, and his first love in Daisy.This role was designed perfectly for Matthew Broderick. He has many hilarious scenes and has several dramatic ones as well. Christopher Walken was just awesome here. He brings something new to the role of the tough drill sergeant. I was reminded of the bad cop, good cop routine, but with just one person.Overall, Biloxi Blues is a worthwhile adaptation from Neil Simon's play. It's funny, poignant, and clever. The jokes are well-placed and some will have you gasping for breaths. But let me say that this is not a war film, because you'll be incredibly disappointed. If you're looking for one, don't even bother watching this and watch Full Metal Jacket instead. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"He's in the Army Now.","Date":"9 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Eugene, the young hero from Brighton Beach Memoirs, has headed off to basic training in Biloxi, Mississippi to prepare to serve in the Army as America reaches the end of World War II. He gets a wakening he won't soon forget. Matthew Broderick, the young actor who played Eugene on Broadway in both Brighton Beach Memoirs and Biloxi Blues, repeats his role of Eugene after skipping the movie version of Brighton Beach Memoirs, returning to the role for this movie as his age was more appropriate for being in the army rather than the youthful teen of the first Neil Simon semi-autobiographical play. Confronted with a rather eccentric sergeant (the always amazing Christopher Walken) and a diverse group of recruits, Eugene finds himself both loved and despised as the men gain camaraderie until they discover Eugene's journal of his experiences. But one thing for sure, each of the men grows up from knowing each other, and life is never boring when you've got an unpredictable drill instructor like Walken. This enjoyable but predictable coming of age comedy is nicely acted with Broderick charming, Walken authoritative, and the ensemble diverse in the variety of characters surrounding Eugene. Penelope Ann Miller has a nice small role as the young local girl Broderick encounters, but the focus is on the men. Eugene returned for one final stage and movie fling, Broadway Bound, the movie of which was made for cable TV. "}{"Title":"The boy who never got to go to war","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is actually based on a play by Neil Simons and what makes this a decent reproduction is that Neil Simons also wrote the screenplay. As such the movie was written along the lines of the original intentions of Neil Simons rather than the interpretation of a third party. Even so, I quite enjoyed this movie namely because of its wit and decent characters.Biloxi Blues is about a young man in 1945 who is going to boot camp to train to fight in the war. This is in the closing stages of the war so moral is very high because of the fact that they are on the winning side. The war is only in the background for the focus of the movie is not the war but the relationship between the platoon and the main character's entrance into adulthood. During the movie the main character sleeps with his first woman and also falls in love for the first time. It is his first time out of home and enters the boot camp as a naïve boy, but he leaves a man.Sergeant Tooley is the most interesting character in the movie. When he first walks onto the screen one immediately notices that he is different. The stereotypical sergeant walks on yelling while Tooley walks on greeting his platoon. He rarely raises his voice, and actually uses other cadets to dish out punishments, with the intention of turning the other cadets onto him. Thus he uses peer pressure to keep people in line. Yet as with most sergeants the cadets hate him, though after he is discharged they realised how great a sergeant he really was.The main character is very witty, and of course this angers the sergeant no end. His first comment on Mississippi is that it is hot, Africa hot, not even Tarzan can stand this hot. Or when he is asked what he would do if Japanese were marching on him, he would surrender simply so he could get a decent nights sleep, or even his religious holiday simply to get out of eating a horrid meal.I guess what made this movie really lively is that the narrator claims that it was based on his own experiences. Most probably it was, though Simons does not use his own name in the movie, but rather creates another character that is him. This film is actually based on a play by Neil Simons and what makes this a decent reproduction is that Neil Simons also wrote the screenplay. As such the movie was written along the lines of the original intentions of Neil Simons rather than the interpretation of a third party. Even so, I quite enjoyed this movie namely because of its wit and decent characters. "},{"Title":"Simple Plot but Fresh,Funny and Amuse!","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When i watched this movie in HBO a month ago,i suddenly made this movie as one of the best ever made!This film gave me lots of thing about my knowledge on military base.It was a simple story-plot but told with incredible,amazing,funny and hilarious way.The great famous director (and also my favourite)Mike Nichols present (maybe not one of his greatest)the most hilarious funny movie at 90's!That was Interesting and Attractive!After Delivered Thousands of the Greatest movies before thisThe Graduate,Who's Afraid Virginia Woolf?,etc,he gave the cinematic world and the audiences the most freshing and intelligent-comedy film ever made!Supported by talented actor Matthew Broderick,The Incredible-Superb actor Christopher Walken and Sexy-Beautiful actress Penelope Ann Miller(also Thousand Infamous Stars with great acting)It was the most promising film at the 90's.Watch it!Those American Academy Military would make you smile and laugh with their smart and intelligent Humor(+Racist Jokes).. "},{"Title":"One word Hilarious","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I caught and taped this movie on Comedy Central, and was instantly entertained at how darned funny this film is. It's OUTRAGEOUSLY funny! I haven't seen anything this funny since that old FOX show Titus.Simply put, the plot is as follows Eugene Morris Jerome (Matthew Broderick) is an aspiring young writer from Brooklyn who is drafted into the army and shipped off to basic training in Biloxi, Mississippi, near the end of World War II. Eugene soon finds himself face-to-face with a kooky drill sergeant by the name of Merwin J. Toomey (Christopher Walken in one of his best performances to date), and things take off from there. I don't want to spoil anything; after you see this film for yourself, trust me, you'll be instantly surprised! Like I said before, this movie was painfully funny in many places, and the acting was good, the highlights being Matthew Broderick as the docile everyman Eugene and Chris Walken as the highly eccentric drill sergeant. Walken's performance was laugh-out funny and superb. True, the film gets slow in some places, but all in all, it's a good, clean comedy for anyone who loves a coming-of-age story set during a war with some humor thrown in.I give this a 10 out of 10 on a scale of 1-10. "},{"Title":"A little too Neil Simon-y but entertaining","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Pleasant but slight story, the second part of a trilogy, based on Neil Simon's stint in boot camp during World War II.  Good performances by a talented cast, led by Matthew Broderick (the Simon surrogate) and Christopher Walken as a slightly insane drill sergeant.  A few very nice scenes stand out  the visit to a prostitute (the jaded yet oddly motherly Park Overall) followed by a very sweet dance with Penelope Ann Miller (filmed in 360°) provided the film's high point.  The dialogue is instantly recognizable as Neil Simonesque; often very funny, it nevertheless can be distracting.  A lighter hand would've been more effective.  Another shortcoming is Corey Parker's performance, both overplayed and overwritten.  I enjoyed the film while watching it, but it hasn't had much lasting impact. "},{"Title":"Biloxi Blues Isn't Mississippi Burning **1/2","Date":"2 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film is spoiled by the last 20 minutes.Otherwise, Neil Simon's writing is at its best as he describes Eugene Jerome's experiences in the army during World War 11.Simon etches out some real characters in this film that shows that bonds are possible between guys in wartime, even when there is religious and racial prejudice involved.It is a film declaring the coming of age of youth as Jerome loses his virginity and uses his talents as a writer to describe his experiences.Christopher Walken shines here as the brutal sergeant who gets the men to hate the 2 Jewish guys in the outfit. He lets Jerome and his buddy decide who will get the bad things to do. It is when Walken goes berserk at the end that the film goes awry. "},{"Title":"Mississippi Mood","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although it forms the second part of a semi-autobiographical trilogy Neil Simon's Biloxi Blues is sufficiently self-contained to stand alone as a bildungsroman. Having seen it in context on the stage - it takes up the story of Eugene Jerome (Neil Simon) a year or so after Brighton Beach Memoirs, which dealt with his teens in Brooklyn, just as the final play, Broadway Bound, covers his post-army career and attempts to establish himself as a writer - I think it's fair to say that whilst I had prior knowledge of his alter ego I could just as easily have watched Biloxi Blues cold and derived the same satisfaction. Director Mike Nichols begins the action on the train carrying Jerome and fellow ex-boot camp conscripts to Biloxi where they will be whipped into shape prior to being shipped overseas (we are in the closing months of World War Two) so that Jerome's back-story is no more viable than any of the others. Although the film boasts two 'marquee' names in Mathew Broderick (note two 'christian' names as in Neil Simon) and Christopher Walken it is actually an ensemble piece with each of the largely unknown platoon members contributing equally to what is a hugely enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Nice movie. Christopher Walken as Sgt. Toomey makes this movie fun.","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Only two years after his smash hit role as Ferris Bueller, Matthew Broderick (26 here) has first billing as Eugene Jerome, a Jewish boy from New York, newly induced into the Army, and being shipped off to Biloxi for training in 1945. In many respects it is similar to another war movie I saw yesterday, Take The High Ground with Richard Widmard. The sum of the story is the growing up of these young boys during training camp, and being converted into a precision fighting machine.But for me, Christopher Walken as Sgt. Toomey, the leader of their platoon, makes the movie interesting and fun. Walken plays this mostly as a comic role, but in a subtle manner. When he looks the recruit directly in the eye and explains that he is missing part of his brain, and has an iron plate in his skull from his war service, you believe him, even when he has a wry smile breaking across his face. Or when he tells Jerome that he hates New Yorkers, we know the in joke because Walken is a New Yorker.Penelope Ann Miller (24 here and looking younger) as Daisy adds a love interest for Jerome. They meet at a dance, with the nuns watching. She is not allowed to make dates with the recruits, but if he happens to show up during the weekend when she is going to confession, who is to know? As the recruits leave camp on the train, a voice over tells us it is late 1945 and the victory for the Allies in the war has been won. So these recruits will not face battle. Jerome goes back to New York and writes a book Biloxi Blues, in a Neil Simon self-reference.Nice movie. "},{"Title":"been there, done that...","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Neil Simon's ingratiating boot camp comedy suffers in translation from stage to screen from lackluster direction, murky photography, and a general air of tired over-familiarity. Except for some updated concessions to jaded viewers (raw profanity, some homosexual persecution, the inevitable encounter with a local prostitute) it might almost have been made during the same era it depicts (the latter days of World War II), with only Christopher Walken's sensitively rendered psychotic drill sergeant breaking free of its traditional stereotype. All the expected coming-of-age complications are trimmed and well-fitted, if needlessly reinforced by far too much voice-over narration by Simon's alter ego Matthew Broderick, and the undercurrents of rosy nostalgia are (thankfully) kept in check, making the film a pleasant excuse for idling away ninety minutes on a slow afternoon. "},{"Title":"Silly at times, but worth it for Walken.","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Christopher Walken is not a chameleon he always retains his unique style no matter which role he inhabits. His great talent is to be absolutely believable, however. He isn't a Bruce Willis or Michael Douglas, that is to say, an actor who just plays himself. Walken was outstanding in The Dead Zone, spot-on in his True Romance cameo, and is probably one of the top four or five American actors. His performance in Biloxi Blues is in keeping with the rest of his work. Walken is always Walken, but he becomes a drill sergeant, and not the drill sergeant from every other war movie. Walken's drill sergeant is one-of-a-kind. The rest of the movie is decent enough, though, besides Corey Parker and Matthew Broderick, the acting isn't so great. When Walken appears, it is like Joe DiMaggio playing for a minor-league team. This film is worth seeing for Walken's performance alone.   "},{"Title":"Did for Christopher Walken what Analyze This did for De Niro...","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Biloxi Blues was the second playwright Neil's Simon semi-autobiographical triology (number one was Brighton Beach Memoirs, number three, Broadway Bound). Matthew Broderick's stars as Simon's alter ego Eugene Morris Jerome, who is drafted and shipped off to boot camp in Biloxi, Mississippi in the waning days of World War 2.Neil Simon's Eugene Morris Jerome plays never fail to make me laugh no matter how many times I see/read them. He's got his finger on the pulse of true comedy, and it's treatment in this film is quite worthy.Althought the hole cast is great, Matthew Broderick does a fine job portraying Eugene, just the right amount of incredulouness and irreverence to do the character justice. But he also carries the few bits of drama without many problems, so for any actor to handle comedy with such a flair is commendable.Christopher Walken as the sadistic Sgt. Toomey steals the show, however, proving he's not just a bad guy in films...He's also a FUNNY bad guy, with unerring comedic timing, that unfortunately doesn't get shown often enough. "}{"Title":"Great Film to BUY!  Funny / Sad / Entertaining / Educational","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie that wonderfully entertaining.  First of all, a great cast with Matthew Broderick and Christopher Walken.  Good Scenes are with Sgt Toomy (Walken) torturing and making fun of the platoon as the anally retentive commanding officer.  Another great scene is where all the boys are on a weekend leave to Gulfport where they go to a whorehouse. This is where Eugene (Broderick) loses his virginity, and it is a scary scence that reminds us of our first time.  Did we know what to do and how to act? This movie also shows how people behaved towards homosexuals back in the 1940's. This is where a soldier named James Hennessy was found in the washroom with another soldier and they both got court martialed.  For homosexuality, they spend time in Leavenworth Prison!  Then was the part where Eugene met his love Daisy Hannigan, a sweet young Magnolia Mississippi girl.  It is based on a true story and is very entertaining.  It is not a blood and guts war movie, but a clean simple comedy for all to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Funny, with good performances, but dramatically weak","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Neil Simon's dry-witted play about camaraderie, belonging and a sense of self worth is brought to the big screen by veteran director Mike Nichols (Postcards From the Edge, Regarding Henry and Working Girl). Simon (who adapts his own work to the screen here) has a sharp sense of humour, and the oft times funny film reflects this well thanks to some clever performances from the players who make the very most of the incisive dialogue.Matthew Broderick gives a fine showing as Eugene Jerome, an intelligent young kid who can't stand the Mississippi heat, boot camp, his sergeant and half of his platoon. Jerome expends a great repertoire of one-liners (typical of a wise guy New Yorker) to try and keep himself sane, but finds he's in dire straights with his sadistic drill sergeant, Twomey. Christopher Walken personifies with ease the role of the heartless commander, who takes an immediate disliking to Jerome and another Jewish draftee, Epstein. There's none better than Walken at portraying unbalanced, slightly psychotic characters, and he makes this one his own. There's also strong support form a young cast that includes Penelope Ann Miller, Casey Siemaszko, Matt Mulhern, Michael Dolan, Markus Flanagan and Park Overall.Dramatically is where the film falls down, with some effective moments countered by several not so effective. Nichols, Simon and company are unable to involve us or interest us in the characters lives, and we find it hard to empathise with or get close to, any of them.Bill Butler's cinematography is quite admirable, accompanied by convincing sets and art direction (Paul Sylbert). Music is from Georges Delerue.Sunday, December 17, 1995 - Video "},{"Title":"Good, and no one dies.","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was good, for the most part, although I found the scene where Eugene loses his virginity just plain painful and not particularly funny (hmmm... much like real life).  But it was for the most part enjoyable and effective for what it is meant to be, a story about characters.  Some people seem to be under the impression that this is a war movie, but it's not; like I said, it's a story about characters.  And since this film, as well as Brighton Beach Memoirs and Broadway Bound in the same series, are based quite a bit on Neil Simon's own life, as I understand it, it would be hard for this movie to be about the war since he never went, being only 18 at the time WWII ended.If you are looking for a movie where tanks roll and people die, this movie is not for you.  If you are looking for a movie where tanks roll, people die, and the characters are important (like Saving Private Ryan), this movie is also not going to fulfill all those requirements.  If, however, you are looking for a coming-of-age, character-based film, then this movie is an excellent choice. "},{"Title":"Biloxi Blues","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Broderick, Walken and Nichols make magic in this film version of Neil Simon's 1985 Tony Award winner that further explores the life of Eugene Morris Jerome. Parker is off as Epstein. (The role was originated beautifully by Barry Miller.) Penelope Ann Miller co-stars.  "},{"Title":"join the army and see the navy","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is difficult to believe that there is such a thing as the 'service comedy'. Well, there is and this film is one of them. What anybody could find remotely funny about being drafted into the army puzzles me, but it takes all kinds to make a world. The story concerns a young man from New York who is drafted and how he has to spend his time with a bunch of misfits in boot camp in Biloxi, Mississippi, where it is very hot and uncomfortable. He learns how to be a soldier and is meant to be 'grown up' by the end of his experiences. The film is written by legendary playwright Neil Simon but I have been lukewarm toward his other work and I found no reason to change my mind after seeing this film. I just sit here scratching my head thinking 'why' but his plays and movies are popular and have made a lot of money, so who am I to argue? Matthew Broderick plays the lead role of the young military novice but the only thing the film really has going for it is the presence of Christopher Walken as a psychotic drill sergeant, who makes Broderick's, and everyone else's life a nightmare with his somewhat strict adherence to the rules of combat in peacetime. Walken is a great actor and he makes a meal of his part, turning the sergeant into a monster who gives no quarter and doesn't receive any. At least I thought that at first, but somehow, through the process, the audience becomes sorry for him, despite or because of the fact that he is a total psychotic.. A few of the supporting players turn in good work but, this is forgettable, and something to be recommended only for people who like movies about the army. Whoever and wherever they may be, this is for them "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS MOVIE","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  THIS MOVIE RULES!!!! IT'S FUNNY AND SAD BUT STILL IT'S AWESOME!! MATTHEW BRODERICK PLAYS EUGENE JEROME WHO WANTS TO LOSE HIS VIRGINITY AND FALL IN LOVE WITH THE PERFECT GIRL. CHRISTOPHER WALKEN WAS BY FAR THE BEST IN THIS MOVIE AS SGT. TOOMEY AS FOR THE REST THEY DID GREAT TOO!! THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST FILMS OF ALL TIME!!! "},{"Title":"A Terrible Story","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This decent World War II flick didn't focus on enough of the War, at least that's how I put it. The Good thing about it is that it wasn't a long movie. Most of it focused on the relationship between Eugene, his buddies, and Sgt. Toomey. The Story made no sense, and I couldn't figure out what was going on. Matthew Broderick was at his best, as usual. I give this movie two stars (on a half-star scale).  "},{"Title":"Neil who?","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Plays are made by great and interesting dialog. At one extreme is of course Shakespeare who generally wrote dialog that no one (including Elizabethan era people) would use, but which sum up an idea exactly (which is why Shakespeare is so often quoted and misquoted.On the other hand there is Neil Simon. It just sounds like people having ordinary every day conversations, but in his own way he achieves exactly what Shakespeare is trying to do (only the result is not worth quoting).Biloxi Blues is based on his own experiences in Basic training during WWII. What makes this movie unique amongst war training movies is that he doesn't go to war. So the experience is taken out of context and seen in a true brutal light (a soldier feels a lot less differently about their drill Sargent when the bullets start flying and the training kicks in).An interesting, insightful, tragic, amusing movie which is a little bit slow and probably best only for people who like a dialog driven movie.To give you an example a dialog describing the way one soldier masturbates and ejaculates like he is launching a torpedo is followed by the statement that this is person he would most trust going into battle. "}]