[{"Title":"Mel Brooks is a genius!","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"76 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spaceballs is one of my favorite comedies of all time, it's actually one of those few movies that I know every single line too. I know that seems a bit sad, but this film has so many memorable lines that it came so natural. I've watched this movie since I was a little girl and the strange thing is that every time I watch it, it just seems to get funnier and funnier. I don't understand how a person could not laugh with this film, it just has perfect humor that I'm sure could make the emotionally stunted person laugh. How could you not laugh at Rick Morannis as Lord Helmet? He was beyond a perfect choice for Helmet, he was the complete opposite of what Darth Vadar was, and he didn't have a problem making fun of himself. In fact, the whole cast looked like they had the ultimate blast making this film, everyone clicked so well. The story is one of Mel's finest parades, of course, this one is of Star Wars or pretty much any space film.Lord Helmet and President Skroob wish to steal all of Planet Druidia's fresh air and transfer it onto their own, but they must get the combination to the air shield that is protecting it. King Roland's daughter, Princess Vespa, runs away from her wedding, since King Roland is the king of Druidia, Lord Helmet kidnaps her to get the combination. King Roland asks space rebel, Lone Starr and his faithful side kick Mog(half-man half-dog) Barf, to save the princess. But things quickly turn bad when Helmet does get the combination and now Lone Starr must use the schwartz and defeat Lord Helmet and Skroob before they suck all the air from Druidia.Spaceballs is seriously just a great comedy, I guarantee you that you will have a good laugh by watching this film. Every scene is just so funny, my favorite is always the one with Lord Helmet playing with his dolls and Corinel Sanders walks in on him, you'll just have to see what I mean, but it's the funniest scene in my opinion. But there isn't one scene that isn't funny. If you are a fan of Mel Brooks, I don't see any reason why you shouldn't love this film, it's my second favorite just behind Young Frankenstein, but that was a tough choice. I highly recommend Spaceballs for anyone, please see this film, you won't regret it.10/10 "},{"Title":"Yuks in Space...","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"78 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Leave it to Mel Brooks; no one else could make a space movie with references to The Wizard of Oz, The Godfather, Mr. Coffee and flying Winnebagos.Spaceballs is just about the best post-History of the World Part I film Mel has made and that's saying something, considering how many great jokes Mel and Company is able to pull off while within PG territory.Easy enough to guess that this is Mel's take on Star Wars, complete with his own versions of C-3P0 (Dot Matrix), Princess Leia (Princess Vespa), Chewbacca (Barf the Mawg) and a combination of Han Solo and Luke Skywalker (LoneStarr).  Oh, and let's not forget Dark Helmet!  The very embodiment of evil (Mel Brooks-style) who not only wears a black cloak and headpiece but also a stylishly-wide black tie.  And when he strikes...it's usually not above the belt.The gags come fast and furious and, as is usually the case, all the regular faces show up (Graham, DeLuise, Van Patten) and Mel gives it all he's got.  Lots of space sagas get equal ribbing (the Star Wars trilogy, Alien, Planet of the Apes) and there isn't a cliche that Mel fails to notice. You can't blame Mel Brooks for thinking this genre needed a good skewering.  He started it in History of the World with his Jews in Space coming attraction and continues it here.  My only complaint Mel, why did you have to wait so long??Eight stars, plus a half star more for Pizza the Hutt; I loved it, especially when the pepperoni started running.  Also for President Skroob's (Brooks') comment after being mis-transported (Why didn't somebody tell me my a** was so big??).  Okay, nine stars.  Mel Brooks strikes back! "},{"Title":"Lord Dark Helmet! So we meet again for the first time for the last time!","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"71 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Brisk parody of Star Wars and other great science fiction films pits Bill Pullman and his man-dog/dog-man partner John Candy against Rick Moranis and Mel Brooks as they try to rescue Princess Daphne Zuniga from the clutches of the evil Space-Balls.The cast are clearly enjoying themselves and there's a gag almost every minute, mostly notably the Star Wars gags. Some of the best are -1) Pizza the Hutt2) The 'Alien' Diner scene with John Hurt (Oh no... not again!)3) Yogurt the Yoda clone (also Mel Brooks; Please, I'm just plain Yogurt.)4) Dot's Virgin Alarm (Designed to go off before you do.)5) A pot shot at Lawrence of Arabia6) The 'combing the desert' sequence7) Rick Moranis 'playing with his toys'8) The Statue of Liberty Transformer9) The Planet of the Apes sequence10) The light saber schwartz duel11) The guard instructing Bill Pullman on how to properly do the Vulcan nerve pinch.12) Accidentally capturing the stunt doubles.13) The quote unquote sexual tension between Bill and Daphne.And many more. Keep an eye out for this one.Where're you from? - Daphne ZunigaI don't know. Somewhere in the Ford Galaxy. - Bill Pullman  "},{"Title":"Of course it is my dear... I guarantee it!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"52 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A joyous, hilarious fairy-tale (which just happens to be set in a galaxy resembling one far, far away, a long time ago)! Many cheap, childish, utterly irresistible gags. Special effects of sufficient quality that they don't distract. Excellent ensemble acting with Rick Moranis a real highlight. And a space Winnebago...One of Mr. Brooks's finest efforts! When the cod-seriousness of Episodes I, II and III gets too much for you, just imagine Mace Windu with his Schwartz tangled and pop this movie on.Now, it's getting a bit stuffy in here so I'm off to inhale some delightful Perri-air. "},{"Title":"Very funny Star Wars spoof","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"55 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs is one of my favorite Mel Brooks comedies. Brooks has made some of the funniest movies of our time (The Producers, Brazing Saddles, High Anxiety, etc.) and I think Spaceballs is up there in the same league. This film spoofs the Star Wars movies in general, but there's also references to Star Trek, Alien, and Planet of the Apes just to name a few. The actors are all very funny, with Brooks in two roles President Skroob and Yogurt (his version of Yoda); the late John Candy as Barf the mawg (half man, half dog); Rick Moranis as the Darth Vader clone Dark Helmet; Bill Pullman as Lone Starr, the Luke Skywalker takeoff; Daphne Zuniga as Princess Vespa, similar to Princess Leia; and Dot Matrix, the robot with the voice of Joan Rivers who's obviously in the C-3P0 role. There's plenty of silly gags throughout Spaceballs, and I laughed most of the time. Very funny, entertaining sci-fi comedy from one of the great comedic filmmakers of all time. ***1/2 (out of four)     "},{"Title":"So Lone Star, I see your Schartz is as big as mine........","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"49 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs is one of the funniest movies ever. In the tradition of Airplane it spoofs nearly all modern SciFi including Star Wars, The Empire Strikes Back, Return Of The Jedi, Alien, Star Trek, and Planet Of The Apes. Mel Brook's has had some funny movies but this takes the cake. Rick Moranis is inarguably his second best role after Strange Brew. John Candy has one of his better performances. Bill Pullman (a long way from Independence Day) is the central character Lone Star, a combination Luke Skywalker and Han Solo. Sight gags and classic memorable lines are present here from beginning to end. Just looking at Dark Helmet is enough to induce laughter. Spaceballs is a truly great film. Let's see how well you handle it! "},{"Title":"Hilarious if you are in the right mood for it.","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"48 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie can be absolutely hilarious, if you are in the right mood for it. If you didn't liked this movie, then you probably weren't in the right mood, because there is no way you can dislike and find this movie unfunny.Most fun thing about the movie is Rick Moranis as Dark Helmet who is the complete opposite in every way of the ultimate bad guy from the entire universe; Darth Vader, especially in size. Like almost every other Mel Brook's movie this movie has some extreme hits and some extreme misses, by seriously it all is just a matter of taste. What might seem funny for some is unfunny to others and vice versa.The acting is over the top and quite bad actually especially Bill Pullman and Daphne Zuniga. Thank goodness that the sidekicks are the better and funnier characters in this movie, characters with poetic names such as Barf, Colonel Sandurz, Major Asshole, Yogurt and Pizza the Hutt.The movie suffers from some horrible eighties songs, the curse of almost every eighties movies these days, other than that, there isn't much negative to say about his movie even though it is far from Brook's best.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A Groovy Film","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"45 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is stupid, pointless and has got to be one of the best comedies in existence alongside Monsters, inc.. If you're feeling low, this film will cheer you up unbelievably. May the Schwartz be with you. It has an endless line of rib-cracking gags (Let's jam the catapult says a character at a certain stage in the film. they then toss a jar of jam at the catapult. Another great gag is when the bad guys are chasing after the good guys, instead of going at light speed they go at ludicrous speed. Every space film you could think of is spoofed in this film, from Planet Of The Apes to Star Wars. There's even a spoof of It Happened one Night (the bride running away from the wedding). Whether the weather is cold or hot see this film, and remember, if the combination on your suitcase is 1,2,3,4 you had better change it. Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Best SI-FI Comedy I have ever seen","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"47 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Best SI-FI Comedy I have ever seen.With Mell Brooks at the helm of this gem how could it go wrong . i would like to see part 2 of space-balls taking the crap out of Starwars 1 2 and 3 that would be cool. I got the VHS a long time ago , and now have the DVD i have watched it at least 100 times . and still can watch it over and over again. Some Things i liked. may the Schwartz be with you what the hell it worked on star-trek Pizza the hut I told you we should have put more then five bucks in and the part where they have instant cassettes where the movie is out before its finished.I req this movie for all ages . 10/10 "},{"Title":"Time for a nice, fun space-out!","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It seemed obvious for a long time that someone would do a Star Wars spoof, and it seems that only Mel Brooks could do it. Spaceballs starts off by showing us a spaceship...for a very long time. Then, we learn that the planet Spaceballs has used up all its air. So, Pres. Skroob (Mel Brooks) has sent the ultra-evil, ultra-dork Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis) to kidnap Princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga) from the planet Druidia to extort their air.Fear not! There are two people who can save her space-traveling everyman Lone Starr (Bill Pullman) and his half-dog, half-human friend Barf (John Candy, and the character is his own best friend!). And they do it by jamming Dark Helmet's radar...with real jam.From there, the whole thing is typical Mel Brooks stuff, with a gag every minute and parts where they admit that they're in a movie. I think that my favorite part is when they watch Spaceballs The Movie (But we're barely halfway through making it!). But the scene where John Hurt spoofs one of his most famous scenes is also something. A laugh riot from beginning to end. Also starring Dom DeLuise, Dick Van Patten, George Wyner, and the voice of Joan Rivers.May the Schwartz be with us all! "}{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spaceballs (1987) is one of Mel Brook's funniest films! It didn't hurt that I grew up on this film either. It was properly cast, with especially hilarious performances by Rick Moranis as Dark Helmet and the late John Candy (RIP) as Barf! The script is strong, with an actual story with jokes that are mostly spot-on - the spoof of Star Wars isn't predictable and very welcome. And the music is great too btw - kudos to composer John Morris. I sincerely hope that Mel Brooks will get Spaceballs 2 Revenge of the Schwartz off the ground (especially since the last Star Wars came out, thus completing the prequel trilogy - the first Spaceballs was made after the original trilogy was completed). A laugh out riot at 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks at His Shameless, Unrestrained Best","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A classic remnant from the tail end of Mel Brooks's manic, pun-drenched peak. It may not be as smart as The Producers or as complete as Blazing Saddles, but it's every bit as funny as anything he's ever made and that's saying something. Its light-handed approach to storytelling, where the jokes come first and the plot developments are a distant second, is actually very similar to 1981's History of the World, Part I - which should be no surprise, as they're back-to-back in his sequential catalog. Rick Moranis, Bill Pullman and John Candy really come to life in their roles as not-so-subtle parodies of Darth Vader, Han Solo and Chewbacca, respectively, with Moranis in particular somehow getting deep laughs out of lines so cheesy a Taco Bell nacho would flinch. As dumb comedies go it's a heavyweight champion, so infinitely quotable that my buddies and I had to enforce a strict one Spaceballs reference per day policy back in school to keep things from getting out of hand. Absurdly stupid fun. "},{"Title":"I still like it","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I must have seen this movie about twenty times back in the early 1990's when it ran on cable every other month. I really remember how funny i thought it was, especially considering that many of the other things i watched were crappy science-fiction films that were also on cable then. Many people seem to think that this is a spoof of Star Wars, but really it's more a spoof of the whole science-fiction genre. Not least that low-budget crap i used to watch on TV on Sunday's, movies that i can't remember the title of and that you're not likely to see on collector's DVD any time soon.So, how does this hold up now that i've watched it again after all this time? Well, better than i thought, that's for sure. I was afraid that this movie would be one of those i loved before but couldn't understand at all any more. But while i didn't exactly love it this time around, i still understand why i loved it back then. And there are still a few really good laughs here. Not least when it comes to Rick Moranis Darth Vader-spoof Dark Helmet. A few of the scenes with him (and his whole appearance) still make me laugh.Aside from the science-fiction theme this is mostly regular Mel Brooks-fare. I've always had two major problems with him. First of all the fact that he always mixes really funny stuff with horribly dated and boring scenes. Second of all i'm no fan of Brooks acting. Many times his characters are among the least funny in the movie, and sometimes when he gives himself a lot of room, that can be a problem.In general though this movie is generally quite funny. It's far from one of Brooks greatest (Blazing Saddles is my favorite and it's light years better, if you'll excuse the pun), but it still holds it's own and is superior to many of his later movies. It feels a bit dated and the pace is far from today's quick-paced comedies. But in general i still like it. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Brook's best work...","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Something I once loved almost as much as watching my favorite sci-fi movies growing up was watching them getting made fun of. Mel Brook's sci-fi/fairy tale is the perfect movie for that. Brooks' brings his usual flavor of comedy to space, spoofing such movies as Star Wars, Star Trek, and Alien. Comedies like Brooks' really appealed to me when I was younger and stuck with me as I grew up. I have always loved his work and this is probably his best, or at least most memorable.The cast is really what made this movie work. Most notable are Rick Moranis as Dark Helmet (the film's villain) and John Candy as Barf (the half-man/half-dog sidekick). The film also stars Bill Pullman, Daphne Zuniga, Joan Rivers, and, of course, Mel Brooks. It is the story of Lone Starr and his parter, Barf, being hired by the king of the planet Druidia to rescue Princess Vespa from Dark Helmet and his army of Spaceballs. While it sounds a little odd, let me assure you it is. It has a fairy tale plot and pokes fun at all of the most clichéd science fiction elements.Though I have to admit, while I loved the movie when I was younger, I found it more difficult to sit down and watch it now. There are a lot of visual gags that are funny the first or second time you watch it, but they soon wear out. I find this trouble with a lot of Brooks' films. Excellent for the first few times, but I begin to lose interest after that. Of course, don't let that stop you if you haven't yet seen them. Especially Spaceballs. It is one of those movies you need to see at least once.May the Schwartz be with you... "},{"Title":"They've gone to plaid!","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The titular Spaceballs have destroyed the atmosphere of their own planet, so they're running out of air. They have set their sights on Druidia, which has plenty of it. There's a barrier protecting it, that they'll need the code to, from the King. They're going to take his daughter hostage and force him to reveal it. Fortunately, he asks Lone Starr(Bill Pullman, whose proper acting talent lends the dramatic scenes of this a little gravitas, so you get engaged... and he's a combination of Han and Luke... mainly the former) to rescue her(promising to pay them the money they need to settle their debt with Pizza The Hutt), and though he and the Druish princess(...yeah, you got it) start out resenting each other as opposites, they may just find themselves falling for each other. He brings along Barf(John Candy, who's like Chewie), the mog(one half man, the other one dog... he's his own best friend), and she, Dot, the female version of C3PO(yeah, it... doesn't change much about him), so a golden robot, a maid, voiced by Joan Rivers. Almost every major concept from Star Wars, and scenes straight from the first one, are spoofed(along with ST and various movies). Nearly every joke and gag is funny, and at its best, which is at least a third of this, it is impossibly hilarious. There is silliness, slapstick, wordplay, and breaking the fourth wall material(in fact, this has the best of such that I've seen committed to film). As the Darth Vader, we have Rick Moranis as the tiny, order-barking insecure dictator who overcompensates by having a huge helmet. The characters aren't bad, and there are sort of arcs to a couple of them. This having a proper, if simple and clichéd, plot, helps its rewatchability. Even if you stripped all the humor, stuff would be going on. The story is actually basically a fairie tale that is set in the SW universe. There is a bit of disturbing content and sexually suggestive stuff, as well as a moderate amount of strong language in this. The DVD comes with a theatrical trailer. I recommend this to every fan of parody. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The many rays of this satire are flying loose","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A parody of Star Wars, and Aliens, and some other films of the type (space science fiction) is of course welcome because we like taking things un-seriously, non-seriously, serious-ness-less-ly. So it is funny and that is not a surprise. Mel Brooks knows how to make things both funny and silly so that we can gargle with giggles and barf with laughter. But the film has the main defect all Mel Brooks's films have. The humor is essentially punctual, so we have one joke after another, one smile after another, one pleasant moment after another, but there is no structural derision of the models. The final birth of an alien is funny both because of the situation in which it happens and it surprises us then, and because the alien is turned into some kind of long-tailed Fred Astaire or Zizi Jeanmaire. With a few bananas it could have impersonated Josephine Baker. The River Kwai song is funny because it surprises us too especially since we were expecting seven dwarfs and their song when going down to the mine. But that is all. Beyond this fun nothing, zilch. And that's a shame because the subject could have been a real mine of structural humor against these big space sagas that process the audience into some kind of slightly, and even at times a lot, intellectually and culturally retarded people. The only attempt at this structural humor is to make the king of the good ones regress beyond some kind of constitutional monarchy to look like an old feudal monarchy in the absurd way they dress, a King Lear comic clown. But that does not shoot the moon down from the sky. In the same way the transformation of the bad spaceship into the statue of Liberty is pure derision but the transformation of her beams of light around her head into escape routes that defecate the wrecked soldiers does not really provides the film with some structural meaning, like the satire of American democracy and liberty that are at times quite dark in their general functioning. Funny for sure in the absurd line of definition of this term, funny too when you can read most of the allusions, but the fun is scattered and sprinkled all over, as if the millions of stars could be compared to the unique and sole sun.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"I'm a Mog! Half-man, half-dog...I'm my own best friend","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the best movies ever... and I don't say that unless its true, but in Spaceballs' case, it definitely is. Spaceballs is the funniest parody movie I have ever seen, and blows the hell out of Scary Movie. Spaceballs has good acting, story, characters, and special FX. Not one flaw can be found about this movie. The movie parodies mainly Star Wars but also throws in some Star Trek, Alien, Planet of the Apes, and stuff like that. Bill Pullman and John Candy make a hilarious and memorable duo. Pullman gives the highlight of his career as Lone Starr. Candy gives an award winning performance as the Mog; Barf. Mel Brooks plays a hilarious President Skroob. Rick Moranis was extra funny as the nerdy, short version of Darth Vader; Dark Helmet. Daphne Zuniga was well cast as the bratty, annoying, self-absorbed Princess Vespa. Even Joan Rivers does a good voice-over of the side-kick C-3PO knock off, Dot Matrix. Everything about this movie was great. Me and my friends always quote this movie and everything. Every school has a band of Star Wars Nerds, but in our case, its Spaceballs Nerds. I recommend this movie to anyone and everyone with a sense of humor. 10/10. "},{"Title":"An very funny spoof to all sorts of Science Fiction classics.","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a galaxy, very far far far and far away. In space, it is ruled by Spaceballs, where in a fascist galaxy that tries to rule any planets and also there are out of air. There's eyes is set on Druidia, a planet that has the cleanest air in the whole galaxy. The Evil Dark Halmet (Rick Moranis) is planning to kidnap a tough spoiled Druish Princess (Daphne Zuniga), if he does success to kidnap her. He will try to use his power to scare King Ronald (Dick Van Patten) to have the code to steal their air. Since Planet Druidia is protected by a large sphere that circle the planet. King Ronald asks the help of a clueless hero for hired (Bill Pullman) and his loyal half dog/half man creature (John Candy) to rescue her. But Dark Helmet and President Skroob of Spaceballs (Mel Brooks) will do anything to steal their air.Directed by Mel Brooks (Blazing Saddles, Robin HoodMen in Thighs, Young Frankenstein) made an amusingly spoof on Science-Fiction movies like Alien, Star Trek, Star Wars and more. Brooks also appears as a wisp imp named Yogurt. This film went on to be a big success on Video and always finding new fans for the young and old for the last twenty years. At the box office, the picture was only a modest hit. The cast are engaging, especially Candy and Morains have the biggest laughs. Pullman is a hoot in the lead character.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and for the first time in DTS 5.1 Surround Sound is a good sound mix (Also in Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound). DVD includes an entertaining commentary track by the director, three featurettes and more. John Hurt, who has a memorable scene in Alien, he does the same role again but this time in a comical way. The jokes in Spaceballs are surprisingly dirty at times and it has some vulgar language, since it is rated PG! Which it would be rated PG-13 for today. George Wyner as the second man to Dark Helmet and Joan Rivers as the voice of Dot Matrix are also fun. One of Brooks' most entertaining films but nothing tops Young Frankenstein. Which is Brooks' masterpiece. The picture is surprisingly straight-forward for a spoof. Written by the director, Thomas Meehan (Hairspary 2007, The Producers 2005) and Ronny Graham (To Be or Not To Be 1983). (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Great parody.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This must be one of the best parodies I have seen.Especially for those who have seen the whole Star Wars series.Mel Brooks is a legend and makes some extremely funny stuff.The best role in the movie was definitely Rick Moranis as Lord Dark Helmet.He was just hilarious. Great comedy,go watch it even if you haven't seen Star Wars.  "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS!","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The best Mel Brooks film I've ever seen.  All the main and minor characters contribute to the endless amount of laughs in spaceballs.  Even John Hurt's cameo sent me to the floor!  I would reccomend this to every fan of Mel Brooks and to most people who enjoy well rounded comedy and parody. "}{"Title":"My all time favorite Mel Brooks movie","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love this film!! Saw it 3 times in the theater.Being a long time Star Wars fan & collector this film could have went bad easy.But, it did not. Thankfully.Loved it the first time I saw it.Cast & script are perfect!! So many scenes & so many lines I can play over & over again.They've gone to plaid! Good, you're married! Kiss her!! Merchandising!! Where the real money from the movie is made. Great ideas taken from the original Star Wars trilogy & other films.Wonderful film.Wish Mel still made them like this.1, 2, 3, 4, 5. "},{"Title":"A parody that is hillariously classical","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Out of all the Mel Brooks movies about sci-fi parodies, Spaceballs is the one. Mimicing Star Wars has really got to take some work. Dark Helmut was just a overeager prick who never learns that evil doesn't pay. Daphne Zuniga is no Carrie Fisher, but when Vespa's hair was shot, she really got set off. YEOW! Though a few things differed from the first SW movie it was all fun without the excess violence. Mel Brooks really did well with this movie especially playing President Skroob, and Yogurt. So if you want a good laugh see this movie, it's worth your while. "},{"Title":"Great spoof of the Star Wars movies!!!","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a spoof of the Star Wars movies. It stars Bill Pullman(Casper,Mistrail,Zero Effect,ID4) and and John Candy(The Great Outdoors,Uncle Buck) . It spoofs the Star Wars movie perfectly!!It has a great cast and lots of laughs!!It is one of my favorite movies directed by Mel Brooks!!!You can see Joan Rivers and Dick Van Patten(TV series Eight Is Enough) in roles in this movie!!Spaceballs is a great spoof of all the Star Wars movie!!! "},{"Title":"I've Got A Bad Feeling About This...","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's sad to see a legend from the 1970s reduced to this.I write of course about the Spinners, that classic R&B act which appears on the soundtrack of Spaceballs performing the title track What you got is what they need/And all they know is dirty deeds/They're the Spaceballs/Watch out!Watch out, indeed. Just because it's by Mel Brooks doesn't make it funny. In fact, Brooks' comedies showed serious sign of strain and rust by the end of the 1970s. Except for To Be Or Not To Be, which he starred in but didn't direct, Brooks was never involved in a good comedy after 1977's High Anxiety.Nineteen seventy-seven was also the year Star Wars came out, the movie parodied here along with its two sequels. Watching Spaceballs, one gets the feeling Mel was inspired less by his love for sci-fi fantasy than the big bucks the Star Wars franchise raked in. Brooks himself stars as Yoghurt, a little-Jewish-man parody of Yoda, and as President Skroob, leader of the evil Spaceballs and the butt of many groin gags. Skroob wants to steal the oxygen supply of the planet Druidia with the help of his dangerous-looking but height-challenged henchman Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis). Can the mercenary Lone Starr (Bill Pullman) stop them?I love 1980s films, even gnarly ones like Scarface and Streets Of Fire. But any film with a major part for Joan Rivers and an extended Max Headroom bit just gags me with a spoon. There's also a villain called Pizza The Hutt and references to the Doublemint gum twins and Ford Galaxies. You wonder whether Mel was cribbing ideas from Cracked magazine.Who are you? demands Daphne Zuniga, playing the role of a Princess Leia character, to a half-man, half-dog character played by John Candy who has just popped into the front of her spaceship.Barf, says Candy, that being the character's name.Not in here you don't. This is a Mercedes!Brooks presents better material, just not very much. The film throughout is shot in a remarkably flat and ugly manner, and acted so broadly you almost wince in pain for the next-morning regrets of all involved. Pullman and Zuniga have zero romantic or comic chemistry. Worse still is the slow pacing, taking forever to set up single-line gags. Whereas he was creating great comedy the decade before, here he takes cues from his own imitators, like the makers of Airplane! complete with their kitchen-sink surrealism. When the Spaceball cruiser faces imminent destruction, we discover a crew of kettle drummers and bearded ladies. Yoghurt is surrounded by dwarfs who sing a one-word version of the Colonel Bogie march. It's so kooky, it must be funny!About the only redeeming feature in this entire movie is Moranis's over-the-top performance as Dark Helmet. Brooks does give him some good lines, and he delivers them with a goofy mixture of menace and panache, even when he is stuck making innumerable jokes about his Schwartz.Oddly, Spaceballs does have many admirers, perhaps because the film was around when they were young and starving for anything Star Wars related, back when the original trilogy was hard to locate on video. Brooks pulled in his biggest financial success while keeping appetites whetted for George Lucas's next run to the well a decade hence.Don't confuse Spaceballs with a real Mel Brooks comedy. Blazing Saddles is for the ages. This was for the bucks. "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks' humor begins its downfall","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having grown up with Star Wars as a child & being introduced to Mel Brooks films as a young teen, this movie seemed like a dream match when it was announced in my late teens. I mean, Mel Brooks was going to make a spoof of Star Wars !It had been a while since the last Mel Brooks movie, and even though History of the world Part I was not even close to what I had come to regard as up to par for a Mel Brooks film, I was excited over all of the possibilities that Star Wars would provide for Mel Brooks' parody. But I soon realized in the theater that this is simply not a funny movie. The humor in this is so shallow & unimaginative that I still have trouble believing that this came from the same person who brought us Young Frankenstein and Blazing Saddles. Those films featured witty and clever type of slapstick comedy. It was the type of comedy that knows no time period. At times those films would incorporate risque humor that actually worked. Here, Mel Brooks' comedy seems so umimaginative. It's grammer school kid humor. He actually spoofed the Jabba the Hut character with a character named Pizza the Hut...and for as stupid as that sounds, it's even more idiotic & unfunny on the screen. It's just not funny. What was once Brooks' risque mind is now pre-puberty humor  My schwartz is bigger than yours. I remember sitting in the theater just waiting - HOPING - for a scene that would even hint at the genius of Blazing Saddles & Young Frankenstein. There isn't one in this film.Even the cast is hopelessly unhappy. Jim Candy, Rick Moranis, and Bill Pullman seem poised for humor - but everything that comes out of their mouths is just predictable & childish. Every character in this film seems like it was conceived within a 5 minute idea session where all the writers and Brooks got together & said things like What's a good spoof for Darth Vader ? How about um....Lord Dark Helmet ! HAHAHA ! Yha we'll use that ! So, what's a good idea for Chewbacca ? How about a half dog/half man character ? YHA ! Let's use that ! What should we name him ? How about something stupid like Barf ? Yha ! Let's do that !There is such a wealth of material to spoof in Star wars that I still can't believe someone (especially Mel Brooks) could make such a shallow spoof such as this. What I had hoped would be a return to form for Brooks turned out to be confirmation that his comedic ability had indeed seen its best days. AFter this, Brooks only made more and more hopelessly tired spoofs such as Robin Hood  Men In Tights, and Dracula  Dead and Loving It. Mel Brooks' humor is indeed gone. Nowadays when I see him make guest appearances on Curb Your Enthusiasm he seems like that old uncle who tries to make all the kids laugh at family get togethers. The uncle was probably a funny kid back in high school - but now the years have caught up with him & his humor is just tired, dated, and boring.  "},{"Title":"Kind of films you'd rather go to Youtube and directly watch the best parts...","Date":"15 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am your father's brother's nephew's cousin's former roommate. What does that make us? Nothing. Which is exactly what you're about to becomeThis is from the climactic fight scene between Dark Helmet and Lone Starr, echoing the iconic confrontation between Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader in The Empire Strikes Back also this is a joke viewers could see coming from a mile, but I'll use it to point out the main problem with Spaceballs. Basically, the film is saying I'm the official parody of the Star Wars saga. What does that make it? Well, not nothing, but not anything more than being the&#x85; official parody of the Star Wars saga.That's how we all remember Spaceballs and there are worse reputations, but it's very revealing when the funniest gags have nothing to do with Star Wars. Take that hilarious moment when Helmet's right-hand man uses a VHS of the film to spot where the good guys are, they pause the film at the present time so that we see on the TV what happens in real time during the movie. It's just the most vertiginous and dizzying 'mise en abime' process ever used in a film, and the funniest too with a dialogue using the word 'now' like the famous 'Who's on first?' routine. It's for moments like these that Spaceballs should be appreciated. It's a shame that there are more smile-inducing little gags than creative hilarious bits like this. And I feel almost guilty to write that, because I used to love the film. Well, in fact, my history with Spaceballs was is in three acts.Act One I'm eight, I discover the film on a Saturday afternoon, I can't stop laughing at Dark Helmet's antics and I really, really enjoy the film. My cinematic knowledge wasn't as extended as today, for what it's worth, and I don't even think I was familiar with the original Star Wars, because when the real film was aired a few weeks later, I thought it was actually copying Spaceballs, in an uglier way. Yup, Spaceballs introduced me to the Star Wars saga. And it was one of my favorite comedies. Act Two I'm sixteen. I'm a comic-book nerd, I love Tex Avery cartoons and I adore parodies. I'm discovering the Zucker Abrahams Zucker movies and I'm looking for Spaceballs. There was no Internet, no way for me to remember the title, so it's only by pure luck that I find the VHS in the video store. I finally discover Mel Brooks (although I was familiar with many of his films). I see the film with excitement, alone, in a dark room, expecting to have a Madeleine Proust sensation. I find the film enjoyable, amusing with some funny parts I didn't even get as kid, notably the Virginity alarm and the Valium yawning Prince. I realize this was John Candy as Barf, that Melrose Place girl (Daphne Zuniga) as Princess Vespa, Rick Moranis from Honey I Shrunk the Kids and good old President Bill Pullmann as Lone Starr. Overall, the rediscovery adds to the enjoyment.Act Three I'm thirty-four. I watch the film. I like it, but the pleasure relies more on the nostalgic effect. The film is as much about the 80's as Star Wars actually, no CGI, good old miniatures, even though a little cheap-looking. Of course, some parts have aged better, most of the good stuff involves Dark Helmet and his crew. But overall, you get some amusing jokes, that are so innocent and fun you don't feel like criticizing them. So, what exactly lacks in the film? I don't know, it's droll and funny but it has the appeal of TV sketches and never really tries to transcend its material, the film only exists for the sole mission of making as many references as possible to Star Wars and the Sci-fi genre.This is typical of Mel Brooks, either he tries to make a unique original film and you get The Producers, Young Frankenstein or Silent Movie or it's a matter of parodying classics by the book and you get Blazing Saddles, High Anxiety and Spaceballs, funny movies that work because they know what they should remind you of, all the time. This is the problem with Spaceballs, once you know Star Wars, apart from a few original bits like Pizza the Hutt or the 'One Froggy Evening' homage, it's routine humor that makes you want to go directly on Youtube and check the best parts rather than see the whole film. The film has this biting Brooksian humor with the character of Yogurt whose main occupation is to work on the merchandising but that bit had already been used in the 'now' scene. And I guess Brooks might have sinned by being too confident that his film would be a sure hit and overestimated people's interest for Star Wars four years after the final opus. But this obsession for parody made the director lose his way, and the disastrous Robin Hood Men in Tights proved that he was already slipping and the popularity of Spaceballs had more to do with the actors' performances, Moranis, Candy, and even Brooks himself as Yogurt and President Skroob. There was some potential for satire in this film, but it's so busy retelling the Star Wars story that it loses its time on cute gags, and some supposed to sound funny but, for some reason, don't really make you laugh. All right, may the Schwartz be with you. Ha-ha.The saddest thing is that the parody genre stil had brighter days to come. One year later, ZAZ brothers' Naked Gun would make the box-office Top 10, and you know why it worked? Because it copied a genre, archetypes and situations, but not a specific target, so it could stand alone as a movie, and a classic. Sadly, Spaceballs comes across as a SNL sketch of epic proportions. "},{"Title":"One of the best spoofs out there","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPACEBALLS was a childhood favourite of mine and I'm pleased to see that it still holds up today for audiences. It's a loving spoof of the whole STAR WARS franchise with Mel Brooks on top form as he mercilessly ribs George Lucas for his addition to merchandising, ridiculous costumes, plot elements, and the like. That SPACEBALLS also tells its own entertaining story that holds up as a stand-alone adventure is testament to its effectiveness. Strong production values and fun effects only add to the experience.The cast is a superior one with the highlights including Joan Rivers as 'Dot Matrix' and the lovably goofy John Candy playing a half-man, half-dog. Rick Moranis really shines though in his best role as 'Dark Helmet' and many of his scenes are the funniest the film has to offer; also watch out for Mel Brooks's scene-stealing 'Yogurt'. The laughs come thick and fast and not all of them are funny, but when the film hits it really hits; the scenes involving instant video cassettes and breaking the fourth wall are the funniest. My overall highlight though has to be John Hurt's cameo, which is the icing on an already splendid cake. "},{"Title":"Spacebad","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched Spaceballs a second time yesterday because I thought there must be something to it. I didn't like it the first time and I hate it even more the second time I watched it. Maybe I just don't understand this movie. Is it too smart, too deep, too complicated? Is it funny because it is supposed to be bad? It was just plain awful, I couldn't stand keeping my eyes open. Kept thinking please just press this stupid self-destruct-button already and be done with it. If I didn't watch it in the cinema (80ies special) with my friends, I would have stopped watching after half an hour. I was trying very hard to laugh at the jokes. I just couldn't do it. Instead of Jabba the Hut, his name was Pizza the Hut- OMG Yoda is Yoghurt- Jesus Comb the desert!- they are literally combing the desert- HAHAHAA May the Schwartz be with you- Is Schwartz suppose to mean something I don't get? Is it funny because it doesn't mean something? Is it funny because it sounds like Schwanz?For me it is really important in a movie to have likable characters. In this movie I didn't care for any of them. Rick Moranis as Dark Helmet was a good choice for this roll though, but all the other characters should have a self-destruct-button to press. "},{"Title":"A solid comedy","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Usually with spoof movies the current bar to set in terms of the ones made today is... not that great. I pulled this out of my DVD collection and in all honesty, this one holds up really really well. The plot is that the people from the planet Spaceball are going to drain the air from Planet Druidia and they do this by attempting to hold hostage Princess Vespa. The king calls Lone Star to help save her from Dark Helmet, Colonel Sandurz and President Scrooge of Spaceball. Once that happens they got to a desert planet where they find Yogurt, a master of The Schwartz to teach Lone Star in the ways. The jokes for me just hit a relatively consistent level of okay except for a couple of really funny gags, like having a Xenomorph shoot through John Hurt's chest thanks to what he ate in a restaurant, says Oh no, not again before dying before it sings Vaudeville, resulting in the heroes saying in unison Check please!. It's stuff like that that elevates if from being an average comedy to me. If you haven't seen it and the current range of spoof movies is what you've seen (well, not current since the genre is dying and fast!) then I suggest checking it out despite it not being as good as Flying High (or Airplane depending on where you come from). "},{"Title":"This is something else","Date":"7 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you want to spoof a movie as big as Star Wars then Spaceblls is your answer.Mel Brooks got special permission to make this spoof and it was a smart move because as soon as you pop in this film you realize it is from start to finish a parody of Star Wars the film also does a parody of other SCI/FI films but I will leave that surprise to you.Each character that is feature in this film is more or less a spoof of the Star Wars characters fans know and love. But the cast do a good job and make them funny.And having this movie break the fourth wall helps matters because the film does a funny jobAs for the cast we get our Protagonists Bill Pullman as Lone Starr, John Candy as Barf, Daphne Zuniga as Princess Vespa along with her father King Roland played by Dick Van Pattern. Along with Mel Brooks who plays both Yogurt and President Skroob one of the films villains along with Dark Helmet played by Rick Moranis and Colonel Sandurz played by George Wyner.Watching this movie is just something else only Mel Brooks should be allow to make spoof films since he is the only one who can make them funny unlike other people who make them just to get a paycheck watching this film is better entertainment.However there are some scenes and characters I feel this film would have been better without and some moments will make you go Really? But that's enough with the bad. The story while being a spoof of Star Wars does bring a original idea to the plot as the Spaceballs seek other planets to steal their air, which makes you go what? honestly when I watch this film it made go seriously? But I'll give it credit for something you don't see all the time in comedy filmsAlso there is some good performances John Candy is funny as Barf, Bill Pullman did a convincing job as Lone Starr, I laugh at Daphne Zuniga's performance as Princess Vespa, Rick Moranis was smart as Dark Helmet.The film also features some of the funnest lines you will ever hear in a comedy film that will make you roll with laughter. Often times I playback the scene just to listen to them again. Also the film's song Spaceballs Sung by The Spinners is one of those songs that is so crazy that it's awesome and I have been listening to the song a lot because it really tells the story of the villains for this film.Also there is some clever effects in this film But yes Spaceballs is just one of those films you have to watch to understand because it is one of those most interesting comedy filmsI give Spaceballs an 8 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Mediocre but Watchable Mel Brooks Cash-In","Date":"6 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are some things in this Spoof that are mildly Enjoyable, Rick Moranis as Dark Helmet has the best Look and the best Lines. Sight Gags come off better than the Word Play and the whole Package Looks Good if Stale Cheese can be said to Look Good. Spaceballs isn't the blockbuster Parody that Brooks had Hoped. It's Not very Edgy and Smart for the Sci-Fi Crowd and mostly Appeals to Die-Hard Star Wars Fans Under the Age of 12.Not a complete Bomb, it Ignites from time to time. The Merchandising that shows up throughout that Spins Off the Best Gag, adds a bit of a Comic Connection. Spaceballs, the Toilet Papers&#x85;Spaceballs, the Placemat, for example. It is well Known that George Lucas made the first Movie obtaining the Merchandising Rights as His only Payment. He Pulled Off one of the Best Deals in Hollywood ever, since the Star Wars Merchandising Tie-Ins have Made More than the Films, Much More.Overall, a game Cast tries to Force the Swartz and Lift some Life out of this Hit-and-Miss Comedy. Some say it is a Mess and a Misfire, but it is Not that Bad and can't Be totally Ignored and manages just Enough Fluffy Humor. Curiosity alone Makes it Almost a Must Watch. It really isn't a Must Watch, even in the Mel Brook's Filmography, but it is Worth a Watch. "},{"Title":"ludicrous speed","Date":"27 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lord Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis) and Colonel Sandurz (George Wyner) arrive at Planet Druidia to steal its supply of air. President Skroob (Mel Brooks) is trying to squash rumors of depleting air supply. Princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga) is getting married to Prince Valium but she becomes a runaway bride with her robot Dot Matrix (Joan Rivers). Lone Starr (Bill Pullman) and Barf (John Candy) are on the run from Pizza the Hutt. Dark Helmet tries to kidnap Vespa but she's rescued by Lone Starr for a million space bucks.It's an endless Mel Brooks spoof of Star Wars and other sci-fi movies. It's a lot of stupidity smartly done. Vespa is a druidous princess. She has great combative chemistry with Lone Starr. Barf is half dog half human. The story actually works even without the humor but the humor is so smart. Rick Moranis is hilarious. It was probably a little late coming 4 years after 'Retun of the Jedi'. That's its only major flaw. "},{"Title":"Pretty solid spoof of all sci-fi movies and slapstick comedy.","Date":"9 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is, contrary to popular belief, a parody of more than the original Star Wars trilogy. Certainly that is the primary movie that it spoofs, but it extends to almost the entire sci-fi genre and beyond. If you're a huge fan of any Star Wars movies, particularly the old ones, don't be too turned off by this, or at least try not to view this film as an insult to the entire series. I'm not a Star Wars fan, but I am big into Lord of the Rings and I would love if they came out with a good satirical version of that. Mel Brooks does a pretty good job of converting the storyline of dramatic and serious sci-fi space movies into a comedy. Some of the character names are humorous adaptations of other character names, such as Lone Star, Yogurt, and Dark Helmet, but not all of them are used to generate laughs. The fundamental story line basically follows that of A New Hope, but it adds a few elements from Empire Strikes Back and even synthesizes a few plot points.The characters have distinct comedy styles, but their respective gags are constantly mixed with the other characters, giving the film some consistent variety. That said, all of the comedy is in slapstick style. Unlike Men in Tights, all of the characters have moments where they do something mildly humiliating (in a humorous way of course) and none are confident and error-less throughout. I won't get into the character personalities, but I will say who each one is representative of. Dark Helmet=Darth Vader, Lone Star=Luke Skywalker and Han Solo, Princess Vespa=Princess Leia, Barf=Chewbacca, Yogurt=Yoda, Dot=C3PO, and Colonel Sandurz= all extraneous military characters from space films. The only main character that has no real equivalent is President Skroob. I kind of feel like his character, though he comedy generated from him was decent, was kind of selfish on Mel Brooks part since he was already playing a main role as Yogurt.Though some of the comedy in spoof films is rather crude, it is nonetheless a good genre and has plenty of clean humor mixed in. There are a fair amount of situational jokes that make fun of lines or concepts from Star Wars, Star Trek, Alien, and sci-fi in general. Most of the verbal humor is independent and isn't typically used to make fun of anything (e.g. God willing we'll all come back for Spaceballs 2 The Search for More Money). It has a very strong slapstick air to it, and has a lot of the same style as Men in Tights. The PG rating is deceptive since it came out before PG-13 ratings were around, and modern ratings would likely credit this film with a low PG-13.The acting is pretty good and each part seems well cast, though the quality of the script is a matter of opinion more than anything else. Since there are a fair amount of sci-fi elements, the poor visual effects are displayed several times, but that kind of thing can sometimes improve a comedy as with Monty Python. I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys satirical comedy of any kind. It's a good idea to at least have a general knowledge of any prominent sci-fi movie that came out before 87, though you can still enjoy the movie without that. It's okay to watch it with a group of friends, but probably not with anyone who's going to be offended by the ridicule of their favorite trilogy. If you're speculating whether it's worth you're time, I would recommend watching the first twenty minutes and turning it off if you think it's stupid. Overall Rating 8.1/10. "},{"Title":"A send-up of a modern classic, Spaceballs ranks as one of Brooks's best spoofs","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In parodying the Star Wars movies, Mel Brooks was taking on something fresh and in the mainstream. His Young Frankenstein had appeared decades after the era of big studio monster movies, though TV reruns had kept them lingering in the popular consciousness. Westerns are an eternal American art form, but Blazing Saddles had come out at the tail end of their heyday. Brooks's love of old standards lay behind High Anxiety, To Be or Not to Be, and of course Silent Movie. Later, Robin Hood Men in Tights would take its title and supporting characters from a contemporary Kevin Costner film, but would be in even closer dialogue with a 1938 Errol Flynn classic.Spaceballs is unusual, then, in its relative timeliness. The first Star Wars movie was already ten years old, but the last (or what should have been the last) was barely four, and they were becoming ingrained in mass culture like few other works of fiction before or since. Brooks got in virtually on the ground floor, and his parody became a classic along with its source material. Because the subject matter was so new and so well-known, Brooks could be highly specific without going over people's heads. Laughs of recognition are therefore loud and frequent. The references derive from all three Star Wars films we get the munchkin-like Jawas of Tattooine, the little green wise man Yogurt, and a gloopy Pizza the Hutt. As a bonus, the sci-fi setting creates chances for funny if more dated Star Trek, Alien, and Planet of the Apes gags.But with Brooks, pop culture references are only part of the formula. He is also a master of that oft-reviled, broader and older form of humor the pun. Do the ones in Spaceballs work? Yep. She doesn't look Druish is a classic, but my favorites are the ones that lead into sight gags, like jamming the radar and combing the desert. There are also a lot of jokes that are barely jokes at all, just silly diversions, like Dick van Patten in a Renaissance wig gasping for air. Simple, but good for a grin. Rounding out Brook's bag of tricks are the crotch shots and dick jokes, well-sold by Rick Moranis and prolific TV character actor George Wyner. Shock humor queen Joan Rivers, though, who provides voice work, is unfortunately underused in that department. The movie is not nearly as scatological, profane, or racially- and sexually-charged as Blazing Saddles, but it does enough in those areas to satisfy fans of both the lowbrow and the irreverent.A send-up of a modern classic, Spaceballs ranks as one of Brooks's best spoofs. "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie spoof","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mel Brooks' Spaceballs does a good job at spoofing the Star Wars movies (as well as Star Trek) due to Brooks' comedic genius. The setting of the movie takes place when planet Spaceballs President Skroob (played by Mel Brooks) sends Lord Dark Helmet (played by Rick Moranis) to go to planet Drudia to steal their air supply so that they can have their own air supply, but they think that their plan will work when it really doesn't work out good for them because space heroes Lone Starr (played by Bill Pullman), Barf (played by John Candy)try to save Princess Vespa (played by Daphne Zuniga) from Dark Helmet's evil plan. The two performances that Mel Brooks (as President Skroob, and Yogurt) gives in this movie kind of reminds me of Peter Sellers' 3 performances in Kubrick's Sr. Strangelove Or How I Learned to Stop worrying and love the Bomb (1964) but in a much funnier manner.There is also a supporting cast that makes this movie much funnier with Joan Rivers as Dot Matrix, Dom DeLuise as Pizza the Hut, and as mentioned earlier in the review with Mel Brooks playing a wise little man named Yogurt who teaches the power of the Schwartz in order to bring peace to the galaxy. The final scene is probably the most hysterical scene in this movie where Pizza the Hut kills himself by eating himself up, (laugh out loud). This is the best movie spoof that I have seen so far. What a well done comedy! "},{"Title":"This is what you get when a Spoof Movie is Done Well","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nobody does spoof movies like Mel Brooks and here is another gem from him. Spaceballs primarily spoofs the original Star Wars trilogy but there are comedic references to other space exploration movies like Alien and Planet of the Apes. This movie has everything a good film of its genre should have. The characters are caricatures of real-life stereotypes or of characters from the movies they are spoofing yet they are very likable. Princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga)is a caricature of a spoiled rich daddy's girl) and Lonestar (Bill Pullman) is a combination of Luke Skywalker and Han Solo and yet they manage to have personalities of their own too.Brooks tends to identify situations from the original movies which may in reality have funny consequences. For example, the Darth Vader version, Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis) finds it tedious to breath with his heavy metal helmet on. Many spoof movies simply place a situation from the movies they are parodying and expect the audience to laugh because they got the reference even though it is not funny and/or serves no purpose at all. This movie does not make that mistake. All references in the movie while eliciting a laugh also help advance the plot.Brooks gives us his take on Yoda, Jabba the Hut, Chewbacca, C-3P0 and Emperor Palpatine. The dialogue is filled with good one-liners and in- jokes (which are still good jokes even if you don't get the in part). Watch out for John Hurt reprising his role from Alien.A good spoof has to pay a tribute to the original, not mock it. Spaceballs is a true tribute to the space exploration related Sci-Fi classics. "},{"Title":"When you're living in a bubble and you haven't got a care","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spaceballs (1987) may be one of Mel Brooks' more juvenile films, but I love it as much as I did when I first saw it as a kid.This movie is a great example of how to pull off a good parody. Unlike dreadful fare like Scary Movie 4 or Vampires Suck, Spaceballs understands that you don't just ape a bunch of scenes from an iconic film and add slapstick or cuss words, nor do you redo the story you're parodying scene for scene. This film distills and combines plot elements, visuals, and characters from Star Wars, making a world that works as parody but also feels coherent as its own thing.The entire cast is perfect and the music does well poking fun at the larger-than-life John Williams Star Wars score. The dialogue is so fantastic; in high school, my friends and I pretty much had the entire picture committed to memory. I admit, there are a few jokes that don't work and Brooks' humor will not appeal to everyone, but if you love goofy humor, then Spaceballs is sure to please. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest comedies ever","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There e some good spoof films around but I truly believe that this is best one around as it spoofs such films as Star Wars, Star Trek and Alien. This film shows the evil planet Spaceball led by President Scroob, Dark Helmet and Colonel Sanders attempting to steal the air from planet Druidia by kidnapping Princess Vespa. Only the combination of Lonestar and his half man half dog Barf can save the day. The character of Lonestar half Han Solo half Luke Skywalker was interesting and has his funny moments throughout the film but the character with the best lines is easily Dark Helmet. Rick Moranis is fantastic in the role and it is a great parody of Darth Vader in his nerdy way. Mel Brooks also has great moments as the president and his character was really funny throughout. John Candy is good as Barf and he is funny and great like he usually is in films. The character of princess Vespa was a little bit of a mixed bag because she is a funny parody of Princess Leia with her brat attitude being funny but she can be irritating and annoying at times. The story is actually good with an interesting plot that is a funny spoof of star wars. The script is superb with the delivery of the lines and the great lines used spoofing a few films showing the skill of the writing. The style was awesome with the mixture of great films used as the inspiration and it was well used. Overall this is one of my favourite films of all time and I absolutely love it. "},{"Title":"A Funny Parody","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spaceballs (1987) is a humorous spoof of the Star Wars film. It's perfect for die-hard fans of all things Star Wars and geeky comedies. The movie will have you have you rolling on the floor laughing out loud if you get the humor in Star Wars and Brooks' style of comedy.If you love a good comedy and choose to watch this movie don't forget to grab some tissue paper. You'll need them to wipe the tears from your eyes from laughing so hard. The movie is quite humorous. The movie is a good pick-me-up when you are feeling down.To Star Wars fans and lovers of comedy - don't miss out watching Spaceballs because it is good.9/10 "},{"Title":"George Lucas Laughed at this","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" They say that imitation is the highest form of flattery. It's the 1980's and the Star Wars trilogy is a mega success as was Michael Jackson. With a movie franchise that successful and a pop artist that successful you must parody the two. Enter Mel Brooks and Weird Al Yankovich, but this review isn't about the song Eat it. Spaceballs was truly funny. In fact, it is a parody that other parodies should model themselves after. Many parodies overdo it and exaggerate things so much that it's not funny but just awkward. Spaceballs had a nice mix of slapstick humor and funny characters. The casting was supreme with Rick Moranis playing Dark Helmet, John Candy playing Barf, and even Mel Brooks as Yogurt. This was a spoof that George Lucas had to laugh at. "}{"Title":"May the Schartz be with you","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the beautiful things about the Star Wars franchise is how much it has touched on so many areas, they've gained a life of their own, mainly the parodies and jokes on the franchise which just like the films themselves never get old, and the same with this film which is timeless to me.This film is another childhood relic of mine, it was also the first parody film I've ever saw. When I saw this at first I didn't even know this was even a parody, nor did I really see Star Wars at the time if you can believe that. But as I got older and I became more of a fan of the Star Wars franchise, this film became even better and funnier. And this may sound controversial but this is my favorite parody film in the subgenere and it's one of my favorite films in general. I also feel this film helped set the standard on the parodies for Star Wars as there are constant ones today most notably the TV shows South Park, Robot Chicken, and many more.There is so much I really love about this film, the music is great I really like the theme song which is another one of my favorite theme songs because it has that adventurous and epic quality to it. And I even like the song Spaceballs in the self destruct sequence of the film which is exciting but also a bit funny. The production value is great, for a parody they really go all the way to give us a great vision which helps reinforce the humor and visual humor which I'll get to.However what really makes this parody work is it's story. Like any great parody it's not aware it is one, it plays it straight believing it's being serious when by it's nature it really isn't, if you catch my drift. I love how the film doesn't just parody on Star Wars but also parodies on some of the elements and clichés normally in sci-fi films.The characters are great and memorable. Two of my favorites are Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis) whom you can guess is a parody on Darth Vader. He's just hilarious because of how bad he really is at being a power monger despite really trying and has success sometimes (I sad sometimes). It's just the main problem is he's simply an idiot, how he's had command of an empire is anyones guess. It's even funnier when he has two of his cohorts Cournal Sanders and the President (played by Mel Brooks)all three of them together are practically The Three Stooges in space.Barf played by the late great John Candy and this is one of my favorite roles from him. His character is pretty much a parody on Chewbaca as he's literally a humanoid dog. This character is funny because as usual with John Candy he has this laid back mannerism that can make easy switches depending on the situation, but most of all just has this smart Alec/clever charisma that make him all the more funny.I really love the dialog it is just fraking hilarious, there are so many memorable lines as well as so many groin jokes almost more than the TV show South Park. I really love the use of the word Schartz which in reality means nonsense but make it seem at times their referring to groin. Though one of my favorite verbal jokes is when King Roland (played well by Dick Van Patten) gives out the major combination, it cracked me up because lets say this is combination you could get by mere accident or by not even thinking at all. But my favorite quote is from Dark Helmet which always cracks me up Evil will always triumph, because good is dumb!, I don't entirely agree with it.The sight gags are just fraking hilarious and at their finest. There are just so many of them that it would take more than one watch to get them all. Like when the film at times breaks the forth wall, like the vast amount of merchendise on this film for sale obviously a parody on the Star Wars merchendise subculture.My favorite one is in the Self Destruct sequence which is literally a live action Where's Waldo illustration art, as there are just so much going on but just so many random people from a pizza delivery guy, acrobats, it's just completely crazy. But this is funny because it parody on simply the size of Starships in sci-fi which are practically the size of a mall and it always made me wonder what else was going in in the ship.And it doesn't just homage Star Wars but other films as well like Alien, Planet of the Apes, Transformers and others, this was for it's time a really broad move, to show that you can stretch out the use of homage by blending it in to the story which makes it all the more funny because were the only ones that really notice these things. You can also say that this makes the film more than just a parody but a love letter to the sci-fi genre by doing this, and I think that's a nice touch because it a form of respect for it.So if your a Star Wars fan (longtime or new) or have seen Star Wars or are just looking for a good/great parody comedy then this is the film to see, the force...I mean the Schartz is strong with this one.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"A flawed, but hilarious spoof of all the sci-fi classics!","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only two problems that I do have with this movie is that while it's PG-rated, it has s*** and f*** in it (don't get me wrong, they're not bad, but it could've been done better without them) and it's noisy in some scenes. With those flaws aside, everything else turned out good. The cast is great (Daphne Zuniga, Bill Pullman, John Candy, Rick Moranis, and Mel Brooks), the visuals/scenery is perfect, the jokes are laugh-out-loud hilarious they never prevented me from laughing really hard and the story isn't that bad all.Overall, Spaceballs came this close to become a classic, but on it's 25th anniversary, this is a great comedy that deserves a lot of repeated viewings. It's that good! "},{"Title":"80's Sci-Fi Spoof Classic!","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mel Brooks directs and stars in this 1987 comedy that co-stars Bill Pullman, John Candy, Rick Moranis and Daphne Zuniga. This starts with a princess, Vespa (Zuniga) running away from her wedding because she doesn't love the groom, Prince Valium (Jim J. Bullock). Soon, space bum, Lone Star (Pullman) and his sidekick, Barf (Candy) are sent by her father, King Roland (Dick Van Patten) to rescue her from Dark Helmet (Moranis) and President Skroob (Brooks) who lead an evil empire called, Spaceballs and plan on taking all the air from planet, Druidia. This film not only spoofs Star Wars, but other sci-fi classics like Alien and Planet of the Apes as well. Brooks also plays, wise man, Yogurt who helps Lone Star and Joan Rivers plays the voice of Vespa's robot, Dot-Matrix. I grew up watching this and always enjoyed it. I think it's one of Mel's best, he & the cast are great in it as well as John Morris' score. I recommend this 80's classic. "},{"Title":"Required viewing for anyone tempted to put down Jedi as their religion on the census form.","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After parodying the Western, the horror movie, the silent film and Alfred Hitchcock, Mel Brooks now moves on to deal with science fiction. Or rather with one particular sci-fi epic, the original Star Wars trilogy.As one might expect from Brooks's films, the plot is little more than an excuse for a series of in-jokes. The beautiful Princess Vespa from planet Druidia is kidnapped by the forces of the evil President Skroob, leader of planet Spaceball in order to forcer her father, King Roland, to hand over Druidia's air supply. The distraught Roland offers a reward of a million space bucks for her safe return, and the offer is eagerly accepted by adventurer Captain Lone Starr and his sidekick, Barf. (I assumed this name was derived from the Cockney pronunciation of bath, but apparently it is American slang for to vomit).Although there are occasional references to other sci-fi franchises, such as Planet of the Apes, Star Trek and Alien (John Hurt makes a brief cameo appearance to send up his role in that last film), the plot and most of the characters parody those in the Star Wars series; King Roland is one of the few characters without a direct equivalent in that franchise. Princess Vespa parallels Carrie Fisher's Princess Leia, Skroob (an anagram of Brooks) is the Emperor Palpitine and Lone Starr is an amalgam of Han Solo and Luke Skywalker. Barf, a hairy, half-man, half-dog creature called a mawg, is the Spaceballs version of Chewbacca from Star Wars.Some of the jokes do not really work. The adjective to describe an inhabitant of Druidia is not (as one might expect) Druidian, but Druish, an adjective coined with the sole purpose of allowing Brooks to make a series of laboured Jewish/Druish puns. The Force, the mysterious energy which pervades the Star Wars universe, here becomes the Schwartz, for no known reason except perhaps as a piece of product placement on behalf of the well-known manufacturer of herbs and spices.Nevertheless, the film as a whole tends to works. Brooks has chosen his target well, although perhaps by 1987, ten years after the original film, the idea of a Star Wars parody was starting to look a bit dated. The original Star Wars is a reasonably good sci-fi adventure flick, but its main defect is its tendency to take itself too seriously. (And its legions of devotees take it even more seriously than it takes itself- there are large numbers of people who claim, not all of them in jest, to be followers of the Jedi religion).Brooks's wit homes in on the portentousness and pretentiousness of George Lucas's films, cutting them down to size. Thus the menacing Darth Vader becomes the Lord Dark Helmet, who wears a similar costume (and an even larger black coal-scuttle helmet) but underneath it all is a weedy little man with a high-pitched voice and a penchant for playing with dolls when he thinks nobody is looking. The slightly prissy male robot C3-PO becomes the ultra-prissy female one Dot Matrix, whose main preoccupation is trying to protect Vespa's virginity. Brooks's interpretation of the light sabre leaves us in no doubt of the phallic overtones of that particular concept, as well as the oedipal overtones of that duel between Vader and Skywalker. Jabba the Hutt becomes Pizza the Hutt, another blatant piece of product placement but a neat pun. (Making the name of a bizarre alien race a homophone of an ordinary English word was not Lucas's smartest idea).Brooks's greatest challenge was probably how to parody Yoda, a character so central to the Star Wars mythos that he could not possibly be omitted. I mean, how does one satirise a creature who looks like the bastard child of a garden gnome and a long-eared bat and who believes English to be an object-subject-verb language and speaks it accordingly? (The Force you will feel!) Brooks's solution was to make Yoda, here renamed Yoghurt and speaking with a broad Yiddish accent, rather more normal-looking and recognisably human than he was in the original, thus emphasising the ineffable ridiculousness of Lucas's character.The film will probably not mean a great deal to those not familiar with Star Wars and its sequels; they will probably see it (as my wife did) as just a lot of actors running round being silly and making pointless jokes. For anyone who understands all the references, however, this is a witty and satirical parody. It should be required viewing for anyone tempted to put down Jedi as their religion on the census form. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable Star Wars Parody,but Not Without its Problems,","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spaceballs is a good movie with an enjoyable storyline that certainly has many flaws but has enough funny parts and a great cast and characters to make up for it.The cast is great,my favourites without a doubt being John Candy,Rick Moranis,Joan Rivers and Mel Brooks.The scenes that mock Star Wars are great but I felt the movie forgot it was a parody of Star Wars every now and then,the thing thats it's missing the most is a Luke Skywalker type character,it's missing a few characters (other honourable mention,R2D2) but Luke Skywalker is the most important character of the original trilogy and an absence of a character parodying him in a Star Wars parody is a huge mistake.Ny favourite parts in this movie is without a doubt the use of breaking the fourth wall,it's normally very stupid in movies,and this is no exception,but it was being stupid purposely this time around,with the new VHS tapes and Yogurts idea for a Spaceballs sequel,not to mention all the merchandise for the film that is tossed around throughout,I like how they used it as a major plot point several times,I found it simply hilarious.Spaceballs is a fun movie that I would recommend to fans of Star Wars and to anyone looking for a good comedy.When Dark Helmet is sent to Planet Druidia to steal the planets air supply,it's up to Lone Starr and Barf to save the day,accompanied by a high maintenance princess and her robot companion. "},{"Title":"Though not quite as good as say Young Frankenstein this one is still sure to please.","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Another Mel Brooks movie that hits the mark this one is a rift on science fiction movies most notably the Star Wars movies. With a joke every second it seems this movie is fast and furious making jokes about how sheer crazy the speeds are of ships in other science fiction movies. It turns a formidable enemy of Jabba the Hut and make him the really quite gross, but funny Pizza the Hut, and it takes the cast of Star Wars in a new direction with the great choice for Lord Helmet of Rick Moranis. All the cast is rather good, however I just think a couple more usual Brook's former cast would have made the movie even better. Not that Brook's was not good as President Skrupe, but just think how funny say Harvey Korman could have been in that role. It could have been essentially the same role as the one he did in Blazing Saddles and that in itself would have been a funny joke. Also, not to bad mouth Patten or say he was bad as Roland, but just think of Gene Wilder in that role. I could just see him doing that combination scene. However, the rest of the cast was spot on as Brooks was great as Yogurt, Bill Pullman as the Luke/Han hybrid and of course John Candy as Barf. So for a very funny movie spoofing everything under the sun, but still managing to have its own plot and not simply recreating a scene ala any of those horrible spoofs like Meet the Spartans try this Mel Brooks laugh riot on for size. "},{"Title":"Now that's a perfect parody","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I cannot imagine a personality other than Mel Brooks who can make us laugh by sheer presence in a movie.I loved all his movies(blazing saddles,Screw Loose etc).Space balls is the perfect parody of Star Wars. We see a lot of so called parody movies these days(scary movie,epic movie and so on)which are pathetic and I am happy that at least one movie stands out in parody genre.Some of the scenes are humorous beyond imagination.I particularly liked the radar Jam scene and the scene where the priest utters Holy Molly. I also liked all the scenes which had Mel Brooks in it.Two Thumbs up for Mel Brooks and Space Balls. "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks takes the space","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mel Brooks takes us to the galaxy that's very far away.He plays President Skroob of planet Spaceball.They have wasted all the air and plan to steal all the air from planet Druidia.The plan is to kidnap the Druish princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga) with the help of Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis).Lone Starr (Bill Pullman) and his half man-half dog sidekick Barf (John Candy) are her only chance.Spaceballs (1987) is a science fiction parody that only Mel Brooks could do.The hilarity level of this movie is mighty high.Many of the jokes are very working, very laughable.Take the Alien parody for instance.Or Star Trek with the transporter.Star Wars has the biggest part in the movie.Bill Pullman and Daphne Zuniga are great in the movie.John Candy is hilarious.And so is Rick Moranis.Mel Brooks is in the double role as the president and the very wise Yogurt.Dick Van Patten plays Vespa's father King Roland and he's fantastic! George Wyner is brilliant as Colonel Sandurz.Michael Winslow of Police Academy movies is seen and heard as Radar Technician.Joan Rivers is heard as Dot Matrix.Dom DeLuise is heard as Pizza the Hutt.John Hurt is Kane.Mel Brooks has often known how to pull the right strings.Watch Spaceballs and prepare to laugh! "},{"Title":"Just waiting for Spaceballs 2 The Search for More Money","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the day of her wedding the Princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga) escapes from her planet because she doesn't love the Prince Valium. In consequence of that she becomes and easy target for the plan of the spaceballs. They want to steal the air from Vespa's planet and kidnapping her is the perfect way to extort the King Roland. In another story, the friends Lone Starr (Bill Pullman) and Barf (John Candy) own a lot of money to Pizza the Hutt so they are hired for the King Roland to save his daughter.In the 10th anniversary of the Sci-fi masterpiece Star Wars, Mel Brooks created a hilarious parody of the Sci-fi universe, mostly of that trilogy. I really love and enjoyed this film, mostly because there's a hilarious situation in almost every sequence and all the characters have many memorable scenes with great and funny dialogs. The film has like three different stories with the Princess Vespa, Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis) and Lone Starr being the principal characters of the stories. For me the situations with the President Skroob, played in a great way by Mel Brooks, are the best in the film just as the stupid acts of Dark Helmet and company. The detail when we realize that this real story is just a film is nothing but hilarious with three of my favourites scenes of the film, the one with the videotape of Spaceballs, when the actors accidentally kills one man of the crew and when Yogurt (Mel Brooks too) shows all the merchandise of the film. But is not just pure Star Wars, it has references to Star Trek, Transformers, Jaws and some others but my favourite is the reference to Alien, with the cameo of John Hurt. Is just hilarious to see the chestbursted Dancing and singing like Michigan J. Frog. Anyway, near the end we can see how recognized were the spaceballs in the entire universe, even in the Planet of the Apes.Conclusion this is a terrific film that goes amazingly fast. Mel Brooks is just great but I haven't watched all of his films so I'm not going to say if this is his best. But one thing is for sure, Spaceballs is just fun and maybe the best parody of the Sci-fi universe. 9.5 out of 10Region 4 DVD yesterday I bought this film on a single-disc DVD released by Metro Goldwyn Mayer. It is really good but I have to mention that the box contains two mistakes. It says that the runtime of the feature is 135 minutes, so I thought that they were counting the 95 minutes of the film plus the runtime of the extras that are, according to box, a behind the scenes of the film and commentaries. But the DVD only has the trailer so is another mistake or maybe they were just making fun inventing extras, I don't know. "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 out of 4","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The planet Spaceball, home planet of the evil Spaceballs is running out of air and the planet's ruler President Skroob has devised a evil scheme, where he plans to steal the air from the atmosphere of the peaceful planet Druidia. But Druidia is surrounded by a defense shield to prevent the Spaceballs from stealing the air. When Druidia's ruler King Roland's beautiful daughter Princess Vespa and her loyal droid Dot Matrix flees from Druidia during her wedding to Prince Valium, The evil commander of the Spaceball fleet, Dark Helmet captures Princess Vespa so King Roland will be forced to give them the access code to the defense shield. But heroic space pilot Lone Starr and his sidekick, Barf (A Mog half man-half Dog) comes to Princess Vespa's rescue. With help from wise and powerful master of the magic ring The Schwartz Yogurt, Lone Starr, Barf, Dot and Princess Vespa set out to save Druida and foil Dark Helmet and President Scroob's scheme and prevent them from stealing the air from Druidia.This Star Wars clone is funny. It has good acting, direction and a great commentary. Plus, it's one of the most hilarious films ever along with Airplane. You need to get a brain because this is how it all started. Never a boring moment.Rated PG-13 for Adult Themes and Strong Profanity. "}{"Title":"Do you want to go to a galaxy of laughs, far, far away from the hurting cares of the world? Get this excruciatingly funny film NOW","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga) is walking to down the aisle to marry Prince Valium when she decides, rightly so, to split, in her Mercedes space vehicle. Her father, King Roland (Dick Van Patten) never really liked the betrothal but told Vespa that Valium was the last prince in the galaxy, with no other choices available. While Vespa and her robot, Dot Matrix (Joan Rivers) are speeding away, they are followed by Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis), the baddest guy in the universe. He sees a chance to kidnap the runaway Princess-bride and create havoc for everyone. But, at the last moment, Lonestar (Bill Pullman) and his hairy half-man, half-dog sidekick (John Candy) rescue Vespa from Helmet's clutches. This sets up a colossal cat and mouse game, with Helmet determined to capture the princess and Lonestar trying to protect Vespa's life, even though she is a royal pain in the you know what. Meanwhile, Helmet's boss, President Scroob (Mel Brooks) is trying to steal all of the fresh air from King Roland's planet, due to the neglect of his own celestial homeland. Who will rule the universe? This film, a spoof of the Star Wars movies, is funny to the extreme. There are so many sight gags (Lonestar releases a giant jar of jelly on Helmet's radar, so he can jam it, for one) that the movie is hilarious even with the sound turned off. All of the principal actors are most wonderful and the supporting cast is just dandy, too. As for the production values, from costumes to sets to special effects, they are excellent, also. Most important, however, is the awesome script, which not only has a memorable line every 10 seconds but also boasts twists and turns that are ingenious. Just watch a spaceship transform into a giant maid with a vacuum cleaner or get a look at that nefarious space villain, Pizza the Hut, and you will shake you head at such cleverness, even as you are giggling uncontrollably. So, even if your house is in foreclosure, your body is in traction at the local hospital, or your wife has run off with an Amway salesman, get this film today. It will take you to a galaxy of laughs far, far away from your present troubles. "},{"Title":"If You Don't Laugh, Trust Me, You Have No Sense Of Humor (SPOILERS)","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERSThis is definitely one of my favorite comedies of all time. One of my favorite movies of all time, actually. Anything Mel Brooks does is genius, and trust me, this is one of his best. It and Airplane! are one of the two greatest comedy spoofs of other movies of all time. The subtle jokes, the parody jokes, and them constantly Breaking the Fourth Wall are all done too perfectly, and you will laugh until it hurts. The plot got a little too zany at times but it was meant to be that way and it is still funny.Here's the plot. Princess Vespa, who is the daughter of King Roland, the king of the planet Druidia, runs away from her wedding with her robot Dot Matrix for she hates her groom. Meanwhile, planet Spaceballs has wasted its air. President Skroob and Dark Helmet plan to kidnap Vespa so Druidia will give its air to them. Meanwhile, Roland hires Lone Starr and Barf, who need money for Pizza the Hutt, to find Vespa. He offers them $1,000,000. They find Vespa, but their ship crashes into a planet where they are helped by Yogurt, master of the Schwartz. Lone Starr and Vespa kind of fall in love. Then Vespa is captured by Dark Helmet. Barf and Lone Starr find her but Helmet's ship turns into Mega Maid, and they suck up Druidia's air. Lone Starr uses the Schwartz to get the air back to Druidia. Lone Starr goes into the ship and is attacked by Helmet. Then Helmet, with his large helmet, accidentally hits the Self Destuct button. Lone Starr and everyone escape the ship when it explodes, but not Helmet. Barf and Lone Starr discover that Pizza is dead. Then Vespa almost marries her groom, but marries Lone Starr instead.Overall, this is one of the greatest comedies of all time. I can not believe it is not one movie countdowns like the 100 Funniest Movies Of All Time. Spaceballs definitely deserves more recognition. It is one of Mel Brooks's best, like I said before, and one of the greatest movies movies in my opinion. I also love it when Kane from Alien has his chest explode again with a Chestburster in this. There is also a homage to Planet of the Apes at the end, where Skroob and Dark Helmet go the Planet of the Apes, or the planet we all know and love, but I will not talk about that movie right now. Anyway, this is a great science fiction parody and should not be missed.9/10Recommended Films Star Wars, Young Frankenstein. "},{"Title":"Spaceballs in retrospect","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think Mel Brooks did a wonderful job on this spoof. Of course John Candy was marvelous in the show as he was in all his portrayals in other great comedies. It is a journey into any sci-fi fan's view to see something familiar and twisted with the genius of Mel Brooks' unending rib -tickling approach to a parody.I would have loved to been in the movie just to see the actors work their way to looking serious while doing the most preposterous twisting of Star Wars. I recommend the film to anyone with even a wisp of humor. I enjoyed Mel Brooks' films like Blazing Saddles, and Young Frankenstein, whereby he has mastered the fine art of parody and spoofing of classic movies.I foresee the next generation getting the same enjoyment out of this film and any film Mel Brooks has even touch on. I would have liked to have seen a sequel, which I feel could have been equally good.My thanks to Mel Brooks, and all the producers and directors who have made it possible to laugh at the ridiculous and sublime antics of movies remade to show the funny side of great movies.My hat is off to the Mel Brooks, and I hope some day I can meet him before he moves on to the hereafter.....What a guy ha ha....Keep 'em laughing Mel!!!!! "},{"Title":"Don't Get Me Wrong . . .","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like Spaceballs. But, I think there are some problems with the movie. I think I know why Mel Brooks had these problems He didn't want to do a straight re-enactment of scenes and characters from major science-fiction movies (mainly Star Wars)--with the exceptions of Dark Helmet, Dot Matrix, and Yogurt. He also didn't want to copy the costume look of any movie in particular (except with said exceptions). Some parodies are so slick that you'd think that the crew started shooting right after the genuine movie crew (or along side) but they're not that clever. However, that's where the problems arise When the scenes aren't based on the Tattooine planet or on board a starship, Mr. Brooks has a tough time getting the look right for a space movie. He also had costume problems. Again, it's doubtful that George Lucas would've let him borrow ship or costume designs (for the most part), and Mr. Brooks, probably, had a tough decision to choose between futuristic space or fake Star Wars costumes. So, basically, Lone Star wears a leather jacket and drives a Winnebago. Perhaps, a ship design that looked too closely like a Winnebago would've been better. There's also no space fight, and the music is a little flat. The genre Mr. Brooks is spoofing usually pays attention to the music. Joan Rivers doesn't have much room for her own jokes as Dot Matrix and Barfolomew--Barf is kind of a wasted gag for John Candy's character. Having said that, the movie is very funny, and you can't wait to find out what dumb thing the Spaceballs are going to do next. Rick Moranis brought his 'A' game as Dark Helmet--in fact the best scenes involve the Spaceballs. Yogurt does a fine send-up of the whole Lucasfilm Ltd. world, and I also enjoy John Hurt's cameo. Mel Brooks may have problems with outer space fiction, but Spaceballs still proves that he knows comedy. "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks at his Absolute BEST!!!!!","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" 9 out of 10!!! This movie can make an eight year old laugh and a 79 year old laugh. This is truly the best Mel Brooks spoof, topping Young Frankenstein and Blazing Saddles. He picked a hilarious cast, including Bill Pullman, John Candy and Rick Moranis.Some funny scenes are1. The Opening scene 2. The Pizza the Hut scene 3. The Planet of the Apes scene 4. The Yogurt scenes 5. The Marlene and Sharlene ScenesThis comedy makes you just want to sit down with some popcorn and laugh until your heads fall off and roll down the street.If you like comedies, see SPACEBALLS.Mel Brooks is showing his hilarity and comic attributes to Hollywood. Brooks at the top of his game!!! "},{"Title":"A timeless classic.","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most people my age either love it or hate it. Those are the Star Wars fans, who are divided up thusly. Then there is the general public, who couldn't care less. Unfortunately for the numbers concerning this work, there are more in the general populous than there are Star Wars fans.Most of the latter generations after mine just do not understand what is the big deal concerning Star Wars, and for that confusion, pay no attention to a parody of that movie. What many of them do not understand is that it not only parodies Star Wars, but Star Wars 4, 5, & 6, Star Trek, Planet of the Apes, Dune, Space 1999, Alien, Aliens, and a plethora of other science fiction movies. This is a medieval(-esquire) story, set in space, populated with a star-studded cast, and punctuated by some inspired writing. Now, I'm not saying that this is Oscar-winning material or anything, but I found an even wit throughout this work.Why didn't somebody TELL me my @$$ was so big?!If you're a fan of Mel Brooks' work, Star Wars, or just a casual sci-fi fan, the jokes still work today, just as they did when this was new. The story follows a nice line, and flows very well.Just sit back and enjoy this timeless space parody.It rates an 8.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Very funny at times (SPOILERS POSSIBLE)","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like this kind of comedy. Some gags didn't work for me, but others were absolutely hilarious.If I have to pick one superior acting performance, it is John Candy as half-man half-dog Barf. Also good is Mel Brooks in dual roles as the president of Planet Spaceball and the wise Yogurt.Movies parodied here include 'Star Wars' in particular, and I also recognized references to the 'Star Trek' movies and original series ('Beam me down, Snotty') as well as 'The Wizard of Oz', 'Planet of the Apes' and the 'Indiana Jones' trilogy.Some highlights for me (could include SPOILERS)-When the radar of Spaceball One is jammed (with raspberry jam), Michael Winslow demonstrates the talent he used so effectively in the 'Police Academy' movies and syndicated TV series.-Dark Helmet orders Spaceball One to go faster than the speed of light.-When Dark Helmet cannot figure out what to do next, he asks for a tape of the movie 'Spaceballs', which the ship has, along with many of Mel Brooks' classic movies. You won't believe what happens when the tape reaches a certain point!-The little people who sing the 'Bridge on the River Kwai' theme when they meet some of those considered to be heroes in the film.-Lone Starr and Dark Helmet fight using what appear to be light sabers similar to the ones in the 'Star Wars' films--Lone Starr has a yellow one and Dark Helmet a green one. -Yogurt shows merchandise related to 'Spaceballs'. -What could have been the ending, but wasn't. I will only say it was very funny and very exciting. "},{"Title":"Scene recommendation and Background","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just got the DVD a few days ago, but i must say is just love it. I am a big Star Wars/Star Trek fan and must say that this film is just great. 10 stars!!! I especially like the scenes where lord helmet runs into the camera, strike one man of the crew with his lightsabre and similar. this is one of the best films i've seen from mel brooks so far, but robin hood men in tight is also quite good, but it lacks the little something that this film has. I would recommend to have at least seen the initial three star wars film's to understand the movie better, and also to have some additional background of other scifi film's, but there are still enough funny scenes left for those who do not. Really a great film, not only for star wars fans, but the DVD could have had some more features...Philipp  "},{"Title":"Hyuck hyuck hyuck","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You think I'm taking the p***, don't you?  And maybe I am a bit.  I've always found Blazing Saddles overrated, and much as I enjoyed Young Frankenstein and High Anxiety, this is my favourite Mel Brooks movie.  I guess it's just the Star Wars fan in me.  The humour is puerile and doesn't always come off, but remember, if you will, the Dinks; Pizza The Hutt; Dark Helmet fast-forwarding the video to see what happens next; combing the desert; and of course John Hurt in the bar.  May the Schwartz be with you. "},{"Title":"Ok, lighten up!!!!!","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I honestly don;t know how you can insult Spaceballs so much, it's like blasphemy! I mean lighten up!!! Spaceballs is hilarious, because a) it has one of the best casts in a comedy movie ever, and b) because this movie is so original! You negative creeps have just gone sour because so much of Mel Brooks stuff has been copied and cliched by the directors and producers of pure popcorn s***!!!John Candy (God rest his soul) plays Barf brilliantly with obvious tongue in cheek.Bill Pullman again plays Lone Star with comic ability I never thought he had.Mel Brooks....the usual brilliance.Rick Moranis...I don't know about anyone else, but the star of this movie for me is Dark Helmet. The genius lines, the voice (cracks me up every time) and the most inspired spoof costume of all time (the little tie is hilarious)! "}{"Title":"Personal Review","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one I have loved for years. It's a spoof of everything and funny for all ages. When you're young, you don't understand the innuendo, you just think the movie is funny and a real exciting adventure, as an adult, you notice the innuendo and think it's a real exciting adventure.This movie is an absolute classic! There isn't a scene in it you can't laugh at. And the quotes! Some of them could be used in every day life, make sense and still get a laugh!I think that Mel Brooks was onto a winner when he made this film.Oh and something I only recently noticed when watching the film, Pizza the Hut's tongue... Is really Dom Delouise's chin! hehehe, classic stuff I tell ya! "},{"Title":"Greatest Movie of all time, a classic that everybody who either likes sci-fi or comedy should watch","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this is one of those movies i can watch like three times over and still not get bored of it, every time I see it i pick up something ive never seen before in that movie, and its always funny, if you ever need a good time, and you got a hour or two to kill watch this moviebest lines Light speeds too slow I cant breath in this thing whats the matter Colonel Sanders? Chicken? and many many more that I cant possibly remember them all "},{"Title":"A cool parody","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well - If you like starwars you have got to see this. (On the other hand if you don't like starwars - it will be a waste of time waching this movie).The movie is a parody on the first SW movie (SW4). In it self it's a pretty bad B-movie, but it stays pretty close to SW - and it is a good hour laugh to watch for SW fans. "},{"Title":"Good Comedy","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many people believe that this movie is poor, I am not one of them. I am a fan of Mel Brooks' films, even though I must admit I did prefer Blazing Saddles. I'm still not sure about the joke in changing force to schwarz, but then again, I don't have a great sense of humour. I ADORE the Dark Helmet, I believe his part adds to the fun of this movie. 6/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best spoofs ever.","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mel Brooks really gives us a comic treasure with Spaceballs.  I just watched it on DVD recently for the first time in a long time and I re-realized its greatness.Pure hilarity, a must see! "},{"Title":"Watch out! We're the Spaceballs!","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This STAR WARS parody is brilliant, with great performances from all involved.  This was the first Mel Brooks film I watched all the way through.  Before this, I had only seen Mel Brooks in his cameo in THE MUPPET MOVIE.  Here, he does a good job, both as the idiotic Spaceball president Skroob and the Yoda-like Yogurt ('Please no fuss, I'm just plain Yogurt.'). The joke about having the diminutive Rick Moranis as Darth Vader wannabe Dark Helmet was funny.  Bill Pullman and the late John Candy are both excellent as our would-be heroes Lone Starr and Barf.  The sets are all brilliantly designed and the special effects aren't bad either.  There are some lines that will make you wince ('What's the matter Colonel Sandurz? Chicken?'), but all in all, this film is great fun! In addition to STAR WARS, there are mickey takes of PLANET OF THE APES and ALIEN thrown into the mix.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Uproariously hilarious!","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the greatest spoof movies ever made. I was laughing until I was crying. My sides ached after laughing so hard. Making fun of mostly Star Wars, it also made jokes from Star Trek, 2001 A Space Odyssey, and one from Alien. The jokes about Darth Vader were hilarious. In the movie, he was known as Lord Helmet or Dark Helmet. He wore a huge helmet and a mask that he couldn't breathe in. The reference to the Shwartz instead of the Force was hilarious. Many jokes are rather disgusting but are just plain funny. From the scene when Lone Starr and Barf jam the sonar to Pizza the Hut ate himself you'll be laughing until you die.  "},{"Title":"I laughed at every scene of the film!","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen! I own it on DVD. The film is about Planet Spaceball's President Skroob (Mel Brooks) sending Lord Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis) to steal Planet Druidia's air supply, but Lone Starr (Bill Pullman) is here to stop them. The film also stars John Candy, Daphne Zuniga, George Wyner, Dick Van Patten, Michael Winslow, Joan Rivers, and others. If you haven't seen Spaceballs, go rent it. You'll like it. I like it! Hilarious!10/10 stars! "},{"Title":"Uproariously hilarious!","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the greatest spoof movies ever made. I was laughing until I was crying. My sides ached after laughing so hard. Making fun of mostly Star Wars, it also made jokes from Star Trek, 2001 A Space Odyssey, and one from Alien. The jokes about Darth Vader were hilarious. In the movie, he was known as Lord Helmet or Dark Helmet. He wore a huge helmet and a mask that he couldn't breathe in. The reference to the Shwartz instead of the Force was hilarious. Many jokes are rather disgusting but are just plain funny. From the scene when Lone Starr and Barf jam the sonar to Pizza the Hut ate himself you'll be laughing until you die.  "},{"Title":"Funny but something is missing.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **possible spoiler inside** The Spaceballs, a hostile race who's homeworld will soon run out of air and therefore they will steal another planets air-supply. The unlucky victim is Druidia, a green-blue marble in space. The Spaceballs are planning to capture the princess of Druidia and then force her father (the king) to give up all of their air-supply.The princess is out floating around in space, when suddenly the Spaceballs huge mothership shows up. The Spaceballs try to capture the princess and they almost succed, but then Lone Starr shows up and saves the day. But Lone Starr's ship runs out of gas and they crashland on a desert planet, and later the evil Lord Dark Helmet shows up and combs the desert (literally), and eventually he finds the princess and captures her.Now its up to Lone Starr and his buddy Barf to rescue the princess!This is a pretty good spoof of Star Wars and a few other science fiction films, and it delivers many laughs. But still, something is missing. I don't know what it is. The characters are mostly funny (especially Lord Dark Helmet, played by Rick Moranis), the special effects are quite impressive, actually, and the script is just silly! But its so silly its funny, of course. Ah, I got it. The movie seems to be a bit short. Even if it is 1 hour and 30 minutes, it still seems like its just 1 hour. But no matter. Its a good film!I do recommend that you rent this movie and watch it, if you have seen Star Wars that is. It will make you laugh, I can promise you that! "}{"Title":"The best spoof ever made","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is by far my favorite spoof ever made. Naked Gun came in a clos second but Leslie Neilson was the one who stole the show unlike everybody in spaceballs who made you laugh your tail off. John Candy as Barf was hilarious. He was always in a panic. Bill Pullman as Lonestar didnt know half the things he was saying. Mel Brooks as the President of spaceball city who didnt even know what the heck he was doing and as the loveable yogurt and last but not least Rick Moranis as Dark Helmet. Even just looking at him made you crack up. He was by far the funniest for the reason being that he simply tried to hard but could never pull it off right. The rest of the cast cracked me up as well but these guys took it to the lead. This movie is a classic spoof not to mention that it was also filmed near my town so that makes it cooler.                    *MAY THE SCHWARTZ BE WITH YOU*  "},{"Title":"My schwartz is the Biggest!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am not a Mel Brooks Fan but I thought this movie was extremely funny and bought it on videotape.Very funny scenes throughout but I thought it slowed down a lot at the Yogurt-Disney World's 7 Dwarves-Wizard of Oz scenes but came back when Dark Helmet kidnaps Princess Vespa.You will really root for the bad guys in this one For those who haven't seen this it features Lord Dark Helmut -the most scariest bad guy in the history of film and his sidekick Cl. Sanders from KFC. heehee. That should be enough for you to rent this! Enjoy.10/10 "},{"Title":"Great scenes in movie history","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"    Spaceballs is one of the greatest movies ever made.  There are so many great scenes in it.  Ludicrous speed.  Go back to then.  WHEN?  Now!  NOW?  Now!  I CAN'T.  Why?  WE PASSED IT.  When?  JUST NOW? etc.  Too hot coffee.  Merchandising!  Merchandising!  Dark Helmet slashing at LoneStar, who just pushes him back by his helmet.  The dancing, singing alien out of that guys stomach at the diner.  Her royal Highness's match luggage.  Funny, she doesn't look Druish.  I didn't see you playing with your dolls again, sir.  You captured their stunt doubles!  Combing the desert.  I hate Yogurt!  Even with strawberries!  Why didn't anyone tell me my butt was so big?  1-2-3-4-5.   If any one can think of a single movie has this many (plus the dozens I didn't mention) great lines or scenes, I'll be impressed. "},{"Title":"Unfairly derided Mel Brooks spoof","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  People will have you believe that Spaceballs is one of the most utterly atrocious comedies ever made, but I am adamant that this is not the case. It is sadly nowhere near the zenith of Mel Brooks' work, his glorious trio of The Producers (1968), Blazing Saddles (1974) and Young Frankenstein (1974), but is a consistently funny, intermittently hilarious and always entertaining comedy.The touches of satire and the occasionally sly wit of Brooks' previous films are virtually non-existent in Spaceballs, but we still get a barrage of jokes, sight gags and one-liners, which this time around is very funny simply through the complete and utter obviousness of the targets and the scattergun way in which it is hurled at the audience. Brooks has gone for route one, schoolboy, to get his inspiration, and it mostly delivers, the viewer cringing and laughing like a drain in equal measure throughout the film.It is not as consistent as Brooks' masterpieces, but he has been blessed again with a magnificent comedy cast, of which Rick Moranis's gormless but somewhat endearing Dark Helmet is the standout, and he gives the performance of his life. He is ably supported by George Wyner as the efficient but incompetent Colonel Sandurz (prompting the inevitable KFC joke) and Brooks himself, delightfully over-the-top as the evil President Skroob (I can't make decisions!!).The evil characters, as in the Batman films, are the memorable ones. The heroes are less well-written. John Candy's character Barf is underdeveloped, a waste of his considerable talent, but Bill Pullman's slobbish hero Lone Starr is hilarious in places, particularly his arguments with Princess Vespa (You are ugly when you're angry!) Vespa herself is well played by Daphne Zuniga as a spoiled brat.Apart from Moranis, the best performances are cameos, particularly the incredible sound-effects of Michael Winslow as the Radar Technician, and a very very very disgruntled priest.Again, Brooks manages, as in Young Frankenstein, to expertly imitate the technical aspects of the genre he is sending up, with a hilariously lengthy pan of the ship at the beginning a totally spot-on spin on the beginning of both Alien and Star Wars, while his own character Yoghurt makes an incisive comment on merchandising and sequels, perhaps the cleverest line in the film (God willing we'll all meet up again in Spaceballs II, The Search For More Money!)So, while no-one can deny that Spaceballs fails by a long way to match Brooks at his raucous and anarchic best, it is not the complete and utter turkey that it is considered to be by nearly everyone, certainly a fair bit funnier than Brooks' more recent films, Robin Hood Men In Tights and Dracula Dead And Loving It. "},{"Title":"Funny Movie! Action, Comedy, The Works!","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERSA funny Star Wars spoof by Mel Brooks. All other Star Wars spoofs are not funny and are just a shameless grab for ratings. This movie features a diabolical plot to steal the air from Planet Druidia, the neighbor to Planet Spaceball. Druidia has a 10,000 year supply and Spaceball is currelty running low.On Planet Druidia, Princess Vespa is to be wed. But she escapes with her droid of honor, Dot Matrix, and blast off into space in her luxury car. In that same part of the galaxy was a flying Winnebago. It was piloted by hero for hire, Lone Starr and his sidekick Barf. Barf is Mawg, half man, half dog. They're hired by King Roland to rescue Princess Vespa from the evil clutches of the Spaceballs, lead by Dark Helmet and his gittery assistant, Colonel Sandurz. But the Winnebago flies off, so Spaceball I chases it doing Ludicrous Speed. Dark Helmet wasn't wearing his seat belt, so he had to hang on for dear life. When they stopped, he went crashing into the front of the ship. Meanwhile, the heroes ran into trouble because they were out of gas, so they crash landed on the moon of Vega. Where they meet Yogurt, a wise man who knows the mystical ways of The Schwartz. He's also in merchendising. He sells everything from Spaceballs t-shirts to Spaceballs Flame Throwers. The Spaceballs find them by viewing Spaceballs The Movie, which was odd because they're still in the middle of making it. They land on the planet and set a trap for the princess. They take her and Dot. Lone Starr and Barf go after them. Yogurt wishes them well and asures them they'll meet again in Spaceballs II The Search For More Money. (The movie sadly never happened). Lone Starr and Barf risk life and limb to rescue the princess and Dot. The bad guys continue with their plan to drain Drudia of it's air, so they transform their enormously long ship into Mega-Maid. A huge maid with a vacuum cleaner. They use it to suck all the air. But it's The Schwartz to the rescue and the vacuum flow is reversed. Then the heroes fly inside the head, where Lone Starr attempts to press the self destruct button, but he and Dark Helmet have a Schwartz battle. The button is pressed and soon Helmet, Sandurz and President Skroob find themselves trapped on the ship. It is destroyed and they fall onto a distant planet inside a piece of it. Princess Vespa is returned to Druidia where they make a second attempt to marry her. Lone Starr learns he's a certified prince and can now marry a princess. He marries Princess Vespa and they live happily ever after.See this movie!! You'll love it! Pizza lovers will love the vile gangster, Pizza the Hutt! Rick Moranis, John Candy, Mel Brooks, everybody is good in the film! Mel Brooks did alot of behind the camera work on it also. Brooks is also a man who doesn't like to make sequels. The proof is there's no History of the World Part II.No sequels were made to any of his movies. Too bad though. So anyway, see this movie. You'll like it! I like it! - "},{"Title":"The only major, full length lampoon of Star Wars","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have enjoyed Spaceballs for many years since the first time I saw it.  It made fun specifically of Star Wars, but also added comic lampoons of other science fiction/fantasy films.  There are jokes that stem from Star Trek, the Wizard of Oz, and almost certainly many other classic films, I just can't think of any at the moment.How many films have successfully mixed the genre's of science fiction and comedy so successfully?  There are certainly well done films, such as Ghostbusters and Men in Black.  Spaceballs certainly deserves a place within these ranks; a place I personally have given it.There are also no other full length films I can think of which have sought to lampoon Star Wars, if there are any, I can't think of, or I am not aware of them.  Although I won't say there aren't other good jokes on Star Wars, I think Space Balls is the all time best. "},{"Title":"In space no one can hear you scream... with laughter","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Once again, Mel Brooks has produced a winner, although i think his  Blazing Saddles was a funnier film; with that said, the cast of Spaceballs were very good indeed. The send up of all sci-fi movies worked very well. Rick Moranis, who plays Lord Dark Helmet is very funny indeed. The quick gags are used with in perfect timing; as are the visual gags. The whole cast were very good, credit then to their acting and of course Mel Brooks own direction 8 /10 "},{"Title":"one of my faves","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An all-star cast (Van Patten, Pullman, Brooks, Candy, Rivers, Moranis) and a lot of jokes that hit their targets highlight this hilarious spoof of Star Wars. Mel Brooks has got to be one of the funniest people alive. If you like this genre, or you're a fan of any of the stars, you should definitely see this movie. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"What a great comedy!","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I bought this on DVD the day it came out last year.  Boy, what a great spoof this is!  Lone Starr (Bill Pullman) is really good in this as the hero of the picture.  Lone Starr...notice the first two letters of each?  Remind you of Luke Skywalker?  Princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga) is really excellent in the film also.  She is an absolute stuck-up brat, but begins to fall for Lone Starr.  Barf (John Candy) is a mog, half-human, half-dog in the movie.  He adds some great comedy in many of the scenes.  Joan Rivers plays the voice of the robot, Dot Matrix.  Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis) is unbelievably funny with the deep voice with the mask on and the light-nerd voice with it off!  But my favorite has to be Mel Brooks...he was President Skroob (Get it?) and Yogurt.The plot may be incredibly full of holes and very very silly but you must take into account that this is a spoof comedy.  It's not all supposed to make sense, if it did then it wouldn't be as funny!There are just so many funny moments in the movie.  I remember discussing the film several times in grade school, laughing at the Spaceball salute, the whole ludicrous speed thing, and the deep/light voice Rick Moranis did!I highly suggest that you purchase this on DVD.  The menu design is very nice (just hit play and laugh at the intro).  The sound is Dolby Digital 5.1 sound.  The DVD is double-sided, one side is the widescreen version and the other is the standard version.  The DVD contains the audio commentary by Mel Brooks from the laserdisc in '96.  There is a trailer and behind-the-scenes footage also, but the main reason I suggest purchasing this is because it's usually decently priced and just a terrific comedy! "},{"Title":"Still funny after all these years.","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a movie which I would not hesitate to recommend to any Star Wars fan, just so that he can stop taking himself seriously!I remember watching it a long time ago. I was bedridden for about 2 months, and Cinemax was showing the movie continuously. It must have been some 11 years ago. I watched the movie 3 or 4 times, then taped it, and watched it over and over again. I liked it so much I even learned the dialog of the entire movie! I am amazed that, after all this years, I can still repeat every single line of dialog. And I am more amazed that even now I still find the movie very, very funny. I even bought the laserdisc, which, incidentally, is called Spaceballs - The Laserdisc. If you don't get the joke, well, you haven't seen the film =) "}{"Title":"The greatest parody of all time.","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mel Brooks is a comic genius. This is his best movie. In this spoof of Star Wars, the laughs are non-stop. Rick Moranis gives his best performance as the evil Dark Helmet. Bill Pullman & John Candy complimented each other well as Barf and Lonestar, the duo asked to save Princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga). This movie triumphs as being the best of 80's. May the Schwartz be with you. "},{"Title":"One of Mel Brooks' Better Films","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now, I'll admit that for the Mel Brooks enthusiast who is raised on his subtle Jewish comedies like THE PRODUCERS, THE 12 CHAIRS, or HIGH ANXIETY, a spoof of STAR WARS sounds like a bad idea. I am a HUGE fan of Mel Brooks and every product he ever put his name on. I have to admit that I kinda shyed away from SPACEBALLS, being that I preferred him in films like SILENT MOVIE or HIGH ANXIETY. But my history teacher at school recommended this movie, so I sought out the video-since I'd only seen the cut version on TV. And I must admit, I liked it a whole lot. God knows it's no BLAZING SADDLES, but what else is? I was a little taken aback by all the childishly raunchy jokes, but I think the film is good enough to overshadow these things. The raunchy jokes lack the good-bad taste used in THE PRODUCERS, and instead fall into the land of bad-bad taste. Anyhow, I recommend this. I do not, however, recommend Brooks' next film, LIFE STINKS (1991) which is not funny and it very mean-spirited at times. John Candy and Rick Moranis add to the fun. "},{"Title":"Brooks' Greatest","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is probably Mel Brooks' funniest film.  And it is certainly the best spoof ever made.  So perhaps it's fitting that it is a spoof of one of the most financially successful films ever, Star Wars.  It seems to have almost as many fans as Star Wars, all of whom can recite all the great lines.  "},{"Title":"A  Very Funny Space Spoof","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, some may argue that this isn't Mel Brooks in the classic sense, but it really is still a very funny spoof of space operas in general and of course STAR WARS in particular.  Plenty of clever gags and effects, great one-liners and a cast that seems to be enjoying themselves immensely.  I laughed hard and often, and what more can you ask of a comedy?  It wasn't super-successful at the boxoffice, but it really has taken on a cult following on video and TV and I think one day it will be looked on with more favor by critics. "},{"Title":"The Schwartz is strong with this one!","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs is one of the many comedy spoofs of science fiction. Mel Brooks delivers an upbeat comedy with style and wit.  By looking at it it was completely funny.  It's the second best Brooks movie after Blazing Saddles! Hopefully, after the success of Star Wars Episode I, this will encourage Mel Brooks to make a prequel of Spaceballs called Spaceball Episode 0.1 The Helmetted Menace!  "},{"Title":"GREAT movie!","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is probably the BEST parody ever! You don't have to be a scientist to figure out that this is a parody on Cult classic Star Wars. And I enjoyed it. This is one of the movies you can watch over and over. It's so funny when Black Helmet is shown in the movie for the first time. You think he's one bad ******, but turns out to be a little man with glasses! GREAT FUN!!!! "},{"Title":"best!!","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is my favorite comedy ever! with Spaceballs every funny bit is extremely funny. Every second line is a classic one. This is easily Mel Brookes best work ever 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"In space, no one can here you scream... with laughter!","Date":"21 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" By the time of this film's release, Mel Brooks had already established himself as the master of the genre spoof film. But Spaceballs is, if not his finest hour, one of the top three efforts in his long list of satirizing comedies. And geek culture would never be the same.Basically parodying the original Star Wars saga, but mixing in elements of other sci-fi mainstays, like Star Trek, Alien and others, Brooks employs his twisted skills to skewer one of the most beloved and well-known franchises in movie history and does so masterfully. There are plenty of sight-gags and word play moments, as is expected in a Mel Brooks comedy. I especially liked all the Spaceballs merchandise that constantly shows up in the film. From bed sheets to toilet paper, it's one of several running gags that I never get tired of.It features some early work by Bill Pullman and Daphne Zuniga, who would both move on to bigger things in the future. Here, they have a perfect chemistry, as the snobby-but-yielding Princess and the rugged-but-tender hero. I like that, even before they fall for each other, they already argue like an old married couple.The main stars here, though, are (the late) John Candy and Rick Moranis, both of whom are staples in the world of the 80's comedy film. John Candy has some nice scenes and gets some yuks going, but it is Rick Moranis, as the evil-but-inept Lord Dark Helmet, who basically steals the show. Most of the funniest moment and lines belong to him. From playing with his Spaceballs dolls, to having his men (literally) combing the desert for our heroes, he proves that, even in a total farce, evil is always the more interesting and fun to watch.Many others have tried to imitate Brooks style of comedic humor, most notably Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer, but try as others might, they simply cannot compete with the master. Because the one thing that Mel Brooks comedy spoofs do, that others do not, is know when to not go there. His humor is tactless, without ever being tasteless. Spaceballs remains one of Brooks best works and is certainly my personal favorite. If you love sci-fi, or if you hate it, you'll find plenty to enjoy in this film! "},{"Title":"Spaceballs The User Review","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" What sane person doesn't like a good sci-fi thriller? Also, what insane person doesn't like a good sci-fi spoof? I've lost count of the individual movies that this sends up, and some of them I can't even name. There are obvious references to Star Trek (having 'Snotty' beam up President Skroob), heaps of Star Wars shots (Dark Helmet is a shot at Darth Vader; Lone Starr is somewhat like Luke Skywalker; Yogurt is very Yoda-ish; the strange little men in the desert are parodies of Jawas), and the sequence near the end in the bar is a perfect parody of Alien (indeed, I was shocked to find out that this sequence stars the original John Hurt!!) For some reason, I think the plot is pretty OK. Not great, but pretty OK. You don't need anything exceptional in a parody, as long as the point has been ...erm, pointed... so this quite exceeds what is really required of a parody.One thing I am puzzled about is the rating that the Australian Office of Film and Literature Classification gave this film a PG, meaning Parental Guidance recommended for young children. Although this is not a very serious film, it does contain some language (the word 'sh*t' is used quite a bit, and I have never heard the word 'f*ck' before on anything rated lower than M (Mature)...), sexual references (such as Dot's virgin alarm - damn good stuff) and violence (which is only Vespa losing her temper several times during the film. Old joke). I'm not complaining, I'm just puzzled.Mel Brooks has done an exceptional job with this film. I shall never forget the words of Dark Helmet, saying Out of order? F*ck! Even in the future, nothing works! Riiight. I shall certainly remember that in the future.If you don't laugh at this film, you're either a huge cynic or you, for whatever medical reason, cannot laugh at all. Great film. "},{"Title":"I heard Mel Brook's Young Frankestein wasn't funny to younger generations. Well, Mel's Spaceballs is, but not to many adults","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mel Brooks made this funny spoof of the Star Wars series.The story is similar to the original Star Wars. It centers around the counterparts of Luke and Chubaca. (His name is Barf.) They have to rescue Princess Leia's counterpart from Darth Vader's counterpart. (Lord Dark Helmet.) Sorry. I forgot most of the names.Anyways, there are many funny jokes, like the whole @$$hole scene, and the part We've captured their stunt doubles! But, there are some corny parts too. (Pizza the Hut.) Adults will probably find it corny, but most children will find it hilarious.It took up about two hours of my life, but I enjoyed almost every minute of those two hours.8/10 Good Hilarious and silly for the kids. The hardcore Star Wars fan will be able to enjoy it. (I've asked one.) Bad Most adults will think that the jokes are stupid and corny.Feel free to send me a Private Message regarding this comment. "}{"Title":"Ludicrious speed, GOOOO!!!!!!!","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Funny, really FUNNY!!!! Too many good things to say within a 1000 word limit, and hopefully without spoilers.Mostly a parody of Star Wars, it successfully integrates numerous classics to make it really funny. Star Trek, Alien, Wizard of OZ, Planet of the Apes, etc. Even brings forth ideas that would make any of the others sci-fi classic jealous. Ludicrous speed, a transporter mishap, the secret to Spaceball 1. Even the ring of the Schwarz have features that would make the light sabre look lame.And so the only real sad thing about this movie is that it is a heck of a lot better than the Star Wars prequels. "},{"Title":"Side Splitting Funny","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Planet Druidia is celebrating the near future marriage of their princess , Vespa (Daphne Zuniga). But after she runs away, the planet falls into chaos. tracking Vespa is the dark forces of planet Spaceballs under the evil Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis), President Skroob (Mel Brooks), and Col. Sandurz (George Wyner) to use her as a bargaining chip for all of Druidia's fresh air supply. As she and her loyal droid Dot Matrix (Joan Rivers) are about to be captured, to the rescue comes Lone Star (Bill Pullman) and his co-pilot Barf (John Candy). After the rescue, the companions must work together to find a powerful man named Yogurt (Mel Brooks) and receive the powers of the Schwartz to stop Planet Spaceballs. Bill Pullman never really hit me as a comedy actor but he's a versatile actor who can do just about anything nowadays. He's not the funniest guy in the film but his interaction with Barf is hilarious and with the Schwartz. He'll crack you up a few times. However, he is still not the funniest character.The two funniest characters in the film are Col. Sanders and Darth Helmet. The interaction between Rick Moranis and George Wyner had me on the floor crying it was that funny. Just to many laughs to explain. The acting ability of some of these guys is incredible. It's a shame Moranis has pretty much disappeared from the spot light nowadays.The movie is a follow up parody of the SF classic's Star Wars trilogy, Alien, and other films. It brings a variety of comedy actors together to give a person tons of brainless laughs. 1987 was probably one of Candy's best years with this and Planes, Trains, and Automobiles. This is a top parody with the ingenious thoughts of Mel Brooks. Spaceballs. Starring Bill Pullman, Daphne Zuniga, George Wyner, Rick Moranis, John Candy, and Mel Brooks. 5 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Star Wars farce is so good-natured its hard not to like.","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs won me over in a succession of three scenes in chapter 10 of the DVD. Yoghurt (played by Brooks, sending up Yoda) has a line that everybody thinks, but it expresses it so eloquently its just perfect. The young hero (Bill Pullman) asks Yoghurt, as he's about to get on his spaceship, will we meet again?Yoghurt says Who knows. God willing, we'll all meet again in Spaceballs II Da Search for More Money, (in a Jewish accent, like a Yiddish wiseman).We cut straight to Rick Moranis, playing Lord Dark Helmet. Camera behind his huge helmet. We hear him talking to Princess Leia, i mean Vespa, telling her what he will do to her if she doesn't talk. The camera pans slowly around the reveal that he's not talking to the princess, but playing with some dolls/action figures of the characters of the film. Its a terrific, precious scene. Watch the light on the desk wobbling as Helmet gets so excited he's shaking the desk. The scene closes with the light wobbling for comic effect.Cut to a closeup of a toilet role in President Scroob (great name, great character, played by Brooks)'s bathroom. On the toilet role is printed Official Spaceballs Toilet Paper. Camera pans up to reveal Scroob pissing and a video monitor covering the wall in front of the toilet suddenly turns on, shocking the heck out of him.Ah! Scroob says, I told you not to call me on this wall. This is an unlisted wall.*As soon as I saw this toilet paper was merchandise for the movie, juxtaposed with the scene where Helmet was playing with action figures (ie, merchandise), i knew i'd fallen in love with this movie. From this point on, Brooks can do no wrong Permit me to introduce the young plastic surgeon Dr Phillip Schlodkin - the greatest nosejob man in the entire universe... and Beverly Hills.Brooks' performances are actually great in this. Better than Blazing Saddles and Silent Movie, in my opinion.I'll warn you, the video cover makes it look shoddy - you get the feeling this will be the Mel Brooks movie people find it chic to say what a misfire, and the first fifteen minutes of the movie, including John Candy's ridiculous costume which sends up Chewy in Star Wars, seem to confirm this suspicion. Like Silent Movie, its a send-up of a genre, but Brooks really just uses this as a sounding-off board for his own farcical comedy. I find these movies more Mel-Brooks comedies than spoofs. Although this one contains quite a bit of great satire of the money-grabbing nature of Star Wars and more.John Candy fans will not be pleased - he's fairly annoying in this, and not the best part of the movie. For everyone else, this is great bedtime viewing fun. 7/10.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest comedies I've ever seen.","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those films that I've seen an unhealthy number of times and have basically grown up with this film.  Just the other night I watched this film yet again and I have just got to say that this is definitely one of my all-time favorite comedies, without a doubt in my top 10.  There is so much great comedy in the film, such strange scenarios, excellent/hilarious characters that makes this film awesome.  This film is over 15 years old and I've seen it a countless number of times and I still pick up something new from the film every time I watch it or find something new to laugh at.Mel Brooks definitely knows his way around comedy and struts his stuff yet again with Spaceballs.  If you are a fan of any major science fiction films of the pre-80's then you'll get a kick out of all the spoofs made in this film.The cast is awesome in the film.  Rick Moranis was the perfect choice for the character of Dark Helmet...and that costume is just excellent.  Mel Brooks is not only a great director, but a great actor as well, playing two very important parts in this film and pulling them both off extremely well.  The couldn't have made a better choice for the part of Barf than John Candy, a truly excellent comedian and actor.  Bill Pullman is a personal favorite of mine, whenever I see his face, this is the film that first pops into mind.  Daphne Zuniga is a very nice touch in the film, and looks fabulous in the film as well.  The rest of the cast was excellent as well, but I can't list them all.If you've seen any of the other Mel Brooks films and haven't seen this one, you are certainly missing out.  I would be confident in saying that this is my favorite Mel Brooks film.  The comedy is excellent, the direction superb, the acting is awesome, everything about this film is perfect!  Do yourself a favor and check out this film, I hope you'll enjoy it.  Thanks for reading,-ChrisIf there's one thing I despise, it is a fair fight. - Dark Helmet "},{"Title":"Spaceballs is a classic!","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time. Spaceballs is a very funny spoof film that copies off of Star Wars and some other films but every time I watch Spaceballs I always think of it as it`s own film. Its that funny! It has a good cast and believe ME Spaceballs isn`t boring. Infact the entire film is a blast! I have seen it many,many times and it gets funnier every time you see it! "},{"Title":"I was laughing!","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I borrowed this DVD from someone I know in college, and upon starting this film, the laughs began! I've heard of this movie before, and have seen it in bits and pieces, and I thought that this film basically makes fun of Star Wars. Yes, it does! I mean, the characters' names are funny Yoghurt = Yoda, Princess Vespa = Princess Leia, Barf = Chewbacca, Dark Helmet = Darth Vader, etc. This movie is totally like Airplane! meets Star Wars! Also funny are the Winnebago RV that is a spaceship, the scrolling Star Wars text spoof, Mr. Everything (this refers to all the things that start with Mr.), etc. These things were all funny! I want you to see this movie right away! It's great! "},{"Title":"Out of this world!","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" As is all Mel Brooks's movies, they all have great fun, humor, and of course, Judaism. As a Jew myself, I really got a kick out of the movie set a long long time ago, in a galaxy far far far far far far far (you get the idea) away.In comparison, this movie is nowhere's near, The Producers or Young Frankenstein, but its pretty darn close to a movie like Airplane, since it has both about the same caliber humor. Let's not forget here, this is Mel Brooks, the genius of Judaic comedy, as well as simple satire turned into egregious roundabout humor.The acting here is probably one of the funniest lineups since, Its a Mad Mad Mad Mad World. Rick Moranis (Dark Helmet) shines in this film, and grabs a couple of laughs on the camera, and gets the approval rating in this film (His later movies shall I not mention). Though probably not well known at the time, Bill Pullman (Lone Star) comes through with a flashy performance, terrificly handled and unpredictable. Speaking of unpredictable, the late John Candy (Barf)was unbelievable. His abilities stretch beyond all means, and will always be remembered as one of the greater comedians of the 80's.And, for the grand finale, Mel Brooks, who makes appearances as the incompetent President Scroobs and the wise Yogurt, appears to show his age a bit, but nonetheless, still shows that he's an old timer, and his films are going to be around for years.Get lost in space with this movie. "},{"Title":"Satire, not for kids","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs is a funny movie but don't let the PG rating fool you, this is not a movie for kids. This movie was full of obsenities and sexual related content. It's a movie that you have to keep saying, This is not a word that we say. Again, don't let the PG rating fool you.  "},{"Title":"Could be better","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some scenes in spaceballs are actually really funny such as the ones with Rick Moranis or Mel Brooks in. The good guys really are not funny at all and the only good scene with them in is when the alien bursts out the mans chest and dances. Mildly amusing film but it could of been so much better. "},{"Title":"Canadian content saves this movie","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The only funny thing about this movie is John Candy and Rick Moranis, ironically the only Canadians in the whole thing. Mel Brooks is just lame(i think the Yiddish thing is a little overdone...moving along shall we) Bill Pullman sucks as a leading man, frankly in any movie(i.e independence day). Making movies for the sake of parody itself just doenst work.Unfortunately filmmakers(i guess i have to call them that) nowadays look at movies like this and think, heres a quick way to make a buck usually off youths who have no better place to spend their money. look at every teen comedy thats come out in the past, oh i don't know...5 years! we live in sad sad times..!  "}{"Title":"How can you go wrong taking the mick out of Star Wars? Just ask Mel Brooks.","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To be fair to Mel, there were some moments of pure comic genius. Like when the bad guys can see themselves on TV playing themselves in the movie, if you know what I mean. Alas, there is not enough funny stuff to keep the ball rolling, despite the likes of Candy and Moranis in there. Some of the characters were really poor, like that yogurt fellow. Mel Brooks, as with 'men in tights', could and should have done better. Shame on him. Just to add that the lack of music in some scenes made them very stark... tut tut.  "},{"Title":"The precursor of such classic comedies as...Haunted House!","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has NOT aged well, and I really hated it when it was first released. The humor consists of a collection of eye-rolling, barely juvenile puns with some naughty (tee-hee) language mixed in. To make sure you get the puns (as you might not, if you were a drooling simpleton) Mel Brooks hits you over the head with a little Eh? Did you get that? Ain't I clever? followup. The acting isn't even up to Saturday Night Live skit level. Hang the barely serviceable plot over a wire-frame of the original Star Wars trilogy, add some take-off on original characters names that must have taken all but a second to dream up and you've got a tedious mess, well worth avoiding! "},{"Title":"Predictably rank language and innuendo not suitable for children, not funny for adults","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought that Mel Brooks' movies were funny when I was in my teens and twenties, but now I think they are just dumb. Our eleven-year old thought Spaceballs was funny -- though he didn't get a lot of the jokes (Who is Rambo?). Mel's dialog is predictable and trite, and the language and innuendo are neither very funny, nor suitable for children. If you enjoyed Mel Brooks' movies when you were young -- don't spoil your fond memories by seeing them again. It's really too bad Mel didn't put more effort into his spoofs because he is obviously a talented guy (eg The Producers). If you must see a Mel Brooks movie, Young Frankenstein might be a better choice. "},{"Title":"A Huge Misfire!","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a huge fan of much of Mel Brooks's films - particularly his work done in the seventies. Blazing Saddles, The Twelve Chairs, The Producers, High Anxiety, and of course Young Frankenstein are all wonderful comedies and very good films. But Spaceballs, for me, fell flat. In fact it never even got airborne. I have noticed that with much of Brooks's films in the late eighties and on - he has pandered to a less than typical Brooks audience. Now someone might be saying, did you see the bean scene in Blazing Saddles? Yes, I did. But those films were far better crafted films for not only did they include obvious bathroom humour but allusions that an intelligent crowd would get. Not much of that is Spaceballs, save the Metamorphosis/Kafka line. Brooks also seems to be pushing way too much, almost forcing the gag on you. In movies like Young Frankenstein they are almost seamless one after another. Here they hurt watching as they are obvious shots that misfire far too often rather than illicit a laugh. I laughed few times in this film. The best scene is an incidental one in a diner paying an homage to Alien. The rest just wasn't that funny. Some of the actors did fairly good jobs Rick Moranis is good, Mel Brooks out acts just about anyone in the film, and George Wyner does a workmanlike job. But the rest of the cast is either poor(Daphne Zuniga, Bill Pullman), set up to failure with a ridiculous script(John Candy), or just plain awful(Joan Rivers - and its just her voice!). I blame Brooks more than anyone, because he doesn't have a script here that goes beyond the parody. There are really no characters that are very interesting or have any depth. They are cardboard stereotypes meant to be obvious upon first sight. Compare that with some of the characters in Blazing Saddles or Young Frankenstein. The script is nothing more than gags meant to be cute. I found them tiresome by ten minutes into the movie. For me Spaceballs was a huge letdown and a huge bore. I was disappointed that someone of Brooks's caliber as a director/entertainer could piece something fraught with possibilities so carelessly and shamelessly shallow. Not one of Brooks's best to be sure! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Remarkable","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A mere 25 years after its release, I have finally watched Spaceballs for the first time. Since I have two children who are crazy about Star Wars, how could I go wrong? The movie is rated PG, and scored a 7 on the IMDb reviews. Bring it on! The results, to put it mildly, were horrifying. This is one of the most appalling pieces of crap ever released. I love goofy humor. I love Airplane, Blazing Saddles, History of the World, Monty Python anything to name just a few. This movie, however, is so unfunny it just boggles the mind. To borrow from some other reviewers, it is literally as if a group of high school freshmen got a video camera and made a Star Wars spoof as a project for school, improvising the dialogue as they went.There are plenty of comedies out there that aren't funny enough to entertain adults, but are capable of amusing kids (Johnny English would be one such example). The problem with Spaceballs, however, is immediately apparent -- only a 10 year-old could find this garbage even slightly amusing, but the movie is so full of profane and vulgar humor that a 10 year-old has no business watching it.What is absolutely remarkable, however, are these IMDb user reviews lauding the movie. Please don't be fooled. This is an extremely dull, lifeless, unfunny, vulgar piece of garbage that should not be viewed by anyone of any age. "},{"Title":"Embarrassing","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was expecting something along the lines of AIRPLANE! - a truly hilarious, if sophomoric gag-fest. SPACEBALLS, on the other hand, is strictly for sixth graders. The jokes are all elbow-in-the-rib puns (Pizza the Hut - get it?) and childish sight gags, with none of the ground-breaking shock value of Blazing Saddles nor the wit that made Young Frankenstein such a classic. How long can you go on and on with the same innocuous Star Wars jokes? Just like George Lucas, nobody wanted to say no to Mel Brooks - Mel says it's funny, it's funny. Ironically, Lucas ended up making a parody of his own saga with Phantom Menace. Jar Jar Binks would've actually worked in Spaceballs - such a despicably stupid character would fit right in with Barf... "},{"Title":"Full steam ahead","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" never before have i seen a movie that could have been lifted straight from the pages of mad magazine. actually, no, mad magazine is (sometimes) funny. i take that back.probably the worst is the stupid names given to the characters (eg. yoghurt for yoda) - is this supposed to be funny? even at 90 minutes, this is far too long. most of the jokes were not funny at all, it just reminded me of some year 8 drama class. i think i might have laughed twice... at the dancing alien thing, and the leia headphones. that's two jokes in 90 minutes. it seems strange to me that anybody could like this movie, i half expected it to be in the bottom 100.in conclusion don't see this movie (unless, of course, you are male, immature and under 16 years of age). if you are over 40, don't bother. it sucks big time. if you are desperate for a decent star wars parody, try the MAD magazine star wars special - it is actually reasonably funny. 0/10 "},{"Title":"The worst spoof ever made","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (And one of the worst movies ever produced)There is no doubt in my mind that this is an awful, awful film.  Anything that has me fighting to keep my eyes open for 90 minutes is going to be bad, let alone a 'laugh a minute' comedy that doesn't ever manage to raise a smile.It took me 16 years to get around to watching this, and all I can imagine is that decent humour was thin on the ground back in the late 80s.  Now I know this to be false, so why on Earth do I know so many people who consider this film to be amusing?  It defies logic.What makes it all the worse is that this fails with a SPOOF - probably the easiest form of humour to produce to a decent standard.  'Spaceballs' would fail to get a pass mark if it was written by 16 year-old students for an A-Level assignment, let alone made as a major Hollywood production.  When I was at school a group of us produced a short radio programme spoofing Star Wars.  It was about as funny as being stabbed repeatedly through the heart, yet for its 15 minute duration managed to be more amusing than the material the entire length of Spaceballs showcased.Mel Brooks' films are notorious for being either hits or misses.  This one is definitely a miss.1/10  (Yes, it's that bad) "},{"Title":"The silliest stupidest movie ever!","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Oh my lord, my jaws are literally a little sore from laughing at this. It was great to see the well known stars in this like John Candy, Rick Moranis, John Hurt and Joan Rivers(RIP). I didn't expect that they made Joan Rivers into female C-3PO. You would wonder if shes wearing the costume or is it just a toy robot that moves its hands and feet? The movie really takes the p*ss out of both star wars and star trek. It is funny how they change the serious part into a more sarcastic theme. I think its a very good idea for a proper spoof movie. Nowadays, spoof movies that take the p*ss outta other films, they pretty much terrible. They don't have the proper funny side nor have proper legends in them as this one has! I think this is one of the best spoof movies I've ever seen and I'm sorry that I didn't get to see it before today! "},{"Title":"The Schwartz Is Strong In This One","Date":"7 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Recently parody movies have gotten progressively worse. They went from being clever deconstructions that you could enjoy even if you haven't seen the film they're parodying, to being more cringe-worthy than they are funny by trying to drench out laughs just by naming another movie. But back when parody films were still worth watching, Spaceballs came out to mock everything Star Wars with quotable dialogue and great actors making this one parody that was done right.When Princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga) of the planet Druidia is kidnapped by the evil race of the Spaceballs in a plan to steal all the air on their planet, the king hires space pilot Lone Star (Bill Pullman) and his sidekick Garf (John Candy) to bring her back. On his journey to save her he discovers a power known as the Schwartz which he uses to take on the Spaceballs empire.Unlike Brooks other work like Blazing Saddles or Young Frankenstein this film isn't well made on a technical level. Those films were more focused on recreating the look and atmosphere of the genre they are parodying. Here it doesn't look like an authentic sci fi film with Brooks unable to recreate the same kind of effects the Star Wars films had and instead the film's sets and costumes feel more like cheap cosplay. However even though it's not his best made film, Brooks is still able to do a great job at mocking the Star Wars films. He takes swipes at everything from the seemingly never ending ship in the introductory shot to the grand master Yogurt (played by Brooks himself) stopping the film at one point to show us the line of Spaceballs toys that will be coming out. It even mocks the fans themselves with Rick Moranis playing with his Spaceballs toys mid film to act out his love fantasies. Plus the cast is full of very talented comedic actors with Bill Pullman blending the characters of Luke Skywalker and Han Solo into one typical protagonist and John Candy demonstrating his talents in slapstick comedy.But at the heart of Spaceballs is the trio of idiocy consisting of Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis) who takes the booming voice and imposing figure of Darth Vader and turns him into a short dweeb, Colonel Sandurz (George Wyner) a man so spineless that even when he knows it's stupid will literally comb the desert because he's been ordered to and President Skroob (Mel Brooks) a man so dumb his briefcase is unlocked with the numbers 12345. Whenever these guys are on screen I always seem to be in hysterics laughing. Plus they seem to get dumber and dumber as they go further up the chain of command. I don't know whether Brooks had such idiots rule the largest empire as clever political satire or just to have an excuse for slapstick antics, but either way this trio definitely steal the film with their 3 stooges style of comedy.It's nowhere near Brooks best work like Blazing Saddles or Young Frankenstein. Also I do get the impression that he doesn't have the same attachment to Science Fiction a he did to other genres like westerns, but I never go too long without laughing when I watch this film. Brooks brought his usual genius to the screen and it did not fail to disappoint. "}{"Title":"If you saw Star Wars IV and V when it came out, it's hilarious","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spaceballs is very dated looking and in humor. The parody is not just about silly jokes but about an entire culture and fad surrounding Star Wars, space heroes and the genre in general as well as the time. If you didn't live during the 80s, you may not really get the humor, including jokes such as going into the plaid back when the fashion horror was prominent, such as in the 70s.Rick Moranis plays Darth Vader as a short, insecure little man who can't seem to just put away our hero whose job is to save the princess. Don't expect any surprises. It's not meant to provide them, only make you laugh at the silly predictability and routines that have become rote in these movies.The jokes themselves in the movie are a scream. Most of them are pure hit, mostly fun PG13 rips at the seriousness of some of the ridiculous manner in which space films were created back in the day. Light speed, ludicrous speed, lol. The lights on the ship to show everyone (especially the TV audience) the speed level of the ship... oh, this spares nothing, even the pathetic merchandising that resulted from the film. Brooks really skewers everyone and everything. It's a lot of fun and has produced quite a number of zingers that have stood the test of time. "},{"Title":"It's Her Royal Highness's Matched Luggage","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A total improv spectacular. How to judge the magic of this wonderful spoof? Mel and the gang rip the heck out of just about everything here Star Trek, Star Wars, Wizard of Oz, 2001. I think it's the funniest movie I've ever seen, basically. Genius deadpan from all involved and Rick Moranis deserved an Oscar for this. It's line to line gags in the best spirit of The Marx Bros. The quotes are too many,so I won't start. Mel's quite acerbic with his portrayal of Yogurt the all seeing know-it- all. Merchandising! Where the real money is made! George Lucas himself said this movie was genius, so who is going to argue with that? Btw. I have a 13-yr-old nephew who was mental about Star Wars. I sent him this and he's cured forever. "},{"Title":"A true classic sci-fi comedy","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Whenever the average movie-nerd goes through the long list of comedy films at the local movie shop, or on his favorite streaming service, he will possibly encounter 'Spaceballs', and think to himself Well, this is another random sci-fi parody with below-average acting and over-the- top efforts to remake classic sci-fi moments with a twist of humor. Nah.Above is an example of what one may think, when coming across this hidden gem (so to speak) wherever one may go to watch his/her movies. The truth is Spaceballs is a piece of genius, and should not be missed by anyone who have enjoyed the likes of Star Wars or Star Trek. Mel Brooks, who even plays a couple of roles himself, has done a fantastic job of directing a film, which is not only a subject of impressive acting, but also memorable scenes featuring hilarious characters, such as Pizza-the-Hutt or the furious, yet over-confident Lord Helmet.In numerous films, these hilarious scenes appear at the expense of a well structured storyline (such as Disaster Movie), however, the story told in Spaceballs is not to any extent confusing. It's actually an interesting and exciting story being told, while keeping the audience entertained enough to remember several quotes.Therefore, a combination of great acting, a continuously well-written storyline and never-to-forget humor, makes this what I consider the greatest sci-fi comedy of all time. May the Schwartz be with you! "},{"Title":"one of my favorite cameos","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" As I have been a Geek most of my life and I love this one. I am a huge Star Wars fan and this is one of those spoofs or cameos that really can bring the comedy without pissing you off. I love the way they altered the characters and their names. Darth Vador = Dark Helmet, Princess Leia = Princess Vespa. It's the little things that makes this movie so enjoyable. It is something you can watch with your entire family or even those hardcore friends of yours and they will still get a kick out of it. I don't know if anyone who will read this has not seen it but you haven't, please do after you read this, you will not be disappointed in doing so. "},{"Title":"Goofy parody which pokes fun at Star Wars","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" While this movie isn't particularly sophisticated, the goofy humor is pretty fun - like most of Mel Brooks's movies, it's filled with crude, sometimes even infantile gags. For example in Dark Helmet's (Brooks's version of Darth Vader) first entrance, he approaches the camera, breathing heavily through his mask. Suddenly, he flips up the mask to reveal classic nerd Rick Moranis, who exclaims I can't breathe in this thing! One of the great virtues of Young Frankenstein, arguably Brooks's masterpiece, was its almost beautiful recreation of the classic 30s horror movie, which added some punch to the silliness. Spaceballs, on the other hand, doesn't exactly look like Star Wars gone mad most of the low-budget sets look like something out of Saturday Night Live. Nevertheless, the movie definitely has its moments. Excessive merchandising is placed under the gun in a downright hysterical scene where Yogourt (played by Brooks) gushes over everything from Spaceballs the toilet paper to Spaceballs the flamethrower (the kids love this one!). And most memorable of all is the gag which pays homage to both the Alien series and Chuck Jones' classic cartoon One Froggy Evening. Also worth a mention is the re-creation of the famous conclusion to Planet of the Apes. "},{"Title":"Now this is fun!","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A comedy in the characteristic style of the director, whose satire is inspired this time by George Lucas film, Star Wars. Planet Spaceball is trying to steal the peaceful atmosphere of its neighbor Druidia. The characters seem to be cloned after Lucas's famous heroes and Brooks himself appears in the film in double role Skroob, President of the aggressor planet and Yogurt, a wise old man. As customary, Brooks wrote, directed and produced the movie, and he did not give up until he got what he proposed - healthy laughter of the spectators.Spaceballs is one of my favorite Mel Brooks comedies, a perfect sci-fi movie for a Sunday evening. "},{"Title":"You're a real space ball","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you have never...are you sure you want to? Before you become a Spaceball(if you have not already joined the Human League of Spaceballs), there's an old saying you should remember suspend disbelief. At least until after the credits ...which don't come on until the end(ha ha)!. I have steered you down the wrong road. You should suspend disbelief right away! Before the first chapter of the DVD. If you are not watching a DVD, just don't believe anything on the tape. I can't believe how dumb I am. This is the third time I have seen this wacky space flick and...I just realized that Bill Pullman is not one of Wyatt's deputies...He is Lone Star. How did I not figure that out in the first scene...that he is in fact having one! Texas, ma'am..The last courageous star fighter has his own ship and it looks an awful lot like an RV(80's movie made before the SUV's took over). He's with his faithful pal(who doesn't look like he really chews tobacco), and his name is Barf. He's half man and half mutt and is played by the late John Candy. The hefty actor was in many movies including Armed and Dangerous and JFK.The princess arrives on the scene shortly after this insane descent into space madness(139). She's decided that her happy trails lead somewhere besides the altar(who is that guy?), and soon Daphne Zunigas is calling all the shots now, it seems, until Joan Rivers' Virgin Alarm goes off. It's Dot Matrix to the menu, I mean the rescue. But why am I spending all this time talking about the Twilight Couple when I have not even mentioned Dark Helmet? Maybe...DH is not worth mentioning. His greatest feat is luring the princess into a false sense of security and believing that she is actually getting paid to be in this Mel Brooks movie. I have to have some respect now for the man who brought us from the Wild Wild West to Germany(give me life!)(both circa 1800's) to the future of satiric parody in...the future, sometime. Yogurt is the most conventional present-day character, because he already has a store inside a pyramid where he is selling dolls and other memorabilia related to the darn movie Spaceballs. I saw Bill Pullman do that fantastic gymnastic move that everybody should know now is not a Jackie Chan move. It was first made famous on the big screen in Matrix. Which is still available on Betamax(just kidding). "},{"Title":"May the FARCE be with you, always!","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. It's a parody of STAR WARS and it's fantastic. Rick Moranis, who is a hit and miss in the comedic movie realm, is the best. He plays the Darth Vadar character (Dark Helmet) and is to this movie what Harvey Korman was to BLAZING SADDLES. Bill Pullman has the Cleavon Little-type roll; as in, he has to be the straight man, as it were, surrounded by the always-funny characters. He does a great job, as does his sidekick, a half dog half man played by John Candy (more or less the Gene Wilder). One of the funniest scenes in movie history is in this movie, concerning the movie ALIEN (John Hurt gets, um, HURT again); and there's another great jab at PLANET OF THE APES. They even found a funny part for Michael Winslow, who does sound effects using his own voice that are amazing, but whose talent had been wasted with the plethora of POLICE ACADEMY movies. See this movie, it will knock you out. But you have to be a STAR WARS lover in order to understand most of the stuff, or else you'll be quite lost. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spaceballs is a classic and my favorite movie of all time. its a great parody of alien, Starwars, and Startreck. there could possibly be a second one. the cast was great especially rick Moranis and john Candy. this 1987 movie features characters such as Darth helmet, barf, pizza the hut, yogurt, and the baby alien from alien. its a great scifi/comedy. this great movie was made by Mel brooks. this movie about a guy named loan star and his friend barf (john candy) who owes a debt to pizza the hut so they rescue princess vespa from dark helmet while on his quest he meets yogurt, learns hes a prince and defeats dark helmet and president Scrooge from stealing all the air. "},{"Title":"Probably the funniest parody out there","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I absolutely loved this movie. The humor was so funny, and so well thought out, I was astounded by how I had never heard of the movie before that day.A spoof on Star Wars, Spaceballs is an extremely funny parody. I had an excellent time watching how Princess Vespa is kidnapped on her wedding day. She is rescued by 2 space- morons, if you want to be exact. Watch their funny adventures as they try to return Vespa home safe and sound.Definitaly one of my favorites. 9 1/2 out of 10. I would recommend this for ages 10 and up. Some of the humor is a little mature and inappropriate. "}{"Title":"Best Parody EVER!","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Space Balls is the best parody movie I've ever seen, Blazing Saddles was good, and Young Frankenstein was a bit hard to follow. But this movie is so simple, yet so entertaining. Lonestar (Bill Pullman) and his associate Barf (The late, great John Candy) are asked by King Rolland (Dick Van Patten) to save his daughter, Princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga) from the evil clutches of Lord Helmet (An incredibly funny Rick Moranis).Princess Vespa was kidnapped because President Scroob (The Director, Mel Brooks himself), Dark Helmet, and Colonel Sanders (George Weiner) are in need of air because they have foolishly wasted all their air. So they make a plan to kidnap Vespa so Rolland will give them all the air on his planet, Druidia. After Lonestar and Barf save the princess in a hilarious rescue, they crash their flying winebago (yes, a flying winebago) on a desert planet. Their, they meet Yogurt (Brooks again)who teaches Lonestar how to use the mystical power of the Shwartz. But, then, Vespa is kidnapped by Helmet again, so now Lone star and Barf have to save her once more, can they do it?Filled with hilarious parodies on Star Wars and Star Trek, this film is a comedy gem. It also has hilarious themes like everything having merchandising rights, and a drop dead hilarious scene with Dark Helmet playing with Action Figures/Dolls. Although it is a bit hard with language, his film is sure to please anybody looking for a great comedy! 10/10 "},{"Title":"It's a joke after joke movie!","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen this movie the first time when I was a kid. I don't even remember how old I was because I was only 3 when it came out. It played on television every year and I watched it every time it played. It was my favorite movie and still is one of my favorites. I laughed every time, even though I knew it by heart. Actually, I know almost every line in French AND in English. As a kid, I couldn't understand every joke, but I loved it anyway. I think it's a great movie and every time you watch it, you find a new joke to laugh about because the time before, you missed it because you were laughing the joke before. I don't think I need to say more. I've seen it thousand of times and made dozens of people love it.  "},{"Title":"Prepare to laugh!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie about a year after it came out.  Sixteen years after that first viewing, it has not grown old!  Basically, the Spaceballs have almost run out of air, and plan to rob their peaceful neighbor Druidia of every last breath of air they have.  The ending may be predictable, but its how we get to the ending that is hilarious!  The jump to Ludicrous Speed is one of the funniest scenes of all time.  Its the kind of movie designed for all ages; the more mature jokes will sail over any kids' heads, save for the bedroom scene.  An interesting note is that ILM itself was responsible for the effects in the 'Schwartz-saber' duel, and it is pulled off nicely. While the movie is definitely a straight parody of 'Star Wars', it leaves no stone unturned, even parodying the Doublemint commercials that aired at the time.  Mel Brooks was at his best level for this and Life Stinks; it was sharply downhill after that. "},{"Title":"Pure Hilarity","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs is definitely one of my all time favorite comedic movies. It ranks right up there with 'Monty Python & the Holy Grail'. Like 'Holy Grail', this film features no semblance of true seriousness yet the characters act as if there is.The movie parodies every sci-fi film from 'Star Wars' to 'Alien' to '2001', the list goes on. There is a bit of crude humor but it is not so overdone that it ruins the movie.This film is a must for anyone who like the sci-fi genre or comedic parodies or for those like me who enjoy both. Spaceballs is a must-see film that will leave you laughing your butt off every time you watch****/**** "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS!!!!! (May contain some spoilers)","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has to be one of the funniest movies ever!!! Rick Moranis hilarious, Mel Brooks in his two roles is very funny, and John Candy is funny in his half-man half-dog role. Then there are the voices provided by Joan Rivers and Dom DeLuise. This is one of Mel Brooks's greatest films ever, along with Young Frankenstein. I give this movie a big two thumbs up! Anyone who loves spoof movies will laugh non-stop with such spoofs of Star Wars, The Wizard of Oz, and The Planet of the Apes. The funniest scene would be when Dark Helmet watches Spaceballs and doesn't understand why he can't get to the ending scene so he can outwit the heroes of the movie. I call this film a classic and one of the greatest films of the 80's.10/10   "},{"Title":"No-Brainer trash, basically not Mel's best work","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In simple terms its a Star Wars spoof, having seen Robin Hood Men In Tights i looked forward to watching some of Mel Brooks' earlier work.  Having sat down and watched it i must have laughed about twice.  I say laughed they were more limp smirks, anyway to make things brief only watch if you are a die hard Mel Brooks fan or just take interest in stupid comedies other wise buy or rent yourself a copy of Robin Hood Men In Tights its better!My personal judgement does not cloud my fine comedy detector so i give this poor film a poor score  2/10 "},{"Title":"where's the sequal","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie is is in bad need for a part 2 or a prequel.it will bring more laughes than the first.so i wish that brooks will get off of his kiester and make another one before he has a health problem that he can't make anymore films.it was a big lost when john candy past on a very big lost. "},{"Title":"Evil will always triumph because good is dumb.","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My (younger) brother and I grew up watching this movie at my Grandma's, which was a taped-off-TV version of it. When it came out on DVD my 'rents got it for us for Christmas. It is still one of my favorite movies of all time. My brother and I can quote the whole movie from start to finish, which is either funny or sad, depending on how you look at it.  It is a great movie with a lot of jokes that I didn't understand 'til I was older and/or had seen other sci-fi.  Anyone I meet and become friends with who hasn't seen this movie I make watch it, and not a single one hasn't found it hilarious.  So go out and rent it, and grab a group of friends to watch it with.I said across her nose, not up it!  "},{"Title":"Rubbish!","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To be honest i was looking forward to a brilliant movie having recieved rave reviews from a friend of mine, and i loved Mel Brooks' previous and following titles such as 'Robin Hood Men In Tights'.  So i syked myself up for movie ecstacy expecting pure comedy heaven, how wrong i was unfortunately what followed was about 90 mins of regreting the fact that even though i brought it on sale for £3 i felt that i was robbed.  This movie was seriously un-funny all the way through and it ended with me feeling ashamed to have watched all of it.I know many who have watched and loved it unfortunately i didn't.Lets hope if there is a SpaceBalls 2, it will have better comedy. "},{"Title":"A star wars fans delight","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs is a direct spoof of star wars in every sense. From Dark helmet to Barf (one of the late great john candys best) to yogert, this film is a well made star wars spoof with heart.As for the plot, the evil spaceballs have used up all their air and now want another planets air. (im sorry but the name of the planet skip my memory)The film is funny, the jokes are memorable and the humor is not gross out (i have no problem with letting my 10 year nephew see it)overall, check it out for some good laughts and memorable jokes. its prehaps mel brooks best spoof film to date "}{"Title":"Hilarious movie!","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To the folks ripping this movie because they don't get the Shwartz Hello people! Brooks always drops Jewish jokes in his films. Here, the most powerful force in this universe is named after a predominantly Jewish surname? Now that's funny. "},{"Title":"What a film","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs is the single greatest spoof ever made. With lines like 'We are gathered here today to witness Princess Vespa going straight past the Alter heading down the ramp and out the Door' and 'What the hell am i looking at. When did this happen in the Movie. Youre looking at now sir, everything that happens now, is happening now What happened to then We past it When Just now When will then be now Soon'.It will forever be Mel Brooks greatest film, unless he does a Spaceballs sequel. "},{"Title":"Great spoof of Starwars and also product placement!","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must say when I first saw Spaceballs DVD cover, I immediately thought it wouldn't be up to much, but I was pleasently surprised by it's quality.This is so much more than a cheap cash in, as already mentioned by some other comments here, but I need to emphasise just how much fun this film is (And I'm hard to please nowadays- I prefer Hitchcock films and the new wave films), not just because of it's obvious mocking of Starwars, Star Trek and so on, but also because it pokes fun at the one thing I hate in modern cinema and films- product placement. I couldn't help but be amused at the sight of Spaceballs the Duvet, Spaceballs the Placemat... and so on, but let's get back to the film.The jokes are a mixture of the obvious innuendo (however that's spelt ^_^; ), visual gags (Dark Helmet flying into the computer when the ship goes out of Ludicrous Speed is one of many brilliant examples, as well as the already mentioned product placement) and more subtle jokes.I don't know the actors too well, apart from John Candy. I don't think it's one of his best roles I've seen (he has been better in such films as Trains Planes and Automobiles), but some of the other actors really do shine. Rick Moranis was simply brilliant as Dark Helmet, and Mel Brooks did well playing President Scroob and Yogurt.Overall, I thought this film was brilliant and great fun, even after watching it a few times, and a worthy spoof of Starwars! "},{"Title":"One of the great comedies of our time","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this film nearly ten years ago, and in my eyes, it's barely aged. It still brings up huge cackling laughs. Anyone who loves science fiction, as well as Mel Brooks at his very best, should definately watch this film.5 out of 5! "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks Rocks","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Brooks, an obvious film geek himself, isn't afraid to blend the clever with the crude. And that's the beauty of Spaceballs. It's gutterball humor and clever spoofs of the sci-fi genre.I grew up with crappy VHS copies of History of the World Part I, Blazing Saddles, and Young Frankenstein. I hesitate to call these family films, but there is something about them that makes them appeal to both kids and adults. I watched the DVD extras on Young Frankenstein where one of the major behind-the-scenes players questioned admits that his children know every line to the film. It's clearly this mix of stupid and smart gags that brings the masses together and divides the intellectuals.I will also go as far to say that Mel Brooks movies were highly influential at a young age for me. When I was about 8-years-old I remember vividly a scene from History of the World Part I where Madeline Khan utters her Ah, but the servant waits while the master baits line. My whole family erupted in laughter, but I didn't get the joke and asked what was so funny. Of course they said We'll tell you later and never did. I was annoyed by the fact that the adults knew something more about comedy than I did. It really made me study comedy and movies like a religion.After scanning all the reviews here I expected this division over the content. I was however surprised that not one hardcore film geek caught onto the whole romance sub-plot between Lone Starr (Bill Pullman) and funny, she doesn't look Druish Princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga), borrowed heavily from Frank Capra's classic It Happened One Night.And that proves I'm a film geek too. Mel Brooks has brainwashed me and I'm not complaining. "},{"Title":"Great, Funny, Exciting","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"      This movie is great. The first couple times I watched it I didn't quite get it but the second time I understood it perfectly. My advice to you             1. Rent it          2. Rent it again          3. Rent it again          4. Watch it again and again and again          5. Buy it          6. Watch it more.      The thing about this movie is you can watch it again and again. The only reason I got kind of bored of it (but it's still funny)is because I have watched it about 38974508708241532743543295 times.     Rent it. Watch it. Buy it. Watch it more.          "},{"Title":"Do I know the script off by heart?","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes.We can't stop, we've got to slow down first.We (that's I and my Dad) rented the video about 15 years back or so (maybe a little more) and basically rented it out regularly for the next year or so until eventually we got our hands on a copy ourselves.Excellent stunt my friends, but all for not.The jokes are cheap, the gags are naff and they're alllllllllll painfully obvious - but that's part of the charm.  Ignoring the fact that it's all rather formulaic (it's a spoof of a Sci-Fi genre filled with billions of formulaic twists - so it fits), that it's obviously focused on Star Wars (but what other franchise offers itself up for such micket taking) with very few references to 'other' films of the genre it's a good, honest piece of entertainment.No sir, I didn't see you playing with your dolls again.Brooks is great, Moranis is great, Pullman (long underrated actor) is also great - Candy provides aimiable backup along with some other well known faces.  They all keep it tripping along quite happily from one setpiece to the next and you can't really say that there is a lax period.Foooooooooooooooooled You. to quote the best character by far.I'll be getting it on DVD as our video is quite worn out now (and we have two, one off the TV with the 3 total swearwords bleeped - even though it was aired at 10 at night) and then I'll be making myself some sounds for my desktop.Hopefully we'll all meet again in the sequel, Spaceballs The Search for More Money.And may the Swartz be with youwowowoeoroeyeueiiaiuouwotaworldwhataworld. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Every day, the brilliant lines in this movie ring over and over again in the back of my head. I don't know if it's the writing, the acting, or the setting of this movie. Spaceballs in my opinion was the best writing and acting performance by one person ever. Brooks was shocking, and to know it was him who thought of how to make us laugh is amazing. This was also the best comedy cast of the 80s, with Rick Moranis and Mel Brooks leading the way. John Candy and Michael Winslow were also amazing, and their voices continuously ring in my head. This is one of the most memorable movies of its time, and deservingly so. "},{"Title":"The best spoof ever","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs is the orginal spoof of star wars.  This movie is full of low budget effects and chessy jokes.  Little children will not get most of the jokes in this movie as they are mostly related to sex.  No nudity or anything like that is in this movie, which makes it a hullarious film.  To truly apreceate this film you should probably enjoy Monty Python and low wit humor. Dark Helmet is the best character in the movie his moment of brilliance is shadow out by everyones stupidty. This is the best spoof along with Robin hood men in tights.  Mel brooks has added another great movie to his collection. "},{"Title":"Spaceballs is th most hilarious parody I've ever seen!!!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs has got to be the funniest movie I've ever seen! Rick Moranis is absolutely hilarious as Dark Helmet, as is the rest of the cast! This is one comedy the whole family can enjoy. This movie is soooooo funny, you just can't stop laughing! This is one hilarious parody!! See it for yourself, and you'll see what I mean!    "}{"Title":"Holy Sh*t, Man!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rented this movie with my dad & was laughing from beginning to end! Dark Helmet's a p***er. That reminds me of a story My brother has been playing baseball for awhile now. So everytime he went up to bat with that helmet on, my parents would always crack up laughing since he reminded them of Dark Helmet.Clearly this is Mel Brooke's best film to date. Okay, Spaceballs takes place in another galaxy. The two planets mentioned in the movie are Planet Druidia, a peaceful planet, & Planet Spaceball, a violent planet whom the citizins have polluted the planet's air. So, the Spaceballs come up with a plan They capture Planet Druidia's princess Vespa & hold her ransom for all of it's air supply. Simple really. Except for a few things Princess Vespa ditched her wedding so her father hired a couple of space bums (who are in serious debt) to find her. When they do, Captain Lone Starr & Vespa start falling in love, although they don't wanna admit it.There are some of the best one-liners in this movie. LikeDark Helmet What's amatter Colonel Sandurz, CHICKEN?Dark Helmet Very impressive Lone Starr, to bad this isn't the wide world of sports!President Skroob How come no one told me my ass was so big!? "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks at his best","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mel Brooks is a comic genius. Although History of the World is still my absolute favorite (followed closely by Blazing Saddles)Spaceballs is a fun frolic the paradies all the science fiction films to that time.Mainly mirroring the Star Wars universe with little jabs at the Star Trek universe - it visually matches the sets design and costuming of Star Wars.Bill Pulman and Daphnie Zuniga are hysterical. And there are a ton of cameo appearances. Mel Brooks himself (also writer and director) plays two roles...the most notable...the all powerful, the all knowing, the all wise - YOGERT. (A Yoda rip-off.)This film is funny and fun. Mel Brooks has one of the most creative minds in the industry. His wife, Ann bancroft must be in hysterics all the time! I loved this movie!   "},{"Title":"My comments on the movie SPACEBALLS","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  They movie Spaceballs is a hilarious comedy written by the extroidinary Mel Brooks. One of the greatest comedian-improvonists ever. The movie starts our with a scrolling marque like you see in the Star Wars movies and never stops from there. You have Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis) who is a playoff of Darth Vader, he is hilarious as the head of the ship. Everything he does is funny. There are just to many things that are funny to talk about. You just have to go out and see this movie, trust me you will not stop laughing, I guarantee it! "},{"Title":"Hysterically excellent!","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember seeing SpaceBalls when it came out in the cinema. I was 9 and a huge Star Wars fan so seeing this was the icing on the cake. In fact, it WAS the cake! Not just one of my favorite spoof movies of all time, actually one of my favorite movies of any type! The jokes and gags, the one liners, the full on stupid conversations just keep you laughing! Should have a health warning telling you to take breaks so you can catch your breath! Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"   Spaceballs is a movie that is so funny. This movie looks like Star Wars because of Rick Moranis wearing a black mask looking like Darth Vader. He is so funny in it, along with John Candy playing Barf The mog. I bought it on DVD last month and I was so happy. Isn't that cool? Spaceballs is a movie that is worth seeing, renting, or buying. Enjoy and laugh really hard! And by the way, my brother likes it, too. **** out of **** stars. 10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie of all Time","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the funniest movie of all time. I love it. Unlike Monty Python and the Holy Grail it's funny even after the 10th time of watching it. I just got it on DVD and let me say it gets better every time I watch it. I find another element of comedy or satire every time I watch it. It's like the Star Wars of comedies (as a matter of fact it even spoofs Star Wars). The number of extremely comical scenes are endless. The Ludicrous Speed scene, the Major A**hole scene, the doll scene with Dark Helmet (which I recently learned was completely developed in the mind of Rick Moranis), and the list goes on... If you have not seen this movie, see it. I guarantee you won't be disappointed. 11.5/10 Stars. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs is a great movie.  It's more than just a Star Warsparody, it's a parody of everything that has had to do withentertainment and space within the last number of years.  And whocan go wrong with Mel Brooks?  He's done many films, but I thinkthis one has become one of the most well known as well as oneof the most liked.  It's a little tacky, yes, but its purpose is still wellserved.Very few parody films are made these days, which makes me evenfurther enjoy Spaceballs.  May the Schwartz be with you! "},{"Title":"The Greatest Parody movie ever!!!!","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has got to be one of the greatest comedy movies, I've seen. The cast is great, the soundtrack is awesome, and Mel Brooks did an awesome job with this movie. It has got so many funny moments (like the scene where Dark Helmet's playing with his Spaceballs action figures). The cast of Rick Moranis (Dark Helmet), Bill Pullman (Lonestar), Joan Rivers (Voice of Dot Matrix), and John Candy (Barf), and of course Mel Brooks as (Yogurt,President Skroob) are just some factors that made this movie great! MAY THE SCHWARTZ BE WITH YOU! "},{"Title":"This movie is hilarious","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a Mel Brooks fan, but it is in my opinion that this is probably the best one that he has ever written.  It probably also helps that I am a huge Star Wars fan, which this movie is a spoof on.  Most of the characters are great, minus Dot Matrix (that character just annoys me!)  Plus the writing and acting are superb.  It also gives John Candy a chance to do what he was great at, playing a character. I believe that this movie is out of this world!!! "},{"Title":"A Very Funny Film","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very funny film. I recommend it to any if they are just looking for  movie to laugh at and have a good time. This is also a Mel Brooks film, so of course it is going to be funny. He's one of the best Comedy directors this world has ever seen. The best part of this picture is when they watch themselves on the video, i cack  laughing everytime i watch that part.This movie is worth your money. I give it ***1/2 out of ***** "}{"Title":"May the Schwartz be with you!","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is difficult to put into words what Mel Brooks has done with this film.  It is easily my favorite of all of his films, beating out the likes of Blazing Saddles and History of the World.  Spaceballs is definitely one of the best spoofs ever put together.The one thing that I will remember about this film is that I actually sympathized with Dark Helmet, President Skroob, and the Spaceballs.  It is rare that the audience will actually enjoy the success of the villians as well as the heroes.Mel Brooks' portrayal of President Skroob is a great example of social and political satire.  Skroob is the stereotypical politician--a liar, a cheat, a womanizer, and grossly incompetent.  Yet most of all, these qualities make us laugh and that is Brooks' mission.As a true Star Wars fan I was able to really appreciate the spoofed ideas like Lone Star, Barf, Yogurt, the conceited princess and the annoying robot.  These parts were well written so as to in a way poke fun at Star Wars.Obviously an extraordinary cast was assembled for this film.  Rick Moranis is brilliant as the evil, yet goofy Dark Helmet.  He possesses the bad side of the Schwartz so he is powerful, yet he does not have any skill or leadership skills.  John Candy, Bill Pullman, Daphne Zuniga, Dick Van Patten, George Wyner, and Mel Brooks himself are all very talented and create characters that the audience can really identify with.  They offer a broad range of personalities that help the film develop its story.This film is a fine example of everything a comedy should be.  Mel Brooks does a great job creating a hilarious plot and characters.  This is one of the funniest movies that one could ask for and I truly recommend taking a look.  "},{"Title":"One of my favourites","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs is a hilarious movie, the first time I saw it which was when I was about 8 I think.  I've seen it a billion times since, and the humor has slowly started to fade, but it's still funny.  Unfortunately, I saw this movie before watching Star Wars, which it was obviously spoofed on, so only now am I beginning to understand all the corny jokes.  If you have never seen this movie, I recommend watching it..if you like stupid comedy, like dumb and dumber, etc...you will like this movie!!   "},{"Title":"Just plain awful","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The jokes are limp as a wet noodle, the comic timing is off... nothing in this film works.  I didn't laugh once.  Typical post-Young Frankenstein crap from Brooks.  This gets a 2 out of 10 from me.For those of you who think no one had spoofed Star Wars before, check out Hardware Wars (1977). "},{"Title":"Funnier every time","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To me, this is one of those rare films that get funnier every time I see it. Maybe it's because some of the jokes are subtler than usual while the slapstick is pure Brooks. I'm a long-time fan of sci-fi and the spoofs to me are on target. While some of the language is salty,  it only adds to the humor, much like it does on Brooks' Blazing Saddles. Definitely worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Fun stuff","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a fun flick, good dumb comedy, if you're into that kind of thing. Pizza the Hut is a great idea, as is Lone Star and Spaceball 1 going plaid. A must see for everyone who has any appreciation for slapstick comedy. This is one 80s movie that I am proud to own and to view  "},{"Title":"The late, great spaceballs","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs is one of the funniest movies ever made. From the bleeps, the sweeps, and the creeps, to How many A**holes dowe have on this ship anyway this is the perfect movie if your looking for a good time. Remember I am not responsible if you get addicted to this movie and you have to go to the Betty Ford clinic to stop watching it! "},{"Title":"The Best Brooks Spoof Since Blazing Saddles","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mel Brooks' comical triumph. It's the best since Blazing Saddles. Again, it's a spoof off Star wars. Everyone knows that. It has an amazing cast, from old friends such as Dom DeLouise to new friends, like Rick Moranis. Spaceballs features Mel Brooks in two roles, President Skroob (A play on Mel's last name) and the ever powerful Yogurt.The plot is not complex at all, which makes it a great movie. A race known as the Spaceballs, try to steal Planet Druidia's air (Get it? Druidia, as in druids) with the help of Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis). With Colonel Sandurz (Another oral gag), they kidnap Princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga) and force the combination out. But first, King Roland calls on Han Solo and Chewbacca spoofs Lone Starr (Bill Pullman) and Barf (John Candy) just when they're in debt with Pizza the Hut (Dom DeLouise). Need I say more?Rick Moranis, as Dark Helmet, a Darth Vader look alike with a huge helmet, delivers his lines with great timing, such as when a Spaceball calls Skroob before Helmet, and Helmet responds, What?! You went over my helmet?Bill Pullman is a great Lone Starr, and is very funny. But i think the best part to notice is the merchandising. It has Spaceballs merchandise everywhere, from Spaceballs the coloring Book to Spaceballs the Shaving Cream, it's all good.So if you saw this and liked it, I can say to you, May The Schwartz Be With You!If you're still afraid to see it, then I'll have to taunt you with this line What's the matter Colonel Sandurz? Chicken?Now Go see it! Again and again!Final grade A+ "},{"Title":"A great Mel Brooks type of parody.","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is among my favorite comedy movies of all time, along with many other movies by Brooks.  In terms of Brooks movies, only History of the World Part 1 is better.  Definitely one of the best comedy films of all time. (Lord Dark Helmet is incredibly well done, both with and without the giant mask.)Overall I give it a 9 of 10. "},{"Title":"A must see for every STAR WARS fan!!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really love Mel Brooks' films. He has got an ability to leave his distinction in the films, which makes them different from any other production. An Spaceballs is not an exception. Taking the STAR WARS universe from the most sarcastic vision, Mel Brooks presents us a nice film, full of funny situations and gags. Bill Pullman does a fine job like Lone Star, a Luke Skywalker-Han Solo fusion. Then there's the always great John Candy as Barf, the Chewbacca (dunno the right spellin') parody. Daphne Zuniga takes the role of Princess Vespa, the Leia of the film (just don't miss the headphones she's wearing )). Also a poor C3PO parody, but there's the most outstanding character Rick Moranis as Dark Helmet, the incredible and very funny ironic vision of Darth Vader. The most square-minded STARWARS fans will probably take this film as an offense to their cult universe, but besides the bad comments, I must say this film is one of the best of its kind! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Brooks second best Spoof","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the better Sci-fi spoofs ever. This proves Mel Brooks is a very talented filmmaker, and he is one of my favorite comic actors. Everyone gives great performances (the best is Moranis as Dark Helmet) and the gags are down right funny. There is not one Star Wars movie he doesn't spoof (the exception of TPM) and he spoofs almost every Sci-fi ever made up until that point. I only wish there would be SpaceballsChapter One, The Beginning4/4. "}{"Title":"Great Movie!!!","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the greatest pieces of comedy genius on the planet.  Spaceballs is Mel Brooks' #1 film in my view. A winning  slapstick comedy for all ages.  And a great cast brings all the Space hilarity to life.  SPACE BALLS THE FLAME-THROWER!!!!!   Need I say more? "},{"Title":"Second only to History of the World Part One","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rented this movie yesterday, and when I got home, I was impressed! The beginning opening crawl was genius, also was the long intro for Spaceball One. Let's get to the characters, Dark Helmet was genius! The oversized helmet, and his way of taking care of people was funny. Vespa is your ordinary snobby, rich kid; and Barf you typical sidesick, and Lone Starr, your Hero for Hire. But there was one character I hated, Dot Matrix. Ughhh! I was she could have been fed to Pizza the Hutt. Great performances from everyone, (especially Brooks, takling two roles has President Skroob, and Yogurt) and the special effects weren't bad. Refernences from the oringinal Star Wars trilogy, and other movies such as Aliens, Wizard of Oz, and Planet of the Apes. Many good jokes, (where is spaceballs the drink?) and visual gags.Ilike History of the World Part One better only because I'm a History buff. My favorite scene was Ludicrous Speed, and when Helmet and Sanders watch the Movie for themselves. Kudos for everyone involved! 10/10. "},{"Title":"The definitive Sci-Fi parody, EVER.","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Any Star Wars fan must admit this movie is even funnier than the Big Three themselves (in case you thought it smelled bad on the outside).And since Mel Brooks uses the SAME jokes in every film, how can anyone say this ain't good Brooks?  Pick your genre, he'll give you the same dialogue.But Spaceballs is the cheesiest, the most moronic, and even better has THE best cast of all Brooks-dom.  The schwartz was with this film, which speaks for itself.  If you've seen it.  If not, get to the video store at Ludicrous Speed. NOW!!! "},{"Title":"Last good Mel Brooks film","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think that this is the last really good Mel Brooks film.  You can see signs that he is starting to fade in this picture.  Personally, I feel that he peaked with History of World.  It was still very funny, but Yogurt kind of got old with me.  John Candy was great as Barf.  I also liked the John Hurt Cameo.  i could have done without Joan Rivers (I find it odd that she now makes a living criticizing other people's sense of style). It is a fun movie with some real memorable sight gags and some great parodies of other classic films. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an extremely funny movie.  I loved the way there was some comedy just subtly put in, and then some just outrageous ideas.  I loved it.  The comedy was obviously just well-thought-out.  It is a really enjoyable film, especially if you're seeing it for the first time. "},{"Title":"Better than the real Star Wars!!","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the best comedies ever.  It's better than the real Star Wars, it has the right actors for the right parts and they are all funny.  You can watch this movie over and over again without getting sick of it!! I STRONGLY recommend this movie!! "},{"Title":"May the Schwartz be with you","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the greatest comedies ever made Spaceballs!!! Think about it characters similar to Star Wars Lone Star/Luke Skywalker Barf/Chebacca  Yogert/Yoda  Dark Helmet/Vader Dot Matrix/C3po anyways it's a very funny spoof with alot of great lines like when Lone Star and the gang are trying to get out of the ship and the commander says you idiots you've captured their stunt doubles. The casting was really good Rick Moranis,Bill Pullman,Daphene Zuiga, John Candy. 5 stars all the way *****!!!  "},{"Title":"Another underrated Mel Brooks movie.","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You don't have to be a Star Wars fan to get the gags, but it helps. Most critics prefer Brooks' early stuff, but this and History of the World Part 1 are my faves(Blazing Saddles and Young Frankenstein are his only other good movies). A hilarious film from start to finish. May the for...er...schwartz be with you... "},{"Title":"May the Schwartz be with you!","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is excellent and lots of people at my school in Altoona think so! I brought this movie when the choir went to Washington DC and it was the first movie we watched (We had a vote!) This movie was recommended to me by my cousin. Rick Moranis rules! "},{"Title":"This movie rules!","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of Mel Brooks' best movies.  It is without a doubt the best sci-fi parody of all time, especially that little shot at Planet of the Apes towards the end of the film.  Hilarious!  This would have been one funny movie to also do a trilogy of, parodying the other two films from the Star Wars trilogy.  "}{"Title":"Mell brooks at his best!!!!","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is Mel brooks best. I have taped this movie twice and finally bought it two weeks ago. I have probably shown it to almost all my friends and family.  It is the best spoof I have ever seen in my entire life (Probably because I am a sci-fi buff)and have some of the funniest jokes ever made. Rick Moranis (Ghostbusters) and John Candy (Uncle Buck) are the best two characters and looks like they had fun making it. If you need a good comedy, rent this today. I give it 8 out of 10   "},{"Title":"Space Balls is the bomb!","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the all-time greatest comedy spoofs.  Mel Brooks out does himself with this true masterpeice of cinema.  Moranis is perfect as Dark Helmut and it is his greatest role along side his Ghostbuster character Stanley.  Space Balls rules and that is the bottomline. "},{"Title":"A new Classic","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the best movies I have seen.  It made me laugh, made me cry and it was nonstop action.  This is the kind of movie I would take my kids to, because it is a family movie.  This movie should be considered a classic. It will be treasured by millions. "},{"Title":"A good time.","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watching this movie is usually a good time. I'd like to see a prequel for this movie after Lucas is finished with the Star Wars prequel. Of all the Star Wars spoofs in this film, my favorite spoof is having Snotty beam the president over. Of course, I often find myself cheering for the bad guys (Scrobb, Dark Helmut and Sanders), instead of the annoying good guys (the Princess and Lone Star). I think that a prequel would be a great search for more money. JRGTREK. "},{"Title":"What it lacks in tight scripting, it makes up for with energy....","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My friends and I have watched Spaceballs over a hundred times.... and I'm NOT kidding.  Is it a great movie, by the accepted definition of 'great?' Not really.  It's not even a great Mel Brooks movie.  But it's so darn silly, you have to love it.... and everyone seems to be having a good time on screen.  Some of the gags work, some don't.... although many of them have become private jokes amongst my friends and I.  (I see your Schwartz is as BIG as mine!)  If you need a few good-natured chuckles and a loving dig at science fiction films, go rent 'Spaceballs.' "},{"Title":"Best of Mel Brooks's spoofs","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs is one of the funniest spoofs from Mel Brooks. I thought Eagle 5's door was funny of what it said on it Eagle 5 Lone Starr  Hero for Barf. I didn't know who President Scroob was at first, then I realised he's the emperor. The Part where Barf's foot gets big is funny. Also the escape from Spaceball city jail which spoofed The Empire Strikes Back. Also the Helmet/Lone Starr battle at the end. Yogurt is funny as a golden yoda. What I was disappointed by this spoof of the Star Wars Trilogy was Where's R2-D2 ? "},{"Title":"Mel Brook's best","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was on TNT and I really liked movie spoofs so I decided to watch this. I never laughed harder in my life! Then when my birthday came I got this and saw the scens they cut out in there (like Barf giving the guards the finger, on TNT they had him wave at them). I was hoping for Spaceballs 2 The Search for More Money like Yogurt said, but I saw a transcript of a Mel Brooks chat and he said there won't be one (. Oh well. This is still his best next to Dracula and High Anxiety. "},{"Title":"Best Comedy spoof EVER!!!","Date":"11 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Space balls is just one movie that has the laughable presence every time I watch it. The lines are memorable and the cast is great. Mel Brooks is a comic genius. He brings it every time to the silver screen. Blazing Saddles and Men in Tights are both laughable masterpieces and Brooks succeeds with Space Balls. What else can be said about this movie? The story is a spoof of Star Wars, the sets and effects are just outrageous and good. Everything about this movie is just a top notch sci- fi spoof. Funny lines are everywhere as well as any sci-fi tribute or spoof. Brooks himself does a good job playing duel roles as both a villain in Pres. Skroob and hero in Yogurt. Bill Pullman plays the Han Solo/Luke Skywalker role pretty good and his lines and dialogue with John Candy were just a good combination in putting this movie over the top. John Candy was another factor that made this movie great as it is. Anyway, this is one Mel Brooks movie that shouldn't be overlooked and a must have to anyone's movie collection. Overall, 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the top 10","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" What can I say. I freaking love this movie. It got everything from the dirty humor to the hardboiled action. The story is simple Star Wars the Mel Brooks way. President Scroob (not sure isn't it supposed to be pres. Screw)(Mel Brooks) has depleted the air supply for his home world. They are now after King Rolands daugther Vespa so that they may use here to gain access to their air. But out there in the galaxy flies an Winnebago and on board the car is the two friends Lone Starr and Barf. In this movie you will encounter all kinds a characters all taken from Star Wars, Alien and much more. Melbrooks plays two parts in this film he is Pres. Scroob the dark emperor and Yogurt the wise good fellow helping Lone Starr to defeat the dark lord Dark Helmet. I don't want to spoil it more so I say only this.............. Watch this movie and let the Schwartz be with you! "},{"Title":"Was so close to being epic win","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie takes the story of Star Wars and puts other movie scenes in it together to make a gag movie. Making fun of, but not destroying the movie of Star Wars. They did a very good job with the comedy, putting it together in away that made me laugh several times. The stunt double joke, the joke with the camera man and sound guy who gets killed by the lightsaber during the fight, etc.The only downside is the swearing. It ruins any movie, even if it's put in a gag reel. Also, the sexual jokes were pushing it at times. They weren't as bad, but a few moments could have been without.So 8/10. "}{"Title":"Who You Gonna Call -------- Spaceballs","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are some that say Mel Brooks's best satire is Spaceballs. Personally I like The Producers, but I'd never argue with anyone who holds out for this gut splitting comedy which uses both subtle satire and heavy bellylaughs drilled into the viewer with the skill and speed of one writing with light saber pen.The main object of the satire is the original Star Wars movie, but during the course of the film Brooks took a shot at The Wizard Of Oz, The Bridge On The River Kwai, Lawrence Of Arabia, Planet Of The Apes and Alien and a few others I could name if I thought about it. The man does know his film history.All is happy on the planet Druidia where King Dick Van Patten is eagerly awaiting the wedding of his daughter Princess Daphne Zuniga to her intended bridegroom, the eager Prince Valium played by Jim J. Bullock. But evil forces in the galaxy are afoot, the planet Spaceballs has a permanently polluted atmosphere and its President Skroob and his aides Colonel Sanders and Dark Helmet played respectively by Mel Brooks, George Wyner, and Rick Moranis have hatched a scheme to kidnap the princess and suck the atmosphere out of Druidia and take it back to Spaceballs.They look like they just might succeed, but a Han Solo like character Lonestar (Bill Pullman)and his faithful half man, half dog companion John Candy pull off a rescue, but they are hunted people now throughout the galaxy. All seems lost, but fate has directed them to a desert like planet where they meet up with Yoda who acquaints them with the most potent force in the universe, the all powerful Schwartz.The gags come so fast and furious that if you pop a kernel of popcorn in your mouth you could miss a gem. The performances are letter perfect and Brooks gives everyone in the cast his own bit or two. I forgot to mention Joan Rivers who is the voice of a C3PO character called Dot Matrix, companion to Zuniga the Druish princess complete with virgin alarm. And watch out if you mess with Zuniga's hair.If I had to name a favorite it would be Rick Moranis playing Dark Helmet. When the helmet is down it's a James Earl Jones like voice that emerges, deep and sinister. When the helmet comes up all you see is Rick Moranis and it looks like it wasn't just the kids that got shrunk.Spaceballs is a film that can be enjoyed by folks who love good comedy and for science fiction fans who don't take themselves too seriously. For someone like Mel Brooks to please both those crowds is really something. "},{"Title":"shaggy dog story","Date":"25 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bad puns, bad parodies, bad slapstick. This movie is a junk pile compared to Mel Brooks' earlier films, but I like the way it revels in its cheesy, predictable badness. John Candy's self effacing, apologetic Mog with tail always in the way, swatting people in the face, sticking out the back of a bloated spacesuit. Rick Moranis' little doll theater. The pigsty condition of the Winnebago spaceship, off for a road trip with $5 worth of gas in the tank, stopping at an intergalactic diner for a reprise of Alien. Not that much laugh-out-loud humor. Just cheap snickers the whole way through.I enjoyed the sci-fi parodies Dark Star and Mars Attacks more than Spaceballs, but the cheesiness plays pretty well against the polished franchises it mimics. My mom's reaction to Star Wars when it first came out was space cowboys, and there's a lot of truth in that. Underneath all the special effects these films are spiffed up remakes of cheesy, predictable 1930's westerns and serials. "},{"Title":"What's The Matter Colonel Sandurz, Chicken?","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spaceballs(1987)Review Ah, we get a Star Wars spoof. Mel Brooks returns and delivers Spaceballs.Spaceballs is quite the funny flick. We get Rick Moranis as Dark Helmet. He just is perfect as Dark Helmet with some very hilarious lines. John Candy is here as Barf. I miss Candy as he was in fine form here. And Mel Brooks played a few roles here and are quite funny.The best thing about this movie is the one-liners. For ExampleI bet she gives great helmet and, Hey, those are the guys that stole our uniforms! And beat the s**t out of us too!We get many references to many sci-fi movies here and are delivered well. However, this movie does have some very stupid moments and quotes here. I mean STUPID. Do not worry, this is still better than expected.The Last Word Raunchy and funny. Spaceballs is very funny despite some stupidity. This is a nice little gem. "},{"Title":"Brilliant parody!","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Another Mel Brooks classic! This is definitely one of my favourites of his films. Just the idea of spoofing sci-fi classics was enough for it to be a classic.What really stood out for me was the funny puns and gags, especially when Sanderz is viewing Spaceballs the movie when they're still filming it!! Funny! Another stand out for me was the great performance of Rick Moranis as Dark Helmet. He really played the villain to the silly degree! When he mentions his Schwartz being as big as Lone Star's, they both look down. Absolutely brilliant!This is a Mel Brooks classic that must be seen to be enjoyed. Definitely recommended. "},{"Title":"Spoof comedy at its best","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mel Brooks is in top form with this spoof on... well everything!!! Laying the groundwork for so many of the spoof comedies to come (e.g. the entire Scary Movie franchise) Spaceballs has everything from wicked slapstick to sly nods to all the greats up to that time. Star Wars never saw it coming. Planet Spaceball has foolishly squandered their air so President Scroob masterminds the plan to steal the pure air of Planet Druidia. Too bad his henchmen Dark Helmet and Colonel Sandurz didn't plan on Lonestar and his sidekick Barf on interfering. Dom DeLuise has a killer cameo as the mobster Pizza the Hutt. From the clueless to the brainless the jokes never even stop long enough to add them up. So stop in at the Mr. Coffee then prepare for ludicrous speed and may the Schwartz be witcha! The kids love this one "},{"Title":"Love this movie!","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is truly my favorite movie of all time - a romantic, sci-fi comedy. It doesn't get much better for me.As someone once said, You have to be smart to be a smart@ss. Mel Brooks is classic. It takes a lots of brains to do a good spoof movie, or a spoof of anything. Obviously, most of this is Star Wars, but there are so many undercurrents of other parts of then-and-now popular culture. Okay, the Max Headroom (Vinnie) thing is old. But Pizza the Hut? Funny. The Virgin Alarm? Funny. My hair! He shot my hair! Son of a b!tch. Funny. This is a terrific movie, because although I've probably seen it over 100 times in my life, I catch something new ever time. Like the Ford Galaxy joke? Didn't get until a couple of years ago.So there. If you don't like it, get a sense of humor! "},{"Title":"Meatballs","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mel Brook's parody of Star Wars was funny at the time it was made but is it now hopelessly dated since the Star Wars saga is over? Many Star Wars characters from the first film are parodied. John Candy as Barf a dog creature. Brooks as Yogurt (Yodda). Tiny Rick Moranis as Dark Helmet(Darth Vader). Joan Rivers is the voice of the robot Dot Matrix and her lines aren't very funny. Daphne Zuniga is okay as Princess Vespa. Bill Pullman as Lone Star is the one character that is a dud.This is a film that has become outdated in the last few years. Total silliness that little kids find hysterical if they know the characters of the original Star Wars film, otherwise no one will understand what it's spoofing. "},{"Title":"Fantastic no thought required movie","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I want to watch a movie that requires absolutely no thought and I need to laugh repeatedly for a couple of hours, Spaceballs goes in the DVD player. This is the funniest spoof movie I think I have ever seen. Mel Brooks outdid himself on this one. It is hilarious. All of the cameos are great. Admittedly, the special effects are not the greatest, but who cares!!This movie was made for entertainment, not special effects. All of the subtle inuendo is fantastic also. Is Sanders Chicken? And the raspberry is great. The Schwartz, now that is a good one. And I have to chuckle every time I see Mel Brooks or John Candy........ Funny, she doesn't look druish......  "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's absolutely appauling how low this movies rating is. I must have seen this movie a dozen times, it's completelyhilarious.  I'm hard pressed to think of a person  I've met who didn't like this great movie  filled with Mel Brooks' unique humor.  For anyone  whose ever watched Star Wars to anyone who has no idea, this is a must see with fantastic performances from Rick Morranis, who steals the entire movie.  Well written, well acted, and well worth the time!  "},{"Title":"Shut up Star War Nerds","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was hilarious. It is one of the funniest movies you'll ever see. Of course it is so incredibly stupid you have to love it. Who cares if they pull a few jokes at the expense of Star Wars that movies not all that great any way. That's like hating Scary Movie because it made fun of Scream. Anyone who has not seen this movie yet just see it it's really funny and you'll laugh at it. The characters are hilarious and it's funny how much they spoof all those space movies like Alien. But my message to those of you who can't stand them spoofing Star Wars is to get out of your mom's basement stop worshipping a movie and lighten up it's just a comedy. I will admit some parts are just too stupid but that is all it is meant to be. Just a stupid movie to MAKE YOU LAUGH so come into the real world and accept that no one can stop them from spoofing movies.    "}{"Title":"In space, no-one will make you laugh","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is very, VERY poor. As a number of other members have noted, simply changing the word force to schwarz (or whatever) does not a joke make. It's made all the sadder, when you consider what Mel Brooks had previously achieved High Anxiety, Blazing Saddles, etc. He seems to have been on a downward spiral ever since, and Spaceballs, Life Stinks and Robin Hood Men in Tights all fall into that uncomfortable category of films which you force yourself to laugh at, out of sympathy for a once great comedian.  "},{"Title":"I Don't get it.","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Maybe I just lack the necessary sense of humour which is required to understand this rather dubious piece or work. It would appear as if Brooks had a 12 year old kid to sit in his office and write the jokes. I mean, the Shcwartz??? 97% of the jokes are so unfunny, it makes you think why this movie is considered a comedy.Everything in this movie is wrong The actors are horiffically bad (with the exception of a rather comic performance by Rick Moranis), the jokes are awful, and there is no imagination. Yogurt is another example why this movie should be banned.Almost every joke is copied of another film, or is so unoriginal that you just want to laugh. Not with the cast of course, at them. "},{"Title":"One of Mel Brooks best films","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies ever made. Mel Brooks comes up big in his adaptation of Star Wars. How can you not like John Candy as Barf, who happens to be a mog? Of course, a mog is half man and have dog which Candy explains I'm my own best friend!A must see...... "},{"Title":"Did I ever......","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"     Love this movie or what!  Spaceballs was yet another favorite comedy of mine during my junior high years!  I remember coming home from school every day and pop this movie into my VCR until the day the tape got all worn out!  I still enjoy it to this day!  Mel Brooks is a comic genius!  He just knows how to please his public!   I like this movie second best next to Blazzing Saddles.  This one is a parody of all those sci-fi movies from Star Wars to 2001 A Space Oddessy.  A Brief synopsis (I won't reveal much, though.) King Roland tries to marry off his daughter Princess Vespa.  She escapes only to make some friends, Lone Starr (Bill Pullman) and Barf the Mog (the late John Candy) and eventually wind up kidnapped by the Spaceballs, and it's up to Lone Starr and Barf to save her.  The funniest character in this was Dark Helmet!  He was an incredibly inept version of Darth Vadar.  Rick Moranis a lot like Dustin Hoffman in the fact that he can play almost anything.  And that's Joan Rivers as the voice of the robot Dot Matrix.   I really liked the ending where the Spaceballs' Mega Maid crash lands on the Planet of the Apes!  Spaceballs is easy for me to recommend to anyone!  It's fun for family, friends, and parties, too!Great movie from the comedy mind of the one and only Mel Brooks! "},{"Title":"Not Very Good...","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mel Brooks has a unique brand of parody films.  They aren't as lighthearted and jokey as say, the Naked Gun or Airplane films.  They have all the slapstick and banality of those movies, but also have a very unnecessary aspect that takes over a plot.  Why, I don't know.  The plot of these films, especially SPACEBALLS, is merely recycled from one or more of the movies it is spoofing (in this case, the first Star Wars trilogy).  But it makes the mistake of getting lost in itself, as if it should be real and engaging.  So not only do we get bombarded with stupid jokes in SPACEBALLS, we get an unnecessary and unoriginal plot that takes itself too seriously sometimes.What kind of humor lies in this movie?  Let's see, the faux Darth Vader (Dark Helmut) orders his men to 'comb the desert' for the faux Han Solo & gang, and, you guessed it, next we see a bunch of men dragging a giant comb through a desert landscape.  Someone cries out that their radar is jammed, and yes, strawberry jam is seen oozing out of it.  There are very few clever jokes (possibly one or two), the rest is the kind of stuff you probably thought was now regulated to children's movies.Brooks doesn't actually pick apart the films or genras he parodies, he just takes the given setting and fills it with a bunch of dumb sight gags and predictable jokes.  Plus, he tends to wait far too long to spoof things. This came out 10 years after Star Wars, and followed so many spoofs of the film and the genre it gave birth to, Brooks has nothing new or biting to offer the audience.May be a good idea for kids. "},{"Title":"Not the best Brooks film","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Mel Brooks.  The three films Young Frankenstein, Blazing Saddles, and History of the World Part 1 are all classics in my book. Sadly, Spaceballs is not.  I remember liking it when I saw it in the theatre years ago, but after watching the DVD recently, I'm disappointed.The humor in Spaceballs seems even more juvenile than usual for Brooks, and a lot of it just isn't funny.  I also think this movie is hurt by the fact that it looks very low-budget.  For instance, the wedding scene near the beginning looks like it was filmed at the local Holiday Inn ballroom.Another strike against this movie is the cast -- none of these actors delivers the Brooks style as well as people like Gene Wilder, Madeline Kahn, and so forth.  John Candy and Rick Moranis might be the only two exceptions here...at least, they're better than Bill Pullman and the woman who plays the Princess.  Mel Brooks himself isn't as funny in his acting parts as he has been in previous roles.While I did laugh while watching this movie, it was few and far between. I'm afraid that I'm part of the group who thinks Brooks' sense of humor is no longer what it used to be.... "},{"Title":"The best movie ever made","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of my absolute favorites, I've seen it more than 30 times and I loved it from the very first time I saw it. Rick Moranis in his best movie. See it! "},{"Title":"The best movie ever made","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of my absolute favorites, I've seen it more than 30 times and I loved it from the very first time I saw it. Rick Moranis in his best movie. See it! "},{"Title":"Uneven, but funny.","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs is in no way up to par to some of Mel Brooks earlier spoof films, but it has some very funny moments. I enjoyed somebody making fun of the Star Wars movies and having a good time with the mythology. Some of the scenes in this film are hard to forget. Although I thought it could have been even more over the top. Funny movie.  "},{"Title":"Typical Brooks","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes I think that Mel Brooks doesn't try as hard as he could. We know that he is a comic genius. His list of credentials proves that, particularly his early career resume. He rose through the ranks in Hollywood as a writer for such classics as GetSmart and numerous Sid Caesar variety shows. But lately, I think he's started to slack off and take the easy way when it comes to his prepackaged spoofs.Spaceballs is funny. It really is. But it isn't great in the way that The Producers was great or the was that Blazing Saddles was great. Sure, there are some good gags. Rick Moranis is a lovably incompetent Dark Helmet, and Pizza the Hut, with his triangular body covered in melted cheese in peperoni, is a good, clever play on Jabba the Hut. But Yogurt, Brooks' Yoda-inspired old reptilian wise man, seems too easy a joke for a director of Brooks' caliber.I miss the original films that Brooks churned out with regularity in the 1960s and 70s. The Twelve Chairs, the Producers, even Young Frankenstein, to some extent, showed elements of Brooks' brilliance. But where's the imagination in a character like Dot (Princess Vespa's robotic servant)? To make a successful spoof, it isn't necessary to mirror the original movies identically. To me, it shows a lack of creative invention, even laziness.But, all personal bitterness aside, this is an enjoyable movie. Not for Brooks critics, but it's a fun watch. Bill Pullman and Daphne Zuniga are terrible at acting and have absolutely zero chemistry, but the plot is so outrageous that it doesn't really detract from anything. Barf (John Candy) is preposterous enough to offset the unfunniness that Bill Pullman exudes as Lone Starr; and ultimately, the two work well together.So yeah, I got quite a few laughs out of Spaceballs (which is why I'm giving it a 6/10). But I was disappointed, yet again, by the lack of fresh and inspiring resourcefulness that was a staple of Brooks' earlier works. "}{"Title":"Excellent Parody","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spaceballs is laugh out loud riot. Now I'm a big star wars fan, but I'm also a fan of Spoofs. and spousals is the ultimate star wars spoof. This movie is truly hilarious from beginning to end. The dialog is funny as hell, and the plot is just as funny. Mel brooks is an excellent director and a great actor. and who can forget the late great John Candy who gives a great and funny performance. I absolutely love this movie in every possible way.This is 100% greatFunny as Hell.10/10 "},{"Title":"Great comedy","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the funniest movies of the 80's. It's great. Roger Ebert is a fool and he doesn't have a sense of humor. I love this movie. It's just so funny. If it weren't for the swearing, this movie wouldn't be as funny as it is! It's about two pals named Lonestar(Bill Pullman) and Barf the Maug(John Candy), who is half-man and half-dog. The two pals save a princess and do all sorts of funny things in this 96 minute adventure. It's very underrated with the critics. Roger Ebert may be a nice guy in person, but he has bad taste in movies. This is very funny. You need to own this movie. Please, go buy it! Now! I give it two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie Ever Made","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spaceballs is my favorite comedy of all time. I think Mel Brooks did a great job. I can't wait to see Blazing Saddles. I hope Blazing Saddles will be just as good. No matter how many times I see Spaceballs I never get tired of it. John Candy is a great comedian. I wish he never died. I think this is Bull Pullman's finest comedic performance. The special effects are excellent in this film. This is a light comedy. They do not make comedies like this anymore. The movie that comes close to it is Stripes. I like the music they play in this movie. Look for a young Rhonda Shear in this movie. This is a fun movie to watch. I can not wait to see Young Frankenstein. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my favorite parody of all time. Mel Brooks outdoes himself with this one. It is so hilarious if you are a starwars fan, and you are guaranteed to laugh hard. If you are feeling down, just pop in the spaceballs DVD and it will cheer you up right away. Spaceballs will have you reciting lines from the movie that you will remember for the rest of your life. Such as Evil will always triumph because good is dumb or Or else pizza.....is gonna send out for you! your delicious! and yogurt has taught you well, and if its one thing i despise its a fair fight....put her there... Spaceballs is the greatest spoof of all time. "},{"Title":"The Forgotten Mel Brooks Movie...","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPACEBALLS is Mel Brooks' dead on parody of the STAR WARS movies which features Mel as President Skroob, the leader of a planet that is planning to steal all the air from a neighboring planet called Druidia. Mel is amusing as President Skroob as are Bill Pullman as the Hans Solo-ripoff, Lone Star, Daphne Zuniga as the Princess, and John Candy as Lone Star's Half-man half-dog sidekick, Barf (I'm a Mog...I'm my own best friend.). But the film is easily stolen by Rick Moranis as the villain of the piece, Dark Helmet (who is a takeoff on you know who)who kidnaps the princess and kisses Skroob's butt even though he thinks he's an idiot. As always with a Mel Brooks film, Mel always reminds you that you are watching a movie and lets you in on the joke. There is one brilliant moment where Rick Moranis and George Wyner, who plays Colonel Sanders (What's the matter Colonel Sanders? Chicken?)are trying to figure out what their next move and Sanders suggests that they look at a copy of SPACEBALLS on video and Dark Helmet says How can it be on video? We're still in the middle of making the movie! Dark Helmet then goes to a cabinet which contains videos of every Mel Brooks movie prior to this one. What happens next is too funny and I think I've already said too much. This is a Brooks movie that I think got by a lot of people but I still think it's terribly funny. "},{"Title":"This is probably the best movie ever.","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forget Ben Hur, The Godfather or Pulp Fiction. This movie, SPACEBALLS, is what it's all about! With a great mind-numbing plot and some die-hard action this is probably the best movie ever! It has stunningly beautiful special effects, even for today.Sit back as you watch the evil Spaceballs led by President Scroob (Mel Brooks) steal the air from neighbor planet Druidia, under command of King Roland (Dick van Patten).King Roland has an ingenious airshield to prevent the Spaceballs from stealing their air. Only if you know the secret combination to the airshield, you can get to the air. So the Spaceballs have come up with an evil plan to get the combination they kidnapped Princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga) to force King Roland to give them the combination to the airshield!President Skroob sends out his main man to handle this job the sinister Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis) to capture Vespa. But Roland is no fool, and rallies up the most famous hero of space Lone Starr (Bill Pullman) and his sidekick Barf (John Candy, Barf, Puke, whatever - Pizza the Hut).It all ends up in an epic battle which will blow you right out of your underpants. With help of the Schwartz, a power in the universe only a few have, Dark Helmet and Lone Starr (trained by the everlasting know-it-all Yogurt) fight for the destiny of the entire Galaxy!  "},{"Title":"Satire, not for kids","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs is a funny movie but don't let the PG rating fool you, this is not a movie for kids. This movie was full of obsenities and sexual related content. It's a movie that you have to keep saying, This is not a word that we say. Again, don't let the PG rating fool you.  "},{"Title":"Schwartz-lived?","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs is, like any spoof lampooning a 'cult', ultimately hampered by the fact that it dates badly. As Star Wars moves on towards a next generation of fans with new films that in many ways are totally unrelated to the original trilogy, so Spaceballs becomes progressively dated. All films do, of course but Spaceballs was released when Star Wars itself was fresh, and depended on most of its audiences having recently seen Star Wars in the cinema - or having at least having been heavily exposed to it through other forms of media. The Scary Movie franchise which has followed the spate of Scream movies rests heavily on the same premise. With the original Star Wars triumvirate now occupying places on the world's video shelves, Spaceballs is well into its inevitable slide towards obscurity.The thing that inevitably ages fastest in any comedy is the humour itself. Spaceballs' jokes vary in effectiveness. The more slapstick side of things is generally handled well, and remains amusing Dark Helmet being propelled forward into the front of the bridge by the deceleration from Ludicrous Speed, for example; other jokes, such as the sustained 'Asshole' dialogue, are still funny, but a bit puerile for todays' tastes. Film audiences have matured somewhat - Spaceballs' humour will remain for them like a childhood toy amusing to come back to briefly, but, in the long term, unsatisfying.The acting is generally very good, but can never really transcend the plebeian childishness of the script, which itself never really rises above being a series of in-jokes. The one exception here is Rick Moranis, who has been playing childish buffoons since his days as a Ghostbuster, and who draws most of the laughs throughout. The jokes he has to play are not necessarily superior in quality - but his character never has to display any of the cheesy sentimentality or sincerity necessary in places to moving the film forward that at times makes Bill Pullman and Daphne Zuniga's characters seem a little bit over-done in a way that even Brooks wasn't really intending.What of the rest of the package? John Morris' score is a superb spoof in itself, with a suitably pompous and martial main march, a brooding 'Imperial' theme, and plenty of good quality incidental music. The FX, surprisingly, don't grate as much as one might expect, and, unlike some of the costumes, don't strike one as deliberately trying to look low budget. The Winabago, Spaceball 1 - all are carried off well. A final mention should also go to Ronny Graham, whose manically unholy Minister would steal the show had he only been given a bigger part...Ultimately, a spoof only lives as long as its target. Fortunately for Spaceballs, its target was big game, and retains a huge presence on the world cinematic scene. To say that that will always be the case would be foolish Spaceballs' days are thus numbered - but the exact sell-by date remains unknown. "},{"Title":"I laughed at almost every scene!","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love SPACEBALLS, it's one of Brook's best comedys and it was brilliantly played by John Candy, Rick Moranis, Bill Pullman, and Mel Brooks. I really loved this movie and I recommend it to everyone. From the Pizza the Hut Joke, to the mog played by Candy...It's all very funny. Yogurt, the lightsaber ring, everything. I could go on forever. Just go rent it out for a fun time. This may be a little too much for normal people, but I give it 3 1/2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Parody fallen flat.","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" What is, one might ask, the essence of this movie, what is it that makes it so attractive in so many people's eyes? Perhaps the fact that it so wittingly satirizes popular sci-fi movies such as Star Wars or Star Trek? Hardly, because the movie fails to deliver any legitimate commentary on the subject it attempts to satirize. The pun on the vast Star Wars-merchandise comes somewhat close, but other than that the movie leaves the viewer no reason to view Star Wars or any other sci-fi classics in another way.But maybe I am judging the movie unfairly, after all its strength could be in its humour - I mean, Pizza the Hut, Yogurt, Lord Helmet? Jam the radar, comb the desert? The main problem with the film is that it relies too heavily on one-line gags and jokes to maintain any sort of consistency, yet the gags aren't given enough room in the spotlight to base the whole film around it as was successfully done in the 1980 movie Airplane!. The puns in this film are nowhere near that movie though, I found the humour in Spaceballs lame, shallow and sometimes even awkwardly poor.I think the popularity of this movie is largely explained by its cult status, because the film really offers little to the demanding viewer. It's anything but thought-provoking, hilariously funny or witty. It's an attempt to parody fallen so flat it's not worth watching unless you have high expectations for it to succeed and you want it to succeed. "}{"Title":"Spaceballs","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this movie on VHS when it first came out with a friend. Once the movie started and ended I could not stop laughing. Mel brooks made everything so hilarious that I own the VHS,DVD and now the newest DVD. I had also used this DVD as part of my job checking the lecture halls/classroom equipment. I recommend this movie for anyone who has a great sense of humor. One of my favorite parts is when Dark Helmet and Colonel Sandurz go the home video to find out where Lone Star and the Princess is. Fast forward to now-now. I could not stop laughing. And the movie kept going with more humor in it than any other movie I've ever seen. Including most of Brook's other accomplishments. Well they are good in their own way. But Spaceballs is the best comedy. I am hesitant for the sequel, so far most sequels have fallen very short of the original. And also because I just watched the War of the Worlds movie and it really sucked. "},{"Title":"Juvenile, Not Brooks' finest, but by no means his worst","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERSLooking at Spaceballs when 21 years old, it looks so promising. Mel Brooks, comedy genius and legend, working with the late John Candy. This film should really be amazing, and for so many years in my life, it was. Over the last few days though, I've spent many happy hours watching some of Mel Brooks' finest films. Working through Blazing Saddles, Young Frankenstein and The Producers, I've been shown wonderful, clever, comical moments. So with that in mind, it's strange how little I'm enjoying Spaceballs. Perhaps as a film, I've outgrown it, perhaps it's just not really that good.In Spaceballs, Princess Vespa of Druidia is being chased by the infamous Spaceballs. Led by Lord Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis) and President Skroob (Mel Brooks), the Spaceballs are the most feared people in the Galaxy. The one person who appears capable of defeating the Spaceballs and save the Princess in fact is the mysterious Lone Starr (Bill Pullman) and his Mog Barf (the late great John Candy). Can Lone Starr defeat Dark Helmet, or is the princess's world of Druidia doomed?Truthfully I think the problem with Spaceballs is that it just doesn't click. Whilst Brooks added his typical humour, it was after this film that his form dipped and he began to produce dire films (his next two films being Life Stinks and Robin Hood Men in Tights). It is perhaps too apparent in this film how much that dip in form is approaching. Whilst there is the occasional wonderful line, there are far too many purile jokes with little substance. The constant ridicule of Moranis's Dark Helmet is particularly infuriating after a while.As well as Brooks' abilities waining a bit during Spaceballs, perhaps it is as a result of the casting that this film suffers slightly. When looking at Brooks' earlier works with legends like Marty Feldman, Gene Wilder and Madeline Kahn, it becomes ever more apparent how inferior this later line up of Pullman, Moranis and Candy truely is. Whilst Candy does hold his own as the character Barf, the rest of the cast appear out of their depths at times and the film suffers for it. One decent comparison to the plight of Mel Brooks' work is the decline of the Carry On series. Whilst in the earlier entries we were treated to Charles Hawtrey, Sid James, Joan Sims and Kenneth Williams, in 1992's Carry On Columbus we were left with Jim Dale from the earlier episodes and new additions like Rik Mayall and Alexei Sayle. Basically the point appears that as a series of films progress, if the earlier acting masterclass cannot be replaced by equally able actors, then the series is doomed.To try to be nice to one of the favourite films of my younger life, perhaps it is being too harsh to compare Spaceballs to Mel Brooks' earlier works. As itself, Spaceballs should not be criticised too harshly. As a film on it's own, this feature is an immature feature which appears to place swearing into scenes as a way of trying to make the audience laugh. This is a shame since no comedy should be forced to rely purely on swearing to inspire humour. Even modern cartoons like South Park and Family Guy, creations which contain a fair ammount of swearing, don't depend purely on the swearing and often it is even ridiculed and unnecessary to the jokes.All in all, I feel very guilty. During my life, I've grown up loving Spaceballs, so it feels strange to suddenly be criticising it. This is what is needed however. As a part of Brooks' series of films, it was a negative sign of things to come, and as a film on it's own it's an immature piece of comedy relying on simplistic slapstick humour. There are worse films out there (Brooks' Robin Hood Men In Tights for one), but that doesn't give Spaceballs an excuse for what it is. Spaceballs, put simply, is a film that every child will love, but which eventually we will all grow out of. "},{"Title":"The first film going downhill for Brooks.","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The last Mel Brooks film worth watching. It does however provide the best line of dialogue in movie history. Evil will always triumph over good because good is dumb. To bad Brooks doesn't have it in him anymore. "},{"Title":"WAS THIS FUNNY??","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked Mel Brooks´s High Anxiety. That really was a funny piece of film... I thought that Brooks was a guy that can make great parodies without stupid and predictable jokes!!  Well sometime ago I saw Spaceballs and it made me change my mind. This movie just wasnt funny!! If your making a comedy it should be funny and that´s something Spaceballs simply wasnt. Jokes were so predictable and... dum... and totally not funny. Well OK there was like three pretty good jokes, one or two OK ones and the rest... well... you know what I was going to say... Spaceballs was a huge let down for me. This might be nice for pupertetic kids that like jokes that are changed directly from movies lines. Like example joke like May the Schwartz be with you!  What´s so f***** funny in that????!!!!  3/10 "},{"Title":"Another Stinker from Mel","Date":"22 September 2011","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yet another depressingly unfunny outing from the formerly great Mel Brooks. Space Balls recycles the same tired schtick and jokes that haven't been funny (coming from Brooks, anyway) since Young Frankenstein. I did not laugh once during the entire movie, although Rick Moranis did make me smile once or twice.Space Balls was Brooks 4th or 5th dud in a row and and his movie career, thankfully, was coming to its end at the time of its release. On the plus side, the film is innocent and safe for kids and Brooks does manage to stay clear of the dirty old man jokes that plague History of the World Part 1. "},{"Title":"Painfully unfunny","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" What can I say about Spaceballs? I was expecting a whole lot more, especially from Mel Brooks. Instead of razor-sharp satire, Brooks gives us an onslaught of lame, obvious, and often painful gags. Let's jam the radar, with real jam! Ha! How about combing the desert, but with an actual giant comb! Ha Ha! Wait, we forgot dick jokes! That was close! I know, let's break the fourth wall by showing the crew! Nobody's done that before! Wait, no, let's try satirising the enormous merchandising cult of Star Wars! Nobody's done that before! Indeed, perhaps the most insulting gag is the 'running joke' of The Shwartz. Smug, self-congratulatory writing convinced of its own genius is fine when it works, but when it doesn't, the result is a train wreck.I could go on, but I think I've made my point. As satire, Spaceballs is simply dumb. Even as a gagfest, it is nowhere near good enough. Do yourself a favour. See Blue Harvest. See Mars Attacks. See Plan 9 From Outer Space. Heck, even track down the original MAD magazine Star Wars spoofs. Don't waste your time on this movie. "},{"Title":"Starkly devoid of wit","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many people refer to Mel Brooks as some comedy legend beyond compare ... I'm not really convinced. 'Get Smart' had its moments, and 'The Producers' was ingenious in its day, 'Young Frankenstein' quite funny. Anything else he has done is 100% corn.Family Guy and Robot Chicken have made some very funny spoofs of Star Wars - Spaceballs is a one-joke wonder that just goes on and on and on. It lacks the wit of the newer spoofs; 'Yoda' becomes 'Yogurt' (no, really) and combing the desert is done with a giant comb. This is just witless slapstick and despite all the fans of this film, for me it was a chore to endure.John Candy in a dog suit is not funny - not funny at all. He doesn't shine out in this film as he did in others. It was nice to hear Joan Rivers' voicePerhaps if this film was released in 1981 - when the Star Wars craze was at its height - it may have had some relevance. In 1987 it is just a lame duck without context. Random spatterings of references to other sci-fi films do provide some comic relief if you get the reference. 1/10 - please find the Robot Chicken special first. "},{"Title":"You idiots! You captured their stunt doubles!","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" That's easily my favorite line from this movie, but it wasn't exactly a hard choice to make. In my opinion, that's practically the only funny bit in this whole tortuous mess.As a parody of Star Wars, I'd say this is only rivaled in sheer awfulness by The Phantom Menace.Jokes are mostly of the bad pun variety. We have the disgusting Pizza the Hut, a truly unfunny sequence involving combing the desert being taken too literally, and there are a few jokes about the character's names and ethnicities which simply don't work. Case in point the Yoda parody is called Yogurt in Spaceballs, prompting this line from Dark Helmet (the Darth Vader parody) Yogurt! I hate yogurt! Even with strawberries!In what universe is this considered a joke? Giving a character a funny name and then pointing out that it's funny is simply embarrassing. What would Mel Brooks have done with Hamlet? Called him Ham hock and pointed out that he wasn't kosher?I suppose Mel Brooks did hit a nail on the head by emphasizing the power of merchandising, which helped both drive the Star Wars phenomenon and destroy it. To a true fan of the original series, this is simply depressing, to everyone else this is boring and irrelevant.It's probably unfair to trash a twenty year old movie for being stupid and irrelevant, but this was on free cable last night, and I have to vent. "},{"Title":"Too little too late - a horribly unfunny spoof","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this film in first release back in 1987 and thought it was pretty awful. The main problem (and many critics agreed with me) was that Mel was several years too late for this film to be a good topical spoof. It came out four years after the third STAR WARS movie, after dozens of other spoofs had been made on TV.So here in 2016 in the wake of STAR WARS reboot fever, I thought I'd revisit the film on Blu-Ray to see if I had misjudged it. No, it was still just as awful as the first time. The casting is terrible (who would hire George Wyner and Dick Van Patten as main characters?), the jokes are grade-school level, the timing and direction are almost always off, and there is a sense of desperation to get a laugh. (As Roger Ebert pointed out, Brooks keeps repeating the lame line May the Schwartz be with you as if eventually it will become funny.)Rick Moranis and John Candy, who were riding the crest of SCTV popularity at the time, are completely wasted, except for Rick's improvised play-with-dolls scene. There are a few good laughs - about one every fifteen minutes - especially the closer when John Hurt paid Mel back for producing ELEPHANT MAN by reprising his ALIEN performance.I have a rule of thumb about Mel Brooks movies they are funny in inverse proportion to the amount of time that Mel is on screen. In SPACEBALLS he gives himself TWO roles which is twice too much Mel.I suppose a group of fifth-grade boy scouts on a field trip might enjoy watching a film like this, but it feels like a bunch of second-rate TV skits glued together. Mel began to slide after Young Frankenstein and this film was fairly far down the slide. "},{"Title":"More silly than funny","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moments of hilarity enliven this often silly Star Wars satire, as Zuniga, a princess, runs away from her wedding, and her father sends a pair of good natured dimwits to find her and bring her back, and save her from midget Lord Dark Helmet.This has a good cast, and the jokes come fast and seemingly endlessly, but overall, I found this to be more silly than funny, and I actually felt sorry for John Candy, dressed up like a dog called Barf. My favourite bits were the breaking-the-fourth-wall moments, like when they look at a monitor to try to see what happens next, but end up watching themselves actually filming the scene, and the constant product placement. Funny gag at the very start, involving the massive length of their spacecraft was funny because it goes on so long, but probably wouldn't hold up to repeated viewings.Maybe I just wasn't in the right frame of mind when I watched this, but I needed a break, after all the horror films I had watched recently. "}{"Title":"The Schwartz is (mostly) with it","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Star Wars' wasn't exactly the freshest target Mel Brooks could've picked in 1987, but oddly enough I think 'Spaceballs' plays better today now that the former has been passed on to a couple of generations and has become an unqualified classic (instead of just a then somewhat passé pop culture phenomenon), and its reputation seems to have grown over the years as a result. Anchored by a fantastic performance from Rick Moranis, the cast more than holds its own, the bulk of the gags hit their mark, and it may be Brooks' most quotable film.This seems to mark the point where Brooks went from doing parodies of genres and conventions to parodies of actual movies. The results were mixed, but I think 'Spaceballs' is far and away the best movie of that second half of his career. "},{"Title":"Solid but not as good as I remembered - 65%","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't escape the notion that Mel Brooks never quite fulfilled his potential as a director. After early successes with The Producers and Blazing Saddles, he settled down into lazy parodying of Hollywood blockbusters of the time which this clearly is. It isn't his worst film and as a kid, I loved the goofiness of it all very much. But time and advancing years have weakened my once-high opinion - it has its moments and at times, is quite inspired. But the whole thing feels juvenile and low-brow and not as smart as Brooks is capable of.In a strangely familiar galaxy far far away, the peaceful planet of Druidia is about to celebrate the forthcoming nuptials of Princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga), who sadly runs away at the last minute. Blasting off into space, she runs straight into villainous Spaceballs intent of draining Druidia of its precious air supply. Led by Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis) and President Skroob (Brooks), Vespa and her droid valet Dot Matrix (voiced by the late Joan Rivers) are captured and her only hope lies with two space adventurers - the rugged Lone Starr (Bill Pullman) and his half-man, half-dog companion Barf (John Candy).Spaceballs is not the most sophisticated of parodies but it certainly has its share of moments. Candy is brilliant as Barf, complete with a wagging tail that has a penchant for trouble and flopping ears. Moranis probably steals the show as the epically incompetent Dark Helmet but Brooks is disappointing as Skroob and the mystical mentor, Yogurt (no prizes for guessing who he's a parody of) and Rivers feels sadly underused. The effects, for all the madness going in within the movie, are also pretty good for its age - model shots of flying Winnebago's and the vast Spaceballs vessel look detailed and almost plausible, if you can ignore the comic bumper stickers (I *heart* Uranus!). But I'm afraid the film does have one or two issues. The majority of the humour is largely based around funny names and ham-fisted mickey-taking. Yes, the endless parade of Spaceballs merchandise is amusing and used to good effect but it feels clumsy and lacking the wit we all know Brooks possesses. The endless Jewish jokes didn't come as a surprise and didn't make me laugh either and the camp sexual shenanigans of various buxom bit-parts felt very out-of-date even then.But the film's biggest problem is that, like a lot of Brooks' films, it raises a smile but rarely any belly laughs. Spaceballs is a good effort but the quality of the writing lets it down, making it feel like a childish version of Star Wars and frankly, one that only a child would enjoy. It feels wrong to be this harsh on a film I once enjoyed but like Caddyshack, I missed the magic the second time I watched it once I'd grown up. Parody films are hard to get right and to be honest, no-one has done anything better than the brains behind Airplane! - Jim Abrahams and the brothers Jerry & David Zucker. Brooks always felt like he was teasing us - his talent for comedy is unquestionable but sometimes, he seems to take things easy. Spaceballs is a case in point - despite flashes of brilliance, it remains a solid but unspectacular watch that would only appeal to those viewers sick of any version of George Lucas's space opera. I just wished that I could have switched my brain back to my ten-year-old self and enjoy it much more. "},{"Title":"May The Schwartz Be With You","Date":"4 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having used up their atmosphere, the evil planet Spaceball seeks to steal all the air from the neighbouring planet of Druidia by kidnapping Princess Vespa and holding her to ransom. However, they have not counted on heroic space cowboy Lone Star and his trusty sidekick, Barf &#x85;There are several good Star Wars parodies (notably in Family Guy and Lego Star Wars) but this is both the original and my favourite, and it manages to get some funny references to other sci-fi classics in as well - the Alien gag in particular is fabulous. As with Brooks' brilliant pastiches of other genres what makes it so charming is not just the silly gags and incisive wit (Moichandising !) but also the playfully affectionate tone, which is as much a compliment to the movies being spoofed as anything else. Only Brooks would spend an entire minute at the start of the movie having a ridiculously complicated and enormous spaceship fly past very slowly - it's a beautiful effects shot which simultaneously celebrates the visual grandeur of sci-fi movies and counterpoints their frequent clichéd silliness. Similarly with the characters, Lone Star and Dark Helmet are fun to cheer on or hiss at but everything they do is funny or imaginative, and the whole cast are hilarious, particularly Candy and Brooks in the plum support roles. There are some absolutely inspired visual gags (They've gone to plaid !) and crazy ideas thrown into the mix - the surreal When does this happen in the movie ? sequence is probably my favourite. There are great visual effects throughout and the whole thing is a blast from start to finish, whether it be Dark Helmet playing with his dolls or a disturbing videophone call from Pizza The Hutt. Very well written by Brooks, Graham and Thomas Meehan, and featuring an agreeably goofy John Williams knockoff score by John Morris, as well as a funny theme song by legendary Detroit soul singers The Spinners. Look fast for a camp early role by the ubiquitous Stephen Tobolowsky. "},{"Title":"The ultimate salute to sci-fi","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mel Brooks hits the bull's eye and brings the whole house down with this simply funny and poignant salute and slap to the world of science fiction. For me, Brooks delivered one of his best with this cult classic from the 80s.The plot loosely follows a space rogue (well played by Bill Pullman) as he attempts to protect a princess from the clutches of the dreaded Spaceballs who plan to replenish their air supply by stealing the atmosphere from their neighbor, Planet Druidia. The leader of this operation is Lord Dark Helmet played by Rick Moranis who has all the best moments.Where to begin? Well, the cast is great (Dick Van Patten, Mel Brooks, John Candy, and John Hurt just to name a few), the special effects are those grand old school effects, and the comedy is both laugh out loud and subtle. A particular favorite of mine is the ludicrous speed scene. Adding to this merry atmosphere is the 80s feel scattered throughout the film from the soundtrack to the pop culture satires like Mr. Coffee.The film is pitch perfect and although the story is loose, all the jokes bring the farce together. Its just as funny the tenth time you've seen it. "},{"Title":"Only one person would DARE give me the raspberry!!!","Date":"22 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A true classic - a personal favorite ever since I first saw it when I was 11 years old. I'm 25 now and still crack up every time I see it.What happened?? Where'd they go??!?! I don't know. They must have hyperjets on that thing. And what do we have?!?! A Cuisinart?!?!I've read some comments on here about this not having any shock value or coming off as a children's film - but I don't think those are bad things at all. One thing I love about this film is that from the outset there is no pretense of this being some kind of ground-breaking, jaw-dropping comedy that offers incredible insights or tries to solicit I can't believe he said that! reactions. It's just silly as hell and if you don't take it for face value you're not going to appreciate it. I would suggest putting your movie critic glasses on the table for a minute and try not to take yourself or the movie too seriously.One good insight that I do like about the film is a direct shot at George Lucas and his enormous Star Wars empire (when Lonestar and Barf first meet Yogurt in the desert) So what do you guys do here anyways? Merchandising! Merchandising! We put the name of the movie on everything! Spaceballs the lunch box! Spaceballs the t-shirt! Spaceballs the breakfast cereal! Spaceballs the flamethrower! (the kids love this one) Merchandising! Where the REAL money from the movie is made!That's great and so true. As far as planting images on products and selling them, I think only Disney can even come close to competing with Star Wars. That's a direct shot at Lucas and it's all too true.Other than that, I think one of my favorite line was when Dark Helmet and Lonestar were getting ready to duel and Helmet sees the Schwartz Ah, I see you have the ring and your Schwartz is as big as mine! Hilarious, as they hold both their beams directly at their crouches.Classic Mel Brooks, classic comedy.God forbid we'll all meet again in 'Spaceballs 2 The Search for More Money' "},{"Title":"Great fun.","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mel Brooks takes off the gloves against all the science-fiction clichés, science, and characters in his 1987 epic, Spaceballs. It is a spectacular spoof rife with laughs, sight gags, and silly one-liners that is a good, clean, funny time at the movies. Apparently, Spaceballs are an alien race that foolishly squandered their atmosphere. They desire the one of Druidia. In order to get the combination to their air shield, Spaceballs plan to capture Princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga) and hold her ransom for the combination. Leading this nefarious plot is Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis), Colonel Sanders (George Wyner), and President Skroob (Mel Brooks). However, King Roland (Dick Van Patten) calls for the help of Lone Star (Bill Pullman) and Barf (John Candy). The plot is ancillary to the laughs, romps, and good times prominent in Mel Brooks parodies. While he relies on corny one-liners we can see a mile away, he also likes to use the long-running gags that also come off well. One great joke is Dark Helmet, the parody of Darth Vader. The irony, though, is Moranis' short, unimposing stature. Even better is the long-running gag of Barf, Lone Star's half-man, half dog sidekick. What works here is the allusion to Chewabacca, which was really a guard dog for Han Solo. What also works are the great comedic interludes and other stabs at sci-fi movies the ridiculously large, long spaceship, the lights that serve no purpose, the ridiculous and ludicrous speeds that can be attained, and the silly notions of beaming someone to another location, although it's just across the room. You also have interesting characters that are their own amidst their own story. While the main focus is the Star Wars movies, there are also great lampoons and tips of the hats to all the great sci-fi television shows and movies ranging from Star Trek, Planet of the Apes, Alien, and even a tip of the hat to Lost in Space. I will say that Spaceballs does not trump his greatest achievements (The Producers, Young Frankenstein, Blazing Saddles), but it definitely is good caliber comedy. "},{"Title":"summary","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" How can you go wrong with Mel Brooks? His humor is extremely recognizable and without a doubt simply just great. Of course you may like one movie better than the other but I have never come across someone who did not like the man's films at all. One of the pioneers of the spoof film, it is no wonder that Mel Brooks would challenge the likes of Star Wars by making Spaceballs. With an almost all star cast consisting of Bill Pullman and John Candy as the hero's of the story they have to risk life and death to save the beautiful Princess Vespa, daughter of King Roland, King of the Druids. Being a Mel Brooks movie, all the little nuances between the actual movie and the spoof are apparent if you know what you are looking for. Making references to Disneyland when surrounded by the little guys that live with Yogurt, the headphones that look like Princess Leia Danish's and so on and so forth. Even though the humor in the film is extremely funny, it does not take away from the story line. Providing that Star Wars did not come out, and Mel Brooks wanted to make this movie a serious drama, how ever crazy the story line is &#150; Stealing the air from one planet and planting it on another because they've wasted it &#150; It can still stand on its own as something generally good. Between an alien coming out of John Hurt for the second time, a golden robotic version of Joan Rivers, or John Candy as a Mog (Half man half dog), the script does fine all by itself, but the humor to it all just makes everything picture perfect. Plus the acting itself isn't too horrible. They certainly hold their own in the world of the Spaceball. "},{"Title":"The Schwartz is with Mel Brooks","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mel Brooks, parody filmmaker extraordinaire, has outdone himself again. Brooks made five previous parody movies and one television show, targeting westerns, 1920s horror, silent movies, Hitchcockian thrillers, historical epics and James Bond. Spaceballs lines up Science-Fiction in its scope and lampoons it with abandon. When Spaceballs was released, it had been six years since History of the World Part I, and he returned from his absence with one of the best comedies of all time.The opening title card signals that the ride will be good. Presented in the Star Wars words in space style, it presents many puns and jabs followed by Brooks' answer to the Star Destroyer. No less than seven laughing opportunities pass before the first line, Colonel Sandurz. It is only a matter of time before he is called a chicken.The evil leaders of Planet Spaceball, having foolishly squandered their precious atmosphere, have devised a secret plan to take every breath of air away from their peace-loving neighbor, Planet Druidia. I take that quote directly from the titles. Their scheme involves kidnapping Druish Princess Vespa (Daphne Zuniga) and extorting her father, King Roland (Dick Van Patten) for the combination to Druidia's air shield. Unbeknownst to them, Lone Star (Bill Pullman) and his sidekick Barf (John Candy) are minutes away, and they owe a debt to the most delicious crime lord in the known universe.Pullman, hardly considered a high talent, inhabits the role he was born to play. Lone Star provides the equivalent for Han Solo, and later Luke Skywalker. Pullman plays Lone Star with a much lower level of cockiness and sardonic attitude than Solo, but an equal level of daring, confidence and ingenuity. Candy, as always, provides splendid screen time with his lovable portrayal of Lone Star's Chewbacca, Barf. Daphne Zuniga's Princess Vespa possesses a polar opposite personality to Princess Leia's unselfish nobility. Joan Rivers voices Dot Matrix, Spaceballs travesty of C-3PO, and of course asks, Can we talk? JM J. Bullock and Dick Van Patten immaculately play their very easy but delightfully funny characters.The highest praise, however, belongs to Mel Brooks and Rick Moranis. Moranis, best known for playing Wayne Szalinski in Honey, I Shrunk the Kids and its offspring, plays the Vader role of Dark Helmet, complete with enormous glasses. Harmless and nerdy describe Moranis, not imposing. He uses two different voices, one for when his face mask is up, and another when it is down, and wears a *really* big helmet. Brooks plays Lord Helmet's boss, President Skroob and his feared nemesis, Yoghurt. The Schwartz is with Yoghurt, and he manages a nifty store. Michael Winslow has a hilarious cameo as a radar tech. Ronny Graham is even funnier as a priest I would never want running my wedding.I intentionally withhold all but the most obscure examples of the humor because I will have to give a burnt offering to the comedy gods if I give them away. Star Wars is hardly the only target. Also hit are Star Trek, at least three times, The Wizard of Oz, Planet of the Apes, Alien, Rambo, ABC, Rocky, Lost in Space, disco music videos, cat litter boxes and Perrier. The only jokes that do not work are the characters' references to the fact that they are in a movie, although the merchandizing aspect is funny. Thankfully, new jokes come quickly. Even today, Brooks' brilliant lampoon job can invoke peals of tear-producing laughter with both subtle and in-your-face humor. Sometimes the same joke has both. As a fan, no, complete nerd, of the Star Wars galaxy, I can appreciate it on a different level. Even for those who have never seen a Star Wars, movie, Brooks made the whole affair ludicrous enough that they can enjoy it nearly as much as those who have. After you watch, go see the latest Rocky movie. Just don't order the special. "},{"Title":"About as funny as your family dying of cancer.","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If I had the choice of being wrapped in barbed wire, rolled in salt then having my eyes plucked out and replaced by flesh hungry maggots or watching Spaceballs again, I'd probably pick the mess by Mel Brooks but it would be a very close call. The film spoofs Star Wars, but without enough jokes or sight gags to ever stop you from wishing you could be watching the film it was inspired by. The cast seem to assume that they were reputed enough by this time that no effort was required on their part to induce the guffaws. This is the kind of performances that make you wonder if the likes of John Candy or Rick Moranis were ever really worth watching, something you'd need a heady does of nostalgia behind you to dispute. Mel Brooks' twin roles are the most gratuitous, with these personal appearances assuring you that he had indeed lost his funny. Every time a good parody seems imminent, the punch line will leave you cold, and there just isn't enough out and out stupidity to carry proceedings along. Anything that manages to comes close to the mark will fall flat on its face as it rides a wave of smug assumption, as though Brooks felt that with the right ingredients a comedy classic was imminent.It wasn't.  "},{"Title":"Die Hard' Star Wars' addicts, enjoy!","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I will come right out and say that I'm a die hard 'Star Wars' addict, who knows every single line in every movie, every model of spacecraft, and even every cut scene.(However, the Force is NOT real people!)And this movie had me in stitches.There are some absolutely hillarious lines and scenes in this movie that one can't help but enjoy. My personal favorites would have to be the watching themselves on video scene (with all the 'thens' and 'nows' make sure not to get lost), the Temple of Doom/Yogurt scene, and of course the (in)famous What's the matter Colonel Sanderz? Chicken??? line. As with most movies (except, I might add, 'Star Wars' and 'Indiana Jones') this picture does have some low points. But all in all, it's a pretty good film.I tip my hat to Brooks for all his outstanding comedies, but I have to add that 'Monty Python and the Holy Grail' is still the best parody/spoof/comedy ever made. If you are a Star Wars fan with a sense of humor, or anyone else with an appreciation for slapstick routines, this movie is a must-see!One last thing I must add, is as possibly the World's Biggest Harrison Ford fan, I loved the quip about the 'Ford Galaxy'. This movie proves Luke Skywalker was obselete all along, and Han is the only important one.  "}{"Title":"My number 122 movie","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs is my number 122 movie. It is very funny and has a lot of memorable characters. You will like this movie much more if you have seen the Star wars Episodes 4 - 6, but who has not?!? You could compare this movie to Scary Movie, but this one does not make fun of Scream and horror movies, but of Star Wars and sci-fi movies. I found I lot of the dialogue a bit to cheesy, but it is a comedy, it just wants to entertain. My favorite character definitely is Darth Vader character ( in German its name is Lord Helmchen, maybe it is the same in English ). He is very very very funny, and by this role Rick Moranis got one of my favorite comedy actors. I do consider Lord Helmchen as one of  funniest characters of movie history, and I have seen about 700 movies. Maybe he is even the funniest, he just makes 5 jokes a second by his facial expressions and his gesture. That is just very very funny. All in all, I rated this movie 8/10. It could have been better, since I did not like the characters that parody Han Solo ( played by Bill Pullman ), Princess Leia and Chewbacca. But the rest was actual funny, especially Rick Moranis. I recommend this movie to every comedy fan and to guys who have love star Wars, and do not say  &#132;Oh, it is Star Wars, it is more than a movie, it is a religion, and you do not make fun of religions. And that´s that. If you have any questions, feel free to ask them. CU; Rinho. "},{"Title":"rewind","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I turned to this just a few time after i saw in a row the trilogy of double episodes of Family Guy spoofing Star Wars (Laugh it up, fuzzball). I wanted to compare the jokes made there with comedy made while Star Wars were still hot. Also, it's quite likely that MacFarlane saw this film in his teens, even more when we know he's a SW freak.What we see here is quite dated today, in what concerns the pure value of the comedy. It's not so much about the jokes, which actually fall in most cases in the same categories of the equivalent jokes in Laugh it up.... But the pace has changed since this was made. Audiences require much more frantic developments now, so they won't turn away. I mean, even the Simpsons now sound slow when compared to Family Guy, South Park or Friends. But i supposed it was going to be like that. Among all the genres, comedy is the one which gets dated more often, and more quickly. Rythms change, demands change, and even the interests change. This film is still kept alive, i suppose, because Star Wars, boosted by the new recent episodes, is still kept alive. So it's still possible for people born after this film was made to relate to its jokes. But i wanted to see a feature film. I wanted to get out of the television world of series, who live on the sketches themselves, but always lack the grander scheme, the long form. And Mel Brooks doesn't usually fail in the writing chapter. He is a true joker because his mind works cinematically, and it's cinematically that he performs the twists. The fun is in the writing, the conception, as much as in the jokes themselves.So, the jokes can work for you or not. The Han Solo dressed as Indiana Jones. The enhancement of features from star wars to cartoonish levels. Sexual inferences regarding light sabers or the physical samurai figure of Darth Vader (both of which Family guy also tackles). But the good things that really make this film for me are the self-referential bits. Films about films, films about filmmaking. There are several ordinary allusions to the fact that we are watching a film, but one really interesting moment. Darth Vader and crew, in order to find out where the fugitives are, assume that they are film characters in the film, so they look for the film itself, searching a shelf filled with Brook's films, finding this film already edited on video, and running it on a TV, quickly going over everything we'd just seen. Than they get to the present point of the story so far, and we get a double image of the outside film, and of the same film being watched by the characters in it, all in sync. This was a marvelous piece of self-reference, which will be appreciated always, whenever we see it, than, now and in the future.My opinion 3/5http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Uneven but reasonably entertaining","Date":"14 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't think that this is one of Mel Brooks' finest hours, but it was reasonably entertaining, though as far as Brooks' films go The Producers and Young Frankenstein are more entertaining and I think more watchable. The story is very thin, the pacing is somewhat uneven feeling rushed or draggy, the gags are hit and miss(in the timing some of the time as it is all very manic humour wise) and there are some very silly and unfunny puns scattered in the course of the film. However, the visuals are great, the music is quirky and some gags are funny especially the speed scene which was both ludicrous and hilarious and Spaceballs has a great cast. It is always a delight to see Mel Brooks(who also directs decently), John Candy, Rick Moranis(who gets the best moments) and Bill Pullman, and they all give good performances. Overall, noisy and uneven, but it is entertaining thanks to the cast. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Funny, but lacks Brooks's usually frantic pace","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are some hilarious sight gags in this movie, from Rick Moranis's ridiculous costume to Pizza the Hut to combing the desert; Brooks keeps the gags coming regularly and doesn't take himself seriously for a moment. But as funny as this movie is, it doesn't match the pacing of his earlier films such as Blazing Saddles, Young Frankenstein, or even High Anxiety. Some scenes stretch on far too long, for example when the ship turns into a giant maid it takes like five minutes, when it would have been funnier if it took maybe twenty seconds. Another example is Scroob's scene in his office in the same amount of time it takes him to show a single sight gag Perri-air, he goes through maybe ten hilarious things in his office as the lewd governor in Blazing Saddles. And Bill Pullman lacks the kind of comic timing necessary for a movie like this, it's no wonder that he never did any other comedy, he was a poor choice as Lone Star. Brooks himself is hilarious though, as Scroob and as Yogurt, and I never laughed harder than when he held the little Yogurt doll in his arm and pulled the cord.But the real star of this movie, I think, is Rick Moranis; he is Brooks's ultimate sight gag. He is so perfectly cast in the role of Dark Helmet because he is the last person you would expect to see behind a Darth Vader helmet. When his helmet is down, he speaks in a low, intimidating voice, but when it's up he speaks in a normal voice. His every insecurity is magnified by his ridiculous uniform and hilariously befuddled responses to the technology that his inferiors are expected to know. The video tape scene is hilarious, as well as the coffee maker scene; Moranis perfectly captures the hilarious frustration that an insecure mid-level manager would feel when taken out of his comfortable element. He is thus quick to anger, using his ring as an affirmation of his superiority whenever his pride is wounded, while in private he buoys his wavering confidence by playing with dolls. I think Moranis's performance is brilliantly conceived, and is the best role of his career. "},{"Title":"It's Mega Maid-she's gone from suck to blow","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  However, this movie has never sucked. I've seen it over 30 times, and still laugh each time. Quite possibly one of the 10 funniest films ever. Watch at ludicrous speed. I am your father's brother's cousins uncle's former roomate. I dare anyone not to quote the endless lines from this films, it is filled with more one liners than Eddie Murphy. You have the ring, and I see your schwartz is as big as mine.  "},{"Title":"Funny... She doesn't look Druish.","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPACEBALLS (1987) **1/2 Mel Brooks, Bill Pullman, John Candy, Rick Moranis, Daphne Zuniga, George Wyner, Dick Van Patten, Michael Winslow, Joan Rivers (voice only), John Hurt. Frequently funny send-up of Star Wars and all space operas ala Brooks with some great sight gags, one-liners and inspired casting of Moranis as a half-pint Dark Helmet and Candy as Barf the Mawg, half-man, half-dog (I'm my own best friend!) and of course Zuniga as a Druish princess (Funny...she doesn't look Druish).That's Lorene Yarnell, of Shields and Yarnell fame, in the Dot Matrix outfit. May the Schwartz Be With You! "},{"Title":"sometimes funny, but relatively uninspired","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mel Brooks' take on Lucas' Star Wars movies, which also takes a few jabs at other sci-fi films and shows, misses just as often as it hits but it doesn't really matter because there are so many targets for so many jokes that every viewer will be bound to find something hilarious. A lot of the best gags take advantage of the unspoken assumptions and slightly buried real-world allusions in sci-fi movies, for example in this universe the equivalent to Han Solo, Lone Starr (Bill Pullman), rides around with his co-pilot Barf (John Candy) in a Winnebago with wings and aft thrusters.The story is a literal copy of Star Wars, perhaps a bit too close &#150; a beautiful princess (Daphne Zuniga) is kidnapped after she runs away from her royal father (Dick Van Patten) and Lone Starr and Barf must rescue her in order to pay off their debts to Pizza-the-Hut (Dom Deluise).There are some funny moments in the movie &#150; my favorite bit is probably the scene where mystic Yogurt (Mel Brooks) shows off his merchandise and reassures Lone Starr that they will meet again hopefully in Spaceballs 2 The Search for More Money! But somehow the whole project doesn't feel inspired, and there's not even as much cohesion as you get in other Brooks parodies like Blazing Saddles. That's because it's truly hard to sympathize with the hero here &#150; Pullman's performance is uninspired and he wasn't given much to work with in the first place. The whole movie feels like nothing more than a bunch of sketches strung together, which produces a very uneven quality. A lot of the bits with old-school comedians like Van Patten and Deluise feel like overkill. Joan Rivers always annoys me, and although we don't have to look at her in this film her voice becomes grating before long. Rick Moranis is only occasionally funny here as usual; he's on screen more than he should be. Worst of all they got that guy who does funny noises from the Police Academy movies and he makes 2 or 3 minutes of the film's running time exceedingly painful. However, John Candy gives a really inspired performance combining animal and human behavior, one of his all-time best.Maybe it would have been a better idea to directly spoof Star Trek instead of Star Wars &#150; Lucas' trilogy with its teddy bears and masked asthmatic villains is cheezy enough as-is if you really think about it, and didn't really need spoofing, though it must have felt that way in 1986 after the influx of hoopla surrounding the series. Brooks doesn't really cut all that deeply into the series so a lot of the jokes feel pretty obvious here &#150; unlike in Saddles and Young Frankenstein he doesn't really seem to be able to engage with the deeper sources of the genre's/series' appeal. Consequentially the movie has less nostalgic appeal than those films do for fans of the Western and Horror genres respectively.All that being said, it isn't an unpleasant way to pass a few hours and latter-day Star Wars fans who might have missed this or been too young at the time of its release might want to check it out on DVD; the material doesn't provide too many deep belly laughs (unless you're very young or somehow able to laugh at a lot of very obvious puns like comb the desert) but it will probably leave you with a smile on your face. "},{"Title":"Intelegent, Frank, Physical Humor all in one package","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is by far, the funniest parody i've seen, if not funniest comedy in general. I treasure this movie. They took every aspect of Star Wars and made it funny. I bow down to the writers. It has intelligent humor in it. Frank, (don't have to think) humor in many parts. As well as a fair share of just raw physical humor. This movie is funny irregardless of your age or inelegance. Witch is much more than i can say for many movies out in days. BTW, not that it would personally affect my rating, its all clean humor.. well for the most part. Also, Pizza The Hut, brilliantly funny. The actors and cast are also all good in this movie. "},{"Title":"Tired, washed out and dated.","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's quite ironic that a character in the movie is named Prince Valium, because the movie, script and performances seem like they all popped a pill. Heaven knows there's room in Star Wars and its ilk for parody, but this weary vehicle just never brought it.I don't share the horror of many reviewers, because there were a number of amusing bits in the flick. The problem is that they were no more than amusing I'd recognize the gag, nod, maybe smile, acknowledge the quip, and that's about it. There was always a certain zest, verve, what have you missing. Possibly in the hands of a peppier director or a more engaged cast Spaceballs would have been different, although I'm sure that it's hell on wheels for an audience of nine year old boys. But ... Moranis and Candy mailed it in, Pullman needed to be more over-the-top and wasn't, and the directing wasn't there. Even the fourth wall breaking didn't come off as well as it should have done.4/10. "},{"Title":"A few flares of wit","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just because it's Mel Brooks, it's worth seeing -- as long as you like Brooks' brand of unashamedly sophomoric humor. But there are really only two good moments -- the opening credits, which ruthlessly spoof the overdone ominousness of George Lucas' monster spaceship images, and the Jawas marching along the ridge to a whistled tune that... well, that will make you think of another movie. The other jokes remind me of student newspaper satires that seemed funny when we were all in high school -- some are obvious, some are tired (like the Jewish princess riffs), and all suggest that Brooks turned this off while he had his mind on something else. 20 years down the road, there are fan films online that are far wittier SW parodies--IMPS, for instance. "}{"Title":"This movie should be PG-13 because the F word is said","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I must assure you that I do not agree that this movie should be a PG rating, it should be PG-13 because the F-word is said in the movie. Rick Moranis should not use the F word in the movie because this movie is not PG rated. Unless they dubbed it over for Rick Moranis not to say the F word, but to say BOTHER, DARN IT, BOGUS or NO WAY! Unless they re-release this movie with the dubbed change and digital enhanced sound would sound like a terrific idea. If the movie is PG rated, Rick Moranis should not use the F word in the movie. The Motion Picture Association of America has made a mistake and should have Spaceballs rated PG-13 instead of PG. "},{"Title":"Mel Brook's last good film","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Princess Vespa runs off in the middle of an arranged marriage with Prince Valium that her father the King set up for her, she gets kidnapped by Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis) and the King offers 1 million to Lone Star (Bill Pullman, no wit Paxton, no was right the first time Pullman) and his half dog/ half man Mawg sidekick, Barf (the late great John Candy) to save his abducted daughter. This being a Mel Brooks film, the movie is ripe with sight gags, slapstick and hit or miss humor. What really works about this film is John Candyas Barf, a virtual unrecognizable Dom DeLuise as Pizza the Hut, Rick Moranis, the restaraurant scene,and Micheal Winslow. What doesn't is whenever the robot Dot is on the screen (the only thing almost as bad as seeing Joan Rivers, is just hearing her grating voice), it's a tad more on the miss side than Mel Brookes previous films (still better then ANY of Mel's films from the '90's though). This movie isn't a classic by any means, but it's a perfectly good time-waister.My GradeB- 2-disc DVD Extras Disc 1) Commentary with Mel Brooks; Option to watch the film at Ludacris Speed; and Trailer for the 2005 Pink Panther remake Disc 2) 3 Different Main Menus; Spaceballs The Documentary; In Conversation Mel Brooks & Thomas Meehan featurette; John Candy Comic Spirit featurette; 6 Outtakes; Character Quotes; 3 Stills Galleries; Storyboard To Film comparison; 6 Film Flubs; Trivia Game; MGM Comedy Trailer; Exhibitor Trailer (with Mel Brooks introduction); and Theatrical Trailer 9 Easter Eggs Disc 1) Just sit and let the main menu play; Go to the Language menu for a short movie clip in both Mawgese and Dinkese Disc 2) In Lone Star's main menu, you can push 3 buttons (one to left of the TV monitor, two to the right) for some cute menu animations; In the Art Gallery you can flip the light on and off; In Dark Helmet's main menu, you can push 3 buttons; In Princess Vespa's main menu you can push 1 button "},{"Title":"Oh Oh, there goes the neighborhood","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Melbrookes is one of my heroes because of his ability to mix a lot of bad taste, intellectual humour, in jokes, terrible acting into a great movie.How does he do it? I don't know, that is why he has made lots of movies and I have made none.Either way Spaceballs is a classic for all those Sci-fi fans with a sense of humour. Ummm...the plot...well there is Lone Star who has to pay back Pizza the Hut some money. Meanwhile the spaceballs (let by the evil Dark Helmut) are trying to steal the air from the planet Druidia (in space what is more precious, surely this makes Spaceballs one of the most insightful sci-fi movies). The big problem comes when Princess Vespa is about to captured by the Spaceballs but Lonestar manages to jam their radar...I think the flavour was raspberry (surely this makes spaceballs one the most stupid sci-fi movies ever made).With a little bit of help from the great Yogurt and the schwartz Lonestar is about to defeat the bad guys and save the day.It is a very stupid movie, but with postmodern and Kafka references there is still something for everyone because Mel's secret (I really knew, I just pretended I didn't know) is that he looks for the joke in everything. The main criticism is of course that this sacrifices the story for the joke. "},{"Title":"Had it's funny moments but when you honestly look at it, it's kind of not that funny","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spaceballs had ups and down the whole way through the movie. Oh sure it had funny parts. Some of the scenes were hilarious like the combing through the desert, yogurt's temple, the assholes, and the duel scene with Dark Helmet and Bill Pullman (don't remember his name.) But honestly, when you look at it, it wasn't as funny as I thought it would be. I wanted to watch the movie and laugh so hard like I did in Stripes and Caddyshack but I never did. It might be a classic but it really shouldn't be. The actors were funny especially Rick Moranis but the laughs could've been a little bit funnier but that's just my opinion.Hedeen's outlook 6.5/10  "},{"Title":"Sleepwalk","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Looking at this film again (which I didn't like the first time around, shows how much I like punishment) the fatal flaw becomes apparent.  Brooks choose to make fun of something that needed a massive budget and he chinced on the effects.  This is so poorly directed and framed that the film needed another director with his finger on the modern sci-fi pulse.  Like watching a bad Catskills performance.   "},{"Title":"Fails to Achieve Exit Speed","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nothing much special about Mel Brooks' parody of Star Wars. It sticks rather closely to the model that it's sending up, except for a visit to The Wizard of Oz in one of its more interesting moments. Maybe that's part of the problem. Airplane II was about space travel but allowed itself more wiggle room. What I mean is, if you haven't by some chance seen and remembered Star Wars, you may miss half the gags because so many of them are tied in with the source material.Another problem may be that the jokes just aren't that funny, for whatever reason. Not that there aren't a couple of embedded smiles. Go back to the golf course and practice your putts. And Daphne Zuniga demanding she be addressed as Your Highness because she is a Princess of the Druids. (Oh, great, says Bill Pullman, Just what we need, a Druidish Princess.) And when the gang hand her a gun to fend of their evil pursuers while they try to open an escape hatch, she holds the rifle between thumb and forefinger, saying with an elaborate moue, I can't shoot this. I hate guns. Then one of the bullets whizzes by and messes her hair, at which she mows down the whole of the enemy brigade.But, really, is a name like Pizza the Hut genuinely amusing? Does it make anyone smile to hear the voice of Joan Rivers? Even if it comes out of a robot? Brooks plays around a lot with the fourth wall, as he often does, but most of the distancing efforts flop. The funniest scene may be tacked on at the end, when John Hurt, the first victim of Alien, has a tiny monster burst from his chest. Hurt groans, Oh, no! Not again, and dies, while the little creature puts on a top hat and kicks his way off stage singing So Long, My Honey. None of it equals the scene between Frankenstein's monster and the hermit played by Gene Hackman in Young Frankenstein. The CGIs are surprisingly good. I didn't hate the movie. I just found it rather a slow slog, maybe partly because I didn't get that much out of Star Wars. It made me a little uncomfortable, too, seeing Mel Brooks put so much effort into a production with so unworthy an outcome, because I've always liked Brooks' humor -- brash, vulgar, topical, and ethnic. Here, it's all those things, but just not as funny. "},{"Title":"The Skit that wants to be a movie","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I generally like Mel Brooks. His original Producers was far superior to the recent remake. Here he spoofs Star Wars, and does a fair job, but it is better as a skit than a movie.Rick Moranis has the funniest role, that of a peculiarly infantile Darth Vader type who plays with tiny ''Spaceballs'' dolls when he thinks no one is looking.In addition to concentrating on ''Star Wars'' itself, ''Spaceballs'' tosses in gibes at the expense of other recent science fiction; there is a ''Star Trek'' sight gag, a visit to the ''Planet of the Apes'' and some understandable foreboding when John Hurt (''Alien'') puts in an appearance. "},{"Title":"EVEN IN THE FUTURE NOTHING WORKS!  funny farce","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mel Brooks' Spaceballs is a funny spoof on sci-fi stuff (The Star Wars Trilogy, Star Trek, Alien) that doesn't take any bad turns.  And who better to play Yogurt than Brooks himself.  The plot is pretty much Star Wars meets Star Trek (with a young yet well acted Bill Pullman as the hero) with a man named Lone Star who with his buddy Barf (John Candy) have to save Princess Vespa from Dark helmet (funny as hell from Rick Moranis).  Good fun all around, but Brooks' last best film.  A+ "},{"Title":"It's Only Funny in Spots.  Other Times, it's a Mess!","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mel Brook's Spaceballs is a parody of the Star Wars movies. It has a few good ha-ha one-liners, but nothing that is really memorable or stand-out funny. Considering the talents of the cast, which includes the late great John Candy, Spaceballs is nowhere near what it could have been.The problem is that when the film is spoofing Star Wars, it also spoofs other unrelated movies, such as Alien. The humor is sheer slapstick and the shallowness of the movie is apparent because of this. There are elements in the story that have no resemblance to Star Wars at all. When jokes are even attempted in these scenes, they fall flat.The second problem is the timing of the material. The teenager type humor takes on the premise of let's see how many one-liners we can get into this movie for cheap easy laughs, while totally ignoring the necessary elements that make a good movie. Things like plot, character development, meaningful scene scenarios, with characters who care about what they are doing, are ignored.The third problem is that Brooks has the Star Wars sequences so far out of place that all continuity is lost. I doubt it was even attempted to follow the original movies. This is a movie with a few cheap gags and some good set designs. But the writing is crap. This movie is good for one viewing only to get some of the jokes. But after that, it can become pulverized into space dust and I don't think too many people would miss it. "},{"Title":"very, very stupid movie","Date":"4 May 2013","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a very, very stupid movie. It's so bad, that I feel the need to warn people. I don't understand why i need 10 lines to explain that this is a stupid movie. Well, me writing 10 lines of utter nonsense just to convey how stupid this movie is, is in fact, perfectly in the spirit of this hideous movie. I have no idea how anyone can watch this movie, then come here and claim that it was a good movie. I just tried posting this review as is, but it's still not enough. I must continue to write nonsense in order to share the simple comment that this movie totally sucks. I'll try one more time to post. Crossing my fingers. That would be strike 2. At this point, the fact that i'm still writing should be a good indication that this movie was so horrid that i am determined to make sure that people, young and old, know to stay away from this turd. "}{"Title":"Many, many misses and very few hits in a collection of obvious and stupid jokes that feel like they were written by a teenager","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The planet Spaceball has run out of air and have very little time left. Under the command of President Skroob and the evil Dark Helmet, they set out to break through the atmospheric shield of nearby Druidia and rob their air.Their plan is to kidnap the Druidia princess Vespa and use her to get the code to release the shield. However, before Helmet can kidnap her, she is rescued by Lone Starr &#150; who has taken the job to get enough money to pay off the ruthless Pizza the Hutt.I will be the first to praise Mel Brooks for films like Blazing Saddles and Young Frankenstein but one has to wonder why, ten years after Star Wars (or 4 if you want to be kind and consider Jedi) he decided that the time was right for a spoof of that film. I'm not sure how this affected it at the time but I guess now it doesn't matter as I saw the film decades after the original Star Wars film &#150; but I'd love to know what about 1987 made it the perfect time for this film to be shown? The plot opens with a series of jokes that spoof Star Wars and continues with a plot that loosely follows the story of that same film. The problem is that the vast majority of it is very obvious and uninspired, sucking the life out of the gags and producing more groans from me than laughs. At times the silly stuff is surprising enough to draw a laugh but mostly it is just silly and unimaginative &#150; the sort of stuff that teenagers would think up &#150; yoghurt instead of Yoda, the credit sequence, the movie being made etc &#150; is this the same person who made High Anxiety!? My gosh &#150; here he gives us adolescent stuff at best; it speaks volumes that the IMDb currently has the highest rating for this movie as being from under 18's and the lowest from viewers over 45.With so few laughs the film quickly becomes tiresome and the jokes are increasingly lame. This is not to say that it is worthless because I did laugh about 4 or 5 times but there are nowhere near enough to justify 90 minutes (it would have struggled to reach 30 minutes with what it has here).The cast try their hardest but are hampered by the stupid script, and in fairness some of my laughs came from delivery more than the material. Moranis' character is an obvious joke but his delivery is OK, his hyper style made me laugh twice. Brooks tries hard but Yoghurt is a tired gag and his President just shows how good his Mayor in Blazing Saddles was by comparison. Candy is rubbish &#150; looks rubbish and has no good material. Pullman is not as bad but has nothing to really do and few lines of any value. Zuniga (who?) is bland and poor although Rivers is quite good. Wyner tries hard and it's nice to see that guy from Police Academy getting work. Oh, and shame on John Hurt for p*ssing on the most iconic moment of his career by doing it again (although the singing alien is quite funny).Overall, in 90 minutes I maybe laughed a couple of times but most of the jokes were stupid, obvious or stupid and obvious &#150; few of them had any real imagination or inspiration behind them. The material feels like it has been written by teenagers and it will therefore appeal to that market, but the rest of us will just be reaching for our DVD collections to remember when Mel Brooks was actually funny.  "},{"Title":"Spaceballs","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was astonished at Mel Brooks' poor judgment in this film. While it was an accurate spoof of the Star Wars series, it was not up to his usual standard. Most of his films are riotously funny; this one lacked the hilarity seen in Gibson's films such as Blazing Saddles and Young Frankenstein. The humor was contrived and trite, not to mention crass. There were, of course, a few short minutes worthy of another look, but they were few and far between. The acting was not the problem in this film; it was the screenplay, the overdone jokes, and the (failed) attempts at cartoonishness. This, astonishingly, was quite a disappointment. I would not ordinarily consider Mel Brooks a hit-or-miss director, but it seems he missed the mark altogether with this movie. "},{"Title":"Indescribably bad...","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"15 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am studying for a degree in English, and even I cannot find an adjective suitable enough to describe how bad this movie is.  Not only did I not laugh at all, I began to get angry that 'those in the know' thought we could EVER possibly chuckle at this.  It's awful.  The humour displayed here requires no intelligence to come up with and is even delivered with a bored air.  I am now convinced that there is a Spaceballs cult out there somewhere that has brainwashed all its members into thinking this is classic comedy.  This is because my friend likes this, and I had hitherto thought we shared the same sense of humour.If the joke that a character is named Pizza the Hut has the potential to make you roar with laughter, help yourself to this movie, you deserve it. I think the real shame here is that a Star Wars spoof could provide so much material, and yet none of it is used.  For me, Spaceballs is a cinematic landmark, a benchmark in the category of what seems totally like an oxymoron the 'comedy' that isn't even REMOTELY funny. "},{"Title":"A waste of money, talent and time","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mel Brooks' reputation got him cart blanch green lighting, a $22.7 million budget, and a cast of talented and funny stars as well as an army of the best comedy writers, including Brooks himself. Despite all that, he produced this stinker! The comedy is below the sophistication level of a 12 year old boy, the jokes and gags are overly explained and overt. Star Wars has tons of clichés and plot holes that make it ripe for parody picking. Instead, Brooks went for the lowest common denominator. I'm a big fan of parodies and generally love Mel Brooks' films but this waste of my time couldn't get a single out-loud laugh from me. Want to see a truly hilarious spoof of Star Wars that was made by a cast of amateurs with mostly 'found items' for props, for around $2000 and only takes 15 minutes to watch? Find Hardware Wars on YouTube and get a real laugh. "},{"Title":"A spoof, not to be missed","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the better spoof type films out there! Brooks uses lots of aspects from Star Wars (rather blatantly too) in obviously spoofing the space classics. Once this one blasts off, it shoots the moon! (Oh, I'm bad, aren't I?) Starring John Candy, Rick Moranis and a rather surprisingly good appearance by usually non-comic Bill Pullman, this is a very successful spoof film. While there are a few moments in the film that are just plain stupid, overall, it is a good one! "},{"Title":"Eh, it's alright.","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Movies of this nature, the alleged parody of one movie that ends up going off in random weird directions at the rate of a sight gag a minute, are very much hit-or-miss.  I happen to love them.  Other people find them annoying. Spaceballs isn't exactly the best example of the genera, and there have been better parodies of Star Wars.  Yes, but Star Wars has never been lovingly mocked with this much fervor, and you must definately watch this movie anyway for Darth Helmet, funniest character in the movie and speaker of the best one-liners.Evil will always triumph, because good is dumb! "},{"Title":"A Floundering Force","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some clever moments can't save this film from its floundering self. Brooks is one of those 'ideas' comic writers. His films are a collection of gags aimed at a certain genre, or in this case, a certain film series. Some of his ideas work, most of them don't. I guess Star Wars was begging to be sent up, but I can't help feeling it could have been done better.John Candy, Rick Moranis, Dick Van Patten, Joan Rivers, Dom DeLuise, Michael Winslow and even Brooks himself all appear in an attempt to make us laugh. Bill Pullman and Daphne Zuniga look a little lost among this company.Alien and Planet of the Apes also get the royal treatment, among others.Thursday, January 6, 2000 - Video "},{"Title":"Great Attempt to Make Ultimate Sci-Fi Encyclopedic Spoof; Only Wish Acting was Better","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many film fans would appreciate the director Mel Brooks's attempt to make an ultimate sci-fi encyclopedic spoof; they may only wish the acting was better. Spoof films may have tolerance for deficiencies on some technical aspects--for example, cinematography may not have to be fabulous; but acting can never be poor. Spaceballs may prove that bad acting makes any type of films unbearable.Aside from the acting, sci-fi fans would enjoy parodies of numerous sci-fi classic films, including Star Wars, Alien, and Planet of the Apes. Also, the film has probably the best meta-film moment ever made in film history the scene that the Spaceball crew watches the videotape of Spaceballs, which shows the precisely synchronized scene that the Spaceball crew watches the videotape of Spaceballs. "},{"Title":"In the Can","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I found this remarkably unfunny. Part of the reason, I think is that Brook's humor is unfashionably lowbrow. Part of the reason is that genre spoofs only work when the genre has intrinsic integrity. Only when there is an element of truth in the situation that we find it funny to poke at it. Star Wars has no such integrity -- it is itself a spoof of other genres, mostly westerns.But there is something interesting in this mess, the woman who plays the robot. We never see her face; her voice is dubbed by the offensive Joan Rivers. But Lorene Yarnell puts on an amazing performance. It is so nuanced -- using many mime devices -- that it acts as a spoof on Spaceballs.You've got to be in a special space to appreciate this. But it pretty sweet if you can. Unfortunately, I cannot find Ms Yarnell anywhere else. "},{"Title":"Strictly for kids and those with very, very low senses of humor","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, I freely admit that I sometimes like silly and unsophisticated comedy, but when it comes to SPACEBALLS, I just can't take all that juvenile humor and excesses most Mel Brooks films are subject to. Once upon a time, long before Brooks considered himself a great comic genius, his roles in his own films were very, very limited--and I really think this is why THE PRODUCERS and YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN are his two best films. Not only was he practically absent on screen, but the films showed great humor as well as restraint. However, after his reputation spread, the hammy nature of the director became apparent--he made himself the star of many films (even though he couldn't act) and the humor became far less sophisticated or funny. The expression beating a dead horse definitely comes to mind, as Brooks could have used a strong producer on set to keep the films on task and not overdo the jokes.Here is SPACEBALLS, there fortunately is less Mel on screen but the jokes, while often funny are also often very childish and show no sense of timing or restraint--making this a great comedy for 7th graders (and under) or those with VERY undemanding tastes. "}{"Title":"stupid.","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Oh my gosh. What a waste of my time. I laughed maybe one time and the rest of the time I was either crying out of boredom or sleeping. Okay, so that is exaggerating, but come on people... Space Balls?? I honestly think that that was the DUMBEST movie I have ever seen. 2 hours wasted of my life...and the humor seemed like it was fit for an 8 years old. They could have made this movie a lot funnier and could have given it a better title. I am just shocked and appalled that so many people actually wrote nice stuff about this movie. SPACE BALLS!! COME ON! After I saw it I wanted to gouge my eyes out with chopsticks (not really...but you get the point, don't you?) And now I am surprised at myself for even taking the time to write a comment for a movie not worthy of it. "},{"Title":"If you find nonstop puns hilarious, then this is the movie for you.","Date":"31 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mel Brooks is a talented guy, and his brand of comedy is clear in all of his films. Mr. Brooks loves playing the English language, and having misunderstandings based on that. This film has lots of his typical play, but instead of jokes like the walk this way one from Young Frankenstein, we get a movie full of puns. Literally, half of the jokes (at least) here are puns. And worst of all, they aren't funny. They make this movie long and tedious. Oh yeah, it's also a spoof, meaning lots of meaningless references to other much better movies.The evil Dark Helmet (Rick Moranis) is going to steal Planet Druidia's air, and it's up to hero Lone Starr (Bill Pullman), his sidekick mog Barf (John Candy), and Druish Princess Vespa. Along the way the gang meets Yogurt (Mel Brooks), an old and wise recluse who teaches Lone Starr about the Schwartz (a special power). Basically the plot of Star Wars, but less interesting and more stupid.The puns....the puns!!!! She doesn't look Druish to me!, Radar about to be jammed., I hate Yogurt! Even with strawberries!. and so on and so forth. That's the type of jokes this movie settles for. Nothing really clever about taking the Star Wars names and making them sillier. The Force now is the Schwartz. That's cool that they renamed the Force, after all it's a spoof. But the sad part is, these stupid punny jokes...those are the main jokes. It's like Brooks expects people to laugh at Yogurt (harharhar, not Yoda...but Yogurt) just saying The Schwartz, and some fans of this movie love these jokes. Pizza the Hut, Colonel Sanderz, Prince Valium...these jokes are so dumb. A ten year old could make these stupid puns, and would maybe get a mild laugh from their peers, but here this is the meat of the jokes. The performances are one of the few good things about the film. All the actors are fine, none of them great. There's no material for them to work with, but they make the bad material somewhat mediocre. These guys here normally are good in everything they're in, so it's understandable that John Candy, Rock Moranis, Mel Brooks and others would at least not act horribly in this one.The sets are kind of cool, as are the special effects. At least this thing attempts to look like Star Wars, and doesn't just look like a cheap imitation. A lot of spoof movies settle for looking like a spoof movie, which usually is shot like a crummy romantic comedy, but this one actually looks like a cinematic film. So on a visual level, this film is worthy as a parody of Star Wars.This movie has some really bad jokes. But if you love puns, you might adore this film, as that is the type of jokes this movie throws at you. If you like jokes that are a little more clever or subtle, this might not be the one for you. But hardcore Brooks fans stand by this as one of his funnier works (which I really don't understand), so whatever. May the Schwartz be with them...not funny here, not funny in the film.My rating * 1/2 out of ****. 95 mins. PG for strong language and sexual humor. "},{"Title":"Bad gags...bad puns...badly done....","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" For Mel Brooks, this is an awful film...not very funny or entertaining. It's good that he decided to concentrate on a stage version of the Producers. The film is an incredibly difficult watch, and it is a tremendous letdown, considering that it came from Mel Brooks, who is capable of producing side-splitting laughter and thought provoking comedy. Other reviews state that this is a popular film...I do not understand how that can be. The film was so bad, I started writing about it while I was still trying to watch it. The gags are old and tired, more like vaudeville as opposed to more current and topical comedic subjects. I would not mind it using dated comedy schtick if it worked...but it doesn't. This film is sort of a Producers in reverse, in terms of concept. The Producers was intentionally badly done...and the result was that it was so bad that it was good. But this movie was badly done--probably on purpose--and the result is that it is so bad that is IS VERY BAD. Watch this flick if you have absolutely nothing else to do. Mel Brooks really ought to be ashamed of this crap...he could have done a hell of a lot better. "},{"Title":"Awful!!!","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a terrible film!!!I watched this film as it was highly recommended by a few of my friends - told that it was a spectacular spoof movie. I had loved other spoofs such as Scary Movie and Not Another Teen Movie, so i had an open mind, although i was soon very disappointed.The film had a great cast and the idea was brilliant - although it lacked humor, and the supposedly 'funny' lines were either severely dated or simply awful! I cant believe I wasted an hour and a half on this film. I certainly would not recommend it to anyone! "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks's lunacy from beginning to end...","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1st watched 10/30/2005 - 6 out of 10(Dir-Mel Brooks) Mel Brooks's lunacy from beginning to end makes for a funny all-out farce of not just Star Wars but other sci-fi and fantasy films as well. Mel Brooks kind of re-writes the 3 original Star Wars movies mixing up the sequence of scenes , eliminating some characters, and combining spoofs of other movies throughout to make for a charming, goofy, good times movie. John Candy & Rick Moranis are great at doing what they do best and became known for on SCTV(movie spoofs) and the rest of the cast is OK with Mel Brooks doing a funny spoof of Yoda, called Yogurt(a kind of Jewish short guy in a mask who teaches the powers of the schwartz.) Brooks uses a lot of his shtick that's worked before in other movies but throws in new ones including hilarious scenes with Dark Helmut(played by Moranis) and numerous visual gags. This is definitely not Oscar material but if you're looking for a fun time for about 1 1/2 hours this is a good long-awaited Brooks movie to pop in anytime you don't want to have to think too much but just laugh, giggle and laugh some more. "},{"Title":"my experience of Space Balls","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I found Space Balls tedious, poorly acted and trying to be over funny at times. It started of with promise i found the shot of the never ending Space craft at the start quite amusing after that highlight i could only draw on a member of Police Academy for excess laughs. I found Rick Moranis poorly suited to the role of Darth Helmet, as his comedic performance was one of low quality. I was waiting for the script to perk up become more amusing, but there was nothing there for me only a unfunny a**hole joke. The more I sat through this film the more i was comparing it to Airplane! Which I thought this film would be similar to, well its not. Its not as clever, witty or subtle with hidden jokes. The one outcome I can give from this review is If you haven't seem Airplane! Watch that instead, its the best Spoof movie I have seen and it will give you twice the laughs! "},{"Title":"Bad movie","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I stopped watching it about 10 minutes into it.A friend who loves the movie told me, That's just when it gets good! The thing I learned the most from this experience I have decided to be more careful in how I choose friends.Dumb movie. A waste of everybody's time. I had to come out here and make sure others like me know to not waste THEIR time.I guess if all other movies in the world had been burned, then you could watch this movie. Of course, then you would probably burn this movie about 10 minutes into it.Makes you wonder if the whole writing team was high on drugs when they wrote the script. "},{"Title":"There's no worse punishment.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one.... oh boy. This one HURT. Just as a test, try going through this movie and pointing out all the jokes. As a contrast, count the number of times you laugh. How hilarious. I don't have anything significant to say about this thing. It's just a wretched little parody from a wretched little man. Look! He named his version of Yoda, Yogurt! How hilarious. Rick Moranis is actually pretty good as Lord Dark Helmet, he's the only funny part of this movie. Well.... actually, I did like the gag where they watched Spaceballs. But that was about it. Don't watch this movie. Don't give Mel Brooks any more excuse to live. "},{"Title":"Comedy. Was comedy?","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't like bashing movies, but I  didn't find this movie funny at all  which it is supposed to be. Thin jokes and pathetic humor is all I felt. I  even disliked 'Spaceballs' so much I  didn't care to watch through the whole film. If you want to see a funny  Mel Brooks movie, I'd recommend  Robin Hood Men in tights any day.2/10 "},{"Title":"Where is the Death Star When We Need It?","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the worst. Period. Mel Brooks is either a hit or a miss in his films. The best were The Twelve Chairs and The Producers. This is horrible. The many ethnic jokes are insulting and crude. A Joan Rivers robot is twice the offense of the flesh and blood character who is terrible without replication.I have thought off and on (oh, for a total of maybe one minute) of whom Brooks might have intended this mess. Children would quickly be bored and adults would rather stick their fingers in a light socket. It must have been a tax write off...hey, maybe this is Brooks' Springtime for Hitler...maybe he knew it was soooo bad that he might sell 25,000% and keep the change. Has anyone audited the books on this turkey? "}{"Title":"Balls Perfectly Sums Up This Film","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first 8 minutes of SPACEBALLS opens with a scene stolen from STAR WARS and ALIEN . The pace of this scene crawls along at a snail`s pace and features no laughs . The remaining 88 minutes of SPACEBALLS also crawl along at at a snail`s pace and features no laughs .This is a really poor attempt at a spoof comedy with only one scene - The one in the diner with John Hurt , who must of really needed the money - causing any amusement . What is totally unforgivable is this film was made by Mel Brooks the director of THE PRODUCERS , BLAZING SADDLES , YOUNG FRANKENSTIEN and HIGH ANXIETY , films that caused me to laugh out loud . I`m glad Brooks has given up making films because I`d given up watching his releases long ago  "}]