[{"Title":"Wonderful yet depressing movie","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"49 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Why is this movie depressing? It's a true story about a high school teacher who managed to motivate a group of struggling students to attempt one of the greatest academic challenges a high school student can undertake. It's the true story of the underdogs sticking it to the system. It's the true story of a teacher fighting the system and winning...Or did he? Despite the success portrayed in the movie, 1987 was the high water mark for the Garfield High School AP Calculus program. In 1987, the principal who had supported Escalante with his AP program went on sabbatical and was replaced by an administrator with a different academic focus. The teachers' union complained about Escalante's class sizes and teaching assignments, and petty rivalries and jealousies abounded, eventually forcing Escalante and his partner teacher out of the school. Unable to find support for his unorthodox methods, in 2001, Escalante moved back to his native Bolivia, where he teaches calculus at a local university.As much as I love this movie, every time I watch it, I become depressed all over again. It's been over 25 years since Escalante began the AP Calculus program at Garfield High, and one would think that the educational system would learn from him--not only from his example as a teacher, but also the factors that forced him to leave the school, but ultimately the country.It's not just Garfield High School, and it's not just advanced mathematics. I hear the same words that the naysayer teachers and administrators spoke in the movie spoken on a daily and weekly basis on the public high school campus where I teach. I see the same objections and doubts and obstacles thrown up by the administration and teachers' union in the movie thrown up by administrations and unions today. I work every day with the same underprivileged yet eager to be educated students as Escalante had, students who just need someone to challenge them and believe in them. And I see my students battle against the same low expectations and prejudices as the students in the movie faced.Which leaves me with the question--what has really changed in 25 years? If this is such an outstanding, motivational movie, why has it not produced a systemic change? Why are underprivileged yet bright students routinely passed over and allowed to fail? Why are creative, energetic, passionate teachers forced out of their schools and even their professions by school systems unwilling to embrace unorthodox methods, even if those methods are proved to promote student success? Escalante poured everything he had into his job. Teaching was his life, his passion--not only a vocation, but an avocation. He was willing to sacrifice his personal relationships and his own health for the sake of the students in which he believed... For what? Nothing has changed. 25+ years later, nothing has changed.Yes, he made a difference in the lives of those students, and of students for more years than just those portrayed in the movie, but once he left, the program essentially left with him. Despite all of his passion and sacrifice, he effected no systemic change.And it's that knowledge that, to me, makes this such a depressing film. "},{"Title":"One of the best in the genre of teacher films.","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There are many films about teachers breaking through to tough students. Many are trite, sappy and formula-written.  This is one of the few truly powerful films in this genre.  Every member of the cast gives an incredible performance.  This is particularly true of the students.  Adult writers in this genre usually fail to write convincing adolescent dialogue, but the students in this film talked and acted quite convincingly.  The role of the teacher was not glorified, but treated as a regular human being who was doing his best to do something good, sometimes in the right way and sometimes in the wrong way.  The race subplot was powerful, but not too preachy.  In short, this was an excellent and inspiring story of teachers and students overcoming their shortcomings and being the best that they could be.  A stunning and vastly underrated film. "},{"Title":"excellent movie --highly recommend it","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Stand and Deliver has several messages and Edward James Olmos delivers an outstanding performance. Every time I watch it, it leaves me with a good feeling of achievement. I think Mr. Jaime Escalante deserves all the recognition for proving that all kids will rise to whatever level of expectation they are put on. If we lower the levels to the least common denominator, that's as far as they will get. But if we raise it, they can accomplish anything. All they need is GANAS or desire to succeed and a good teacher to motivate them. This should be required material for every school teacher. We need more constructive movies like this instead of the trash that Hollywood is producing lately "},{"Title":"Such a wonderful film!","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. I was watching it on PBS one late night. I am really glad that PBS endorses this film. It is such an influence for kids to do well in school. I hope that it influences teachers to be more supportive and teach better, although I don't have much faith anymore in our broken school systems nowadays. But I still believe in HOPE! I, personally, am not a minority, but you just really hoped the best for the kids in this film. Watching this film, you really get on their side and you really want them to do well. They all have their ups and downs and their home lives are not perfect. The role of Edward James Olmos as Kimo is simply unforgettable. You really admire how Kimo sticks by his kids 100 percent. Teachers like that are so rare. I hope there are teachers like that to pass the torch down to other teachers in the next generation. I look forward to seeing this movie again! "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is excellent. It details the struggles of inner city Latinos and their pursuit of excellence. The movie is based on a true story and is about a teacher, Jaime Escalante, and his class of high school math students in a predominantly Latino area of Los Angeles. I am a Latino from New York City and can relate to the struggles of these students. Stand and Deliver  inspired me when I was struggling through college and continues to inspire me now.  "},{"Title":"You Have Math In Your Blood","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Back when I was the age of these kids that Jaime Escalante taught I wish I had a math teacher who could have made it as interesting and challenging as he did for the barrio kids he taught in East Los Angeles's Garfield High School.Stand and Deliver is one of the best films of the Eighties and one of the most inspiring I've ever seen. Anyone who could get kids fired up about algebra and calculus as Edward James Olmos as Jaime Escalante did has my undying respect.Olmos is one of those rare teachers whose very presence in the lives of his students makes them change. So many I had back in the day were just time serving bureaucrats, little better than clerks who took attendance. Of course I had some good ones too, but not in mathematics, I was kind of hopeless in that subject.But something that I didn't realize about math then, but that Olmos says and Stand and Deliver emphasizes is that math is the great equalizer. There's no cultural bias in math, no interpretative spins on it, you either know it and do it or you don't. It does help to develop the gray cells, no doubt about it.The Mexican-American kids he teaches in Garfield High School have it in their minds they'll be filling station attendants, fast food cooks, or day laborers, striving for better is not something they think about. More than teaching them math skills, we are shown how Olmos makes them believe in themselves and their potential. It's certainly a better life lesson than anything else. I doubt any of Escalante's kids at parties do quadratic equations for entertainment.Lou Diamond Phillips has a supporting role in this film which was made earlier than his breakout role in La Bamba, but released later. Of course his billing was adjusted as befit his new star status. He's very good as the kid who makes a deal with Olmos for three textbooks, one for home, one for class, and one for his locker just so his image among his home boys is kept secure. After all as Olmos says, we wouldn't want anyone to get the idea you're really smart.Rosanna DeSoto who was LDP's mother in La Bamba is Olmos's wife in Stand and Deliver, loyal and supportive. Other good performances are from Carmen Argenziano as Olmos's supportive school principal and of the kids besides Phillips, you will love young Vanessa Marquez.Andy Garcia and Rif Hutton play a couple of educators from the Educational Testing Service, read Standardized Aptitude Test (SAT) who can't quite believe what Olmos has accomplished with these barrio kids. Has to be something wrong here. You have to see the film to see what comes out of their questioning Olmos's competence and integrity.Edward James Olmos was nominated for Best Actor in 1988. Unfortunately he was up against a singularly unique performance by Dustin Hoffman in Rain Man. The real Jaime Escalante no longer teaches in the USA. A few years ago Escalante went back to Bolivia to give back a little to the people from where he came. That's entirely in keeping with the character of this man that Stand and Deliver tells the story of. One of the most inspirational films ever made, don't ever miss it when broadcast. "},{"Title":"Very Inspiring","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of my favorite films of all time ... a worthwhile story with many outstanding performances.  The journey these kids and their teacher takes is extraordinary and inspiring.  It is also thrilling to see a rare film that treats Hispanic-Americans with respect and dignity while examining serious topics.  A must see! "},{"Title":"A truly inspiring film about one of the most important things that you can ever have &#150; an education.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Stand And Deliver deals with a lot of inner city kids who have grown up in a bad neighborhood and who all have dismal outlooks for the future. Edward James Olmos delivers the performance of his career as Jaime Esclante, the math teacher who comes to this school determined to teach these kids calculus and have them succeed in school to inspire them to improve the rest of their lives. The rest of the staff at Garfield High School has just as little faith in him and his efforts as they do in the rest of the school, and the film is also able to remain even more interesting because it deals with the lives of the kids outside of the school as well as in the classroom.  Because the film presents such a realistic image of inner city life, we are completely engrossed with the atmosphere and the efforts of Mr. Escalante to teach these kids advanced mathematics, when many times they don't even want to put forth the effort themselves. There have been many films made about students with little to no potential showing that they are capable of being educated, and Stand and Deliver ran a huge risk of being repetitive when it was released, but it manages to cover new ground because it deals with so many different levels of the lives of the kids and the efforts of the teacher to teach them. The film is able to revolve not just around the kids trying to learn or the teacher trying to teach them, but around both of these things as well as around the daily lives of the students and the teacher and even the health and relationship of Mr. Escalante with his wife.  We are introduced to a variety of fascinating and memorable characters in this film, particularly in Mr. Escalante, played brilliantly by Edward James Olmos, and especially Angel, played by Lou Diamond Phillips (who, by the way, can be seen at his desk on the cover of the movie, but can't be seen on the IMDb's top billed list of cast on the Stand and Deliver page). The movie has the perfect amount of comic relief that is genuinely amusing but that doesn't take away from the overall appeal and seriousness of the movie. I can't say that there were no scenes within the film that were dramatized for effect, thereby illustrating the influences of Hollywood on the film, but even these scenes did not take away enough from the total value of the movie and the story that it presents to tarnish the real life accomplishments of Jaime Escalante, his calculus class, and the many students thereafter at Garfield High School that managed to pass the same test that we saw in this movie. This is wonderful entertainment for the entire family, don't miss it! "},{"Title":"This Gets an A","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Stand and Deliver is a strong film which is based on a true story.  Edward James Olmos received an Oscar nomination as Jaime Escalante, a man who has decided to teach in a Los Angeles school after quitting a high-paying technological job.  Escalante is a man who could be described as a Patton of the classroom.  He will do anything and everything to teach his Hispanic students the complicated mathematics of Calculus so they can pass a test which will give them college credit.  This is Olmos' show all the way.  He proved to be a dominant actor here and it is he who makes the film believable and overall exceptional.  The supporting cast is good, led by a young Lou Diamond Phillips.  A solid screenplay and smart direction make Stand and Deliver a forgotten winner from the 1980s.  4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Edward James Olmos delivers!","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I know, there are a million movies made like this. The story about a teacher handling tough students has been told quite some times. Dangerous Minds, To Sir, With Love, The Substitute-movies, The Principal,... The stories often look a lot like each other and Stand and Deliver isn't any different, but that doesn't bother. This is a fine movie! I don't know if Edward James Olmos' Academy Award nomination was a big surprise at the Oscars or if his performance was indeed one of the 5 best performances of 1988, but I can only confirm that he gave a great performance. Funny, smart and touching as well. I think all the students were great as well, even so I didn't knew any of them, except from Lou Diamond Philips of course.Stand and Deliver might not be the most original movie ever made, but that doesn't change the fact that it's highly enjoyable to watch. The story is good and the performances are great. Nor melodramatic, neither comic, just excellent Saturday night entertainment without being cheap. Worth watching! 8/10 "}{"Title":"Outstanding biopic about one of the bravest teachers of all time","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" STAND AND DELIVER in my opinion, is an outstanding biopic about one of the bravest teachers of all time. The performances were smashing, the soundtrack was great, and the casting was just right. Anyway, if you ask me, it was brave of Jamie (Edward James Olmos) to get his class to learn the way he did. I would probably do the same thing if I were in his shoes. This would be especially true if they were accused of cheating when they hadn't. In conclusion, if you are a die-hard fan of Edward James Olmos, I heartily recommend this outstanding biopic about one of the bravest teachers of all time. You're in for a real treat and a good time, so don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"I wish there were more movies made by minorities showing their own perception of life.","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Based on a true story Stand and Deliver was written  by Ramón Menéndez and Tom Musca, and directed by  Ramón Menéndez. I wish there were more movies made by minorities showing their own perception of life. I especially think that this movie was a triumph because the directors, the actors, are mostly minorities. The story is well told and is sad and shows the urban life of students in Los Angeles. I must say that I take my hat off to any teacher, especially those in the inner city. I would never have the patience to deal with teenagers at all, regardless of race, religion, etc. It is a hard age where the kids think that they are invincible. The teacher Edward James Olmos Jaime Escalante, did a wonderful job with those students, as Jaime Escalante did a good job teaching. He was nominated for several awards. The most unfair thing is to think that just because those kids were poor they could not excel and had to take the same exam twice. What a system is this? I loved the fact that Mr. Olmos expected more from the students than mediocrity and they lived up to his expectations. Favorite Scenes When the students passed the second test. Unfortunately I think that there were instances in American history that certain minority groups would not had even the chance to go to school, much less to have a second chance to prove how good they are. Favorite Quotes  Edward James Olmos  Claudia You're worried that we'll screw up big tomorrow, aren't you?  Edward James Olmos Tomorrow's another day. I'm worried you're gonna screw up the rest of your lives.  Edward James Olmos Tough guys don't do math. Tough guys fry chicken for a living!   Edward James Olmos They learned that if you try really hard nothing changes.  We don't live in a perfect world. I recommend this movie although I found it somewhat sad, because it is very realistic. But reality is not always pleasant. "},{"Title":"not exactly unpredictable, but well made","Date":"4 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Were it not based on a true story, this scholastic against-the-odds drama might be too easily dismissed as just another standard slice of Hollywood inspiration. But with a surplus of honesty and integrity it more or less sidesteps any serious prejudice to become a well crafted, topical crowd pleaser, albeit one perhaps better suited to the less demanding (and, for its intended teen audience, more accessible) format of a made-for-television movie. Edward James Olmos shines in his rather grubby portrayal of an inner city math teacher in an ethnic East Los Angeles high school, who motivates his borderline delinquent class through calculus studies. Cramming for a math test isn't exactly high drama, but the film is more watchable than its scenario would suggest, avoiding cheap sentiment and refusing to pat itself on the back. Noble intentions are, for once, matched by honorable, if unambitious, results. "},{"Title":"Making the difference is what t takes!","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Standing out makes the difference in getting ahead in life for math teacher Jaime Escalante(Eward James Olmos) he really made a difference in students' lives. In Stand and Deliver he was the drive to make better students. I heard many stories about minorities students not getting the education they need to survive in the world. The ghettos or barrios is most of the reasons these students don't get a chance. Jaime didn't give up, or give to anything. Except a mild heart attack for pushing himself too hard. Many of the student tried their best to intimidate him. Nope, he didn't bite. Not even angel(Lou Diamond Philips, La Bamba) wasn't even a match to Jaime's wit. Knowing the gang life was a dead end, he wanted to learn, and he got it! All the way to Calculus? It can happen. But when the school board accuses his students of cheating, that really struck a cord there. Knowledge is power. And Jaime was the power. He used every extreme to get his students to pass. There are teachers who get praises, and there are those who have big egos and get nothing but, resentments. This movie is powerful. No matter what background you come from, YOU CAN DO IT! 5 STARS! "},{"Title":"Finely balanced, rewarding and enjoyable","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This dramatically strong picture was followed shortly after by a perhaps slightly better film called Lean on Me. That 1989 drama starred Morgan Freeman as the principal of troubled New York High School, Eastside. This time around though the story concerns a class of Hispanic kids from East LA who, given no chance of academic success by anyone, rise to unparalleled heights thanks to the efforts of a man who truly believed they could do it.Edward James Olmos (in probably the best performance of his career) plays the part of determined teacher Jaime R. Escalante, who comes to Garfield High believing he's to teach computers. Instead, he is given Math 1A, and immediately proceeds to turn the class on its head, with amazing results. He manages to sort the wheat from the chaff, and soon has himself a dedicated bunch whom he determines to take through the A.P. Calculus test in order to gain his students college credit.Olmos, as I said, is superb, and his support cast are also very admirable. Director Ramon Menendez gives his audience a great feel for this ethnic group, as he shows a very good understanding of their plight and position in society. Whilst keeping everything down to earth, he lifts the remarkable story up to an inspirational level.A very enjoyable and rewarding film. A finely balanced drama, enriched with some good humour too.Tuesday, December 14, 1993 - T.V. "},{"Title":"A Rare Teacher","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is an excellent movie! The teacher, Escalante, is a strong, determined and dedicated individual. He teaches his students with a strong hand and lots of humor. He comes across as being a bit sarcastic at times, but the kids respect him. Most of the kids come from poverty and are very street wise. Escalante is also street smart and the kids don't get away with much. The administration and others teachers don't have much faith in this group of kids and think that Escalante is wasting his time. But to Escalante, these kids are worth the time. The kids are tough, but Escalante is tougher. Great ending! A teacher who cares that much is rare. "},{"Title":"The wonderful movie.","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Stand and deliver was a real story and Mr.Escalante was a real person. The movie was depicting good relationship between a teacher and his students. Mr. Escalante was a funny, warm, friendly personality. Students were gradually attracted him while they overcame several problems. I recommend that you watch Stand and deliver. "},{"Title":"It's a good movie.","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Stand and deliver was a kind of successful story in a school. There were many people who were from different countries in the same class. Some of them couldn't speak English.  Mr. Escalante was a so funny and good teacher.  He sometimes used Spanish for the students who couldn't understand English. Students were interested in him gradually.  Students studied very hard. They trusted him.  Finally, the students succeeded in ETS exam.  However, ETS suspected that the students cheated.  Actually, they didn't.  The students had a ETS exam again, and they succeeded in again! I have watched the movie like Stand and Deliver.  I think that there are many movies and TV drama like Stand and Deliver.  However, I think that Stand and Deliver is the best of this kind of movies which I have watched.  Every character was very interesting, cute and funny. Especially, Mr. Escalante was so funny.  I think that every interesting character had me enjoy this movie although I had watched the movie and TV drama like Stand and Deliver.  I like stand and Deliver so much.  "},{"Title":"Greatest performance by Edward James Olmos ever","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  To this day, I hate anyone who says this  was a bad film. Beautifully conceived, this  film really captured the spirit of basic filmmaking,  and how the central character inspired the  masses. From the first time we meet Olmos,  to the infamous `Calculus' line by Lou  Diamond Phillips, to the rather startling  ending, we see a side of life which is rarely  portrayed in most films. Phillips and Olmos  really carried this film, simply due to their  off kilter relationship which was spawned  during the film. One of the most poignant  scenes in the film is when Olmos is giving  Phillips all of his books, trying to help the  guy maintain a rep as well as stay focused  on his class work. An inspiring film to say  the least, more movies about Mexican American  life should be made in order to tap into the  rather diverse range of beliefs and traditions. "},{"Title":"A staggering performance, a compelling story.","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I very rarely jump on my soapbox when it comes to matters of pure opinion, such as who should have won an academy award. But I just have to in this case. Edward James Olmos not only turned in one of the most rounded, believable and drop-dead staggering performances of the year. Bar a handful of similar performances - Robert De Niro in The King of Comedy - this is the high-water mark of the decade, when it comes to acting. How on gods earth the Academy could deem Michael Douglas a more worthy candidate of that years Oscar is startling. Stand and Deliver is a simple movie premise - the battle against impossible odds. But told with intelligence, humour and some quality acting. The setting's are right. The bunch of hoodlums, layabouts and kids from the wrong side of the tracks, are nigh on perfect. Lou Diamond Phillips in a small, but telling role, displays an awesome acting promise - that was somehow never fulfilled. However this film belongs to Olmos. It is his strength and nigh on perfect display of acting proficiency, that makes you swallow this never sugary, but border-line sweet, affair. By the end of the movie your punching your hands in the air with him, as he strolls down the corridor. Breathtaking stuff, many would argue not worthy of the kind of acclaim lavished on 'Raging Bull', but I would have to say, it is not far off it. Whatever happened to Olmos after this movie? He appears to have disappeared back to his character actor roots. I'm sorry but the academy got it way wrong in '87, so check this movie out to see why. The ultimate feel-good flick!!! "}{"Title":"Stand and Deliver","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Stand and Deliver movieDirected by Ramón Menéndez Produced by Tom Musca Written by Ramón Menéndez, Tom Musca Film Genre dramaCast Edward James Olmos as Jaime Escalante Lou Diamond Phillips as Angel Guzman Rosanna DeSoto as Fabiola Escalante Andy García as Ramirez Ingrid Oliu as Lupe Will Gotay as PanchoMusic by Craig Safan Cinematography Tom Richmond Edited by Nancy RichardsonRelease dates March 11, 1988 (United States) Running time 102 minutes Country United States Language English Box office $13,994,920Stand and Deliver is a 1988 American Biographical-drama film and based on a true story about Jaime Escalante, a Bolivian Math teacher in Garfield High School (Los Angeles, California). The school is full of Hispanic students from immigrant working class families living with lots of social problems and poverty in Los Angeles. The students also are below their grade in terms of academic skills.At first he was expecting to teach Computer Science. When he arrives, he instead finds is that there is not computer department, and he's stuck teaching basic math to students. Most of the students especially boys smoke, drink and are part of vandal groups. When Mr. Escalante wanted to talk to one of the boys in private at the first days in High School, other boys come to the class to support him and threaten the teacher. Mr. Escalante instead seeks to change the school culture with lots of energy and enthusiasts to help the students excel in academics. He soon realizes the potential of his students and sets a goal of having the class taking AP Calculus. For encouraging 18 Hispanic students of his class, he said in the movie Did you know that neither the Greeks nor the Romans were capable of using the concept of zero? It was your ancestors, the Mayans, who first contemplated the zero. The absence of value. True story. You burros (donkeys) have math in your blood. What adds more drama to situation is the fact that each and every student in the class Mr. Escalante teaches has their own peer pressures to deal with. Some students have unsavory friends who would laugh at their taking a class seriously. And some of the students have to deal with parents who don't understand why their education should come before taking care of their own family. Jaime Escalante in the middle of the film said in the class that There will be no free rides, no excuses. You already have two strikes against you your name and your complexion. Because of those two strikes, there are some people in this world who will assume that you know less than you do. Math is the great equalizer... When you go for a job, the person giving you that job will not want to hear your problems; ergo, neither do me. You're going to work harder here than you've ever worked anywhere else. And the only thing I ask from you is ganas! And he continued to say to his students that If you don't have the ganas, I will give it to you, because I'm an expert. Mr. Escalante instructs his class under the philosophy of ganas, roughly translating into desire or motivation. As the movie progresses Mr. Escalante announces to the board that he wants to teach Calculus to his best students. The students begin taking summer classes in advanced mathematics with Mr. Escalante who has to withstand the Pessimism of other faculty, who feel the students are not capable enough. At the same time Mr. Escalante help some of his students to face their social problems and gets involve of his students' problems. Even he talks to the manager of his best student in the class to let her have more time for AP calculus exam. The students pass the AP Calculus exam but the Educational Testing Service questions the success of the students and emphasizes that they cheated. One of the reasons was most of the students have the same mistake in AP Calculus. All the people at Garfield High school believe that the students cheated and one of the colleagues tells Mr. Escalante that because they want to please him for his energy and enthusiastic teaching them. But Mr. Escalante doesn't disappoint and protests to the investigators from the Educational Testing Service questions. He defends his students and argues angrily that all the allegations are based on racial and economic perceptions. So he said to the investigators that if the high school was in Beverly Hills no one would send you here to investigate! He offers to have the students retake the test months later and the students succeed in passing the test again despite only having a day to prepare, dispelling the concerns of cheating. Twelve students retook the exam, and most of them got 4s and 5s on the 5-point exam. In 1987, 27 percent of all Mexican Americans who scored 3 or higher on the calculus AP exam were students at Garfield High. The movie shows students moving from struggling with fractions to mastering calculus in one year, although in reality it took Escalante several years to build a progression of classes that prepared Garfield students for calculus. Edward James Olmos who played Mr. Escalante role in the film, received a nomination for Best Actor at the 61st Academy Awards. In December 2011, Stand and Deliver movie was deemed culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant by the United States Library of Congress and selected for preservation in the National Film Registry. The Registry said the film was one of the most popular of a new wave of narrative feature films produced in the 1980s by Latino filmmakers and that it celebrates in a direct, approachable, and impactive way, values of self-betterment through hard work and power through knowledge. "},{"Title":"Depicting a one-year-long struggle by an industrious, passionate teacher, Stand and Deliver is a drama on the rise of lower-class students to confidence and recognition.","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Despite the massive hurdles on his way to lead the pathetic students into the right track, the teacher, Mr. Escalante manages to reinvigorate the sense of esteem in them by teaching the hard subject of AP calculus, working day-in, day-out.The setting on which the plot is mainly based is Eastern Los Angeles Garfield High School, a place packed with students from the poor, deprived Hispanic minority led by a tough teacher who has no intention of backing down.Even at the opening, the audience begins to be fed with semiotic elements which signify the issue of stratification and deprivation in Los Angeles. We're not a minority, that's one piece of large graffiti on a wall in a neighborhood filled with other elements of poverty, giving the initial hint to the viewer about the depiction of the plight and misery of a minority in the movie.The teacher is shown behind the roll as he cruises across the neighborhood, setting his eyes on elements of the lower-class life a group of Latino construction workers on the back of a van, a couple of street vendors and a band of street performers crossing the road as they carry their instruments.Escalante is thrust into a class of extremely unruly children, who don't even bother stand up when he steps in the classroom. Interestingly, however, that is no shock to the teacher, as he seems to know very well how to handle them without resorting to violence while remaining completely coolheaded.Upon the first encounter, one students asks him if they can discuss sex in the class. We could set sex for homework, Escalante quickly replies in a sarcastic manner, giving the students an impression of sharpness and biting humor.To highlight one major component of the Latinos' plight, the director chooses to focus upon the educational system and seeks to convey facts to the audience about how deep the social stratification and wide the gaps are in the American society when it comes to the right to equal education and opportunities.Garfield High School, indeed, the director implies, is an embodiment of decades-long discrimination against the Latino community, whose children are the primary target of injustice. But Escalante is there just to fight that up to the end. Of Hispanic origin himself, he seems to have deeply realized the graveness of the matter, which is why he puts the bar higher, much beyond the apparent capabilities of his students.The climax of the discrimination comes after the educational inspectors rule that the calculus test be rejected on the assumption that the participants had actually cheated in the exam, showing just how profound is the distrust in minorities even among the academics and the educated, who are supposed to put aside those biased notions and offer everyone the chance to move up the social ladder.Ironically enough, the director chooses the two inspectors from minorities, one African American, the other a Latino himself, to suggest that even the educated members of the minority groups are so strongly affected by the white supremacy, never realizing that what they do is indeed representing the predominant view that Hispanic children are inherently incapable.If it was Beverly Hills High School, they wouldn't have sent you to investigate, Escalante tells the inspectors, objecting to the mainstream attitude in the educational system. Escalante believes that if the same scores had been achieved by children from Beverley Hills, the system would have never questioned the results, because they are basically considered supreme and talented.The calculus test, from Escalante's viewpoint is a chance for the system to regain the trust of the Hispanic students, but the disapproval from the authorities makes that just a failure, disappointing the students and leaving them in a state of frustration after a months-long hard battle they fought to prove their aptitude.Still, the unyielding teacher rises again, taking the hands of the worn-out students and helping them to stand up for the cause once more. He calls them true dreamers. Tomorrow you'll prove you're the champs, he tells them with vigor, valor and enthusiasm ahead of the second test.As the title suggests, the movie is the struggle of a man who never backs down in the face of hardships and obstacles, and sticks to his true mission of delivering the subject he's expected to convey to his students. But that's not the only thing he teaches them. The students learn calculus plus perseverance, something which has been missing in their lives by that time, due to the injustice imposed upon them.The dialog and characterization in the movie are both simple. There are no complicated characters and the language is that of the everyday life of a group of Latino students. To an extent, however, the plot is unpredictable, as one keeps wondering what will happen next, especially after the results of the first AP calculus tests are rejected by the Educational Testing Service.The music and the editing are smooth, with the costume and makeup design completely fitting the style of the era loose shirts, young adults with newly grown mustache, and girls with hair-style representing the late 1970s. Together, those elements help with the viewer's full understanding of the theme and the context in which the story has developed.The closing scene of the movie comes as Escalante learns about the approval of the second test from the authorities. As he tries to overcome his over-excitement about the news, with a smile on his face, he leaves the principal's office. The camera shows him from behind as he walks away in the corridor, as if he's done with a tremendous mission and is determined to just embark on another journey to continue carrying the huge task on his shoulders somewhere else. "},{"Title":"Inspirational","Date":"12 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Do you remember one teacher who made things fun and interesting? Made you love to learn. Jaime Escalante, the main character and hero of Stand and Deliver is exactly that type of teacher. He has some eccentricities he has a strange walk, sometimes talks to himself, and has strange ways of getting his points across. The important thing is his teaching methods are interesting and efficacious.Edward James Olmos, in the greatest performance of his career, is magnificent as Jaime Escalante. He has come to the barrio Garfield High School to teach computer science, after giving up a better paying job in the private sector. He has one problem the computers haven't come yet. He wants to teach math. He is surprised at the problems he sees at the school, most notably the crimes, violence, and indifference to learning. The scene where he notices the radio missing from his car after his first day is especially humorous, without being too silly.Mr Escalante, who is himself Latino, finds himself teaching a lot of latino and hispanic students from similar backgrounds. He wants them to be the best they can be, and be proud of their heritage. When he suggests teaching them Calculus, he is told by the head of the department that it will destroy the students morale, because of their lack of education and it's too much to expect. He responds with the perfect answer students will rise to the level of expectations. This is what a great teacher does he refuses to write the students off as losers. If you tell them they're going to be failures, that's all they'll ever be.The students do rise to the occasion, after working all through the summer to learn the mathematical rigors of algebra, geometry, and trigonometry, they're ready for the AP Calculus test. Every student who takes the test passes. Unfortunately, through anomalies that were detected (but no real, solid proof) the Educational Testing Services suspects they cheated. We do know, however, that they did not cheat.This is where the movie raises interesting questions, and also makes meaningful statements. When a very discouraged Escalante talks the matter over with his wife, she is very supportive and understanding, telling him that no matter what, the kids are getting an education, and they learned. He responds, Yeah, they learned that if you worked real hard, nothing changes. I loved it when Mr Escalanted confronts the two members of the Educational Testing Service, who, no matter how rational their reasoning may be, cannot give a single, valid reason to support their suspicions that the students cheated. Escalante gets angry, and rightfully so, saying You can't prove anything, my kids didn't do anything. If these kids didn't have Spanish surnames or come from a barrio school, these scores would have never been questioned! We can identify with his anger, and know he is justified.By the end of the movie, which I won't give away, and everything comes full circle, it's very satisfying. What makes this movie work is not only that students learn, but we actually like watching them enjoy the process. Unlike Dead Poets Society where the students only wind up liking the teacher, and not the subject, in Stand and Deliver the students actually appreciate math and the teacher. Perhaps the most important quality the movie teaches us is that of belief. If you believe in people, even the academically disadvantaged, and are willing to give them a boost, and push them as far as their abilities will go, you really can succeed. "},{"Title":"Edward James Olmos Delivers as a Tough Teacher Taking on the System","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Blackboard Jungle of its generation, Stand and Deliver kicked off a revival of the tough teacher taking on a troubled class genre, but this remains the best of them.Edward James Olmos delivers a wonderful performance as this film's tough teacher, and the film resists the maudlin sentimentality that the genre falls prey to. There's no scene of the students standing on their desks, cheering for their teacher. It's an uplifting, hopeful film, but it manages to be uplifting and hopeful in a realistic way.Olmos received an Academy Award nomination for his performance; I can't think of another major role he's had since.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Both An Interesting Story and An Entertaining Movie","Date":"15 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Anyone who has taught in a high school classroom, as I have, knows that bringing about academic achievement in teenagers demands a lot from a teacher, even in a community where students return home each day to parents who have graduated from college and value formal education. For many teachers, I think, their work brings them occasional satisfaction, but requires much patience, time, and self-control, unless a teacher reports to work each day with the unusual motivation of a Jaime Escalante. Escalante didn't seem to lose desire as the school year progressed, finding himself, like teachers I have known, feeling nearly depleted when 4-5 weeks remain in the 4th and final quarter. He approached his work with the same enthusiasm in May as he had September.The more I have seen (20+ times by now) Stand and Deliver, the more I recognize Jaime Escalante's unique ability to discipline, rally, and push his students. I have not, however, set out to emulate Jaime Escalante, though I admire him for his talents. His success apparently came, as evidenced by the heart attack, at a cost to his health -- although he may never have made physical fitness a priority -- and to his family. I recall one short but significant scene in which Escalante's wife complained that her husband had dedicated himself so much to his Garfield High School students that he did not make time for his own son's schoolwork.He also seemed capable of alienating coworkers who did not share his point of view, and of offending students who did not respond well to his prodding with comments which, as educators understand, can ruin a classroom teacher's reputation.I am basing my opinions about Jaime Escalante, I realize, on a film that I assume presents the truth, and on some very believable performances. Those actors playing the parts of teachers and administrators speak to each other as if they were the frustrated staff members of a dysfunctional school, just as those playing the parts of teenagers carry themselves as if they were the unruly and misguided students who grow to take on the values of their demanding and inspiring math teacher, portrayed very authentically by Edward Olmos Jr. "},{"Title":"the story of a humble teacher who changed lives","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Edward James Olmos stars in this based on a true story movie,as a new, humble teacher who inspires the students at the his school to reach higher,to make sometimes of themselves.most of the students are learning challenged,because they have never been encouraged,or had someone believe in them.many will drop out,some will become criminals,or end up dead. Jaime A.Escalante(Olmos)is the man who will change all that.but unlike many similar movies of the genre,he does it gently with subtlety and humour.this is a very inspiring movie,without being maudlin or preachy.i liked it quite a bit.i will say though,that it is not fast paced,by any means.but,if you have patience,you will be rewarded.for me,Stand and Deliver is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Good performances all around, a few too many flaws for my taste, but all in all a fine movie and better than I expected","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Edward James Olmos plays a real-life character in Stand and Deliver a film about a high school math teacher who makes some incredible changes in the lives of some very un-studious, disrespectful students and not only does he teach them how to do math problems, and pass an AP calculus exam, but he also teaches them how to progress in life and to become devoted, and to apply themselves to something other than what their street friends think is cool.All in all, the film works out very well and I enjoyed it from start to finish. I thought the performances by the cast were fairly good, we got to see a young Lou Diamond Phillips, but I especially favored the performance by Edward James Olmos. This performance is quite the contrast from the one other film I have seen him in, but he plays it with even more effeciency. Olmos got the Oscar nomination for 1988 and he very well deserved it. He pulled of a fantastic performance with what he was given to work with.That is not to say that what he was given to work with was bad. And I am not saying that Stand and Deliver is a flawless movie. That it most certainly is not. It does have some flaws that unfortunately downgrade its rating for me. I felt that there were a few too many subplots and thus, the pacing was off. There was a high school romance subplot that didn't aid anything in the movie really and could have been eliminated to spare us a few minutes.Nevertheless, I will not deny that I found myself enjoying Stand and Deliver when I had a feeling in the back of my mind that I was going to despise it. It has a good heart, a few too many flaws for my taste, a good purpose, great performances (especially by Olmos), a screenplay that would have been perfect had it been shortened a tad bit, and high entertainment value. More than one would expect from a movie like this. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Bravo","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am a math teacher, so when I saw this, I brought it to my math class to watch on a down day. Despite the 80's Latino setting and the unbelievable attitudes of the students in the movie, my 7th graders loved it and begged to see the end. I would recommend it to anyone who likes math, and even those who don't. I would love to be a teacher like Mr. E (as my students called him). He shows kids how math really relates to real life. And a lot of the students had personalities similar to those of my students. I even had some of my girls crying when Mr. E collapsed. It was also a good way to end the year because it focuses on growing and becoming better...and really striving for what you want. See it! Go for it! "},{"Title":"Where there's a will there's a way!","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having been a difficult pupil at school and seen a lot of prejudice towards me and friends in my class, being the lowest in the year, I can really relate to this. Edward James Olmos delivers in this. The pupils in his class are brilliant too. Cracking cast. Escalate's unorthodox way of teaching are brilliant. When the guys excel and do well in their exams the authorities frown and accuse them of cheating. When they're tested they do as well they did the first time! Much to the disgust of the education board. One of the best films I've seen, based on a true story. A brilliant tale of triumph in the face of adversity and a touching movie. Especially on first time viewing. "},{"Title":"what a movie!","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched this movie in my English class at MCC and this movie is great because it has life experience and it can teach students to work very hard because staying in school does pay off. students shouldn't let teachers bring them down and let them drop out. school, of course is hard work and that is what this movie shows but you can learn and prove people wrong.the city it was in because Los Angeles has a great history of violence with gangs, and troubled communities. the student actors were very good and they played terrific roles. Tis movie points out racism within the school board. this movie is good and i recommend anyone to see it. "}{"Title":"Good Movie!!","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This story was real. In Los Angeles,  a teacher Mr. Escalante came to a high school at poor area. He faced at the reality of poor educational system.  Although there are some students cannot understand English, no teacher supports them and know &#129;gganas&#129;h which means &#129;gdesire&#129;h.  Mr. Escalante made much effort to reset the educational system and teach math eagerly.  Students were changed a lot by Mr. Escalante.  Studying hard with him, they passed ETS test for entering colleges.From this movie I can get real information about American high school.  The most interesting thing is students&#129;f situation.  Some students could speak only Spanish.  In that case, educational system has to be changed in one-way language education.  Mr. Escalante can speak English and Spanish, though other teachers had no idea about Spanish.  I think language training for teacher is one of good ways to teach divers students. "},{"Title":"Education In The United States of America","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story takes place in a Los Angeles, Public school and it shows the behavior of some students inside and outside of school. Stand and Deliver is based on a real life story and  the life of the main character, who is a super teacher (Mr. Escalante) he spends most of his time teaching math to remedial students until he transformed them into experts in calculus. I enjoyed the movie very much, because it shows that not only Private schools have access to quality education and that everybody is capable to do the most difficult tasks with just a self-motivation (power of positive thinking).    "},{"Title":"This movie reminded me of my school days.","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie was made in 1987. There are many movies which are about school. That means, more and more, it's getting hard to attract people with the kind of movie. Additionally, almost all of people who saw this Stand and Deliver have gone to school. We have a lot of experience while we were in school. I bet a lot of people remember their school days some when they saw the movie. The teacher Jaime Escalante lead students with using unusual strategy. That was very unusual and rare, but it reminded me of my old teacher I used to learn. I was glad to remember him when I saw the movie because I had a lot of influences from him. That movie brought back to my school days. If you see this movie, you will learn something in your past. "},{"Title":"An incredible story, but not a perfect movie","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Stand and Deliver is the incredible story of a new teacher, played by Edward James Olmos, who motivates his remedial math students to ace the advanced placement exam for calculus.  Although this movie gets weighed down in attempting to portray the students' lives with empathy, the incredible, true story of this movie shines through.  As one of the best movies in the utterly amazing teacher genre, this movie happens to showcase a phenomenal teacher who isn't white (unlike Dead Poets Society, Mr. Holland's Opus, The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, or that Michelle Pfeiffer movie).  Indeed race, class, access to education, and the system are the true topics of the movie, and these difficult, yet important, topics never seem to depress or preach to the viewer.  The movie is truly inspirational - perhaps I would be able to do calculus if Mr. Escalante had been my remedial math teacher!  "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I must agree with my fellow reviewers - this is a knockout performance from Olmos that got him a well-deserved nomination.  The movie is sentimental but it is not forced down your throat, it comes naturally because you genuinely care about every single character in the movie.  It is a fitting tribute to a man who is still trying to make the world a better place - I could not aspire to more.  "},{"Title":"An unforgettable movie!!!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is truly unique,with great actors and an even greater story.Based on a true story,this movie follows the lives of a tough,caring teacher and a group of inner city kids.Touching and powerful this movie is entirely believable,there are no stereotypes,no typecasting nothing that draws it away from its gripping reality.Even if the story is great it's the actors who tell it and boy,did 'Stand and Deliver have a fantastic group of actors led by Edward James Olmos and Lou Diamond Phillips who both gave fantastic performances. I think the fact that a large part of the cast and crew belonged to minorities helped bring a certain authenticity to this movie that might not have otherwise been there.It was a great movie to watch and the fact that it was based on a true story made it even more special!  "},{"Title":"Review","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Stand and Deliver is not without flaws, but honestly these flaws don't matter so much given that this film is such good entertainment. In fact, film critics usually narrow in on the lapses in logic and flaws because they resent a film for being so boring. Such a criticism cannot be levelled at this picture, however. First and foremost, Stand and Deliver is unique in the sense that it is much more than a retelling of the inspirational teacher formula. Instead, this film is about the power of sheer determination. Edward James Olmos' Jaime Escalante impresses us when he claims that he can transform unmotivated and rebellious kids into math students without receiving additional resources and the proceeds to make good on this promise. He knows that his high school is in a crisis, but that does not seem to faze him in the least nor discourage him from doggedly pursuing his own vision. Then after Escalante works his magic, some of the students start to show their innate intellectual potential which few people ever thought was there. CastCast overview, first billed only Edward James Olmos Edward James Olmos ... Jaime Escalante Estelle Harris Estelle Harris ... Secretary Mark Phelan Mark Phelan ... Cop Virginia Paris Virginia Paris ... Raquel Ortega Eliot Eliot ... Tito (as Mark Eliot) Adelaida Alvarez Adelaida Alvarez ... Sexy Girl Will Gotay Will Gotay ... Pancho Patrick Baca Patrick Baca ... Javier Ingrid Oliu Ingrid Oliu ... Lupe Carmen Argenziano Carmen Argenziano ... Molina Richard Martinez Richard Martinez ... Heavy Metal Boy Mark Everett Mark Everett ... Heavy Metal Boy Tyde Kierney Tyde Kierney ... Joe Goodell Rosanna DeSoto Rosanna DeSoto ... Fabiola Escalante (as Rosana De Soto) Bodie Olmos Bodie Olmos ... Fernando Escalante See full cast » "},{"Title":"Endless Endeavours","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie tries to depict the attempts of a high school teacher, Jaime Escalante, to educate and prepare a group of Hispanic students for a very difficult and important exam which will guarantee their future college and carriers. Mr. Escalante, who has a Latin-American background himself, initially tries to enroll in the school, which is located in poor neighborhoods of Los Angeles, as a computer teacher. But as he learns that the computers have not yet been transferred to the school, he gets the job as a mathematics teacher. His first encounter with the students, who are all of Hispanic descent and belong to the working class, is remarkable. He grasps the reality that the students have little interest in education and some of them don't even comprehend the English language. As a result, the students keep getting low grades and thus expose the high school to a risk of failing the accreditation. It should be mentioned that the school itself struggles when it comes to resources in order to provide a better education for students, as teachers are assigned to courses that are unrelated to their field of expertise. Concerning these issues and the students, Mr. Escalante recognizes the potential of his class and decides to teach and prepare them for Advanced Placement Calculus exam, which would guarantee their futures as well as making a good name for the school. As time goes by, Mr. Escalante realizes there are so many obstacle in the way of achieving this goal. From the negative feedback of school chairmen who doubt the students potential to pass the exam, to personal problems and conflicts within the students. Some of them doubt their potential themselves and some other begin to have problems with their families as the mathematics course gets more intense and time taking. Regardless, Mr. Escalante presses on and continues his strict ways of instructing the students as well as having a kind and caring side when it comes to obstacles and difficulties. Eventually the students take the AP exam and pass it with remarkable scores. But some time later the school officials and the students are contacted by the Educational Testing Service, an agency responsible for investigating the legitimacy of exams and their results. The agents of the ETS believe that the results of the exam is suspicious as all of these students has made the same errors in some questions and thus accuses them of cheating which later Escalante recognizes as a racist act. This unfortunate events lead to disillusion Mr. Escalante and the students, as they are being suspected by the society around them as well as the school officials themselves. Yet as the last attempt to prove their innocence, the students offer to take the exam again, but this time they only have one day to prepare. In the final scenes of the movie, the school principal contacts the AP exam officials only to find out that the students have passed the retest with high scores. This movie is directed by Ramón Menéndez, who has a history of directing movies which revolve around the lives of Latin-American people in the American society, as he himself was born in Cuba but grew up in California. The movie also stars Edward James Olmos as Mr. Escalante and Andy Garcia as one of the ETS inspectors. This movie can be categorized as a drama film which is based on the true story of adventures of Jaime Escalante. The title of the movie stand and deliver should be regarded as the endeavors of Hispanic minorities who stand against the existing obstacles in order to exhibit their potentials and deliver their capabilities. In my opinion, the main focus is put on Jaime's life during these events and less attention is given to the students who passed the exam. Of course, Escalante's role in revolutionizing the education culture in Hispanic schools is undeniable, but the problems in the way of achieving this goal would be more tangible if greater stress were put on the students' lives and their point of view about the whole situation. It is not depicted that how these teenagers managed to develop a deep relationship with their teacher and among themselves. In one scene, we see that the students are starting to pay more attention to Jamie and in another we see them committing to Jamie's instructions and having their own catchphrases and slangs. The movie also lacks when it comes to explaining the psychological process that these students went through. The process of how these lazy and uncaring students were convinced to study intensely for a very difficult exam that seems out of touch is vague. There are some selected cases of students, whose lives and troubles are briefly depicted in the movie. But the procedure in which each of these students copes with his family or personal preference is not clear. For instance Pancho is sure that he can make a lot of money by doing some business instead of coming to school and Ana's family try to take her into family business (restaurant) and prevent her from continuing education, or angel is a young gang member who at first has zero interest in math and Jaime, yet somehow they all come back to go on with what they started in school. The physical procedure in which the students are being trained to take part in the exam takes a major part of the movie and is well explained. Although it should be pointed out that the process of turning teenagers who have problems understanding basic mathematics to people who are capable of answering calculus questions is to some extent obscure and contains empty spaces. This can be explained by mentioning the long intervals in between each major occurrence. In general I think the director has done a decent job in picturing the existing differences and biases in the American society towards Latin-American minority as well as showing us the contributions of Jamie Escalante to the American society. "},{"Title":"Stand and Deliver and the concept of resistance","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Movies are in many aspects like books. There is said that you can't judge a book only by its cover. It seems that in these days you can judge a movie by its trailer because there are many movies that they are like each other in the story. But when you look at some movies such as Stand and Deliver which is written and directed by Ramón Menéndez, you can see even in stories that is very similar to other movies you can find new things to watch and learn. Stand and Deliver has a very simple plot. It is about a teacher that has unbelievable power in making friendly relationship with his students and convincing them to study and gain great success in their lives. In other words he can change his student's lives and can change his society norms in this way too. We can see this story in many other similar works but this is a spectacle phenomenon in reflecting the Hispanic students' problems in American society to gain success and treated equally to other people, white people. The story takes place in Los Angeles, In the Garfield high school. A school full of students that the school's administration thinks they are losers. They are students from lower caste and Hispanic immigrants, many of whom are involved in gangs. But after a while they all determine that in spite of their financial circumstances and their social classes, they share one thing in common having a talent that had to be finding by a hard-working teacher. However, no one except the teacher, believe them and their talents. Although the 18-member group of the students can pass the most difficult test in calculus, the whole world is mobilized against them and claims that they have cheated in the exam. At the end, the result changes after the resistance of students and then they are faced with a new world that they and their talents should be respected.The movie's background According to U.S. Census Bureau population estimates as of July 1, 2013, there are roughly 54 million Hispanics living in the United States, representing approximately 17% of the U.S. total population, making people of Hispanic origin the nation's largest ethnic or race minority. Although these people don't have many problems of African &#x96; American people in the United States they have their own problems in American society. Discrimination, looking at them as criminals and illiterate people are the most problems that they have in the United States. Characters As we can see in many movies and serials which are made in the United States, putting name on different people is a common culture among the American people, especially between students and teachers. They heaped the most important attribute of everyone associated with this trait called him by that name. Selecting Names for different people in this movie aside from their original names is an interesting point. Class's evil person who tries to misbehave with different gestures and show his power to the teacher, called by Escalante (the teacher) as 'finger man' and in the meantime the tradition of making fun of students because of the different attributes changes to mock students who refuse to do their homework this shows that teacher in this society not only should change the behave of students, but also should change the wrong cultures that exist in the context of this society. The old pattern for the still fresh phenomenon If this movie has made in the recent days and years it would be more exciting in the scenes about exams or the day before it when students are going to be prepared for exam. The music in these scenes is in the background or we have not any music at all. You hold your breath to see if the teacher is right and students didn't cheat or the school administrations and ETS authorities were right. But in these scenes there is not any excitement and there is only a boring moments that you should wait and wait. You should watch the kids yawning and their sleepy positions in an exam session that is very important for them. In this movie there are elements and incidents that audience can guess it very easily and quickly. When you see that in the first day of school, the car stereo of teacher's car has been stolen, you can guess through the next behavior of students that they will compensate this act in future. Maybe if people like me in the year 2015 watched this movie in 1988 they would be shocked by some events but through these years many movies have been made that had the same story and plot about a tough teacher and his students, a very important exam or match and their try to be successful. So the plot may be is very repetitious for the audiences in 2015 but the main theme of the movie (try to eradicate discrimination in American society, especially among Americans and Latinos) is still fresh. Conclusion Stand and deliver at first is a story, a real story about immigration, inequality, view immigrants and especially Hispanics as criminal people. On the other hand, the film is a story about honesty, trying hard, resistance to insult and slander and the ways to overcome the widespread view about minority communities. I guess we can briefly say that the whole message of this film is this sentence Don't tell me what I cannot do , whether I'm an African-American or Hispanic or immigrant , whether you see me as a foreigner or not, I can do every things I want and I do it in front of anyone that don't believe me! "},{"Title":"One film, One lesson","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Set in East Los Angeles, 1982, Stand and Deliver tells the story of Jaime Escalante (Edward James Olmos), an enthusiastic mathematics teacher, who facing difficulties and racial discrimination, decides to teach his class Calculus and prepare his students for one of the toughest nationwide college credit exams, which only 2% of students can pass. The pivotal element helping the creation of documentary-like style of the film and bringing the challenging essence of it to the real life, is the remarkable actor in the center of the film Edward James Olmos. Olmos, a professional actor with previous experiences on the silver screen of cinema and glass screen of TV utilizes his potentials as a Hispanic-American and also as an actor who knows the medium to give the role what it takes to look real for the audience. Ramon Menendez, director and co-writer of the film with Tom Musca, are both of Hispanic origins and they grew up in the same East L. A. area where the film takes place. They have done a great job preparing Olmos with back story and additional information on how to act. Keeping in mind that Stand and Deliver is a drama where the dramatic situation is created between characters, not between characters and environment, an organization etc., there is a huge amount of concentration on the students. In this aspect, fortunately, the roles are played delicately by young actors and actresses, all like Olmos and the director, from Hispanic origins. They all bring their characters to life, smoothly and profoundly believable. The core of student pole in the film is Angel Guzman (Lou Diamond Phillips). He is a rebellious teenager, a gang member and wears sunglasses and hair net in the class. Only after his teacher threatens them about their scary future as an uneducated minority in American society, he decides to change his attitude gradually and study, and later in the film shows a great potential in solving difficult math problems. Diamond Phillips, being 26 at the time of making the film, balances his act with 41 year old Olmos, a true professional. This counterpoint gives the film a true sense of tension at one time and stable equilibrium at another. The screenplay fails at developing side characters and this failure is intensified with the low budget of this project. Musca and Menendez decide to deepen the perspective on lives of the students attending Escalante's class, their problems and how they deal with them. This, derails the story from its main path, which is the concentration and effort Escalante and his students put to the calculus exam. Each and every time the story develops a situation about one side character it disturbs the narrative of a group facing a problem. As a matter of fact, film suffers greatly from a bi-polar situation one pole focuses on the relationship between a teacher and his students, the other pole focuses on a group, consisting of an inspiring teacher and young rebellious students, encountering a tough and hard exam, and the film fails to concentrate on one of these poles at the same time. The film is never in peace and always en route between these two poles. This, has caused the film to be torn up in two separate and unfortunately not-so-well matched pieces. On the other hand, the low budget has affected the film negatively. Menendez could limit its film more to interiors rather than exteriors, but what we see is that in addition to a variety of exteriors, there are numerous interiors showed in the film. Menendez started his career as a film director with Stand and Deliver and the blame could go to his lack of experience. But the film disappoints audiences with showing real life; it seems that it wants to show real life situations but shows poorly designed and executed versions of real life. The worst and not acceptable scenes are ones dealing with Angel's gangster friend. When they go to sabotage a store, it is expected to show in details how they get the job done, but instead in a long shot and a with a modest panning camera, absolutely inappropriate for an action scene, the event is portrayed, completely unable to imply the tension embodied in the current act. What the film toils to discuss is the future of the Hispanic minority in an utterly unjust society, where you are blamed and questioned, even if you have tried your best and you have gained righteously. And Hispanics in this film are representative for all minorities and immigrants who live righteously and always there is a kind of suspicion about them. They are all unwanted people and no one can tolerate their success. In scene we can see that the teacher says If this were Beverly Hills High, they wouldn't have sent you two to investigate. Stand and Deliver depicts the current situation and explains the problems and obstacles and the solution it suggests is to fight the system from within. In this film's view, the only way is, to become part of the system and gradually change it, until it is not unjust anymore. The only option is studying and becoming accepted by the rest of society, because grades are race-less and speak for themselves. Passing an exam will open doors, but many people who are already in the system want them to be closed to minorities. That's why Escalante wears his students out; he sees no bright future for them as a neglected and ignored minority, unless they prove themselves. Escalante uses various methods to inspire his students varying from reverse psychology to entertaining them by bringing a butcher knife and apples to teach them the concept of division and percentage. By all means Escalante wants to make one point to waken their potentials and prepare them to be themselves. It is the greatest lesson he gives them all. Actually this was one big lesson for all minorities. "}{"Title":"A High school teacher attempts to teach his students calculus","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Plot This film, which Escalante himself said that was 90% truth and 10% drama, is a biopic of high school teacher Jaime Escalante whose method is to teaching his students and colleagues. He left his job as an engineer in private industry, a better paying one, in order to get a job at Garfield High School. The school is on the edge of being decertify due to poor academic results by the school district and Escalante's viewpoint is that students will appreciate the opportunities and those at the school are so dejected that they behave poorly. What does Stand & Deliver Stands for? According to Wiktionary, which is a dictionary belongs to Wikipedia, Stand and Deliver is a phrase traditionally used by a highwayman commanding victims to hand over their valuables. We can compare Escalante and a highwayman in two negative and positive aspects. Perhaps, the reason behind choosing the name is because Escalante was performing similar to a highwayman telling the students to give him their most valuable thing which it could be called 'Time'. If the students wanted to pass the road, which was an exam to pass in the movie, they had to hand over their valuables which was their summertime. Summer is the most pleasurable time for all kids, moreover because of the poor conditions they had to work as well so if they accept to attend the summer classes they had to surrender. The second aspect (the positive one), which was contradictory to the highwayman act was he gave them, with training them during summer, a chance to attend the collage and change their poor conditions to a better one in lieu of the leisure, fun, diversion, job and to sum, their summertime. But in return he gave them the most valuable thing they could ever achieve. As far as I understand, the writer was too intelligent to choose the name Stand and Deliver of this true story.Fight against Racism Ethnic and Racism discrimination in the United States has been a foremost issue since the colonial and slave era. Legally sanctioned rights and privileges were given to white American which were not granted to African Americans, Native Americans and Latin Americans, and even non protestant like Irish people, Italian and poles. Stands and Deliver seems to portray this racism within the educational system. When Educational Testing Service department have announced that the Garfield High school student cheated due to a same mistake that all had, Escalante did his best to prove that this is a sort of racism which accused his students and call them cheaters. In one scene he expressed that in this country one is innocent until proved guilty, not the other way round and if this was Beverly Hills High School they wouldn't have sent the investigators and he continued no one would have questioned the scores if my kids didn't has Spanish surnames and come from barrio schools! Something is going on that nobody is talking about and you two (investigators) know what it is! I thought this was over long ago. Why do this to my kids? One of them said there are two kinds of racism singling out a group who are members of a minority and not singling out a group who are members of minority and continued No one has the right to accuse me of racism. NO ONE HAS THAT RIGHT! This conversation revealed that there was something behind all this happening and this was Racism which all know it occurred within the country that has a long history in this field. At the end Escalante and his students surrender to accept the retest. It divulged that there is no simple way to fight with this system. Unfortunately, similar story was happened to a Hamedany student who could pass the University Entrance Exam successfully in two subject and then Ministry of Science, Research and Technology announced that there is a suspicion about his test so it is decided for him to do the test again. During that time many believe that if he is from Tehran the result never been questioned. Maybe we can consider this as a kind of discrimination. "},{"Title":"A truth called cheating","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The art is affected by confronting the powers to survive and their total domination. In new modern world and various arts, cinema found unique and important position. Now these days could be said that films are the most important tool in theorizing and managing the public opinion. In contemporary world history, cinema has played a main role in political, economic and cultural evolutions. This role was apparently observable in cold ware that was one the most important changes in contemporary history. The aggressive policy of United States against Union of Soviet in cold war was military threats, economic sanctions, cultural, scientific and social conflicts. In this way, Hollywood helped the American politicians in many ways. One the confrontation area between these two governments was space exploration. Americans started to make wide advertisements on walking on the moon in the way of using public diplomacy, they triggered Russian society. After a while there was whispers that pictures of walking on the moon was not true. This doubt has been continued until nowadays, which are not responded by NASA specialists. Based on this introduction, a distinctive review on the film of Stand and Deliver by Ramón Menéndez that is produced by Warner Bros. Co. is offered. This is a drama film with a simple story. It could be said that using the politics for art is the main strategy of this company and this film showed that this company has capability of narrating a story to confront the political threats, even in field of telling a simple story. Although the film was based on a true story, these companies could change a fantasy to a real one by their powerful tools. The cinema power and Hollywood claim that we will make anything that men can imagine. Escalante becomes a math teacher in Garfield high school where other teachers fail in forcing students to study. Students are way below their grade level and do not show any positive reaction to the new method of instructions. Nobody show this new teacher an agreeable reaction and it seems that his presence is an additional problem. Peer groups have formed based on the similarity in each class. They have same viewpoint to the school and class as previous and cannot accept the changes that Escalante want to help them. However, the special character of him make them change and they are attracted to him. They are encouraged to learn math. This process continues until Escalante ask school to participate in a difficult national test in calculus. He insisted on it and after the school agreed to participate, he start to prepare his students. The student worked very hard, in one of the parts of the film when he teaches the students in summer school in a very bad condition in the locker room of the school without any air conditioner, Escalante says that you think I want to do this, Japanese pay me to do this, they are tired of making everything, they want you guys to pull your own way, so they can go and take vacation. so it could be said that getting to better America and beating all of the world powers of that time, is one of the most self-motivations of him. So they got a wonderful result. The Educational Testing Service questions the success of the students, suggests the students cheated. Escalante defends his students but The Educational Testing Service did not accept the defenses and the only option is to retake the test. They have just one day to prepare. Escalante collect his students one more time and they prepare for second test. The second test is held and the same results is obtained. In this time, the representatives of the Educational Testing Service were present and the test was confirmed by them. Escalante is succeeded and in final scene, he is walking to the exit corridor that is shining. He step down to proof of the success of other part of American society. It could be men traveling to the moon! Edward James Olmos portrayed different characters as well as Escalante in his playing history. He is originally Mexican, he is also served as an ambassador for UNICEF and in his life he really emphasizes the role and value of education, the risks of gang life. He received an Academy Award nomination for playing as Best Actor in a Leading Role of Stand and Deliver. Unlike the simple story and normal play of leading and supporting roles, the trump card of this film was its music. Craig Safan composed one of his best music for the film. After three decades, his music has been used in different TV programs and attractive for audiences. In critical viewpoint, it need to be mentioned that this music is not fitted with this film. It was beyond the film of Stand and Deliver. Camera working and special effects of this film was so simple without any complexity. It made audience to feel just looking into a memorial book of a math teacher. He entered a school and discuss with other teachers, and he observed some problems among his students. He tried to help those students using new methods. His angry and happiness was so simple. Beside all of this it has to be noticed that the movie won 11 Awards and has nominations for 7 more. Finally, it could be mentioned that Menéndez introduce an American society as a capable, hopeful and with perseverance by narrating a simple story as well as increasing the morale and confidence of American audience. This society is not afraid of blames and in way of getting successful; they are ready to accept any difficulties. This definition can guarantee any society against his enemies. Menéndez give a self &#x96; confidence to his people and make them ready for cold war. In a war that science and knowledge seems to be meaningful tools, Menéndez could offer a simple pattern of achieving this goal in 1988 before ending the cold war. "},{"Title":"Engaging","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The story of Jaime Escalante (John Combover), a high school teacher who successfully inspired his dropout prone students to learn calculus.You might not think a story about math and calculus would be that interesting, but actually this is pretty good. Not as dramatic or intense as Dangerous Minds, but shows us what is possible with the right teacher and students who believe in themselves. (Exactly how true it is I have no idea, but at least the general concept is true.) I would have liked to see more or the students. The home life seemed a bit silly at times, as though the students wanted more and the parents wanted them to fail. Is that right? I suppose it could be, but something seemed very two-dimensional about it. "},{"Title":"Stand and Deliver to the Needy","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Stand and Deliver is an American drama film based on a true story. it was released on March 11, 1988 and was directed by Ramón Menéndez. Jaime Escalante is the high school math teacher who hopes to start a Calculus class and teach unqualified students to pass the national AP Exam. He faces many struggles from the cultural and societal standards that the students have been unfairly labeled with. However, he and his class prevails despite the many doubters. The most powerful scene is when they retake the AP test. This scene is powerful because it provides a sense of determination and taking a STAND for what is right despite all odds. The scene that suggests the films ultimate purpose is when Señor Escalante is in the hospital and his estudiantes remind us to never give up on people because they remind us that we as a human race should never give up on or neglect people that are less fortunate.This extends to the injustice of free trade and how prosperous nations and mega corporations disregard the well- being of third world citizens and take advantage of their labor. If these businesses and economies were more like Jaime Escalante they would be more supportive of fair trade. In conclusion, the life of a factory worker in Indonesia is just as valuable as the life of the CEO of Nike. "},{"Title":"great genre movie","Date":"30 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jaime Escalante (Edward James Olmos) quits his computer job to become a teacher. He is brought in to teach at James A. Garfield High School in east L.A. except they don't have any computers. It's a lower class Hispanic neighborhood and the school is failing the kids. He teaches math to unresponsive kids and his car is broken into on the first day. He uses unconventional methods to push his kids to pass the AP Calculus exam. Then they are accused of cheating.This is one of those inspirational teacher movie. EJO is terrific. The kids are mostly unknown with a young Lou Diamond Phillips in the mix. The formula is simple and the movie follows it faithfully. There are probably some dispute about the facts of the real story but that is a minor consideration. It's a great inspirational movie. "},{"Title":"...","Date":"3 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Stand and Deliver (1988) Genre Drama Director Ramon MenendezScreenwriter Ramon Menendez, Tom Musca Music Craig Safan Main actors Edward James Olmos Jaime Escalante Will Gotay PanchoIngrid Ulio Lupe Karla Montana Claudio Camejo Vanessa Marquez Ana Delgado Lou Diamond Phillips Angel Guzman SynopsisStand and Deliver tells the story of a dedicated and passionate mathematics teacher who takes a class of mostly poor and ignorant students in a tough East LA high school in 1982 and transforms them in less than a year into professionals who have learned so much that 18 of them are able to pass a tough calculus exam. The exam is so hard that only 2 percent of students nationwide can pass it, and surprisingly, all the students of the class succeed to do this task. Jaime Escalante leaves a better paying job in business to teach at a very struggling school with a largely Hispanic student body, and puts in very long hours and commits his whole being to improving a school that needs him so much. Yet In addition to an unmotivated and undisciplined class, he also has to deal with parents reluctant to let their children pursue higher education. Then he starts teaching, using examples out of the everyday lives of his students, making them solve problems for themselves, claiming that the punishment for not working hard in class is to be kept out of the class. The students themselves are amazed that this strategy works and more amazed to find that they're expected to do 30 hours of homework a week and come in on Saturday mornings for extra classes. Escalante and his students also arrive early before school for special sessions. The students gradually come to realize that the only way they can escape their poverty- stricken situations is to improve intellectually. As a result, the class' academic achievements improve dramatically. Taking the AP Calculus exam in the spring of their senior year, these students are overjoyed to finish a wonderful year. After receiving their scores, they are so happy to find that they have all passed, something done by few in the state.Later that summer, a shocking accusation is made. The Educational Testing Service calls into question the validity of their scores when it is discovered that similarities between errors is too high. Outraged by this accusation, Escalante feels that the racial and economic status of the students has caused the ETS to doubt their intelligence. In order to prove their abilities to everyone, the students agree to take the test again at the end of the summer. With only a day to prepare, there is high stress to show that they can do what they are supposed to do. In the end, they all pass the exam again, showing they deserve their achievements.Main Characters Jaime Escalante (Edward James Olmos) A hardworking Bolivian IT professional and then a math teacher who prepares his students for the AP Calculus test. He brings his students from doing introductory math to algebra in the first school year. Then he decides to teach them calculus. Pancho (Will Gotay) A student who experiences much difficulty with math because of his limited study skills.Lupe (Ingrid Ulio)  A student who must take care of her mother's children while also having difficulty with school work. She refuses to be Pancho's girlfriend. Claudia Camejo (Karla Montana) The beauty of the class. Everyone wants to be with her, and her life is constantly made fun of by Mr. Escalante. She takes the calculus classes to prove that, unlike her mother, she can depend on her own skills. Ana Delgado (Vanessa Marquez)  A shy, quiet girl attending Garfield High School who excels at math. She intends to go to college and become a doctor, but is discouraged by her father, who wants her to support his restaurant. Angel Guzman (Lou Diamond Phillips) A troublesome, but brilliant, boy who must help his grandmother, because he does not live with his parents. He struggles with math and has difficulty studying and hanging out with his delinquent friends. He wants to learn but does not want his peers to know that he wants to learn. Conclusion The American public school system could be improved in many places. Too often their public schools are places where instead of learning how to respect others and learn to think, young adults learn how to victimize others (or living in fear) and endure the fact that being smart isn't' desirable. Garfield High School is one of these schools. But was Jaime Escalante a true improvement in this system or a model of change? Or was he just one of a kind? Was he an example of how change happens in public schools? Or was he an example for showing why education will not improve, despite the best efforts of the best teachers? Keeping in mind the questions asked above, there comes other more difficult ones to answer. Are there thousands of charismatic, highly-skilled, well trained, and experienced school teachers ready to imitate Escalante in similar conditions? Are there teachers who are willing to work 60 hours a week to give their all with study sessions before school and visit student's homes? Or are they able to give and work to the point of excluding their own selves and families and to the point of ignoring their health? I wonder if holding up Jaime Escalante as the ideal teacher poses more problems than rewards. Not every teacher can be or is expected to be charismatic and passionate, expertly trained in their subject, culturally sensitive and knowledgeable, with infinite patience and compassion. Dadkhah "},{"Title":"Cheat or No Cheat; Take the Test Again?","Date":"3 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A high school computer science teacher takes a bunch of dropout students and gets them to take and pass the AP Calculus. That is a general theme, a most-duplicated story. But what makes this a standout movie is the originality and factuality of the film. The movie is based on fact, a true story- the true life of Jaime Escalante, an East Loa Angeles man who has left a better job to become a teacher, to prove he can be influential on the life of some kids in a society which prefers to ignore them because it's easier and more logical to lose faith in a group of losers than to spend time or money to make them something worthy in their lives.Jaime is a not a typical teacher; he does not confront his students on the first day, when they ignore him, disobey him, and even threaten him. He knows his class, their background, and reasons of their rebellion. He has set out to change their destiny. While teaching calculus, he uses examples of their everyday life- a life dominated by drugs and poverty for most of them.The everyday life of the kids in the movie is really important for us, the viewers, because we are taken to a journey to watch their lives and efforts to change, but the screenplay is not as successful in showing us that aspect as it is in elaborating the classroom atmosphere. We are not introduced to the life of most of the students. The life of those whose we see is not detailed either. We know why one of them doesn't have enough time to study because of his mother, why the other one's father doesn't let her continue her education because she needs to help in the family business; but that is the extent to which the story goes in showing the real problems of the kids we're watching. There is another story which is just making time; the story of the two students seeing each other.The students try, really hard, go to class even on Saturday, and pass the exam. But they are accused of cheating. We know they haven't done it. They are accused of cheating based on the fact they have all answered the same question incorrectly, but one of the main problems in the screenplay which is pretty much disturbing is the fact that we are not shown or told how they have done that, while we are sure that they have never cheated. There is one possibility which of course is not tested in the movie they have all answered the same question incorrectly because their teacher has taught them wrong. There is a scene where the teacher asserts on an equation to be wrong but the students believe he is wrong. But we never know if they have made the same mistake or not. The movie is set in Los Angeles during the 80s. It is written, directed, and played by Latinos. In December 2011, Stand and Deliver was deemed culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant by the United States Library of Congress and selected for preservation in the National Film Registry. The Registry said the film was one of the most popular of a new wave of narrative feature films produced in the 1980s by Latino filmmakers and that it celebrates in a direct, approachable, and impactful way, values of self-betterment through hard work and power through knowledge. "},{"Title":"Stand and Deliver","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" CAN A MAN CHANGE POPLE? Stand and Deliver (1988)Director Ramón MenéndezStarring Edward James Olmos, Lou Diamond Phillips Screenwriter Ramón Menéndez & Tom Musca Music Kralg Safan Brief summary of the filmIn 1982 a determined teacher, in a social drama movie, enters the Garfield High School in a Hispanic district of Los Angeles to teach the lazy and rude students Calculus. The students used to study in the school not to learn but to pass the time. Teaching Calculus seems impossible or at least tough job which no teacher man before Escalante dared to invest its time and energy on it. Escalante,not just the teacher but an actor, sympathetic and lover of his job has a difficult task to reform not the learning but the characters as well. There is no place where this crisis is more acute than in the inner-city schools of our major cities. Garfield that barely merits the title, school is one of the schools which its students dare to terrorize their teacher. But Escalante was successful and he won. 18 students with parents reluctant to let their children pursue higher education learned calculus. They changed their way of thinking and could pass the state exam of AP Calculus Program.Genre Social Drama Main characters A boy named Angel who wears sunglasses and a hairnet and refuses to pay attention in class. But even he comes around eventually. The teacher shows sensitivity yet firmness, and a large part of his success one feels is that he saw potential and opportunity in young people where nobody else concerned did. Teaching mostly Hispanic pupils at a high school in East Los Angeles, this Bolivian teacher speaks directly to his students frankly and Hispanic accent I'm finger man too, basic math is easy to every man, grandness ''Tough guys don't do math, tough guys deep-fry chicken for a living'' and ''Go to wood shop, make yourself a shoeshine box, you're gonna need it.'' ''but math is a great equalizer.'', '' you are winger leg man What message is being told? Teaching in a usual and formal science theory in a tough culture community of students is not possible and some artist guys like Escalante is necessary to bring the best from the worst. The Bad News Bears (1976) and Hoosiers (1986) in the realm of sports films, To Sir with Love (1968) and Dangerous Minds (1999) in the teacher/hero genre are some example which we can compare to Stand and deliver.I personally liked this movie because of my personal experienced in a high school like Garfield whit a talented of history teacher who used to put us in a historical event as an active observer. So I believe our educational systems need some teacher like Escalante more than any other facilities and equipment. "},{"Title":"This paper utilizes Co-cultural communication theory that is based on","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This paper utilizes Co-cultural communication theory that is based on two groups one is muted group theory and standpoint theory. To analyze the film we start with the Muted Group theory, Film starts when the teacher is driving in the street while looking at people and places. So we are looking through American society. It means that this film deals with social issues and goes within the society. There is a written expression on the wall which is Not a minority? Therefore film is introducing the theme of the movie to audience. They are introductory scenes which want to warm our mind up about the theme of the film, it is a great introduction. It is hint for us that recall the audience Are you part of majority or minority? the film generally questions position of minor and major people in American society. It portrays circumstances of minorities within the society from different factors like matter of education, medical care, mentality or ideas, daily lives etc. Based on the theory they are muted or non-dominant group who are ruled and dominated by dominant groups in ways of communications in this case. One the means of communication is education. You should know who to communicate correctly in which way or how to communicate. Also you must know the language written and spoken, so language is being learn by schooling and education. Moreover there is job finding. If you want to have better position in society it is essential for you to have a good job. But as matter of fact there are some barriers to improvement of minorities. They do not have any possibilities to go higher or even there is no expectation of their improvement. So they will remain in just one level, not go higher or even try to be higher. In addition they are preoccupied with some non-sense issues or unimportant issues like sex. At the first sight when math teacher enters the class they said we need no Math or Are we talking about sex? they themselves feel and believed that they are minorities and most of them won't object. It is a chaotic classroom part of big society. They are lucky to have such teacher. Escalante is dedicated kind, clever man who is skillful in teaching methods and he make a great relationship with them by respecting them in a way, calling them by some nickname like Finger man, he is not monotonous foe students, his speech has ups and downs, he sings some songs in the class, thus he attracts students and grab their attentions. As there is hierarchy within the society between higher and lower class system, there is a hierarchy in this classroom which is a view trough society of 1980s. Teacher talks about positive and negative numbers. It is a hint of society. Like unemployment who are minorities and positive who are dominant ones. Concept of zero is hint of absence of value in mute group that there is no voice from them. So students are from minorities. Nobody accept to teach them as they are unimportant part of society. The teachers want to change their jobs to go for a business; it means that they want to be part of majority who has money and power, not wasting their time teaching to minorities in this society. Nobody cares about these students. Film shows that if somebody wants to change this issue. There is variety of obstacles as when Escalante wants to teach Calculus. The boss male and female one in the film, and the other teachers make fun of him and said This is ridicules our kids do not need it, they are imposing this kind of thought to them. The case of Anita whose father has a restaurant and she is a waitress there. The dedicated teacher cares for her to continue his education. This part is Standpoint theory. The role of women and girls in society, her father do not let her study. He thinks about the family business more. It conveys he want to be part of majority and to be rich. Girls are dominant, too. She will be the first one to go to college. The case of male student whose name is Angel. We witnessed the situation of medical care in the society. His grandma is ill and the secretary pays no attention to him while she was talking on the phone and answering a person who is part of majority of society. The personality of Mr. Escalante is as interesting and attractive as it can be. He is hard working and the cases he chooses for teaching all are among minorities. Not just this high school students but also adult evening school. So he wants society to change .He unlike the manger of high school that imposes that our kids are not needy for calculus, the teacher repeats the word Simple in his speech or piece of cake to impose students that you are deserved to be expected higher than a minority. In the case of exam, we witnessed that in exam paper there is written the ethnic Group black ones and Mexican Americans or etc. it shows how much important is the group of students. After testing system claim of cheating in the exam, the female boss cannot believe that they did not cheat in the exam. The testing system does not have any proof for their claim they just have suspicion of the cheating. It means that they are accepting unconsciously that no minority is possible to win. As they are not clever or as they do not have facilities to enter such situation maybe or they are not allowed to be accepted. So they are the members of minorities and matter of race discrimination is obvious, too. They stand and deliver the best reword of their lives with their great leader Mr. Escalante. "},{"Title":"Stand and deliver a true story about a modern miracle","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This great movie is a portrayal of the true story of Jaime Escalante, a devoted man who left his high paying job to help Hispanic teenagers who live in the poor side of east LA find and reach their goals. Upon arriving he soon realizes that not only school doesn't provide any modern teaching facilities for their students, the teachers there don't believe in their pupils as well. They think that the students there are bunch of losers or untouchables who will have no future besides working in a fast- food. Escalante sets out to prove to the teachers that they are dead wrong and to prove both to his students and himself that they can , they only need to be shown how. It's not that they're stupid, it's just they don't know anything. To demonstrate his abilities he starts to make up a personality for himself, not long after he wins over all the students, each one in a unique way . He truly knows how to connect with each one of them. His ability to transform even the most troublesome student _Pancho_ to a dedicated learner is actually nothing short of a phenomena. Throughout the first year Escalante learns that his students are far more capable than what he thought they might be so he sets out a new goal calculus AP test.Despite all the disbelief and skepticism that his colleagues have he went ahead and designed an intense math program which required all those loser and untouchable students to even take summer classes. In the spring of their senior year, Escalante's students take the AP test and they all pass with flying colors, which caused The Educational Testing Service to question the validity of their results. Escalante believed that this is so because of the social and economic statues of his students so he made the Educational testing service committee agree to retake the test, in the end of the summer with only one day to prepare students retake the test and passed even better than the first time to prove their mathematical abilities to the school, ETS, the nation and more than anything else to themselves. And to show the power of belief. To show what a man can do if someone truly believed in him. His students, despite all odds truly stand and deliver what he always believed in them. For me this movie is the story of a man who is willing to take the extra mile. One man who is willing to go through all the harshness and struggle to try to improve people's life. Story of a math teacher who so selflessly loves his students. these people expand their lives with greater struggles, but also greater rewards. Usually their accomplishments, their positive contributions, never make it to the public eye; but occasionally, someone is so impressed that a movie is made.(Ross Anthony)Edward James Olmos plays the role of Mr. Escalante in this movie which earned him nomination for an academy award that year. He successfully played the role of though yet loving teacher who despite all odds believes in his pupils. But to understand his play one should dig deeper. We have to pay vary close attention to all his gestures to all his dialogues and the way he talks, the way he articulates Hispanic accents even the way he looks at different type of people.Olmos play the role of a though teacher who knows when to use humor and when to take control of the class through direct confrontation by belittling the bully. When confronting pancho he doesn't threat him, he simply uses humor and let his other classmates to laugh at him as the worst punishment in the class . He knows he audience and connects with them one by one, from hugging and STD jokes to threatening to cut fingers of the wannabe gang members.It is obvious that Olmos worked really hard to take into this kind of personality portraying even the slightest personal traits. he truly delivers a perfect play. Mottos in this movie are not in the surroundings but in his personality traits. For example the way he tuck four fingers of his right hand into his pants and how proudly he walks afterwards. Or the way he pronounces ganas meaning desire to accomplish something great. Or the way he emphasizes in the importance of math in front of his student. They are all part of his make. Believe play act. In the scene that he comes to class like a butcher one might think this is part of his unethical method of teaching but throughout the story it will be learnt that this is just of his personality. All these element in the movie come together to make it an inspirational and powerful story throughout. The story wasn't one of unpredictable type , from the beginning of the second half it was obvious what is about to happen but we have to keep in mind that this was a real story more than a drama. So don't look for element of surprise , just sit back and be inspired. Jaime A. Escalante You're like a blind man in a dark room looking for a black cat that isn't there! "}{"Title":"A teacher tries his best to elevate his all Hispanic students to accepted academics.","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Stand and Deliver is a 1988, Ramon Menendez movie staring Edward James Olmos. Olmos depicts an eager teacher, Jaime Escalante, who has given up a high paying job to go back to teaching with the hope of making a difference. He is appointed to a school were almost all students are of a Hispanic origin. Having the encouragement and a great deal of patience to deal with his students' shall we call, rudeness and lack of interest in interacting with anything related to education and studying, he actually becomes successful in gaining their attention and trust. What is significant to his method for the students-and the viewer for that matter- is that he connects wit the students in their own level, using examples of their own lives and even using words out of their jargon. The students who have finally found someone who believes in them and does not look down onto them, show a great deal of perseverance and spending a great deal of effort they all pass the very difficult exam successfully. The movie tries to show in detail the different aspects of a minority group's life in the 80s America. Mr.Escalante an educated man with a job at a corporation feels something lacking and so quits his job to do something for his society. He has to fight for his place at the school, and to be taken seriously for what unique work he wants done. The life of the students and what they are struggling with, however in short, passing scenes has been shown perfectly. Most of them are from families with low income, a number of siblings, parents working shifts round the clock. Absorbed in the social conventions and highly accepted stereotypes no one in the community and among the young people themselves imagines a different scenario. According to Mr.Escalante the students have stopped trying because they are treated as inferior. It has been a presumption that they are lazy, or are not smart enough to receive a good or high level of education. The pattern has been repeated for so long that the students themselves have actually believed and internalised the situation. To remember the historical context, the 80s is usually remembered as America's flourishing years, the years which showed what America was meant to, and was going to be. After the uneasy days of the 60s, with struggles for civil rights and reaching a considerable amount of the goals; after the 70s and putting behind the economic problems and recession, 80s was considered a time that people could pursue more personal interests rather than trying to solve the general problems of the public. This is visible in the culture of the decade, TV shows showing happy days, the revolting rock music of the 70s was now changed to folk music, and computers became available to the public. But as seen in the movie, it is not the case for all. The group presented in the movie, still struggles with economic problems, has issues with inferior treatment from the majority because of race, cannot gain access to computers at school let alone having personal computers, and so does not find the time or chance to get involved with the new culture developing in the country. The situation depicted in the movie can be explained to a good deal according to the standpoint theory, which is assumes people's experiences, knowledge and opinions are shaped by the social groups to which they belong. To draw and example from the movie, one can observe easily the different meaning various concepts have for the people, for example a boy sees future success in being able to repair and fix cars rather than studying. Or that the role of the female in the society is suggested to be one who has a skill and therefore a minor job and will marry and bear and rear children. In the end, I think the movie has done a splendid job in showing to the core what a minority group went through trying to survive the pressures and difficulties imposed on it. The human factor shown through the connection between Mr.Escalante and his students, however sentimental, showed a great deal can be done through mutual understanding and effort. "},{"Title":"An inspirational film based on the true story of a high school math teacher Jaime Escalante, who helps dropout prone students to learn and pass the national Calculus exam","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My students learned that, by trying hard nothing changes&#x85; Jamie EscalanteStand and Deliver is an inspirational movie written by the minorities, played by the minorities and directed by the minorities. The movie depicts the limitations and drawbacks of one of many minority groups in America. The movie shows that being a minority in America- a country which is known worldwide for its tolerance and flexibility towards people from different cultures- automatically puts you in a special category in the society that treats you differently from the rest of the population. Even if you work hard and bring the best of yourselves, you will still face many challenges from the society that directly points its finger of accusation and discrimination towards you. Stand and Deliver not only identifies these problems but also shows in many occasions that when you are a minority in a country dominated by white majorities, the system fails to recognize even the basic needs and rights which everyone is entailed to, such as education and employment. The protagonist of Stand and Deliver is a middle aged man of Latino ancestry named Jamie Escalante. He is a computer science teacher who due to the lack of enough equipment (computers) is told by the school authorities to teach basic math to the dropout prone students of Garfield High School. This is clearly a downgrade and Mr. Escalante is aware of it. When he enters the class, few students recognize his presence and he is largely ignored be the majority of the class. However he asks the students to take their seats. The graffiti all over the class makes the viewer to witness the impact and the active presence of Latino gangs on the youngsters' lives. The class is crowded with different types of students Chicanos who can barely speak English, young Latinos with adopted American appearances, and even several young Mexicans who seem to be affiliated with Latino gangster groups. What strikes the most is the age of the students, as they look older than average American high school students, which signifies their previous failed attempts in graduation. Throughout the movie we will find out that Mr. Escalante was an employer of a company with decent wage, but had quit his job in order to help the Latino community to better their lives through teaching. By becoming a high school teacher with significantly lower paycheck, we can assume that Mr. Escalante is not looking for fame or money, but rather is concerned with the fact that many of his people are sidelined with poverty, crime, discrimination, maltreatment and many other challenges that constantly threaten these minority groups. During his educational crusade, Mr. Escalante faces many challenges and difficulty, such as students' reluctance to learn any school related material, let alone a difficult and complex science in math and later Calculus. In order to start the fire of knowledge within the uncooperative students, Mr. Escalante uses everyday examples and very tangible instances to draw the attention of the students to math, and he is successful. One of the challenges that our protagonist faces is a Latino woman who is an official school authority and constantly accuse Mr. Escalante of giving false hope to the children and even in one instance allegedly writes an anonymous letter to him and indirectly asks Mr. Escalante to resign from his post as the high school calculus teacher. This signifies the fact that even among the minorities there are people and groups who act as the barrier to younger Latinos' success in life. These people consciously or unconsciously set major obstacles in the way of youngsters by taking the luxury of free will and choice away from them. We see throughout the movie that Mr. Escalante sacrifices many things in his life such as having a better job with better wage, spending time with his family, and even he put his health at risk for the sake of his student's success at the AP Calculus national exam. Another thing which was depicted in Stand and Deliver was the concept of Identity Loss. If we consider the high school students as the microcosm of Latino community, we can notice many instances of identity loss among them. Most notably, the way they dressed, their western hairstyle, their western manners towards their teacher and even among themselves, their eating habits and many other instances all signify the fact that Identity Loss was a major issue among the students and therefore the Latino community respectively. It seemed that, the students only adopted the negative aspect of American modern culture and ignored their own cultural roots. Even Mr. Escalante is aware of this phenomena and thus reminds the students of the great achievements that their ancestors had accomplish such as mathematics and Calculus, which is long been forgotten among the Latinos themselves as many of them are alien to their original roots and culture. There is no doubt that the movie is well constructed and is a deep cry coming from the very depths of minorities' hearths; but Stand and Deliver is prone to criticism. The movie in terms of giving information on how the students all committed the same mistakes and chose the wrong answer fails to give credible insights and therefore keeps the viewer uninformed about this particular instance. In the end it is worth mentioning that Stand and Deliver stands as a brilliant movie who depicts the existing problem of minorities in the land of opportunity and identifies the everyday challenges that the Latino community along with many other minority groups face and delivers the message of hope and freedom of choice for the people of minorities. "},{"Title":"A powerful film about overcoming adversity and the obstacles put in front of you, and more importantly. Education","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" (Plot) This is a true story about a teacher named Jamie Escalante, a high school teacher who manages to defeat the odds, to teach a bunch of unmotivated students Calculus, and change Garfield High School foreverThis movie really hit home with me. I struggled to stay interested in school, because my teachers weren't very interesting. I just wasn't very motivated at times. Jamie Escalante gave me newfound hope that teachers actually do care about giving their students a memorable education. He was a courageous and pugnacious man who would stop at nothing to make sure his students knew the value of education. Edward James Olmos's portrayal of Jamie Escalante gives Jamie the justice he deserves. It really is a magnificent performance. He manages to maintain Jamie's tenacity, and never give up attitude. He made me fully believe that he really was Jamie Escalante. I can't praise his performance enough. All of the students in this movie had something interesting about them, but Lou Diamond Phillips (Angel Guzman) stuck out like a sore thumb for me. I find the man to be rather dull in a lot of things, but he really impressed me in this movie, with his performance. I dug his conflicted character. His interactions with Edward James Olmos were a treat to watch. I'd have to say this is Edward James Olmos's show. He runs with it, and never looks back. If you don't feel inspired or happy when this movie ends, I don't know what to tell you. It just goes to show you. Even if the world is against you because of your race, your reputation, etc. Hard work and determination can take you to new heights you've never dreamed of. I wish I had a teacher like Jamie Escalante. Final Thoughts It's a really moving film that should inspire students around the world. If I saw this back in high school, I would strive to get better. This movie comes highly recommended by yours truly8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Stood and Delivered","Date":"9 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Great movie. EJO as the main man really stood and delivered. It's motivating to get out from what you were born into, to strive for more.That's what we all want, to be better, for ourselves, for our Familias.This movie, Stand and Deliver, along the likes of Take The Lead, shows what can be achieved if you work hard enough, whether it's math or dance, just concentrate and just go for it and keep at it. Just maybe you'll get something along the ways.EJO grade A Stand and Deliver grade A Mandatory curriculum "},{"Title":"potential lies everywhere","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The frequent attacks on teachers by anti-public education ideologues make Ramon Menendez's Stand and Deliver all the more important. Edward James Olmos plays Jaime Escalante, who became a math teacher in an east LA high school. The students were viewed as lost causes, but Escalante refused to give up on them. In addition to showing what Escalante himself set out to accomplish, the movie makes the point that teachers do their best to teach, but are often put in nearly impossible settings. Indeed, opinions of students are often formed by their race, as Escalante realizes with the investigations.But the point is that Stand and Deliver is a real inspiration. It does just what the title says! Everyone should see it. "},{"Title":"The 1980s movies were like the 1980s girls !","Date":"22 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OK, this is a peak the To Sir, with Love movies rarely achieve. One of the best movies of the 1980s. And honestly one of the most perfect movies ever made.First off I don't know what was done to hit this high mark of truthfulness in acting. But the acting in this movie is incredible as credible ! Every single actor was at his or her best. Can you tell me other movie where (Lou Diamond Phillips) was as competent as this?!Talking about acting certainly leads to the iconic performance of (Edward James Olmos) as (Jaime Escalante). MY GOD! This is inspiring on so many levels. As an actor he absolutely mesmerized me. At the heart attack moment I was about to swoon myself, so what limit this man could reach?! It's a moment I, along with the history of acting, can't forget. Then his character was so well portrayed. A man with a noble cause, a challenge to beat, and a point to prove. He preferred to have a job, which with another he could have had double the money in half the time, just to fulfill a dream of making the else dream. So, compared to many versions for the same Sir he was the closest to the character's original core as a prophet in rejecting environment and inexorable circumstances. In brief; every moment of (Olmos) or (Escalante) here is pure gold.It's almost a poem of simplicity. Look for instance to the kitchen's scene, the night before the second final exam. Many directors do a lot to seek an atom of this naturalness and fail. In terms of writing, look for instance to the squabble between (Escalante) and the 2 detectives to know about clarifying important case of the movie; racism, reviewing every character's point of view, while heating up a scene to a boiling point. See the characters, how they look, move and talk. See how editing touches not presses. Nothing shouts in this movie. Nothing is fake. Nothing is hyped. It's outwardly humble and inwardly veracious piece of cinema. Clear that whether the movie's makers were being affected by (Jaime Escalante) or they were following his footsteps. Great effect both ways. While having 3 scenes, and being awfully thin!, (Andy Garcia) was adept as usual. The sky blue Volkswagen Beetle was beyond gorgeous. One moment cracks me up every time when (Phillips)'s character invites the detectives to frisk him before the exam by rising his arms up; swift yet wicked! I suspect that (Olmos)'s bald head with light hair was meant to tell a message of with the little you have, don't be ashamed, more than achieving a resemblance with the real (Escalante).Right after enjoying this movie for the first time, in the late 1990s, I ran to the internet to search for that actor who played the teacher, to know his name, his movies, and does he have a heart problem or not ?! It astonished me that a talent like his doesn't have what it deserves of roles and honoring. Most of what I have found was some roles for Latino guys, and that's it. Makes you think, maybe Hollywood is openly racist after all ! By the way, don't you feel something wrong with the movie's own tagline  A true story about a modern miracle. ?! As if succeeding in Calculus is a miracle when it's done by poor Hispanic kids ! The movie's making is serene and cute, exactly like the movie's girls. Well, the 1980s cinema was like the 1980s girls, with qualities infrequently recur for both, cinema and girls, nowadays ! (Stand and Deliver) sets models rightly, explodes a case simply, while being so lovable as well. It has different beautiful things to be learned.. for everybody. "},{"Title":"full review needed","Date":"9 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" can anybody review this movie for me fully for an assignment, just need a second opinion, thank you. can anybody review this movie for me fully for an assignment, just need a second opinion, thank you. can anybody review this movie for me fully for an assignment, just need a second opinion, thank you. can anybody review this movie for me fully for an assignment, just need a second opinion, thank you. can anybody review this movie for me fully for an assignment, just need a second opinion, thank you. can anybody review this movie for me fully for an assignment, just need a second opinion, thank you. can anybody review this movie for me fully for an assignment, just need a second opinion, thank you. can anybody review this movie for me fully for an assignment, just need a second opinion, thank you. "},{"Title":"Expectations","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At Garfield high school, everyone has given up on the students. Teachers, parents... no one has faith that the kids will do well. Then Mr. Escalante took over Math class. He had some different ideas, and he manages to inspire those he is teaching; give them confidence. While I did find him to be a bit of a jerk at times, you have to admire this man for what he did. I can't quite determine if this is actually based upon a true story, but I can certainly imagine it happening. The plot is interesting and engaging. I am thrilled that this was made by a Latino, and his understanding of the environment and the types is clear. The acting is great; Philips was about the only person I knew from elsewhere, and everybody impressed me. I apparently have seen Olmos elsewhere, and I gotta say, I could not recognize him at all. He disappeared entirely into the character. Not all of the humor in this works(with that said, this definitely made me laugh, as well as cheer), though it's never bothersome. The editing and cinematography are nice, apart from a few odd shots with no obvious purpose. There is infrequent strong language, a little bloodless violence and a mention of sex with no details. I recommend this to anyone that feel like they can relate to it. This is sadly still relevant. 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time 4 years ago, and i was hooked on the first watch.Almos is excellent in this movie, and so is Phillips, i always wondered who played Angel's friend, finger man as the teacher would call him.The music for this movie is really good, urban style. i cant understand why anyone would not like this movie. Acting is 10 out of 10, it would be cool if they show the actual kids who took the test after the ending credits, now that would be awesome.If you know who plays Angel's friend please tell me, its always been on my mind every time i watch it.Email me at 1234.leader@gmail.com if you know the actor's name This movie is a 4 star all the way, no deining it. "},{"Title":"stand and deliver","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the film, he helped 18 Hispanic students (of mixed backgrounds) at Garfield Senior High School (located in the East Los Angeles area of Los Angeles County, California) to learn calculus well enough to pass the Advanced Placement Calculus Exam, even though originally many of them struggled with such elementary principles as multiplication and fractions.Edward James Olmos starred as Escalante, a role for which he received an Academy Award nomination for Best Actor in a Leading Role. Lou Diamond Phillips, Vanessa Marquez, Karla Montana, Rosanna DeSoto, and Carmen Argenziano co-starred. "}{"Title":"Stand and Deliver","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you like suspenseful movies you will love Stand and Deliver. This movie is based on a true story which makes the movie even more thrilling. Mr. Escalante, an AP teacher at Garfield High, located in South California, works night and day to get his class to pass the advanced placement test. He and his students go through many obstacles to pass the test, making the movie suspenseful. I would rate the movie by giving it seven stars, it's a great movie to build confidence that nothing is impossible and there're many personal connections that all viewers can make through out the movie. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good educational, inspirational and formal film. "},{"Title":"Stand and Deliver","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a great movie! It's enthusiastic, interesting, and inspirational. Escalante gets his children to love something math. Faced with many difficulties in life- discrimination being the main obstacle, the children rise to the occasion. Escalante looked at each person as someone that could do something. They had it in them. He also used real life situation to teach. The children had something to prove- something to show that they could do it. Nothing let them done. The school system that the children faced had given up on them a long time ago. Their education experience was weak. Teachers taught subjects that they weren't trained for... that affected the view of school. I give it eight out of ten stars. "},{"Title":"Stand and Deliver","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This Movie Stand and Deliver was a good, inspirational move. It shows inner city kids that if they have the desire and discipline, they can achieve anything they set their minds to. The main actor was very good in acting out the perfect teacher, one who goes into the class wanting to teach. He showed the students he cared and devoted his time and effort to the students and their well being. One of the most important factors in teaching these kids is that he connected to them and wanted them to do well in life and as in school. They did what the title said they would do, they stood up to everyone that had a doubt in their mind and delivered the goods. Real life is as true as it is played out in the move; if you believe, you can achieve, and that's exactly what Mr. Escalante did with his calculus class. "},{"Title":"Kemo is cool","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is pretty good and it's why I gave it 7 ½ stars may have strong Spanish accent or slang, but overall it's about the underdog that succeeds on top. I feel this movie is related to the topic we're reading in our English class. If you this movie you'll like watching Dangerous Minds; they both are similar stories about a teacher just coming in, determined to help their students succeed. It's also based on a true story, if you're interested in older non-fiction, movies. The movie, i like to say again, has some Spanish accent, if you have no patience dealing with it, don't watch it. and right now im just babbling, because i don't know what else to write, but i need 10 lines minimum. . .so let me just keeping writing till i get to that. . ... hope this is good... "},{"Title":"Good teacher","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really liked this movie because it shows me that teachers never give up on their students. He was a teacher who came to the school to teach students with computers but the school didn't have any computers. Then he started to teach his students math.The first time he came to class, all the students didn't listen to him. But he didn't give up; he used apples to teach about different percents. The students started to like to learn with him, and after a few months or so he wanted to teach his students calculus.He didn't care about how other teachers thought, he always tried his best to help his students approve themselves. He taught his students with overtime for free, all of them have to stay in the locker room to learn calculus. "},{"Title":"Stand and Deliver","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I thought the movie was really good. I enjoyed it a lot. I would give this movie nine stars because not only is it a great story, it has a good message. This is the kind of movie that all teachers and students should watch. I like the quote that Mr. Galante mentioned to one of his students saying All you see is a turn, you don't see the road ahead. I think that's an excellent quote for students that are struggling with school and the work life. This movie inspires students to never give up no matter what and to get motivated on education; students shouldn't be afraid to take risks on taking a higher education coarse level. You'll never know what you are capable of until you try. It's like I always say, Be cool and stay in school. "},{"Title":"faith","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Suan Townsend Veronica OtalvaroWe would recommend Ramon Menendez's Stand And Deliver because it's a movie that gives you motivation to do better in school and to never give up--to always try your best and believe in yourself no matter what is the situation and where you come from. This movie is about a group of students who are in high school. They live in East LA. The teacher in the movie is trying very hard for the kids to be better off. he is pushing them very far so they can have a future. We liked the fact that they never gave up and their teacher still stood by them. By the end of the movie they got back their scores and they all passed the test. Their teacher had faith in them. "},{"Title":"a turn around","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robin Smith, Jeffry Rodriguez, Kim Cwiakala, Patricia Mazzoccoli We all loved Ramon Menendez's movie Stand and Deliver. It was very entertaining and touching at the same time because of the struggles and accomplishments made by the students Garfield High School in East Los Angeles, California. It had a negative situation that was taken and brought into a positive ending. It inspired people. Each character played their part in bringing understanding of a harsh life of someone who came from a poor neighborhood, and who goes from being nothing to becoming something and showing everyone what he/she are capable of doing. We recommend the film to anyone who interested in seeing how the students struggled to become better people. As Mr. Escalante laid in the hospital bed after having a heart attack he came up with an idea to keep teaching his students and help them prepare for the retake of the AP Calculus Exam. He sent his students a Calculus problem on a napkin from the hospital to the classroom. "},{"Title":"Stand and Deliver","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The best line to sum up Stand and Deliver was when Edward James Olmos's character, Jaime Escalante, said that the only reason the College Board is questioning the test scores is because the students have Spanish last names. There were many key points of the movie that we liked. This movie showed you how to overcome adversity. The students had to prove that they were smart and they showed there hard work paying off. They were under the microscope everyday from there parents down to the administration in the school. They were expected to fail the test because of there ethnicity but they proved everyone wrong.. That really told you what they were going threw by going to that school. My feelings about this move are that it shows you what hard work and determination will get you what u want if you keep your mind focused and work at anything you will get what you deserve. The part of the movie that touched me was when the principal found out the test scores. The reason why that touched us was because that he doubted the kids. But when they passed they proved him wrong, he was so proud of them. This movie should be recommended for high school students.Lance R. Crooks, Pat Klipper, Donna Avella, and Jessica Lelo "},{"Title":"Motivating and Inspirational","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" We all liked the movie Stand and Deliver. The movie was very motivating and inspirational. The director, Ramon Menendez, and the actors did a very good job in making this movie. We definitely recommend the movie Stand and Deliver. The movie takes place in a rundown neighborhood in East Los Angeles. No one, not even the teachers, believed in the students. The students weren't even expected to graduate high school. In this movie they only have one person who believes in them and that person is their math teacher Mr. Escalante, played by Edward James Olmos. This movie shows the struggles that the students did go through to succeed. They succeeded. We, the viewers, feel that when people set goals they won't stop until they reach them. Melissa Alonso, Rafael Reyes, and Melissa McBride "}{"Title":"view","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As a group together we all agreed that Stand and Deliver was very inspirational, and that we all felt motivated to try harder, because no matter what people say we can or cannot do, nothing is unachievable. We have the world in our hands and we can reach all limits, with the time and work we put in. One of the scenes in particular that we all found interesting was when the character Angel Guzman (Lou Diamond Phillips) took his grandmother to the hospital. In the beginning of the film, we were all led to believe that he was just a bad seed, but he showed his other side through compassion for his grandmother. Angel Guzman took responsibility for his actions and pushed himself, the ultimate result being success. By success we mean how he started getting serious with his education, and worked harder to pass the AP calculus exam. Hamit Koci, Lina Eisner, Greg Caputo "},{"Title":"Stood and Delivered Well!","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Stand and Deliver is another movie about life in the classroom and the politics of school. Edward James Olmos earned an Academy Award nomination for his performance as the over-dedicated, overworked teacher who chooses to do so much and get so little. The movie shows how his class of mostly Latino students from South Central Los Angeles has changed from kids who just wanted to get through to students who hoped to go to college and have a better life. I'm not much of a math student myself but I admire the character's dedication to keeping students on Saturdays and summer breaks, winter breaks, spring breaks, before and after school to help them achieve. Most teachers won't do that despite it all he does it. The outcome is interesting and he is rewarded despite everything. He is a teacher who cares about his students and does everything possible to get them to achieve the unthinkable. We all like stories about the underdog and this is one of him. UNfortunately in real life, this teacher went back to South America and the politics of the school system is the reason that he left. ALl the red tape and politics in the public school system is enough to make you vomit, I know because i am trying to become a licensed and certified secondary education teacher in English. "},{"Title":"Our children are our future","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I write this in response to the review by contributor kari_marie. I was going to write about another film, Coach carter, which clearly draws inspiration from this film, but I thought I'd check the book on Stand and Deliver to remind myself of details, and then read kari_marie's perceptive - and troubling - review.Six years ago, the racist football coaches at the State University of New York College at Brockport pressured the dean of humanities to ask me to resign a post as adjunct writing instructor. They wanted me to pass the white ball-players who weren't showing up for class, and to fail the black dancing majors to keep up the school's facade of having academic standards. Since this was all done verbally, there were no records to challenge. Then, of course, George Bush was president, and with a racist in the white House, I wasn't going to get far complaining about a bunch of KKK jocks in Nowhere New York.The terrible secret to American education systems and the theories upon which they are based is that they are embedded with the hidden assumption, not simply that some students are doomed to fail, but that they ought to fail - it is necessary for the economy for these students to fail. If we had an educational plan by which they could all succeed, our current political leaders would have to trash it, just to make sure that they fail. They fill the bottom 10-20% of the national labor pool.The reader may think I'm kidding; but economists have been growing more and more honest about this since the unemployment level went down near 5%; the academic economist community then began talking about, well, how can we get this level even lower; and it quietly dawned on them that, given the American economy as it is, that's simply not possible.This has been implicit in American education theory since a major conference of education theorists met at Harvard in about 1899 or 1901, and decided that the American education system couldn't accommodate the perceived immigrant threat of that era, the Italians. Yep, the Italians were judged to be ineducable, doomed to fail, doomed to lives as janitors and washerwomen. If it hadn't been for the parochial, Roman Catholic school systems in major cities, Italians would probably have had to ship back to Italy to get a decent education.In the 1930s, when the public school system was at last organizing secondary schools (high schools), it was the liberal philosopher, the professed democratic socialist, John Dewey, who announced that the real purpose of high school was warehousing the unemployable.Americans of northern-European descent are now in the minority of the population. we are still cursed with their insufferable prejudices, their brutal puritanism, their psychotic economic principles, and we probably will be until we have a president whose first language at home was Spanish. That day is heck of a lot closer than cement-brains like Bush would like to believe - but it is as inevitable as daylight at dawn.For the time being, films like Stand and Deliver and Coach Carter must continue to be made to remind us that this assumption - that there are students who simply must fail - is wrong, wrong-headed, unjust, unfair, and unproductive.Hopefully, the time will come when our teachers are all allowed to be Escalantes and Carters, and we shall see all our students succeed - which is their right, as Americans, and as human beings.By the way, none of this would be meaningful if Stand and Deliver were not the well-crafted, entertaining film that it most certainly is - filled with fine performances, neat plot-twists, a rich sense of humor. (Coach Carter is a little more formulaic, but I recommend that as a fine film as well.) "},{"Title":"A troublesome class can pass geometry","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time 2.5 years ago.This takes place in the Hispanic Neighborhood of LA.A teacher who is portrayed by Edward Olmos is attending at some actual high school in L.A.This class room has students that didn't pass Geomentry because they either caused too much trouble or they just didn't get how to do it.At first they didn't respect their new teacher, but within time they'll treat him with respect. After he uses hard love and the right lessons in geometry.This was based off of a true story. And proves that one teacher can make a difference in the school district of LA.I recommend it to class movies or just something new to rent. "},{"Title":"Is this helpful or detrimental to aspiring teachers?","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The story of Jaime Escalante as depicted in Stand and Deliver raises many questions about public education, the teaching profession and inner city schools. Is it an inspiring story? Yes. Is this story fully accurate shown in this movie? No. Could this movie serve as a model to encourage aspiring teachers to become better teachers? Perhaps not. Herein lies the problems not addressed in Stand and Deliver. I read several articles about the real Jaime escalante and his successful tenure at Garfield High School. After further review I conclude that this movie is loosely adapted from the true story.I read that it took Escalante 5 years to develop his Math program in progression to fully realize the positive results it had on his pupils. The movie shows these kids struggling with fractions and basic arithmetic in the beginning. By the end of the school year they are performing advanced algorithms in Calculus. This, along with a few other chronological anachronisms, are lightly covered with accuracy. I also read that he handpicked a group of students from a pool of 4000 students from various schools. So it wasn't like he was given a random set of students. How nice it would be for every teacher to select the students of their choice. So it's dubious that he was able to instill such advanced skills in these regular troubled teens as depicted in the movie. As result of this film, Escalante was elevated into celebrity status. He received several awards for his efforts as a teacher. In 1991 he left LAUSD due to jealousy from his peers and the backbiting from the bureacracy. He transferred to a high school in Sacramento unable to repeat the same magic he displayed in Los Angeles. He spent his last several years in Sacramento until his retirement, after which he moved back to obscurity to his native Bolivia.Teaching is a difficult profession with few rewards. In today's environment it's a matter of survival. Working long hours, dealing with behavioral issues, disorder and a fractured system with meager pay are enough to make any teacher leave the profession after a couple years. Is Jaime Escalante one of those rare exceptions? Can every teacher be like Jaime Escalante and achieve the same results in any academic situation? Is this movie realistic to any teacher's experience? Is being a teacher in a movie different from being a teacher in real life? Can every teenager, regardless of their aptitude and socioeconomic standing, rise to the occasion and excel given the right teacher?Unfortunately, in Stand and Deliver, all of the answers to these questions are silent. "},{"Title":"Should be on the curriculum of every inner-city school....","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this again recently and it still holds up. Edward James Olmos and Lou Diamond Phillips lead the cast (all of whom are excellent) in an inspiring true story of inner-city Latino kids learning higher mathematics and qualifying for university.I was once again enthralled with the no-nonsense approach of the teacher and how he inspired his students not just to learn but to excel and aspire to a world outside their own ethnic boundaries.*****Minor Spoiler****Tension is created in the disbelief engendered by the Examination Board (a small part for Andy Garcia here)at this number of mainly Mexican teenagers having such high calculus marks. Not to be missed. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"You See the Turn, But You Don't See The Road Ahead.","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS!!          Jaime Escalante is heading to Garfield High School in East Los Angeles because today is his first day of teaching. But he wouldn't be the teacher of the computer class like he was told, instead he became the new math teacher to a group of 18 year olds who could care less about their education. Well, the first day of school didn't go over so well for neither teacher or student, and when walking back to his car, Jaime found his radio stolen. The next day he attempted to teach them algebra. A negative times a neative equals a positive. Then Jaime met a troublemaking student named Angel. He would occasionally get into fights and cause alot of mischief. But Jaime was perfectly capable to handle types like him. At a school board meeting, Jaime requested more control so he could teach to the best of his abilities. He was granted, so he soon began to run a much tighter ship. The algebra lessons went over very well, so Jaime was confident that next year he could teach them calculus, which is a subject these particular high school kids were not qualified for, but Jaime was confident. Since his students would be attending summer school, he saw it as the perfect time to start. Unfortunately the air conditioner was broken so the classroom was unbelievably hot. Jaime had the students suck on oranges and told them to think cool thoughts.          In the fall when school began again, his students welcomed back Jaime by chucking a desk at him. He made them sign contracts stating they would attend his calculus class twice a day and on Saturday. Some signed, a few didn't. Angel continued to be a nuissence, so did Lupe. Morale in the classroom soon began to decline, but Jaime just kept pushing those kids. In addition to his teaching at the high school, he also taught an adult night school course and even visited some junior high schools. His wife, Fabiola, was worried since Jaime's job seemed to consume him and keep him away from his family. One night, while teaching at the night school, Jaime suddenly collapsed from a mild heart attack. He survived, fortunately, but he was hospitalized, so the students got a substitute teacher, Mr. Schloss, who was actually a music teacher. But his stubbornness and determination got Jaime out of the hospital and back in class to help his students study for the upcoming calculus A.P. Exams. The tests were hard, but the students passed! They were all overjoyed. Jaime knew all that hard work would pay off.         But then fate reared its ugly head. The heads of the Educational Training Service, Dr. Ramirez and Dr. Pearson, came to suspect the students of cheating when viewing the test answers. It seems they all got the same answers wrong. Jaime knew something wasn't right. Many of the students just wanted to call it quits and forget it all, but Jaime Escalante wouldn't have it. He convinced them to retake the test and this time, do even better. With only one day to prepare, Jaime and his students began cramming. Pancho and Lupe develop a relationship as well; Soon comes the day for the retest. Tension was in the air. They ripped open those booklets and took that test. Jaime was in the office when the scores came in. 3 was passing and 5 was excellent. Every single student, including Angel, got either 4s or 5s. Jaime left feeling very much triumphant. And from then on, from 1983 to 1987, more and more students passed the A.P. exams at that high school. Which just goes to show one man really can make a difference.         Edward James Olmos was very good as Jaime A. Escalante. He should have gotten an award for his performance. Lou Diamond Phillips was good as Angel, and Andy Garcia plays Dr. Ramirez and Rif Hutton is Dr. Pearson. This movie can be compared to Rocky. I haven't seen Rocky but I just might someday. This movie has light comedy mixed in with great drama. I saw this movie for the first time in 8th grade, so I haven't seen it in 8 years. It was nice to see it again. Some parts I had forgotten. So everybody, I recommend Stand and Deliver. See how Jaime Escalante turned a bunch of worthless slackers into straight A winners. When you believe in something, you can really have an impact. This movie will show you what you can achieve when you try to reach your goals. What I'm trying to say is, see Stand and Deliver today!- "},{"Title":"Powerful; still relevant after a decade.","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie ten years ago, long before I had to face logarithims, asymptotes, and all the rest of the fun stuff that is calculus. I enjoyed it then, and I enjoy it even more, having survived a Calculus course.Olmos is outstanding in an Oscar-nominated performance as Jaime Escalante, who, in the early 1980s, used the most unconventional methods to teach his students basic algebra. The students, predominantly Hispanic, have the acumen for it, but most haven't taken advantage of it. Escalante works to instill ganas (desire) in them, teaching them that math is a step-by-step process. At one point, he informs them that the origins of algebra go back to their ancestors, the Mayans, assuring his students that they have math in their blood. His methods prove successful, building confidence in the students and shaming the naysayers.Part of the reason I like this movie is the way Escalante aims to motivate his students and set higher goals. There's a scene where he talks to a student who's accepted a job as a mechanic in his uncle's garage, and Escalante informs him of the market for good auto engineers, asking him, Wouldn't you rather be building these things than repairing them? He understands that the world will use their background as a stigma, and his hope is that they will go beyond what the world would define them as.There's also a fiery scene at the ETS office, where Escalante asks to see the test scores. He is refused, which is the catalyst for a heated diatribe against the agency's bigotry. (If this were Beverly Hills High, they wouldn't have sent you two to investigate, Escalante says.)All in all, this is a film that after 12 years still holds up. Olmos' towering performance and a message of empowerment make this a must-see. "},{"Title":"Need some help!","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am a student teacher and I noticed that there weren't any teachers commenting on this film. I have been assigned to critique this film based on a term known to educators as, TPE (Teacher Performance Expectations. I've seen the film, but it has been awhile and I'm having a little difficulty pinpointing exactly where there are examples of TPE's. I won't have time to find the film and watch it again to make these observations so I was wondering if there were any teachers out there who have watched this films and can assist me in identifying the TPE's that my instructor is tasking me to do. I identify strongly with these students because up until 10 years ago I was homeless and a heroin addict. I've made some progress by getting off drugs, obtaining my certificate for Substance Abuse Counseling, both my Bachelor's and Masters degrees and wanted to go into the teaching profession. After all my hard work I was denied my teaching credential due to the policy of the California Board of Education I am not qualified. I want to give something back to my community by teaching. I am male, Bilingual Latino with an understanding of pitfalls inner city students are facing and yet I am stopped right at the doorstep. I've accomplished much and want to encourage and help these kids but am up against a bureaucracy that is determined to hinder that. Is there anyone out there who can relate to this film and the mistrust that the school board extended to the students and myself. "},{"Title":"An uplifting and entertaining film","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a simple and formulamatic concept that is turned into an above average film.  Good performances, especially Olmos as the teacher who is determined to have his troubled students pass a math exam, that could determine their future.  This is an entertaining and good natured film that is accessible to anyone.  8/10. "}{"Title":"Eighties Pop Songs Don't Get Any Better!","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not to distract from the strong and relevant subject matter of this film, but I don't think I truly appreciated the sheer genius of Stand And Deliver until that final credit sequence kicked in. It was like revisiting the ballads of Richard Marx but AFTER digesting a fine meal of hot flautas and processed swine. Man, did this song rock or what? I found myself dancing with no attention paid to my self-dignity or the dignity of my baby, Pippen, as it flopped around in its kitty-box, ecstatic. We BOTH we're transfixed by the music. Unfortunately, I was head-banging with such dedication, I didn't catch the name of the artist who sang this amazing title song. Is he any relation to Eddie Money? Why can't there be more music like this nowondays? Granted, we're a far cry from the great days of Beverly hills Cop or those Ghostbusters soundtracks that I love to crank at parties, but still, the winning combination of the driving drum-machine beat and the melodic, anthem-like chorus is what makes this film a knockout in my eyes. That, and the extraordinary make-up work on Edward James Olmos' head were assets enough to incline me to say, Education first in America! This film is a winner. One question, though...if Garfield High is supposed to be so war-torn and dangerous, why do all the kids wear such Breakfast Club clothes? Maybe there should be a remake.   "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but not exceptional","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Stand and Deliver is good, but most people say it's great. It isn't. The characters want to learn much more than they really would. Lo Diamond Phillips is supposed to be the big deal of this movie, but he isn't at all. He doesn't have to be convinced to learn but approaches the teacher on his own. The reason why the movie is so good is because of Edward James Olmos. He is amazing as a teacher who mutters things under his breath to every student as he walks passed them in the classroom. He is hilarious, but in a realistic way, not a stupid one. The plot about this test and the students being accused of cheating is okay. I feel like I've seen it before, so it's nothing great. The reason to see this movie is for character, not plot. Olmos is seriously incredible. Imagine a teacher completely unlike any you've ever had before. He probably wouldn't be realistic right? That's what common sense would say, but somehow Olmos is realistic at all times. It's fantastic. I think it's probably because of the way the kids act to him. He's unique, but they act just like other students do and so the whole thing seems realistic. Either way, Olmos is amazing and is the reason why this movie is so enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Great struggle for teacher pays off.","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I felt that this was a great film and I HIGHLY recomend it to any person wanting to be a teacher. Like 'Not One Less' this was a tur story, If you get the chance to borrow it do so. I felt that the whole movie was the opposite to what we saw of Mr.Holland's Opus. Jamie Escalante was 100% dedicated to his job as a teacher. He was sent to a school were they were very much under funds. He was sent to teach computers but ended up teaching Maths. The students did not want to know about this which made his job very hard. The school was in a mixed culture area in Los Angeles,there was mexician students who could not speak English but the teacher was part mexician (I'm assuming this) but he could speak the language which broke the ice with them. He could see great potential in these studetns, he started off by teaching basic maths and found that if the studetns but the effort in they could do anything. So to the surprise of the head of the maths department he wanted to teach Calculs and have the studetns sit a test which would give them college credit (or something like that). But this almost killed him. This teacher was so devoted to his studetns that he was wrecking his health and was also damaging his family. His wife was not happy with the amount of time he was spending with the kids, this teacher was running classes all day, had classes on weekends, christmas holidays and as well he was teaching none ESL people english. Doing all this caused him to suffer a heart attack. But to help his students he was back at work two days latter (I think it was two I heard two days mentioned by a student) getting them ready for the test. When they finally sat the test they all passed, and were all accused of cheating. So once again he went into bat for his students, he did not believe they cheated and he faught all the way and finally allowed them to have a re-test which he had to hlep them study for. They again all passed the test and went onto bigger and better things (I'm only assuming that). But the teacher stayed at that school and at the end we were told how the students of following years went. Every year there was a increase of studetns passing the test that was meant to be extremly tough.To be honest when I left the movie reminded me a bit of 'High School High' teacher going into a bad school and getting them to learn, they sit a test and something happens to the test. But Stand and Deliver was much better because it was real. So like I said before if you get the chance to borrow it do so. See ya. Ken "},{"Title":"Fact based film about a So. CA high school math class and with a truly great teacher.","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Very motivational.This film holds your attention with a well written story and very good acting from most of the leads.It has humor Teacher Go to wood-shop and make yourself a shoeshine box. You're gonna need it. Student You the man, you know? Why don't you put them in college, huh? So dumb taco benders like me can pick their vegetables for them, collect their garbage, clip their poodles' toenails. I may be a sinner, but I'm willing to pay for my sins. Teacher Right. See you at three. Student I got more bad news for you, *profe.* I know this is really gonna trip you out, but... I forgot my pencil. (Ana produces a pencil for him)All together a very balanced and realistic movie. "},{"Title":"True Wizard Moment","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I learned about this film yesterday when I saw the first 50 minutes several times while substituting in an algebra class (as the teachers don't trust substitutes to be able to teach math). This gives a different perspective on the film.By happenstance (and a decade of arduous effort) I have a Ph.D. --the modern equivalent of being a wizard-- and actually can teach math. Something about the finger scene really caught my attention, so I stopped the film there in the later classes.I had the students go through and describe what they saw. Of course, they were very clear on Angel's scene, thought I had given them a windfall opening, but they were pretty fuzzy on Jaime's part.That whole scene is only perhaps 50 or 60 seconds long, but it covers a lot.I made the students describe it carefully, telling how a wizard can see what others don't, and that if they look really, really carefully they can see that scene that way a wizard does. The next time, I have them put their hands in the air and reproduce (or abysmally fail) at Jaime's method while I have the three problems he works up on the board. I'll have them tell which finger he moved when, and have them repeat the dialog and wiggle their fingers till they see the correspondance. Duh, the dialog is so simple that they look elsewhere for importance 1 ... 2 ... 3 but it is strongly choreographed with pinkie, middle, ring ... in all three repetitions. They miss that, but in a few minutes of class time they can get it.Then, what does he do with the last finger on 3*9? ... 6*9? 8*9? How many in my class will commit to what they saw? I watched closely, the choreography is authentic and revealing. I perform the scene, with the problem and answer written on the board next to me.When they all get it, I replay the scene, but I stop it again. Deja-vu! I give the very same instruction I did the first time Tell me about the finger scene. But next I ask who felt the flicker of wizard's understanding. "},{"Title":"The story is inspiration though the story itself was not as spectacular.","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is easy to be moved by the driven perseverance of the teacher but this film as a film is lacking. The characters are one-dimensional and drama is created in throwaway scenes which never are introduced or set-up resulting in a lopsided film that never truly reaches the emotional power it should have. The acting is good though what may have been fun to do on screen does not always translate as many, many words are reused again and again requiring the pondering of the writers' abilities to created competent dialogue. These are technical matters which, of course, do not detract from the accomplishment of the real-life personas, but instead reflect badly on the director. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's Lou Diamond Phillips Superstar.","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Stand and Deliver (1988) was a tour de force for actor Edward James Olmos. He stars as a math teacher named Jaime Escalante who tries to get the kids interested in advance mathematics. The movie is very loosely based upon Mr. Escalante's life and times. Edward James Olmos makes him out to be WAY cooler than the real deal. The movie is also a starring vehicle for young turk Lou Diamond Phillips (he stars as a young gang banger who changes his ways to learn calculus). The rest of the cast is filled with minor actors (except Andy Garcia and Rosana De Soto). When I first saw this movie I thought it was great, Now whenever I watch it I see nothing more than a great actor amongst a cast of stereotypical students who overcome all of their obstacles to become top students.If you like cheesy over-the-top melodramatic mush then this will tide you over until the next one will released. Recommended for fans of L.D.P. and Edward James Olmos. "},{"Title":"Typical 80's pablum","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A few original moments from Olmos aside, this is a turkey. The few positives Olmos brings something new to the table, good to know a teacher actually did fight for and improve the education of people more or less discarded by the system, and....um, nope, that's it.The negatives Bad acting, abundance of clichers, and a meandering plot.Without Olmos (and even he had some corny moments), this is a 2.5 out of 10. His finger-coutning scene was original and dynamic, and the movie did convey that the cost of his above-and-beyond aid to the students was near burn-out. I should add, I only just saw this film in 2010, and films now are made in a different way. 80's films based on true stories tended to all include similar elements, as a result this wasn't very fresh to me. What really stood out is what a lame part Lou had. He was great in Labamba the year before and likely the best of the Young Guns the following summer. Here it's like he was mailing it in by correspondence course (he actually seemed drunk in a few scenes), but in his defence, one of the most poorly written parts I've ever seen (for a star).Was expecting something original and outstanding, and apart from a dozen minutes, most of them featuring Oloms, this was cookie-cutter and average.Reading the preceding reviews, I get a sense of the emperor's new clothes, as happened with Forrest Gump, which was at least a better film, despite also being overrated. "}]