[{"Title":"Oh what a tangled web we weave, when first we practise to deceive.","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"79 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You wouldn't necessarily think that an adaptation of an albeit famous 17th century French novel would make a relevant and fascinating piece of cinema... but it does.The first thing that strikes you is how well the film is lit and shot. The period locations and costumes are visually sumptuous and perfect. Better yet, the acting entirely matches the skill of the direction that takes its method from the theatre - emotions are conveyed by expression and not dialogue. Glenn Close gives her best performance on celluloid as the scheming Madame de Merteuil, amorally hellbent on bending everyone to her will, no matter the method or the cost, and John Malkovitch is her perfect foil as the cynical hedonistic but world-weary Valmont. Michelle Pfeiffer engages our empathy as the tortured and manipulated target of Malkovitch's desire and Close's plotting.The film is basically a morality tale, but one that fascinates in its exposure of ego, vanity, intrigue and the war between the genders, subjects that are timeless in their relevance, despite the period setting. The storyline, which sticks faithfully to the original novel, remains compelling throughout as we watch deceits within deceits take their tragic course. Whole-heartedly recommended - take your time over it, and enjoy.  "},{"Title":"The #1 rule of seduction is don't fall in love!","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"69 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dangerous Liaisons is this incredible movie that is so under rated. It's the battle of the sexes and this book was written over 200 years ago! I love to know that there was this same problem that we still have to this day. That's why enjoyed Dangerous Liaisons so much because it proves that we have so many differences from the opposite sexes. Men are usually expected to have sex and with a few clever words destroy women's reputations in minutes, while women have to be careful of sleeping with whom, because it's considered shameful.Glenn Close plays Marquise Isabelle de Merteuil, a proper lady with a secretive double life of sex and wishing to destroy a girl's reputation for revenge on her ex for dumping her for this young lady. She also makes a bet with her closest friend, Vicomte Sébastien de Valmont played by John Malkovich, that he could not bed a lady of such high stature and morals, in return if he succeeds, he will finally have the conquest he's been dreaming of, bedding Marquise Isabelle. I don't care what people say, this was Glenn's best performance and she was so brilliant. Her speech of Dominate your sex and avenge my own was perfect and as a woman I rooted for her in the story. She is a tragic figure that was over looked by many as just another slut. Glenn had my sympathy and I agreed with a lot of her dialog.John as Valmont was absolutely perfect, he's not that sexy looking but has such charm and charisma on the screen you believe him as a lady's man. It's beyond my control, he repeats this several times throughout the film and it becomes more darker each and every time he says it to Michelle's character. He does the Marquise a favor of bedding young Cecile to help the Marquise's plan of revenge and does such a good job. It was almost too easy for him, but he has a more difficult task of bedding Madame Marie de Tourvel who is married and has very high morals and standards of God and love. He falls in love with her in the process of getting to know her and is so believable, you can see how it breaks his heart to break her's. But he feels he must stand by his reputation and your own heart goes out to him despite his cruel manors as a man.Michelle Pfeiffer as Marie de Tourvel is so beautiful and elegant and is the only one who knows of Valmont's true side. But she cannot help but fall for his charm and love for her, when she talks to his aunt, this is one of the most true speeches ever in cinema that all women can relate too I'm sorry to say this but those who are most worthy of love are never made happy by it. Do you still think men love the way we do? No... men enjoy the happiness they feel. We can only enjoy the happiness we give. They are not capable of devoting themselves exclusively to one person. So to hope to be made happy by love is a certain cause of grief. That is so incredibly and painfully true that Marie knows better but can't help but give herself to Valmont.Swoosie Kurtz, Uma Thurman, and Mildred Natwick are all so exceptional and amazing as well in the film. They truly bring the story to life and keep it going with their dialog and actions. Keanu? Shudder, his acting is like... how do I put this delicately? I think it's... wood. ) Otherwise, trust me this is one of the best movies of all time. This deserves higher than a 7.6 and should be in the top 250. But it's beyond my control. D 10/10 "},{"Title":"The Perversions of the Ancient Regime","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"53 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Age of Enlightment gave to the world some pretty controversial minds. At one end of the spectrum there was the Marquis de Sade who, no secret to anyone, created the concept that is now known as sadism. At the other end there is Choderlos de Laclos, who is widely known for creating this story which in essence is very close to Sade's dark heart even when it never reaches the extremes of his florid depictions of ritualistic, sexual perversion.DANGEROUS LIAISONS, based on the novel Les Liaisons Dangereuses, is this tale, Laclos' most known, adapted many times for television and screen, but never like this with such attention to detail to make it as French as possible, and bringing a classical sensibility to the front. Stephen Frears, in his American film debut, creates a lush visage of restrained yet swooning passions, icy stares, and hushed, measured speeches against the backdrop of the Ile-de-France and should have been the film of the year had it not been for the usual sentimentalism prevalent during the 1980's which gave the major awards to RAINMAN, a film centered around autism that, while delicate as a subject matter was hardly dramatic and today is barely memorable.On the other hand, this story is. The dark comedy that pins two bored aristocrats against each other as they play God with other people's lives without realizing the devastating consequences that will result from this has been the stuff of legend and allure. Glenn Close, John Malkovich, and Michelle Pfeiffer all are beyond awards in their exacting and multidimensional portrayals of three very different people caught in a web of deceit. However the star of this adaptation has to be Christopher Hampton who immortalizes Laclos' vision in a subtle, yet powerful story filled with subtext and restrained cruelty. He's the one who suggests pages about his characters, most tellingly of the Marquis de Merteuil in three key scenes in the first, opening sequence (which she also shares with the Vicomte de Valmont), she admires her reflection in a mirror with a smug expression akin to the Mona Lisa. She is in control and about to go through with her activities. She is dressed into an orgy of corsets and fabric, looking directly into the camera -- the Vicomte does the same as he is dressed -- which sets their characters' tones. They are mirror images of one another, each in their gender. Both are apparently, in full control.The second telling revelation of the Marquise is when she arrives to the Volanges' to give advice to Cecile about virtue. You can see how she has her Mona Lisa smile on, which as soon as she gets off her carriage turns to a rictus of anguish. Cut to her later saying about shame You find the shame is like the pain. You only feel it once. As her head rests against a window you may see her eyes briefly moisten. Her expression is, however, blank, but very deep and expressive. It's the first time she cracks open the door to her inner face, but just a little and only for a second, but what a second! The last time Hampton describes Merteuil is in a scene which mirrors the first scene watch how again, she looks at herself in her mirror. Her traps have been discovered and she faces her own self and uncertain future, having destroyed everyone around her and being left alone. It's the calm right before the taking of the Bastille, hence why the timing of the story has to be in the Eighteenth Century, right before the French Revolution. And in being so revealing while using expressions, Hampton creates the internal dialog that was the driving force behind the epistolary nature of the novel. His rendition of the Madame de Tourvel and Valmont are no less complex. Michelle Pfieffer, with minimal dialog and her wide, doe eyes, is given a rewarding role that explodes during her face-off with Malkovich when her character is betrayed. Their physicality skirts with sadism and sets the stage for Valmont's own internal pain as he faces his own mortality, since he has been led to destroy the one he loves, and for a promise and nothing else.It's been no mystery that films that lose to other, of the moment films become timeless and the stuff that makes movie magic. DANGEROUS LIAISONS, nearly twenty years later, still bites, especially when from a light comedy it becomes this horrific monster staring at us from the abyss, more so because of the exquisite cruelty that we cause to others in the name of reputation and vanity. And in that, the Marquise is right vanity and love are incompatible. Just look at Valmont and you will see why. "},{"Title":"on my top 10 list","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"50 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is so incredibly well done, and all three lead characters are at their peak career performances. It is clever, funny, and tragic all rolled together, and one that you will be thinking about long after the movie is over. Of the three main characters, Michelle Pfeiffer has the least stretching to do as an actor, but her character calls for a demure, soft-spoken individual. John Malkovitch and Glenn Close are both deliciously malicious and carry the film well. Keanu Reeves is better suited for an action film - he appears wooden - but does a decent job, anyway. Lastly, Uma is refreshing and captivating, and plays opposite John Malkovitch without losing her identity. All in all, masterful, and visually and intellectually stimulating to watch. Still to this day it holds its' own in a world where action is the name of the game. "},{"Title":"Elegant","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"41 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is elegant. The performances are magnificent. John Malkovich is totally believable as the sector that destroys the life of countless naive women. Glenn Close is amazing as one of the greatest bitches of the story of cinema. Michelle Pfeiffer and Keanu Reeves gave their best performances ever and Uma Thurman is amazing with a tremendous mix of innocence and sexuality. The script and the direction really made an amazing job giving an environment of sickness and degradation. The makeup and the beautiful costumes only aggregate the force that the story needed to be told. An amazing movie you really wish to enter in that snake's nest. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and darkly cold","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"29 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    I believe this is the best of the four adaptations of the play/novel Dangerous Liaisons.  Glenn Close plays Mertuil, who, with Malkovich's Valmont, manipulate and seduce others for entertainment.  In comes Michelle Pfieffer's beautiful Madame de Tourvel, whose husband is off at a trial (or something to that extent).  Valmont realizes what a capture it would be if he were to succeed in seducing her, and making her forget all her vows of fidelity.   Uma Thurman also has a smaller part, one of those who was seduced by Valmont.  Uma Thurman is great, Michelle Pfieffer is exquisite, but it's Close and Malkovich who dominate the screen.  Close's mercilessly cunning character has most of the great lines.  When asked if betrayal is her favourite word, she replies, No.  Cruelty is.  It's much more nobler, don't you think.  Malkovich plays a Machiavellian character you lies and cheats to get what he wants  The climax is thrilling, and the finale is incredible.  Glenn Close's performance was certainly worthy of the Oscar nomination, and maybe the award.  It is her best performance. "},{"Title":"Sexual decadence before the fall of the guillotine","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"52 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)This is a tale about the ancien régime in 18th century France before the revolution in which the moral decadence of the privileged classes rivaled that of Sodom and Gomorrah and the ancient Romans. The story comes from a novel by Choderlos de Laclos that was made into a stage play by Christopher Hampton. It is a cynical satire on human sexuality as well as a very subtle examination of sexual hypocrisy and desire, a kind of oh so sophisticated laugh at bourgeois morality that would have delighted Voltaire and Moliere and greatly amused Shakespeare. It is a tale of elaborate lechery and revenge that backfires because it seems that anybody, even the most jagged rake can fall in love, and thereby become the victim.John Malkovich plays the rake, Vicomte de Valmont, whose sole purpose in life is to seduce women, rob them of their virtue and then move on. Glenn Close plays his back-stabbing confidante and one-time lover, the Marquise de Merteuil. Michelle Pfeiffer plays the coy and virtuous Madame de Tourvel, who is to be Valmont's latest conquest. Uma Thurman is cast as a teenaged ingenue who is betrothed to Merteuil's lover while Keanu Reeves plays her naive music teacher and would be lover, Chevalier Danceny. Stephen Frears, who has directed such diverse films as The Grifters (1990) and My Beautiful Laundrette (1985), after a somewhat cryptic start, does an excellent job of bringing the biting cynicism of Laclos and Hampton to the screen.I know of two other versions of this film, Milos Forman's Valmont (1989), starring Colin Firth and Annette Bening, and Roger Vadim's Dangerous Liaisons (1960). Regrettably , I haven't seen Vadim's film, but Forman's Valmont is excellent. In polite society comparisons are said to be odious. I shall proceed anywayJohn Malkovich vs. Colin Firth. Malkovich is widely recognized as a great actor, but he is clearly miscast in this role, yet he brings a predatory dimension to the part that is in keeping with the overall psychology of the movie. Firth, while not as celebrated for his acting skills as Malkovich, is nonetheless a fine actor, and his charm and playful inventiveness are more in keeping with the character of Valmont, whom women love. Call it even.Glenn Close vs. Annette Bening. Again Close is considered the more accomplished actor, but Bening is sexier, prettier and considerably more charming. Whether that is a plus as far as the reality of the novel and play are concerned is debatable. For my part I found Bening a lot more fun to watch. Edge to Bening.Michelle Pfeiffer vs. Meg Tilly. Pfeiffer is a much bigger star and has more experience as an actress. She is beautiful, but Tilly is more passionate. Pfeiffer was nominated for an academy award for best supporting actress for her work, but did not win. Personally I thought Tilly was more believable and was especially effective in projecting first the repressed passion and then the complete abandonment as she gives herself to Valmont. Pfeiffer's portrayal of Tourvel's coy awakening, with just a hint of duplicity, and then her utter dissolution when he leaves her, was star quality. Edge to Pfeiffer.Uma Thurman vs. Fairuza Balk. I loved them both. Thurman, of course, is a more statuesque beauty with a polished and controlled acting style, but Balk's wide-eyed innocence was a delight. Call it even.Keanu Reeves vs. Henry Thomas. Thomas was cute, but almost too juvenile to be believed. Reeves seemed just right for the part. Clear edge to Reeves.Frears vs. Forman. Frears's direction was more cynical, especially in the duel between Valmont and Merteuil in which their mutual and complementary debauchery is in sharp focus. And his resolution was more clearly defined. Forman's strength was in the delight and playfulness of many of the scenes, especially those relating to the seduction of Tourvel. His direction was more comedic and he allowed a greater development of secondary characters, while Frears concentrated more on the two leads. I give a very small edge to Forman, but would not argue with those preferring Frears.Bottom line I liked Forman's movie better, but the voters at IMDb.com preferred Frears's Dangerous Liaisons, giving it an average of 7.7 stars out of ten to 6.7 for Valmont. Some bon motsValmont tells Madame de Tourvel as he dumps her, My love had great difficulty outlasting your virtue. It's beyond my control.Valmont demands that the Marquise de Merteuil reply to his proposal of a night together, will it be love of war? He says, A single word is all that is required. Long pause, and then she gives him three, All right. (Pause.Cut to satisfied smile on Valmont's face.) War.When Valmont returns from making love to Madame de Tourvel he reveals to Merteuil that for the first time he may be in love. He relates his feelings to her, I love her. I hate her... The camera turns to Close, who yawns.Valmont's aunt while consoling Madame de Tourvel, who has confessed that she is in love with Valmont and can't help herself, says, reflecting the wisdom of all who have been there, In such matters all advice is useless.Toward the end, Valmont says, I have no illusions. I lost them on my travels. "},{"Title":"You can see why France had its revolution.","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Stephen Frears directs a top-notch movie adaptation of Choderlos de Laclos' novel about several manipulative Rococo-era French aristocrats. Marquise Isabelle de Merteuil (Glenn Close) is a seductively evil character who will stop at nothing to get what she wants. Vicomte Sebastien de Valmont (John Malkovich) knows how to trick the peasants into thinking that he's a good guy, despite his vampiric intentions. Madame Marie de Tourvel (Michelle Pfeiffer) and Le Chevalier Raphael Danceny (Keanu Reeves) may be only products of this vile society, but they are practically helpless to do anything about it. Maybe it's a little strange to see Keanu Reeves in a movie like this, but he makes the best of his role. All in all, Dangerous Liaisons is a movie that you can't afford to miss. Perfect. "},{"Title":"Wonderful mixture of deception, betrayal, and wickedness","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. Glenn Close was wonderful as usual, John Malkovich (wonderful as the bad guy we all love to hate in every movie) and Michelle were great, and the ending was great although sad. Glenn Close should have won the Oscar, as well as Michelle. Costumes and sets are beautiful. Watch this one if you are in the mood for betrayal, deception and characters that you want to slap.  "},{"Title":"Intriguing- and John Malkovich is WICKED!!!","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Vicomte de Valmont (John Malkovich) is set out to seduce the virtuous lady Madame de Tourvel (Michelle Pfeiffer) and the young virgin Cecile de Volanges (Uma Thurman), and the mastermind behind these dangerous games is Marquise de Merteuil (Glenn Close), who also manages to seduce Chevalier Danceny (Keanu Reeves), who has fallen in love with Cecile. According to the plan, de Valmont must betray and dump de Tourvel in the end and satisfy de Merteuil's desire for revenge. Watching de Tourvel succumb to her manipulation and suffer is her ultimate pleasure, and as well as Cecile's loss of innocence. Meanwhile, de Valmont has also become a pawn of de Merteuil's and eventually becomes a pitiful victim- he falls in love with de Tourvel, but, when he painfully chooses to carry out his mission, he breaks her heart by saying 'it is beyond my control'. Followed by an untypical ending for a Hollywood film.The costume design and the set design are fabulous indeed, but the acting is even more superb (except Keanu Reeves- he REALLY couldn't act, why didn't they find someone else?)- Glenn Close was simply stunning and John Malkovich was perfect for his role and he was just so wicked that I wish I was the one being seduced by him! HE WAS (AND STILL IS) HOT. Michelle Pfeiffer was convincing as the broken-hearted de Tourvel and the transformation of Uma Thurman's character- Cecile, is simply amazing. The dialogue is well-written, the direction is good, and the story is just fascinating. Highly recommended. John Malkovich once again impresses me. I also recommend the modern version remake 'Cruel Intentions', which I watched years later after seeing 'Dangerous Liaisons'.      "}{"Title":"Great fun to be a playa like Malkovich","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had an extraordinary cast (the incomprehensibly bad Keanu Reeves definitely excluded) which created a movie that still looks great 15 years later. I watched Cruel Intentions before Dangerous Liaisons and I like both of them, but in a different way. Cruel Intentions is a very cool movie mostly intended for the younger generations, simplifying the plot but still maintaining the very essence while Dangerous Liaisons puts more importance to the actors performance. Malkovich is amazing, so is Glenn Close and I especially liked the 17 year old Uma Thurman! 8/10  "},{"Title":"In the game of seduction there is one rule - Never fell in love","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"26 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Glenn Close, John Malcovich and Michelle Phieffer head  an all star cast in this lavish tale of Sex, Deception and delicious wickedness. Beneath the heaving corsets of 18th century France there lies a world of lust and deportuary which this film reveals.Glenn Close instructs her deviously seductive lover, John Malcovich to seduce the innocent Madame de Tourvelle (Michelle Pheiffer) a women renound for her religious beliefs, if he succeeds then she shall give him her body in one night of lust, but, one obstacle arises that she did not count on, the pair fall in love - thus beginning a battle of witts and seduction.This is a must see movie for everyone as is its counterpart - Cruel Intentions, a modern reworking of Dangerous Liaisons "},{"Title":"Brilliantly plunging the depths of corruption","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  !!!Spoilers aplenty!!!Since Frears' Dangerous Liaisons is set in the time of de Laclos' Text, unlike e.g. Cruel Intentions, it is important to note that the novel as a thinly disguised attack on the Ancien Regime - hence no redemption is possible, the end in death a necessity.The narrative relying far more on dialogue than action, I think Stephen Frears made the right choice in not speeding up the piece by frequent cutting. The pace at which the cabal develops is leisurely going towards slow, but I think that is advantageous. This is because its very slowness allows us to appreciate the atmosphere in which Merteuil and Valmont plan the ruination of innocents boredom, really. They have nothing better to do, so destroying others is a pastime to them.The settings, costumes, and makeup reinforce this atmosphere - they are splendidly done, and one may well talk of oppressive opulence. The opening of the film actually puts costume and make-up to symbolic use; it is inspired we follow Merteuil and Valmont through their morning toilette, getting dressed and made up, foreshadowing the masquerade they put on and in which they both are actors, but Merteuil is eventually revealed to be the director.The casting I thought superb. Malkovich is in my opinion perfectly suited to play Valmont precisely because he is not conventionally attractive. The character relies on his powers of manipulation and the occasional subterfuge for his `conquests,' and Malkovich achieves an accomplished embodiment of both - impossible to say no to, with just that necessary element of ruthlessness. There have been complaints that Glenn Close is not attractive enough to be the Marquise, but I disagree. Her character is motivated by a will to control and dominate. As she says herself `I was born to dominate your sex and to avenge my own' or words to that effect. Her sexuality similarly is not driven purely by pleasure, hence her refusal to give Valmont his reward. She sees him not conforming to the part she has `written' for him and re-establishes herself as unattainable unless he brings the ultimate sacrifice. And Glenn Close delivers this calculating woman so convincingly that it is easy for me at least to understand why Valmont would go to any length to bed her. Just as he wants Tourvel to betray everything she ever believed in, he wants the controlling Merteuil to submit to him - hence the repeated reminders of their past love. Merteuil at one point says that he was the only one she (almost? I'm not entirely sure) lost control with.The supporting actors I also find well chosen. Reeves may seem a strange choice, but the character is a bit of a wet blanket to start with, and he gives the docile creature easily manipulated by Valmont and Merteuil quite well. But better are Pfeiffer and Thurman, who both undergo convincing changes from innocents abroad to someone well on the way to a willing pupil of the Marquise and Vicomte (in Thurman's case) and to someone genuinely suffering from the opposing demands of morals and love (Pfeiffer).If you only watch one dialogue-driven costume drama set in the eighteenth century this year, make it this one (though if you can take more, give `The Madness of King George' a look-in, too). "},{"Title":"A lavish and superbly cruel film that easily engages with a strong story, great characters and strong performances","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Marquise Isabelle de Merteuil is a harsh and cold woman who views other women as her rivals as clearly as she holds them publicly close as friends. Victomte Sebastien de Valmont is equally out for the destruction of women but does so by seducing and destroying them. Merteuil turns to Valmont to seduce the chaste Cecile de Volanges, thus destroying her marriage but Valmont cannot help and feel that it is all too easy and instead wagers sex with Merteuil against him being able to seduce the notoriously moral Marie de Tourvel.While children flock to the infinitely inferior Cruel Intentions, the viewer of more discerning taste will always stick with this classy, rich and enjoyable version of Dangerous Liaisons. The plot can be summarised simply but has several strong threads running together to create an involving game of seduction and cruelty. The say the film is nasty and cruel is to perhaps not stress highly enough how enjoyable it is for being so; it is done with such a taste for it that it makes it engaging while also being repulsive in the depths the games go to. It develops very satisfyingly and I easily found myself drawn into it. It is to the credit of Hampton's script that I found the characters both horrible but yet also engaging &#150; unlike Cruel Intentions where I just hated their vacuous selfishness and couldn't barely bring myself to care about them enough to even dislike them. No, with DL the characters are much stronger and much more appealing while simultaneously managing to be cruel and repulsive.The cast rise to the material and I'm hard pressed to think of a similarly starry cast where all involved turn in such rich performances. Close is maybe not the most obvious of roles but she is all the better for it, turning in one of the most deliciously scheming and cruel characters I can recall seeing. With the excesses it is to her credit that she is so subtle and restrained for the majority. Malkovich has more fun with a showier character and makes it look easy where really it is challenging to play such an anti-hero and keep the audience onside while also pushing them away. Although these two make up the majority of the film, the smaller roles are also very well filled. Pfeiffer is brilliant; Thurman gets the mix of innocence and sexuality just right and Reeves is, well, not rubbish. I refrain from giving any credit to Kurtz simply because I think she lost whatever she was due by appearing in the same role in the MTV remake. Frears' direction is great and he makes good use of close-ups and other reoccurring techniques; he is well supported by his costume and set designers who combine to produce a tangible sense of time and place that is befitting the lavish feel of the whole film.Overall this is a fine film that is driven by so many factors that it is hard to pin down just one. The script is well written and produces an engaging and tasty plot for adults to get into. The characters are both engaging and repulsive and are well delivered by a cast that give roundly strong performances. All this comes together to produce a fantastically cruel film that just shows how poor Cruel Intentions was and what an insult to the intelligence it is. "},{"Title":"Doubtless, an appropriate ending!","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie about a week ago and thought it was quite good and rather fascinating. I really liked it. It was quite faithful to the book. `Dangerous liaisons' was interesting from beginning to end. I can't believe how incredible this movie was. I like John Malcovich's performance. He showed us his great acting skills. He was certainly well cast to play the main character Vicomte de Valmont. He really envelops himself into the role quite well. What about Glenn Close? I think she was amazing, I never thought she could act in films as interesting as this one. This movie is utterly stupendous. Have a look at the scenery in 18th century France where this movie takes place. It's great. I really enjoyed this movie every minute; Nevertheless I don't understand why some people said that this movie was too slow. I don't think it was slow. I think it was very fast instead, because the movie just lasted two hours. It wasn't definitely that long and slow. Glenn Close must have been the academy award winner for best actress in a leading role. Anyway, I think this movie was wonderful. The ending was thoroughly appropriate, Look at Glenn Close's face expressions when she's wiping her face and getting teary-eyed for having been ashamed in front of everybody because of what she did. She was certainly mean. This movie shows us that everybody gets what they deserve. She reminds me of Kathryn (Sarah Michell Gellar) in Cruel intentions. Cruel intentions was Ok; however `Dangerous liaisons' was much better. I really enjoyed this more than cruel intentions even though it's the same story.As for Michelle Pfieffer, What can I say? I think she was wonderful to portray Madame de Tourve. She's a revelation, What a tremendous actress!. Her academy award nomination for best actress in a supporting role was very well-deserved. I like the scene as she dies, but she dies realizing that Vicomte de Valmont loved her with his whole being.  All in all. It's worth watching and beautiful visually, the costumes are stunning. I'm glad this movie was over-rated. Glenn Close is one of the best actresses I have ever seen. Two thumbs up!! 9/10 "},{"Title":"A multi layered film with a very simple premise...","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen this film numerous times and is has massive obvious appeal. It's visually very beautiful, the photography the costumes and so on and I think all of the performances are either good or exceptional; I refer to those given by Glenn Close and John Malkovich, Who I consider to be one of the finest actors of his generation and a personal favourite. That the principal players are considered to be insufficiently physically attractive for the roles they play, I find curious. They are not conventionally attractive and I believe that adds interest, authority and an undeniable sense of power to the performances and the way the characters are presented. They are flawed, self regarding manipulative bullies whose behaviour is thoroughly vile but they also have enormous appeal. They are driven by a need to control the fate of others but are unable to control their own fate; they are equally victims.Conversely the character of Mm. de Tourvel as played by Michelle Pfeiffer is, in comparison, fairly colourless and uninteresting and her beauty is a hindrance rather than a help. Her soul is presented a pure but it is not, of course. She, as others, caved into her desires when her capacity to resist was sufficiently eroded. Valmont is well aware that he will succeed, though he didn't expect to fall in love and thus lose all control of the consequent course of events. For me, the weakest performance and the weakest character was that of Cecile Valanges played by Uma Thurman. There is little for her to do and she is not given much of a personality, even when one takes into account her young age. A performance which is thoroughly overlooked is that of Peter Capaldi as the Vicomptes clearly devoted manservant. He is aware of his masters nature but is able to see beyond this to the point of developing a love for him. The entire dual scene with Danceny is the most moving in the film when Valmont allows himself to be released from his torment. Particularly moving is the moment when Azolan places Valmont jacket around his deceased body as Danceny looks on apparently filled with a sense of regret. As this is interspersed with Danceny fulfilling Valmonts request to tell the dying Mm. de Tourvels of his immense love for her, the poignancy of their respective passing is added to tenfold. It is one of the most moving pieces of film I have seen. It is also the perfect build up to the final scenes in which the Marquise learns of Valmonts death and is so desperately distraught she appears tearing at her own skin before collapsing to the floor. She has lost all control but her character has not lost the sympathy of the audience. She has finally given into her true feelings and is, in the process is destroyed. Her final and very public destruction as she looks around, only her eyes moving, at the baying onlookers at the opera, who have, through the circulation of correspondence between her and Valmont, been made aware of the wicked acts planned and executed by both, is an acting triumph. The character is hollow and irreparably broken. "},{"Title":"A timeless masterpiece","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For ages now, ever since I first saw it, I absolutely adore this film. I can watch this again and again, because it is so well directed, acted, shoot, designed and researched.I have watched it several times and yet I have not discovered any flaws in acting or directing. (The flaws usually start to show if you watch something several times)This is one of the films that gets better each time you watch it as you discover new layers in the story and characters. John Malkovich and Glenn Close are absolutely brilliant as leading characters, the Machiavellian duo of 18th century aristocrats. Their acting is immaculate and powerful. Down to the very smallest nuances. This film contains lots of barely-there nuances on characters faces that speak volumes about their background story or true feelings. The nuances on the face of Mrs Merteuil are simply wonderful for a split second, when she knows nobody watches her she shows her true face; then puts on a most elaborate social mask at the next moment. I absolutely love that S. Frears has not chosen pretty faces for main characters. Some viewers have complained that Malkovich and Glose as principal master seducers aren't looking sexy enough themselves. I think this is a slightly primitive view of the matter. I love the fact that at the beginning they both come across as almost ugly and you think now really? But as the film goes on both become more and more attractive and seductive. Which means sexuality and attractiveness does not come down to pretty face. It is the character, soul inside the body that makes it attractive or not. And Mmoiselle Mertuil and Valmont both have this attractiveness of sinful and evil.But one of the masterstrokes of this film is that we eventually see that they are not fully evil, that even they have the piece of soul that is sincere, suffers and longs for true love. We understand, bit-by-bit that something has happened both to Mertuil and Valmont that has lead them to these evil games and ridiculing true love. Even though true love is what they foremost long, they would never admit it. That is why this story is timeless and very much contemporary. As what we see in the contemporary world, love, specially love between the man and a woman is what is least valued and cared for. Everything else seems to be more important &#150; imago, power, money, success &#150; and people stamp mercilessly over the gift given to them, disposing it as something inferior. And forgetting they once were able to love. As for comparison with Milosh Forman film &#150; the latter was OK, but not nearly as powerful and deep as Mr Frears'is version. In fact, the pretty faces in Forman's film made it more Hollywood cream-cake-like. This is not to say actors were bad, as I love Colin Firth and Anette Bening, but in this film their pretty faces simply did not cut. They were a kind of. too pretty, lacking the edge. I think it also the genius of Stephen Frears, how the film starts as a light comedy of manners and eventually escalates into a Greek tragedy.All casting was excellent. Some have complained about casting of Keanu Reeves, but I do not see why. I thought he like everyone else was spot-on for his role. He and Uma Thurman provided some very humorous moments as naive, puppy-like lovers, helpless pray for the sharks. If you liked this film then I assume you would also like Frears'is other masterpiece with a similar theme, The Grifters. It is set in the second half of 20 the century in USA and the protagonists are three con artists. It is as good as the Liasons, and these two belong to my top five films of all times. "},{"Title":"Love and pride at war","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Set in the aristocratic Paris of 1760, Dangerous Liaisons tells an enthralling story of love, deceit and manipulation. With a lifetime experience as manipulators and reputation injurers, the Marquise de Merteuil (Glenn Close) and the Vicomte de Valmont (John Malkovich) unite to plot against their mutual rivals. Merteuil seeks revenge against an ex-lover by destroying his future wife's honor. Valmont wants to improve himself in the seduce and destroy game he's used to play, by choosing a target more difficult than ever Madame de Tourvel (Michelle Pfeiffer). Attracted by each other's machiavellianism, the two conspirators arrange an additional challenge achieving Madame de Tourvel's seduction becomes a condition for Valmont to deserve a night with Merteuil. But as the story unfolds, involving more and more characters, the two protagonists will dramatically lose control over their games.The roles are played to perfection by each actor in the cast, Close and Malkovich stand beyond reproach, Reeves and Thurman make excellent appearances in two of their earlier roles, but Michelle Pfeiffer is the one who moves us most, as we witness her desperately fighting against her feelings in order to keep her integrity. Praises should not be directed solely to the cast sets, lighting, costumes, music&#x85; everything immerses us into the atmosphere of that time, and makes us feel as if we're really part of the story. The quality of the production shows how an all-American team used his appreciation of French culture to succeed in its adaptation. I have watched this movie about 15 times and still didn't find any flaw. In my opinion, it deserves 10 out of 10.Another thing to note is the French audio track. I usually watch American movies in their original language, but in this Blu-Ray, both languages are remarkably done. The ancient French phrasing plunges us even more in the ambiance of this time.But if there's only one reason one should purchase this Blu-Ray (released in February 2012), it's the story. The progress of events fascinates us, fastens us to our chair, and makes us beg for more, until it leads us to one of the most unforgettable climax in movie history. An ending that keep us thinking about the tormented relationships between love and pride, between love and the ones who play with it. "},{"Title":"Wow, a nearly perfect movie experience","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just finished this movie and my only reaction was, wow. What an astounding film. Nuanced in every way, epic, moving, real. Glenn Close and John Malkovich dominate the screen. In my opinion, Madame de Mertruil is the most fascinating character... both a villain and a victim. A powerful woman in an age where women had little power. The scene that really illustrated this was when she told Valmont that she never took another husband so that she could never again be ordered around. She has manipulated and done terrible and unspeakable deeds, caused two deaths, ruined lives, but she is not entirely unsympathetic. And at the end we see her once again in front of the mirror, and she's truly lost everything. An epic film. Absolutely must see. "},{"Title":"Brilliant on pretty much all levels!","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ten minutes into Dangerous Liaisons' I just knew I was watching a film shaped so well to my sensibilities. Sharp, witty, gorgeously photographed and ultimately tragic period drama is my forte, so I lapped up Stephen Frears' film with ease. I just loved it so much. I was familiar with the plot already, thanks to the teen movie 'Cruel Intentions' (which is actually a pretty darn good teen flick), but I was still floored by this film. Glen Close excels as the conniving 18th century woman whose special talent is deceit, and who lusts after the equally cynical John Malkovich (surprisingly sexy). The lovely pair amuse themselves by causing havoc in other people's lives, but when Malkovich decides to bed a virtuous married woman (Michelle Pfeiffer) to prove a point, things go awry. He falls for her. Love was never supposed to enter his callous game. I was hooked throughout, because the script is so sharp and the performances are exemplary (even the always wooden Keanu Reeves doesn't manage to spoil things!). Brilliant costumes and arresting photography make this film even more of a treat. Malkovich's final scene, duelling in the snow, unable to get the fragile lover he has spurned out of his mind, is haunting. "}{"Title":"Valmont is Cecile's father","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think is strange no one has mentioned this before. Valmont tells Cecile that he slept with her mother before she was born. Madame de Volange did not sleep in the same room as her soon to be husband, and could therefor visit Valmont in his room that night. She became pregnant that night, and since she did not want Valmont as her husband, she therefor told the other man that he was the father, and they had to get married. Later in the movie, Cecile becomes pregnant with Valmont, but has a miscarriage. That is because the baby was a result of father and daughter incest. Read the book, and watch the movie closely, there are more clues.. "},{"Title":"A wickedly entertaining game.","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Continuing his incredibly diverse career, Stephen Frears made his first period piece (a genre he would return to several times) with Dangerous Liaisons, working from a script by Christopher Hampton adapted from his own play which was itself adapted from Choderlos de Laclos' novel. Set in France in the late 1700s, Liaisons is a delightfully wicked tale of the games of sex and power played by the upper-class. Glenn Close portrays the Marquise Isabelle de Merteuil, who recruits her ex-lover and notorious seducer Vicomte Sebastien de Valmont (John Malkovich) to get a little revenge by seducing the young Cecile de Volanges (Uma Thurman). But first, Valmont has another conquest on his mind, in the form of the married and well-mannered Madame de Tourvel (Michelle Pfeiffer).The two of them embark on a twisty labyrinth of power moves and sexual conquests, destroying anyone who comes in their path before ultimately realizing that their true battle is with one another. Liaisons strikes a potent balance of comedy and drama, with plenty of incredible sharp and humorous scenes to go along with the extraordinarily emotional ones. Frears keeps the whole thing moving fluidly and is able to do very well at combining the many different aspects of it's tone. There's a modern quality to the writing that never falls into the stuffy banality that can often hinder films set in this time period; instead it all feels alive and exciting.You can tell that Malkovich was having a ball with this character and his charisma is infectious, driving the whole picture with a kind of charm and energy that makes the time fly by. He isn't a particularly handsome man, but somehow he is able to exude this sexual charge that makes it easy to see how the man is so capable of bringing women to their knees around him, and he's matched by the icy power of Close's Merteuil.This is Glenn Close doing what she does best, a performance built from the inside out, where the further we go along the more the layers start to unfold. Merteuil is one of the best characters of her long and illustrious career, a woman obsessed with having all of the cards, sworn to herself to conquer and never be conquered. She creates a character mysterious and fascinating, drawing you in but never quite revealing her true self and always leaving you guessing.The contrast for her is Tourvel, played by Pfeiffer with such an honest sincerity, wearing her emotions firmly on her sleeve for the entire picture. Unlike Merteuil, with Tourvel you know exactly how she is feeling at all times and Pfeiffer excels at the emotional anguish the game between Valmont and Merteuil puts her through. After a delightful the first act, the film gets a little long-winded in the middle, but it's all more than worth it when it comes around to it's grand finale. The battle of sex and power between these two lovers comes to a head and the final result is explosive, dramatic and painfully realized. It's operatic in more ways than one.I loved how the film opened and closed on shots of Merteuil. In the opening frame we see her in full makeup, completely in her disguise as the composed and detached woman she wants everyone to see her as. In the final shot though, she has been ravaged by this personal war and as she removes her makeup we finally see Merteuil for who she really is, a pitiful and broken woman who is forever alone. It's a powerhouse performance by Close in a very impressive film. "},{"Title":"enjoyable psychological fantasy","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dangerous Liaisons, based on an oft-adapted epistolary novel from the waning days of the French ancien regime, is given as straightforward a treatment by director Stephen Frears as one could give a story with so many twists and turns that it taxes the brain after a while. Like many other European works, this one is about well-to-do schemers (The Marquise de Merteuil, played by Glenn Close and the Vicomte de Valmont, played by John Malkovich) who have learned from years of social interaction how to micro-manipulate people &#x96; whether to protect themselves or to get what they want - with the skill of world-class chess players or scientists with lab rats. After about an hour of these intricate moves it gets a bit difficult to tell who is doing what to whom and why, and since all of the plot developments hinge on the outcome of various seamlessly clever deceptions, the overall effect is somewhat tedious. This sense is reinforced by the style of the film extreme close-ups for the mostly conversational interactions, alternating with long-shots to establish the grandiose backdrops against which these interactions are occurring, and then back to extreme close-ups. I eventually stopped trying to figure out exactly where each sequence fit into the whole and concentrated on the nuanced performances, splendid period costumes and décor, assuming that all of the details would work themselves out clearly by the end; fortunately, they do &#x96; not convincingly, but at least satisfactorily as a kind of psychological fantasy. The relationship between Valmont and Mme. Tourvel (Michelle Pfeiffer) is problematic. We know that Valmont wants to maneuver the devout Mme. Tourvel into seduction with her complete cooperation, all the better to humiliate her to the core, but I never believed that she could fall in love with &#x96; and even be driven to near madness by - Valmont as incarnated by Malkovich. He has a sinister magnetism, largely due to the catlike curl of his lips, but he is also more in the mold of Bela Lugosi-as-Dracula, rather than a virile rake with a well-known string of conquests to his name, and not the type of guy who would attract the likes of Pfeiffer. He projects eroticism from his face and through his voice, which is the result of his actorly skill and also fortunate for this film because his body is unsexy, and wisely camouflaged by long jackets. But back to his character, it is not only hard to believe that Pfeiffer has fallen in love with him, but also that he has fallen in love with her, as he claims. Nothing in his treatment of her suggests anything other than psychological brutality. His performance is characterized by deliberately wooden line readings so strange that it's like Al Franken doing a Saturday Night Live spoof of the film. Uma Thurman, as Malkovich's secondary victim, is perfect as the naïve teenager ripe for the taking. But the real glory is Glenn Close, a fascinating actress who has the Streep-like ability to fully inhabit any character she plays. With her hawklike features, beady eyes and pale skin, she is particularly good at projecting highly intelligent, cold cruelty. Christopher Hampton's script is dappled with dry, literate wit and cynical wisdom reminiscent of Oscar Wilde. A sword fight (the context of which I will not reveal) is particularly well staged and realistically acted.The tragedy of Valmont and Merteuil, hinted at in one of Merteuil's own monologues about how she learned to survive in a cutthroat social environment, is perhaps that they have built up such powerful defenses against hurt and humiliation that they have suffocated their ability to love and be loved. And in the end, as a result, all that remains is pain. "},{"Title":"a modern soap opera in fancy period dress","Date":"12 November 2010","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This playfully cynical costume drama exposes the difference between the polite manners and bloodthirsty morals of mid 18th century nobility, as the Maquise de Merteuil and the Vicomte de Valmont (Glen Close and John Malkovich, respectively) exercise their wiles in competitive games of sex and corruption. The film highlights some of Stephen Frears' most self-assured direction to date, but screenwriter Christopher Hampton's adaptation of his own successful stage play lacks teeth the supposedly razor-sharp dialogue all too often sounds wooden and anachronistic (try to recall a single line afterward), and the dramatic payoff is unaccountably soft. The scenario demands to be read as a microcosm of the eternal battle between the sexes, with women using sex to gain power and men using power to get sex, but the message is mixed in the end Malkovich is redeemed by true love, while Close is ruined by it. Deep down it's simply a modern soap opera in fancy period dress, enjoyable but wildly overpraised. "},{"Title":"A Period Masterpiece","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" John Malcovich is undoubtedly a fine actor, But on some level doesn't quite fully inhabit the part of Valmont. That said Close particularly and Malcovich bring much credibility to the roles.. Writer Hampton and director Freears really improved on the book in this tale of woe. Michelle Pfeiffer utterly believable as the naive Madame de Tourvel.Ever wondered why people act brutally towards those they claim to love?. Look no further than this movie. And yet at its most callous heart, lies the love two people feel for each other and its tragic consequences. Never relenting in pace, this movie has been imitated in subsequent releases but never equalled. The soundtrack is outstanding and is used to powerful effect.The supporting cast is great except for a rather miscast Keanu Reeves who stumbles his way self consciously from scene to scene. Thurman is great as the young lady coming into society and Swoosie Kurtz really knows how to reveal her characters flawed superiority.The whole movie succeeds overall via the powerful acting of Close, whose performance as the Marquise Isabelle de Merteuil is one of the best female performances ever; a clinically observed virtuoso of deceit by her own admission. Surely no good can come of her machinations?Watch and find out "},{"Title":"Lifestyles of the Rich and Infamous","Date":"29 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Glenn Close, John Malcovich, Uma Thurman, Keanu Reeves, and Michelle Pfeiffer engage in Dangerous Liaisons, based on the 17th Century French novel. It's a pre-French Revolution look at the dalliances and mischief among the bored upper class.Glenn Close is the amoral Madame de Merteuil who likes to play games that will mess up other people's lives, and she thinks nothing of doing so. Her accomplice is the pleasure-seeking Valmont (John Malcovich). de Merteuil wants to wreck the wedding night of the man betrothed to the beautiful Cecile (17-year-old Uma Thurman). Since her fiancé is expecting a virgin, de Merteuil sets Valmont to seduce her. Malkovitch also goes after the challenging Madame de Tourvel (Pfeiffer), a married, faithful, religious woman. What no one takes into account is that someone during these dalliances might actually fall in love.The production values are sumptuous and the costumes amazing, as are the performances of all involved, particularly Close and Malcovich. It's a fascinating, sexy, beautifully done film that will keep you fascinated all the way through. "},{"Title":"Brilliant adaptation and streets ahead of its rival.","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've just watched Valmont and Dangerous Liaisons back to back and immediately after reading the book (I had seen Dangerous Liaisons before and loved it). I loved the book, and Dangerous Liaisons is a good and reasonably faithful adaptation of it, and certainly close to its bitter spirit. Valmont is a much looser and poorer adaptation of the book, and thus deserved to lose out on its rival film. The acting in Valmont is pretty decent, particularly Colin Firth, but John Malkovitch (Valmont), Glenn Close (Merteuil) and Michelle Pfeiffer (de Tourvel) are much more convincing in Dangerous Liaisons. Only Fairuza Balk (Cecile) is more plausible in Valmont than her counterpart in Dangerous Liaisons (Una Thurman). "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites.","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dangerous Liaisons is one of my all-time favorite movies. Everything about it screams taste! John Malkovich delivers a performance with subtleties I haven't seen another film actor come close to touching. I was cheering with every snide remark. Glenn Close, once again, molds the clay of her character into a beautifully sculpted work of art. The chemistry between these two giants really took a powerful script and turned it into a masterpiece beyond words. Michelle Pfeiffer played the role that she plays best. . . a plain woman, which can't really be sneered at, considering that the character really needed to be portrayed just that way. The biggest surprise, I think, was Uma Thurman's strong performance as Cecile de Volanges. I think this movie showcases her talent beyond many of her subsequent roles. The one disappointment in the movie was Keanu Reeves' weak delivery of a weak character and left much to be desired. He reminds me of a high school student auditioning for a role in a school play, for which he is miserably denigrated by the drama director. He seems like a lost child in this film.Apart from Keanu's vacant performance, the movie was near flawless. The set design and art direction should have been awarded top honors. The script was a wonderfully self-indulgent literary masterpiece. The music was perfect, the direction was no more, nor less, than everything that needed to be. This film is a must-see for anyone who thinks the average love story could use a dramatic twist. It can be long-winded at times, but it's always a compelling dialogue. Lust. Seduction. Revenge. The Game As You've Never Seen It Played Before. "},{"Title":"Unsatisfying adaptation of a great novel","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Les Liaisons Dangereuses (Dangerous Liaisons) has been one of my favorite books ever since I read it in a college French class a few years before the movie came out.  It is a novel of dark wit and keen insight into human behavior and psychology.  I was really looking forward to seeing the film.  Well, to me, it was a major disappointment.For one thing, I don't think this movie was well-cast.  I like John Malkovich (I think he was excellent in In the Line of Fire, Places in the Heart, and even in a small part in Jennifer Eight), but he was the wrong person to play Valmont.  Yes, he does a good job of conveying the character's perfidy and viciousness, but in my view, he was so lacking in charm that he just wasn't very credible as a master seducer; not did he come across as smooth and aristocratic, the way he should.  It didn't help that at some points, the film had him acting more like a frat boy than an aristocrat -- like flick his tongue at one of his conquests, or sprint up the stairs yelling Success! after scoring with another.Glenn Close was better as Madame de Merteuil, but while she captured the duplicity of the Marquise -- the surface sweetness concealing an essential ruthlessness -- she didn't exude sexual magnetism, either.  The only good choices were Michelle Pfeiffer, lovely and touching as the beguiled Madame de Tourvel, and Swoosie Kurtz in the minor part of Madame de Volanges.  Uma Thurman was mostly forgettable as Cecile, and the less said of Keanu Reeves as Danceny, the better.****SPOILERS COMING****The screenplay was mostly quite good, and the writers did a very successful job of adapting a novel that consisted of exchanges of letters.  I certainly don't fault them for not being 100% faithful to the novel -- that often doesn't work on the screen.  However, some of the departures from the book didn't work well at all and didn't make much sense.  I cannot for the life of me understand why Cecile's young suitor Danceny was turned into a music teacher.  (In the novel, he sings duets with Cecile, but doesn't teach her.)  Danceny is an aristocrat and a social equal of the other characters; an 18th Century French aristocrat would never have been employed as a music teacher, or as anything else for that matter!  (Had he been a commoner, he never could have challenged Valmont to a duel.)Another problem in the novel, when Valmont breaks up with Madame de Tourvel at the Marquise's instigation, he does so by sending her a casually cruel letter -- copying it word for word from the Marquise's letter.  I know it wouldn't have been very dramatic.  However, in the film, when he announces the breakup to de Tourvel in a face-to-face confrontation, it takes away some of that casual cruelty... especially since he shows far too much emotion.  Madame de Tourvel would have figured out that something was going on and he didn't really want to dump her.Finally, the ending was artificially sweetened.  A dying Valmont asks Danceny to tell Madame de T. that he loved her and that the only true happiness he had ever experienced was with her; Danceny goes over to see the ailing Madame de T. and gives her Valmont's message before she dies.  The ending of the novel is far more ambiguous.  While Valmont does profess love for Madame de Tourvel and regret for what he has done to her, whether he is sincere or faking it in order to win her over one more time and feed his own ego is left deliberately unresolved. And while he does write her a letter of apology, she is delirious when she received it.  There is no consolation for her before she dies.Les Liaisons Dangereuses is still awaiting a worthy screen adaptation.  (The 1989 film Valmont by Milos Forman wasn't all that good and strayed way too far from the plot of the novel.)  Personally, I'm inclined to think that the only way justice can be done to the book is in a miniseries of 6 hours or so, like the one they recently did of Pride and Prejudice.  It's the only way to capture the novel's psychological subtleties and the subplots that are quite crucial to character development.   "},{"Title":"A big disappointment","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After hearing for years how wonderful this movie is, I finally sat down and watched it, and was thoroughly disappointed. I especially found Malkovich a bit too whiny to be believable as the Vicomte de Valmont. He is supposed to be a lover of many women but I find it hard to believe many would be drawn to him in this film. Glenn Close does perform well except that I don't believe her character could be believed to be anything but a hardened woman, disappointed in love and badly used in marriage. I do credit Michelle Pfeiffer as giving a good performance as Madame de Tourvel. It is believable although not quite as I had pictured it when reading the book.I have not seen the more recent film, Cruel Intentions based on the book, but I have seen Valmont. Of the two versions, I much prefer Valmont. Although it does not follow the book's plot, it is definitely believable and Annette Bening is exactly how I would picture Madame de Mertueil absolutely an angel in public, but cunning and deceitful behind the scenes. Colin Firth seems a far more likely Valmont, very likeable and difficult for a woman to resist. My only complaint with that film was the lack of consistency in the accents of the characters. "}{"Title":"Cruel Intentions for Adults","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Rich and bored aristocrats in Rococo France play high-stakes games of passion and betrayal.I was born too late, and somehow Cruel Intentions was more familiar to my generation than this film. Somehow it went under my radar until now (2015), which seems like a real shame. Some great plot elements, full of devious deceit. And a solid cast, including the pre-fame Uma Thurman and a very young Keanu Reeves (who acts as strange as always).There is added weight to this film when compared to Cruel Intentions because of the aristocratic atmosphere. As powerful as rich teenagers may be, the French nobility is even more so. This also adds an element of rape that is somewhat disturbing. Although there is no violence, John Malkovich's character uses trickery to force himself on various women (including one who may even be his own daughter). No good. "},{"Title":"Dangerous, indeed, to the psyche; deeply sad and disturbing but beautiful to look upon","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In pre-Revolution France, two extremely wealthy people play games with others' lives. The Marquise (Glenn Close) picks up and discards men one after the other. This may be because she has long been in love with a notorious rake, the Viconte (John Malkovich). He, too, refuses to fall in love and plays with the hearts of many women. This horrible twosome also likes to egg each other on. Thus, when the Marquise learns that a gentleman of her acquaintance is insisting on marrying a beautiful virgin, Cecile (Uma Thurman), she asks the Viconte to seduce this young gal first. There will be a reward. Cecile is soon the victim of this scheme. However, the Marquise proposes a more difficult challenge to the count. There is a lovely young bride, Madame de T (Michelle Pfeiffer) whose husband is often away. This lady is beautiful and has a spotless reputation for resisting the advances of any other men. Ah, here is a challenge indeed. Thus, while the Marquise begins a romance with a much younger man (Keanu Reeves), the Vic begins his subtle assault on Madame. What will be the consequences of these terrible games with others hearts? This lovely to look at film, with sumptuous sets and costumes, is truly sad and depressing at its core. Yes, the actors are all very fine and it is at times amusing to witness the evil plotting of the two main characters. However, as the movie is based on a long ago play, it truly shows that there is never anything new under the sun as wickedness is indeed present at every age, every century. No, don't see this one if you are feeling blue already, as it will not restore your good spirits. But, most film fans will want to view this one at least once, as it is an exploration of hearts of darkness as few others do quite as well. "},{"Title":"Dangerous Liaisons","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all, no offense, but calling John Malkovich conspicuously charming and watching him French-kissing both Michelle Pfeiffer and Uma Thurman (an underage ingenue), have smeared the film for me, at least it is my case, maybe many will rebuke my subjective opinion (I am not a girl so what the hack do I know?), but owing to the fact that he had been almost exclusively snubbed by the award season, while the film has clutched 7 Oscar nominations (including BEST PICTURE, BEST ACTRESS for Close and BEST S. ACTRESS for Pfeiffer) and 3 wins (Adapted Screenplay, Art Direction and Costume Design), which has a clear-cut spin from the mass and the critics at that time, I am not saying it is an awful performance (on the contrary, Malkovich is conspicuously in his top-form to indulge himself into the libidinous libertine alter ago), but a miscast sometimes does besmirch the film, it happens (let's not mention the callow couple Reeves and Thurman here). Although the opulent costumes and Rococo interior decor will never be tainted by time since they are meticulously reinstated that period, the film itself has bit by bit lost its relish which may be the characteristic eminence from the source novel and play an intricate scrutiny of the sex-and-love tangles dominated by jealousy, vanity, revenge, lust and possession, and it's well-off echelon's game, so the detachment is not only from time, but also from some moral apathy towards the rotten class. Director Stephen Frears is a polymorphous journeyman, but falls shy of distinctiveness (usually his works are more actor-driven vehicles, to wit, THE QUEEN 2006, 8/10; MRS. HENDERSON PRESENTS 2005, 8/10; DIRTY PRETTY THINGS 2002, 8/10; THE GRIFTERS 1990, 7/10), in this periodic sex drama, mostly indoor tableaux, Frears relies on his Oscar-caliber cast to enrich the sentimental spectacle. Close and Pfeiffer are pitch-perfect as the antithesis of women, a feline matriarch vs. an innocent victim (a similar situation in Iain Softley's UK-based period melodrama THE WINGS OF THE DOVE 1997, 8/10), both have their Oscar-worthy meaty baits up their sleeves, Close has honed up to a magnificent breakdown scene, a theater-exiting drama and a make-up removing curtain call all near the end; while Pfeiffer's role has an inherent affinity resonating with the audience merely by the wretched prey default. So, put the film into the context of 21 century, the film and its story might sounds mawkish and theatrical, but still we have a Chinese version this year by South Korean director Jin-ho Hur, starring a stellar Chinese-Korean cast, Ziyi Zhang, Dong-gun Jang and Cecilia Cheung, but after watching this Hollywood version, I think I should skip the new version in case of a worse exploitation may make me sick to the hilt. "},{"Title":"Illusions of course are by their nature sweet.","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Stephen Frears. If you'd only shown me THE HIT and THE GRIFTERS, I'd have said he was one of the best crime directors around. If I'd only seen SAMMY AND ROSIE GET LAID and MY BEAUTIFUL LAUNDRETTE, I'd admit that he was a fine chronicler of Thatcher Britain, a Mike Leigh without pretensions, Ken Loach without the dullness. Add HIGH FIDELITY and PRICK UP YOUR EARS none of these would have prepared me for THE HI-LO COUNTRY, an elegantly brutal Peckinpah-inspired Western elegy. I don't believe even then I'd have thought him capable of making DANGEROUS LIAISONS into my favorite costume romance less precious than AMADEUS, immensely more human than BARRY LYNDON, far greater in impact and emotional scope than THE DUELISTS, and altogether more grown-up than any Golden Age tights-and-rapier entry it has been my pleasure to watch. Truth be told, I'm not such a fan of Frears' most recent decade, but this man made some of the best movies produced between 1984 and 2000, in a breadth of idiom perhaps unique among present English-language directors. How many directors versed in urban comedy have ever succeeded at wig pieces? And Westerns? And gangster epics? And intimate relationship dramas? Hawks comes to mind, and Curtiz. Wyler. Wellman, maybe, and Ford, though I don't think they're much as comedians. Stevens, but his sandal pieces are a yawn. Powell and Pressburger never made a Western, though they could have, and Welles like Kubrick never got to, and Mankiewicz's sucked. And today? Who is there? Weir maybe, Boorman maybe, Forman maybe, and Hilcoat and Dominik show promise, but they're none of them funny. Ridley Scott? James Mangold? Please. You have to go back to the old studio system to find artists this versatile. And that's just the director.This is the movie that introduced filmgoers to the leading-man potential of the decidedly un-pretty eccentric John Malkovich, and to the surprising comic talent of a fashion model named Uma Thurman. It also features top turns from Mildred Natwick, Peter Capaldi, and Swoosie Kurtz. Michelle Pfeiffer has never been better, and Keanu Reeves may never have been good again. Glenn Close is terrifying in her power. But it's Malkovich who leaves the indelible impression this idiosyncratic performance, in manner both modern and timeless, is more than entertaining. It is astonishing. It is a man naked, aided of course by a perfectly written character demanding a range of feeling and nuance. But the performer is the delivery system for three and four emotions at once, in some scenes offering a display so rare as to make me forget that I like other actors.And that's just the cast.Christopher Hampton's script (from his own play) retains much of the dialog and all of the wit of Choderlos de Laclos's original novel, without the ponderous moralizing. Hampton teaches not with a sermon but with banter. Very infrequently have I been so consistently charmed by language, though the words are only decoration to this world. We are enveloped by cruel pleasures, corrupt glamor, all the decadence we can eat and all the horror we can witness without dying of shock. There is real danger here, not just the nip-out-the-window bedroom farce variety but the peril of violent spiritual and physical destruction. It's an operatically tragic story that manages to inspire catharsis by exploring cynicism. How many of those have you seen lately? And how gorgeous it is to see! The genius Philippe Rousselot has been responsible for some really unbelievable footage. L'OURS alone would place him in the pantheon of photographer gods; then remember HENRY AND JUNE and A RIVER RUNS THROUGH IT and DIVA and THE GREAT DEBATERS (not great movies, though you can't blame how they look), and you have to wonder why he is not a household name. The least that one can say of his work on this piece is that it makes Miroslav Ondricek's on VALMONT look like British television. Rousselot illuminates the weave of every fabric in James Acheson's wonderful costumes, and records all the murky or sunny detail of Stuart Craig's sets, yet keeps enough distance to make Malkovich's missing-link face an almost heroic object. That's beyond talent into grace.When Valmont instructs Cecile in one or two Latin terms, the joke is funny; then Frears cuts to a priest offering a Latin benediction, and we feel the bond between flesh and spirit. A peacock calls periodically during Valmont's country seductions -- you can barely hear it, and you never see it, but there it is, that fragile, prideful bird quietly alerting you that what is happening is deeper than genre or style. This is art that thing telling you what you might have known of life if only you'd been able to think with the mind of God.All this plus a swordfight both dramatic and dramatically significant, illustrating theme, character and story. Top that, Ang Lee. "},{"Title":"Among the best costume dramas","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This novel by Chodorlos de Laclos must have been quite scandalous in the time of Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette. There seem to have been so many filmed versions. The only other one I have seen is Valmont, and while that one is OK, this one is far superior. John Malkovich seems to have been born to play the Viscomte de Valmont. And Glenn Close as the Marquise de Merteuil, wow what can you say? Uma Thurman and Keanu Reeves hit all the right notes as utterly ingenuous (at first) puppy-love stricken youngsters. And the beauty of Michelle Pfeiffer as Marie de Tourvel, is striking. Her performance is as awesome as her pulchritude. Really this film is among the best costume dramas I have seen, and I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Reluctantly went to see it when it was first released and was quite surprised by the absorbing story. Had the potential to be ruined by going over the top, but didn't. It's sort of a morality play but that only adds to the impact of watching the characters destruct. Fine performances, even by John Malkovitch who was terribly miscast. I can believe him to be evil and creepy, but he's simply not credible as a renowned seducer of virtuous women. Not even with the hairpiece added. He's just not attractive or sexy in the least.Glenn Close was the consummate intrigue-plotting, nasty, vicious b---h. Michelle Pfeiffer was excellent as the delicate, religious, faithful wife. Uma Thurman was suitably vapid as the naive virgin. "},{"Title":"a tale of deception, lies, lust and intrigue","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Malkovich stars as a  man playing the game with both Michelle Pfeiffer and Uma Thurman in this absoultely beautiful best picture nominee. The webs of deception branch out into eventual tragedy. Brilliant acting and costuming. A movie of high intrigue. on a scale of one to ten.. 9 "},{"Title":"Gets better by the minute, despite the Cruel (but clumsy) Intentions of some ...","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have read the novel, seen the Milos Forman's Valmont (greatly vindicated by Cruel Intentions) and nothing compares with the great interpretation of Frears, Close, Malkovich and Pfeiffer, give to this history, what a great film this is. This film is all of those guys at their best and more.I read a comment by a user were she said that she felt like throwing her TV through the window, my advise to this DG's fellow lover is to keep the TV set, get rid of Cruel Intentions' DVD and forget about it. That way you will be able to enjoy Dangerous Liaisons, as much as you like, as often as you like and with many friends as you like. It will be beyond your control.  "},{"Title":"My all time favorite film","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dangerous Liaisons is probably my all time favorite film.  I absolutely LOVE this movie.  I love everything about it.  Honestly, I think it should have won best picture (yes Rain Man WAS good, but come on now.) And Glenn Close should have won the oscar (Jodie Foster is a great actress, but i just didn't care for The Accused).John Malkovich is perfect as Valmont, and Michelle Pfeiffer will never be better.If you haven't seen this movie yet, then you must rent it and it will probably become one of your favorites too.Right when I saw this movie I HAD to buy right away, and I did.  I still watch it all the time, it gets better and better.I gave it a 10, of course. "},{"Title":"Colder than neccesary?","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched Dangerous Liaison twice in the last year - once before and once after performing as Valmont in a play based on the original. As the cast of a play that had been made as a movie earlier, we agreed to watch the movie simply to help us understand the plot, and acquire the feel of the 18th century, and completely ignore the way that the actors portray their characters. However only after our opening night did I really understand that the movie was really a misuse of the original text. Indeed, it follows the Christopher Hampton play to the letter, but the cold and almost tiring way that John Malkovich and Glenn Close portray characters that were designed to be witty, lively, cunning, and hugely emotional, is a complete perversion of what Hampton, and originally Lacleux, had in mind. This is not to say that a movie should follow the book it has been based on without a single change, but somehow, after reading the play, the novel, and performing it in stage, watching the movie again I realized that it lacked a certain life However, this movie (although slightly in excess of unused potential) is still a masterpiece. "}{"Title":"Truly Dangerous Liaisons.","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If I were to be asked what my favorite movie was, Dangerous Liaisons would be my answer, even though I am not a big fan of romantic drama movies.The film contains a combination of two aspects that I believe make it excel(1)a magnificent plot, dealing with the wide range of human emotions and behavior, guided either strictly by raw desire for control and power, lust, or malice, or by pure, virgin love (or can all these drives be separated?), and(2)superb performances by actors and actresses who are able to develop and transmit these emotions and take up all the stages of human existence, from honest to deceitful, loving to loathing, prudish to lascivious, sanguine to insecure.Add a few nice costumes, some aristocracy titles, and you have a recipe for magic! "},{"Title":"A Masterful Study In Manipulation And Intrigue","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  English director Stephen Frears directed this eighteenth century French tale of sexual deception and intrigue, and although most of the leading cast members are American the film has a distinctly European feel to it. The story centres around the machinations of two decadent French aristocrats (Glenn Close and John Malkovich) for whom the principal pleasure in life is to be found in the cynical manipulation of the sentiments of others. Malkovich, entirely believable as a powerful and ruthless seducer of women is first given the task of seducing a young woman (Uma Thurman) whose husband-to-be has deserted Close to marry Thurman, but finds the task insufficient and soon turns his attentions to the perfectly virtuous Madame Touvier (Michelle Pfeiffer). The liaison is to prove dangerous to both of them. Close, Pfeiffer and Thurman are all perfectly cast, as is Malkovich who plays the role of his life. Not possessed of matinee-idol looks, he nevertheless shows how it is possible to attract and stimulate women on quite different levels, and that mental and imaginative stimulation is the most powerful and dangerous of all. The film possesses extraordinary energy and sophistication and, while it shows that the devil has the best tunes, functions not only as a fascinating study into sexual motivation but as a profoundly moral warning against the complete disregard for the profoundest feelings of others. The final denouement is as unexpected as it is dramatic. One of the best films of the decade. "},{"Title":"Excellent Acting!","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is, Undoubtably, my Favorite film of all time. Glenn Close and John Malkovich are superb. So is Michelle Pfeiffer. The only one I thought, who was not so good, was Keanu Reeves. The costumes were excellent and also the sets. The last scene where Close is looking in the mirror is fantastic. It actually makes you hold your breath! An amazing film! "},{"Title":"Playful and fresh European romance.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Dangerous Liaisons' is one of the very few films that combine a heavy subject with an uplifting freshness. At the risk of being accused of arrogance, I would call it a truly European film, with a touch of Hollywood-fantasy unrealness. A true masterpiece, at a level with 'Heavenly Creatures' and Branagh's 'Much Ado about Nothing' "},{"Title":"Highly recommended!","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The scenery is lush, the dialogue is like music, the characters are engaging, and the acting is impeccable (with the exception of Keanu Reeves-but what else is new?).John Malkovich and Glenn Close are perfectly cast as they try to out-wit, out-scheme and out-do one another.  If you don't believe me, check out 'Valmont', a weak attempt at this great story.This film has remained on my top ten list for the last ten years.  "},{"Title":"Close and Malcovich excellent","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite a somewhat weak supporting cast -yes, I know... I mean Keanu Reeves- the film was rich and interesting. Glenn Close´s peformance is great, her outburst upon learning of Malcovich´s character death is painful, and her wiping off the make up at the end while looking at the mirror is scary rather than sad.John Malcovich was perfect for his role. Arrogant on every inch of the screen, clever as a contemporaneous boy, cold as a modern chief executive officer, mean as a losing politician. Watching him consume his deeds, makes one feel naive and dumb.Uma Thurman was cute. I think she played her role very nicely and genuinely, but Pfeiffer under-played the sorrow of her character very poorly.A great movie for lovers of foreign-accent-ridden-English. Elegant! "},{"Title":"Possibly the most paused piece of filmwork ever.....","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dangerous Liaisons has an intricate plot that loses nothing from being transferred from the stage. The lead performances of Close and Malkovitch were stunning to watch, Malkovitch's sheer arrogance just oozes through the screen at you. The supporting performances were disappointing to say the least. Keanu Reeves was as wooden as ever, and Michelle Pfeiffer conveyed nothing of the agony of the situation in which she had been placed.The true gem of this film however, was Uma Thurman. Her portrayal of the naive Cecille was masterful, and her change from virginal convent girl to Valmont's plaything was genius itself. The moment when Cecille de Volanges divests herself of clothing has to be the most paused part of any film ever!  "},{"Title":"Dramatic tale of love and deceit","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Stephen Frears (My Beautiful Laundrette) made a firm impression on the American film industry first time around with this dramatic tale of love and deceit.Glenn Close plays wealthy, cruel hearted schemer the Marquise de Merteul, an 18th century woman who gleefully plots the destruction of any person's life that takes her fancy. The Viscomte de Valmont (John Malkovich) is her partner in crime, a charming hedonist who takes much pleasure in engaging in similar activities, and is especially merciless when it comes to taking advantage of the fairer sex. Between them they devise ways to destroy reputations and conquer their enemies.Respective performances from the two leads are first class, with Miss Close giving her character real power and heartlessness, and John Malkovich adding a hard edge to the usually more pleasant roles to which he is accustomed. Michelle Pfeiffer's portrayal of feeble will, staunch morality and uncontrollable desire is an impressive display of restraint, and makes hers a fine supporting turn (Pfeiffer's best performance to date). Swoosie Kurtz, Keanu Reeves and Uma Thurman are all creditable as well.As a production, Dangerous Liaisons perhaps stands even taller still with its lavish costume design and superlative sets (both Academy Award winners) which all recreated the 18th century in splendid, and most convincing style. Cinematographer Phillipe Rousselot catches the images with aplomb and George Fenton's baroque score makes astute use of some fine classical pieces from the likes of Handel and Bach.Indeed director Frears has created an intriguing and even somewhat moving film about the manipulative love games that these two French aristocrats play. Well deserving of its nomination for best film (as well as nominations for best actress - Close - and supporting actress -Pfeiffer) in 1988, and highly recommended for lovers of serious, dramatic cinema and quality film making.Monday, August 29, 1994 - Video "},{"Title":"I give it a 10/10 ! !","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just watched the movie last night, on Greek TV and I have to say that it is wonderful ! One of the best movies I've ever seen. The atmosphere, the costumes, the marvelous acting of the brilliant cast, all this make  Dangerous Liaisons a movie that I, personally, cannot forget. And of course the script based on the novel is awesome. I had previously watched  Cruel Intentions but Dangerous Liaisons is much better. Glenn Close is really good, but for me John Malkovich is the one that does the better job. I fell in love with his  Vicomte De Valmont ! ! He is indeed a great actor, he makes a seductive, dangerous and heartbreaking Valmont. Simply perfect ! ! You should definitely watch that movie, you will not regret it ! "},{"Title":"It feels so good to be so bad...","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Malkovich sure doesn't seem to appear in that many films, but when he does he certainly outshines the entire cast, including ensembles like we have here. He's more of a Broadway actor anyway, but when we get a chance to see him on celluloid, it sure is a treat. Needless to say, he is more than enjoyable here. But he's not the only one who puts on a marvelous performance. Pfeiffer, Thurman, and Close all do very respectable jobs in this lustful tale of deceit and revenge. However, I must say that although she performed well, Glenn Close seems fairly miscast. Why? Because she's supposed to be this unattainable beauty and simply irresistible to Valmont (Malkovich), but she simply couldn't give a desperate man a stiffy. The part required someone of timeless beauty which she does not have, in my opinion. To be honest, she scares the living sh*t out of me.What we have is an original tale of lust, power and deceit rolled up into a film of excellent entertainment and quality. A little seedy for some, however, I enjoyed it quite well. Close and Malkovich's behavior, in character, sometimes made me want to slap them and sometimes give them a high five. Very effective. Respectively, while you're meant to feel sorry for some of the characters, you can't help but to root for the evildoers as well.  The costumes and sets are very impressive and are completely convincing. And for once, I don't really have anything bad to say about Keanu Reeves. He plays a tool, so he fits the bill perfectly. Overall, a very entertaining and decent movie, even if it's not really my forte or one of my all time favorites. Pig alert, see this movie if you want to see Umabreasts! Yes, it's an official word. I know that was lame but get over it. "}{"Title":"The wages of evil","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the most effective morality plays of modern times, Stephen Frears' adaptation of the 1782 novel Les Liaisons Dangereuses manages to convey its message without preaching to its audience, subtituting images and glances for homilies and exposition. The movie opens with a wonderful preparation scene, in which the two hyena-like central characters, the Vicomte de Valmont (John Malcovich) and the Marquise de Montruil (Glenn Close) are gradually armoured in layer upon layer of unwieldy 18th century clothes and mask-like makeup. The parallels here are strong; the two characters seem to be preaparing to act in a play, or perhaps to fight a war. Thier reptilian, blank expressions are hidden behind the elegant facades they place on themselves. In the film's final shot, we see Montruil, standing in front of a mirror as she takes the make-up savagely from her face, her true features revealed, her secrets laid bare, the lies dispelled.Both characters, you see, are supreme martial artists; masters of the world's most powerful weapon, love. They have learned to use love to further their own advantage, and to destroy and humiliate those who displease them. There is however a price to be paid; if you only see love as a weapon, than you must never feel it yourself, for to do so would be like a warrior falling on his sword.Meeting together like old Captains on the battlefield, the two hatch a bet. Valmont will seduce and thus ruin a virtuous and pious married woman, Madame de Tourvel (Michelle Pfieffer), and as a reward he will have one night with the Marquise. Unencumbered by such frivolities as pity or compassion, the Vicomte takes to the plan like a fish to water. He begins a long and slow seduction of the ingenue, and eventually wins her; only to realise that somehow he has come to believe his own lies, and has actually fallen in love with her. Once this happens, tragedy is inevitable.Much has been said of the casting of Malcovich as Valmont. No he is not a dashing handsome figure but he doesn't need to be. He has all the intensity and power of the greatest seducers, and also conveys the cold-eyed soulessness of the character better than any other actor could have. Close matches him brilliantly. I don't really like her as an actress but she is a master at playing heartless evil characters. Pfieffer got an Oscar nom but essentially plays the same teary, dew-eyed innocent she always does.  The other actors in the film are less noteworthy, with the possible exception of Uma Thurman, who is both stunningly gorgeous and very sweet.All in all, a simplistic yet masterful story, well told. Not without faults, but still the best 18th century costume drama in years. "},{"Title":"A Classic not to be scoffed at!","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  From reading reviews I can understand why this film has stirred such a diverse range of opinions.  Ultimately, only a select, intelligent elite who can understand and respect subtlety will enjoy this film.  It is most certainly not for vulgar, mediocre perverts.The very fact that this film is ambiguous demonstrates the complex genius that it possesses and reflects the ambiguity within human emotions that the film (and the book) hoped to portray.  My immediate reaction after watching it was summarised by Madame de Rosemonde  The only thing that surprises me is how little the world changes.  The film is intensely gripping through its interwoven themes of passion, love, jealousy and revenge (indeed you never know which is the central issue) and without Malkovich and Close the film would never have adequately conveyed these themes.I disagree with many reviews.  I believe Malkovich was the perfect Valmont.  He exuded incredible charm through his magnanimity and presence.  His acting was impeccable, being under-stated and exciteable at the key points of the film.  He comes across as intelligent, experienced and sophisticated, as well as a little barbaric, which is the essence of Valmont's attraction.  Close stole the show by encapsulating multiple emotions and authority within a single glance or gesture. Indeed, I vehemently disagree that Valmont was a better film than Dangerous Liaisons.  I felt that Firth was rather bland and too arrogant for women to find attractive.  His dark looks were his only saving grace.  Similarly with Benning, she was too busy thinking she was a good actress rather than being a good actress.  Indeed, the whole film lacked an intimacy with the characters that made Dangerous Liaisons so suspenseful.  As for judging Benning's performance solely on her looks is just a predictable, base response from a fickle misogynist to which I would not bother responding.Thurman was actually quite well cast.  Though inexperienced, she was faithful to the clumsy character of Cecile Volanges and even a little amusing at times.  Reeves brought out the ineptitude of Danceny's character very well, but only because he was playing himself.  Pfeiffer was the real let-down of the film.  Her plain, insipid features may titillate the latent paedophile audience who possess a penchant for pre-pubescent wallflowers, but to those who understand and admire good acting, she was completely expressionless and recited her lines brokenly as though she did not understand her script.The real winner of the show was the scriptwriter, who, although took a lot of the script from book, managed to alter and edit it perfectly.  This film may have been ambiguous and confusing (particularly the ending between Valmont and Madame de Tourvel) but it was designed that way to stimulate an intelligent, analytical audience.  Indeed, any intelligent person could see that the whole film exuded sex without having to cheapen it with graphic (and boring) sex scenes.  It is for this reason that Cruel Intentions, a cheap imitation, is incomparable with such a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Stellar cast and production values outweigh a rather loathsome story","Date":"22 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm actually not the biggest fan of the story in DANGEROUS LIAISONS, and I think that the other famous adaptation, CRUEL INTENTIONS, actually does a better job bringing out the juvenility by making the principals teenagers. Still, for what the story lacks in likability, DANGEROUS LIAISONS makes up in spades with class. Although the satire is still there, I much preferred the biting wit and dialogue in this version. Glenn Close has rarely been better and gets most of the choice lines/moments, but most of the rest of the cast doesn't slouch either. John Malkovich was one of the issues I had with the film. He has played a lot of devious characters before and since, but I didn't care for the way he underplayed his character's malicious intent. To be honest, his performance could have used a little more spice. Still, he did a passable job. The only member of the cast I didn't like at all, although he has a small role, was Keanu Reeves as an effete music teacher and paramour of Uma Thurman. His line readings were awful and showed that he really isn't up to the task (at least not at this point in his career) of performances requiring some degree of dramatic heft. Aside from the sexual politics which, although betraying the period it was written in, were still well-played and explicated, my favorite aspects of the film were the production design and score. For a period piece, this ranks very high in terms of quality and attention to detail. I also liked the harpsichord-heavy score which accentuated the stylization and formality of the time (among aristocrats). The score also had moments of darkness in appropriate scenes, particularly towards the end. Ultimately, I find the idea of the story, with bored aristocrats playing sexual games with each other, to be somewhat banal and passé (not to mention, sexist), but the way it is executed in DANGEROUS LIAISONS makes it a great deal more palatable. "},{"Title":"Magnificent sophisticated plot, acting and costumes","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a true classic. Personally, I do not think that Malkovich, Close and Pfeiffer ever topped these performances. The plot is well-known an evil pair of aristocrats (Close, as Marquise de Merteuil and Malkovich, as Valmont) enjoy revenge against whomever did them wrong. Said revenge often involves destroying the spotless reputation of honest women. Moving in the very decadent world of French aristocracy just before the revolution was like walking in a mine field, therefore all their plotting is very sophisticated and deadly.Merteuil is the more evil character and also - as a woman - the more oppressed. A multifaceted personality, both pitiful and repellent. Valmont is a superficial and world-weary cynical who finally fells in love, only to destroy both the object of his affection and himself.Much was written about Malkovich not being handsome enough for the part, but for sure he plays seduction without any problem, despite his less than attractive features. Pfeiffer is the amazingly beautiful Madame de Tourvel. Her perfect face is so luminous that the love she inspires even in a despicable character as Valmont is perfectly believable. Not only beautiful but good-hearted she is clearly destined to end badly in such a corrupt environment. The side plot involves the seduction of a frisky virgin played by an equally beautiful Thurman and the demise of a naive music teacher, plays by Reeves.With perfect settings, incredibly beautiful costumes and top performance this sophisticated movie should have won multiple Oscars. The fact that it won only 3 in minor categories and Close did not get it as Best Actress is again proof of how aleatory and unfair Oscars distribution is. "},{"Title":"A Tale of Cruel Intentions!","Date":"9 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have no idea what to think about Dangerous Liaisons. When I saw this film, I was multitasking so I wasn't paying complete attention. But from what I gathered, it's quite dark, cold, seductive, and a little boring. Perhaps it is due to being a romantic period piece which I generally despise. But I did admire the past half hour as we see these vile, cruel intentions of the main characters hit the fan. The ending is great though, so I will give the film that.Stephen Frear's adaptation of a 1787 French novel is a tale about seductive revenge. There is the Marquise de Merteuil who is livid at her breakup, so she hires a man named Vicomte de Valmont to seduce a soon-to-be-married bride named Cecil de Volange in order to get one night with her. As the seduction begins, Vicomte begins to develop feelings for her which will only make matters complicated.The film is well-acted. Glenn Close delivers a fine performance as the cruel and malice Merteuil. John Malkovich is excellent as always as the seductive Valmont. Michelle Pfeiffer does a decent job as Volange. We also get some decent supporting turns by Keanu Reeves and Uma Thurman.Overall, Dangerous Liaisons is a dark and cold tale about the dark side of seduction. In order to gain a greater appreciation of the film, I may have to take a second viewing. This is not the kind of story that appeals to me, but I could not resist the critical acclaim. I do admire the acting, but I especially admire the costume design and the production design. If romantic thrillers are your kind of thing, this is the perfect kind of film for you. Maybe I'll grow to love the film, but for now it's merely decent. I rate this film 7/10. "},{"Title":"Deliciously corrupt","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In pre-Revolutionary France, the Marquise de Merteuil (Glenn Close) plots revenge against Bastide who aims to wed young virgin Cécile de Volanges (Uma Thurman). Merteuil tries to convince the Vicomte de Valmont (John Malkovich) to seduce Cécile but Valmont is busy seducing the married Madame de Tourvel (Michelle Pfeiffer) famous for her virtue. Merteuil offers a night with her as reward for Cécile's seduction.It is a period piece alive with sexual tension. It is deliciously seductive. It is not old and dusty. Rather it is energetic and modern. The sexual manipulations and deceptive games give a greater edge to any modern romantic melodrama. Close and Malkovich are terrifically corrupt. Pfeiffer is excellent in the less showy virtuous role. Thurman plays the innocent ingénue. The acting is all top notch. The production is first rate directed by Stephen Frears. "},{"Title":"the sadness","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" the sadness is the nimbus who defines the story. the special flavor for a perfect watch because the costumes, the atmosphere, the acting are splendid. but the sadness - who, in the last part, becomes so powerful, represents the basic ingredient of its special beauty. because the brilliant acting gives to it more than an adaptation status. it is something fascinating in Glenn Close/Malkovich acting who gives to story new nuances, more force. all seems be perfect. and the admirable science to create the victims has the high value of an impeccable job. each scene is a gem. the dialogs are like sword shinning. the solidarity with the evil characters is build, with precise art, step by step, in admirable manner. a film who must see it. not exactly for story. but for its splendid game of shadows and soft light. "},{"Title":"Has style and substance","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dangerous Liaisons is an incredibly stylish, intense, and interesting drama. The style aspects of the film are extraordinary. The costumes, art direction, cinematography, music, and acting are brilliant and gorgeous to look at or hear. Glenn Close gives a particularly accomplished performance out of the cast. John Malkovich and Michelle Pfeiffer also give great performances.The story of the film is intriguing and well-adapted. The way the actors deliver their lines is suitable, believable, and absolutely inspired. Malkovich really does have a pretty diverse range of acting. Seeing him as a French aristocrat, a Russian gangster, a retarded ranch worker, or whatever else never seems ridiculous (at least not to me).The movie is never boring. Everything that makes this film great comes together in such an ideal way. The dialogue is complimented by the music. Certain moods are accentuated with the cinematography. The costumes and sets are lovely to look at. This is a film of both style and substance. It's good to look at for the eyes and the mind. God that sounded cheesy, but that's really what I mean. "},{"Title":"Engaging, if difficult to follow.","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've wanted to see Dangerous Liaisons for a while as I like Stephen Frears a lot, even if just for my sentimental favourite High Fidelity. Even though he hasn't made a top film (Fidelity is close, I'm not a fan of how Rob gets back with Laura for the third act and it holds it back), I've always admired his versatility. Based on some pretty acclaimed material, Liaisons also boasts acclaimed production design and performances from Glenn Close and John Malkovich. While the dialogue is very lyrical, I did find it quite difficult to follow and character connections particularly confused me (it's easy to follow that Malkovich was sleeping with lots of ladies but the objectives were hazy), but once clear exposition unfolded, it was a very interesting look on gender power struggles. The acting deserves every ounce of acclaim, John Malkovich is great but Glenn Close is truly amazing. It's easy to imagine her character on stage and she brings that theatrical acting into it, but there's lots of subtle complexity in her expressions. I'm not sure if it's just my admittedly cheap DVD, but it wasn't the visual splendour I was hoping for, especially considering its Oscars. it felt more like a period drama from the BBC. Perhaps it deserves Blu-Ray. As interesting as it was, my inability to follow it does hold it back a notch, maybe I'll like it more on rewatches. High definition rewatches.7/10 "},{"Title":"An old-time story told in a fresh, modern way","Date":"29 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dangerous Liaisons is not your typical period piece. Yes it has that familiar period look, the costumes and the settings screaming out 18th-century. But the story has a decidedly modern feel to it. It's a tale of sexual scheming, intrigue, revenge. It's also a story that has great wit to it, much more comedy than you would expect from a typical costume drama. The story may unfold in long-ago France. But the movie's modern sensibilities put a unique twist on things. The movie is actually quite fun. Wickedly devious fun at that.The story centers around the Marquise de Merteuil, played by Glenn Close, and her one-time lover Valmont, played by John Malkovich. Valmont is a notoriously amoral ladies man and Merteuil wishes to use this to her advantage. She seeks revenge on another recent lover (yes, she's a woman who gets around), wanting Valmont to seduce that man's young fiancée Cécile, stealing her virginity before her wedding night. This will cause quite the scandal and much embarrassment for the man who shoved Merteuil aside to take a beautiful, new and notably much younger bride. You don't mess with the Marquise de Merteuil, she will ruin you. But her scheme hits a snag. Valmont is not interested. Seducing this pretty young thing would be too easy. He has his sights set higher. He wants to bed the notably virtuous, highly religious, and very much married Madame de Tourvel. Now that will be a proper challenge. It's a complicated web of intrigue, lust and deception. And it is highly entertaining, helped in no small part by a script which shows that great wit you just don't expect from 18th-century French romantic drama.The film is helped along by the excellent performances of its two leads. Close is simply brilliant as her character pulls all the strings, moving the pawns around on the chessboard of life. Malkovich was certainly not the conventional choice to play a notorious womanizer but he brings great personality to the role. Michelle Pfeiffer, playing Madame de Tourvel, is very good as well. Tourvel's struggle to resist Valmont's unique charms is etched on Pfeiffer's face throughout, she captures the character's angst wonderfully. Uma Thurman does well portraying the almost impossibly innocent Cécile. The only glaring casting misstep is Keanu Reeves who plays another of Cécile's admirers. Reeves is just as terrible as you would expect him to be in an 18th-century romantic costume drama. To say this is not his type of thing would be quite the understatement. But the rest of the cast manages to work around the wooden Reeves as best they can. The story really crackles along for the first half of the movie. As things take more serious turns in the second half of the film the lighthearted wit fades away. That second half of the film is somewhat less enjoyable but certainly still compelling. It's a fascinating bunch of characters, led by the ruthless Merteuil and caddish Valmont. The story's twists and turns lead to very interesting places. The film, with its period setting and wonderful costumes, looks fantastic. An entertaining film, a story about a very particular long-ago time and place but a story which stands the test of time. "}{"Title":"It was Beyond My Control on how much I love this film.","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" With one look she can break your heart. With one look she plays every part. She can make your sad heart sing. With one look you'll know all you need to know. Those paraphrased lyrics from Sunset Boulevard describe the performance of one of the greatest actresses of the past 30 years.Glenn Close probably never got closer to the Oscar than with this delicious costume drama with massive comic overtones as a widowed French noblewoman who, several decades before the French Revolution, utilizes her social position to destroy lives amongst the nobles around her. There are two key scenes to this devilish woman's love for the game, here destroying the innocence of two young virginal noblewomen (Michelle Pfeiffer and Uma Thurman) by having them both seduced by the most vile nobleman since the Marquis de Sade. John Malkovich, already Close's ex-lover and ultimate libertine, is given the challenge to be the first not only to deflower Pfeiffer but to make her fall in love with him then break her heart in the process. The first scene is when Close reads a letter from Thurman, at first so serious, then smiling like the Grinch as she realizes how her evil plot is succeeding, later grinning like the Chesire Cat from Alice in Wonderland as she gets out of her carriage then rushes to comfort the heart-broken young lady.Pretty much a perfect film, this is human manipulation at its most sinister. The heart can't be cured for an innocent young lady, and what ends up happening destroys many lives. Close is pretty much the whole film, her bosom wrapped tightly in those corsets, and looking absolutely ravishing. If there was ever a Norma Desmond to be, Close assured herself that role with this movie which ironically followed her other bad lady role, Alex Forrest of Fatal Attraction. As for Malkovich, he is an odd choice to play a man of such sexual desire, but he really does pull it off, and Pfeiffer is heartbreaking as the woman who tries so hard to keep herself pure but is doomed to her own growing womanhood.The one mistake in the cast is Keanu Reeves, laughable here (as he was in the otherwise wonderful Bram Stoker's Dracula) as he recites the lines as if he was taking elocution lessons on the set. Fortunately, his role is rather minor, the most of the time being the game of cat and mouse (or mouse and cat) for Close and Malkovich where you know that the winner will also loose. Deserving mention in smaller roles are Swoosie Kurtz as Thurman's mother and veteran actress Mildred Natwick as the grande dame of the countryside French social scene. The peace de resistance is the end, one which seems to take forever to unfold, but leaves a satisfying sense of irony in the viewer's head. It took more than 20 years for the magnetic Close to return to the Oscar race, but when she did, it was one worth the wait, her cross-dressing butler from Albert Nobbs. "},{"Title":"flawless adaptation of Choderlos de Laclos' masterpiece","Date":"7 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Choderlos de Laclos' novel is one of my favourite books, the story told through the medium of letters for the most part, thus making it engaging and intimate. The film, done on a grand scale and faithfully keeping to both the book and the period, have captured the intimacy and the connection with the characters, the commitment to the plot, brilliantly. Everything about the film is flawless; locations, sets, costumes, lighting, the deportment of the characters, the emotions transfered and the tight script. Glenn Close gave the performance of her life, and I'm sad she didn't get an Oscar for it, as the bitter, manipulative, arrogant and ultimately lonely aristocrat Madame de Merteuil. Also, John Malkovich was born for the role of Vicomte de Valmont, and I can't imagine any other actor carrying the role off with the hauteur and sociopathic finesse that he does. He is expressionless for the most part (good in this case), hell bent on winning in his quests, his perverted labours of Hercules, if you will. Michelle Pfeiffer had a tough role as the pious and broken Madame de Tourvel, the object of Vicomte's primary seduction, and whilst her performance was shaky in places she carried you along in her fall and her role was worthy of the awards she garnered. Mildred Natwick as the aged and wise (yet sadly of her age) Madame de Rosemonde was beautiful and her iconic voice delivering the fateful line of 'men only enjoy the love they feel, women only can enjoy the love they give' was poignant and tragic. Keanu Reeves and Uma Thurman (Chevalier Danceny and Cecile de Volanges) both seemed out of their depth, and playing it naively, but Uma had a complex and exposing role for one of her first and there were moments of superb acting. Likewise Reeves as Le Chevalier; he has been much criticised for his performance but his naivety was perhaps in keeping with his station and age, although delivered badly and a little too staccato in places. It is few actors, however, that would commit so dedicatedly to the brilliant duel towards the end, throwing himself around, with unpolished and unscripted realism. A good performance but not a great one, but again one of his very early roles and along with Uma Thurman a terrific opportunity to act in such illustrious company.Overall, whilst a seedy, dark, pessimistic look at the life and times of C18th French Aristocracy, it is a morality tale with some power, and is affecting. In places it isn't pleasant watching, the seduction of Cecile, for example, but there is humour and spectacle to distract in places. Historically I cannot comment on it's strict authenticity but to an uneducated eye it looks impeccably researched and delivered, and even the minor characters; servants etc perfect. The opening scene of the dressing of the two main characters gives a curtain up on the story, identifying them as rich, powerful and vain. And thus begins the story, told as an epic masterpiece of cinema. "},{"Title":"Good adaption, watch Cruel first.","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this adaption of the classic novel.  Glenn Close was awesome as always.  The only reason I actually sat down to watch it was because Cruel Intentions is my favorite movie and was interested in the original story.  If you're an eighteen year old like me or younger I suggest watching cruel first.  With my previous knowledge from it I was able to watch Dangerous Liaisons and completely understand it.  Although I am completely in love with Sarah Michelle Gellar and her spectacular version, I do recommend this version.  It's extremely true to the novel and the play. "},{"Title":"Dangerous indeed","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having seen the modern version, Cruel Intentions, before this one, I found I had more trouble getting into this movie. It was more complicated to understand (though the plot was essentially the same) which could have been something to do with the fact that all the characters had similar sounding or impronounceable names, and it took me about half the movie to work out who they all were. However, in its favour, Dangerous Liasons is a deeper and less frivolous interpretation of the story. I found some aspects of it to be truly shocking (especially the first corruption of Cecile) and I felt that the characters were more deceitful, twisted and generally dangerous than in the follow-up. It's a movie worth seeing, but I recommend that prospective viewers watch Cruel Intentions first so that by comparing the two, you can figure out which character's which. "},{"Title":"Marvelous acting, weak plot","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Glenn Close and John Malkovitch seem to be perfect as the dueling plotting destroyers lives.  When they are on, the screen sparkles, when they are not, everybody just seems to be going through the motions, like they know it is Glenn and John's movie (except for John's sidekick/henchmen).*SPOILER AHEAD*I really would have liked to see them get it on, rather than the given ending.What is with Malkovitch anyway?  He gets to fondle a nude Sophie Marceau (in another movie), a topless Uma Thurman (in this movie) and kiss Michelle Pfieffer.  Has any man alive been so lucky? "},{"Title":"Two Completely different movies","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, although based on the same story, Dangerous Liaisons and Cruel Intentions should not be compared to each other as they are two completely different films. Personally I enjoyed both films. Dangerous is a wonderful piece of cinema and Cruel was very entertaining, I would rather teens watched both these films than the slew of ridiculous films being geared towards them these days. So please watch both films with an open mind, don't watch one expecting the other. Dangerous Liaisons features some very excellent performances by its gifted cast including Close and Malkovich, that should be reason enough to see this movie which also features some great costumes and set designs. "},{"Title":"Its a very slow paced good movie with wicked humor.","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I did like this movie very much.I especially liked Glenn Close and Michelle Pfeifer peformance.Glenn Close's Marquise De Merteuil was so wicked and enjoyable that you wanted her to win over John Malkovich in there bet that they made.He was very cruel and some what violent at times that it made him unlikable especially when it came to hurting Madame De Tourvill (Michelle Pfeifer)character which added to his did like, but he also had some wicked qualities like Glenn Close's part.In fact the one thing i had a problem with is the chemistry between John Malkavich and Michelle Pfeifer in the movie they claim to love eachother but they had no conviction.I think thats what hurt the movie's chances of winning best picture after getting nominated and Michelle Pfeifer's chance to win Best Supporting Actress. Like I said this movie is slow paced but has comic relief to make it enjoyable.The script is excellent wich explains its best Adapted Screenplay Oscar win. There is plenty of character development and a strong supporting cast. I give it a 9 out of a 10. "},{"Title":"You always hurt the ones who love you","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even Keanu Reeves luke warm performance couldn't distract me from enjoyment of this film. The story is magnificent. Malkovich and Close have never been better. Pfeiffer and Thurman are fantastic. Even Reeves does okay by the end of the film. The story is sweet and dark and sometimes playful, absolutely worth watching again and again. "},{"Title":"This was a great movie...","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a great movie.  I think John Malkovich did an awesome job as well as Glenn Close.  I enjoy the way that the maliciousness of these two characters is so comically played out throughout the movie.  Just goes to show some women in the world that being manipulative does not always get you what you want from someone!  0) "},{"Title":"The anatomy of love and lust.","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  1. I hate romantic films 2. This is one of the most romantic films I ever saw 3. This is one of my favourite films All very puzzling.Real life nastiness lust; manipulating, betraying and using people. The very lowlife's we are (compared to our pompous ideals), set in a fairytale-like costumated environment. Very bizarre. But still the film gives hope and a lesson. Not in a moralistic way, but in a way life itself can teach you too. The lesson is that nastiness might come back at you in the end. The hope lies in the fact that a story that's so ruthlessly conscious of our human 'properties' still comes up with the concept of some sort of true love. I believe in nothing. I don't believe in true love, but maybe just the first hour after seeing this film.... "}{"Title":"An all around wonderful production","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rather than go into the subtleties of the plot, I will simply say that John Malkovich and Glenn Close are marvelous.  Basically themed on promiscuity, this is simply a vehicle for some great, yet subtle (hence, effective) humour. An all around great production with excellent acting, humour, screenplay, costume design, camera angles, etc. Well done. Sour points,... Uma Thurman, whose performance is irritating at best.  "},{"Title":"For now it is beyond my control.","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Glenn Close and John Malkovich were extraordinary in the film. The film was intriguing and funny too.  The looks on the faces of both Glenn Close and John Malkovich at times were just as funny and amusing as the little one line jokes that are thrown in all through out the film.  "},{"Title":"Sexually Spiffy","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  By Far, Dangerous Liaisons is one of my all time favorite movies. This tale, taken from the  repeatedly banned  French novel Les Liaisons Dangereuses, has been curiously incarnated on film not once, twice or merely three times, but a whollaping four.I've never gotten around to seeing Les Liaisons Dangereuses (1959) so it proves irrelevant, but Dangerous Liaisons is my second favorite of the batch, only falling short of the teen rendering Cruel Intentions (1999). Valmont is lacks in originality being that it was released not even a year following Liaisons.Glenn Close is deliciously diabolical as the Marquise de Mertueil, one of my favorite characters in American film. Close played this character out well and the scene where she wiped her lipstick off her face as a single tear rolled down her chalk-white face was both emotional and powerful.John Malkovitch was rather scary as Vicomte de Valmont (one advantage Valmont had over Liaisons was that Colin Firth wasn't as frightening and was a more believable clean-cut man) but I appreciated his performence. All in all, he could have done more with this role.Michelle Pfeiffer, playing the virginal Madame de Tourvell could have done much more with the situation she was put in. To Me her acting seemed all most bland and fake-pushing cheesy, but the other cast members pretty much saved her due to their extraordinary acting.Uma Thurman as the terribly naïve Cecile Volanges struck me odd at first, but I gradually became comfortable with her as she took her trip along the sexual escapades.Christopher Hampton, who also wrote the stage play, did a wickedly good job of adapting the classic novel of sexual intrigue and diabolical endeavors. *****/5 "},{"Title":"Clever and riveting","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wouldn't I hate to get on the bad side of Marquise De Merteuil (Glenn Close) or Vicomte De Valmont (John Malkovich) for that matter. What an evil (and hilarious) partnership. The sadistic viewer can relate well to this scheming pair.I was a bit surprised to see Michelle Pfeiffer as the ingenue, but she played it quite convincingly. Her performance reminded me of her character in Witches of Eastwick.I became engrossed in the evil machinations of the duelling duo - wondering what fiendish trick they would play next. Glenn Close plays these characters too well.Interesting side note one section of her dialogue has become almost a requisite audition piece for budding actresses. But no one can pull it off as well as Mme Close.  "},{"Title":"The Eternal Game","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A complete film by all means. The eternal game between male and female. Love and infidelity, truth and lies, intrigue. Great cast, great acting and superb dialogues.  "},{"Title":"nothing changes","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie goes to show you that sex and lust were used just as commonly several hundred years ago as they are today. This movie has an intricate plot with fabulous performances by Glenn Close and John Malkovich (who seems to play only bad guys). Filled with great one-liners and surprisingly true to today's reality, this movie shows that power and wealth can make sexual deception a lot more fun. A must see.  "},{"Title":"Lord and Lady Muck run amok","Date":"24 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having been wronged by their former partners Marquise Isabelle de Mertueil (Glenn Close) and Vicomte Sebastian De Valmont (John Malkovich) hatch a plan to get even. Mertueil challenges Valmont to bed the soon to be married 17 year old Cecile de Volanges (Uma Thurman). Having determined that this challenge alone will be too easy for him, bed-hopping Valmont also sets about trying to seduce prim and proper Madame de Tourvel (Michelle Pfeiffer) whilst her husband is away. His prize for completing these tasks is Mertueil herself, but is all this as easy as Mertueil and Valmont hope? Cruel Intentions was a loosely based remake of this film which came out 11 years later; I enjoyed Cruel Intentions the first time I watched it and have seen it several times since, but sadly I didn't enjoy Dangerous Liaisons quite as much.I think the problem here is that I didn't find the story quite as involving; it was a bit talky for my liking and if truth be told it was probably a little over-plotted as well. In some ways, I was also a little turned off by the fact that it featured a bunch of rich aristocrats - I just found it all a little bit pretentious which is why I generally don't like period dramas. Dangerous Liaisons just seemed to amble along without ever really involving me in the story. Cruel Intentions told pretty much the same story in just over 90 minutes and one has to wonder why the writers felt the need for this film to run close to the 2 hour mark? The truth is that there just isn't enough material here to warrant that kind of run time.Another problem I had here was that I never really felt any connections to any of the characters; they weren't really fleshed out particularly well and at the end of the day I just felt like I'd spent 2 hours looking at cardboard cut-outs in pretty costumes. I also had a bit of an issue with Keanu Reeves character; he was the music teacher in this and aside from his wooden performance, he added nothing to the film and may as well not have been in it (compare that to how important the music teacher was to the plot in Cruel Intentions).Aside from an obviously miscast Keanu Reeves; the performances were all excellent with particular praise going to Malkovich, Close and Thurman. Thurman was perhaps the biggest revelation and I felt that she accentuated vulnerability and was actually very good.The film doesn't even shine at the end and has a rather formulaic and obvious ending. To me the whole film just felt rather flat and un-exciting. I found the ending to Cruel Intentions to be moving and somewhat surprising.Dangerous Liaisons has far too much polish on it for it to be a truly bad film, but it's also not involving enough for it to be considered a great film. I thought Cruel Intentions was a better film to be honest. "},{"Title":"A Sexy and Nasty Romp, with Wigs and Corsets","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A juicy and enthralling costume drama full of sex, nastiness and nudity.Glenn Close and John Malkovich play two bored aristocrats who entertain themselves by screwing around with the lives of those around them. They're hollowed out husks of human beings who see emotions and feelings as toys put on the planet for their amusement. Malkovich is appropriately slimy and creepy -- as always, he makes me itch, but for once I didn't mind, since his incredible unpleasantness as an actor makes him perfect for the role. But it's Glenn Close who owns this movie, creating a character who will take your breath away with her icy cruelty. The film also boasts Michelle Pfeiffer, Keanu Reeves(!), Uma Thurman and Swoosie Kurtz.The production design is top notch; the time and place would be any art director's and costume designer's wet dream. And Stephen Frears displays does the same for this movie that he would do for The Grifters two years later -- he makes meanness fun.Grade A "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" about perversion and love. Les Liaisons Dangereuses is probably the best love story ever told. I, of course, am talking about the love affair between Valmont and Merteuil. The performances in Dangerous liaisons are absolutely great. However, the dialog as pronounced with an American accent sounds very fax, especially the dialog between Merteuil and Valmont. Their story is great because of its total originality, even today. Valmont is madly n love with Merteuil and completely devoted t her. Merteuil also loves him very much, but she is devoted to somebody else Woman power. And her passionate love of Valmont is very much an obstacle to her taking a revenge on the male sex. Therefore, she has to show even the man she loves the most that she is above her sex. Her devotion to her cause is even more stubborn than Madame De Tourvel's. Stephen Frears'film is a masterpiece in which explores acting as hypocrisy and love as warfare. However, the film fails in the way that Frears seems to be directing more a play than a film. Though its original source is a play, the film is a film. It should therefore be made as a film. What I have noticed about Hampton is that his screenplays are beautiful to read but imputable on film. The only two people I know who have managed to write beautiful screenplays that have ended up as being great films as well are Peter Shaffer and Ingmar Bergman. "},{"Title":"What's it with Valmont?","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Valmont couldn't have been better without Malkovich? it's a startling movie indeed. varmint i liked and hated the most because he robbed Madame Marie de Tourvel of her faith, everything she lived by; yet he introduced her to another exotic world, not for his vile and charming words, she wouldn't have realized. i hate that man because he left Madame Marie de Tourvel completely dependent on his love after her struggle with moral questions failed against the empowerment of love.like Madame Marie de Tourvel, i can't but see myself falling in love with Valmont whose charming words absolutely breath-taking. Madame Marie de Tourvel, i believe, knew about Valmont affairs, but what else is there for her to do since she is in love head over heal. Valmont loved that woman, because breaking up with her wasn't as smooth and easy; you can actually hear him sobbing when he excuses himself saying it's beyond my control, if i was to pity anyone in this movie, it would be Valmont and Marie de Tourvel, because both lost what they lived by and gained love, unfortunately, even that death handled. "}{"Title":"Sumptuous history a classic","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the best films of 1989. Glenn Close is brilliant as the disinterested aristocrat preying on and deceiving everyone within her grasp. Stephen Frears does a remarkable job of conveying the corruption and moral decay of a France teetering on the precipice of revolution. Everything is powdered and perfumed and simultaneously decadent, and a historically-literate audience is all too aware of the blood and horror that is to follow. Yet, Close's aristocrat is somehow able to maintain the audience's sympathy. Close walks a giddy, dramatic tightrope and gives the performance of her career. Her achievement is remarkable. What could have been a tawdry costume drama in lesser hands, in the capable grip of Close and Frears, is rendered incandescent. A beautiful and meaningful film. Bravo to everyone involved. "},{"Title":"Best screen version of a epistolary movie","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Of course I first saw the movie and then I was so in love with it that I bought the book and read it within one day. First I saw it when I was only 16 (long time ago) and what is odd the thing that I watched it in French. I discovered John Malkovich as a very talented and gifted actor and the movie made Michelle Pfeiffer my fave actress. Afterwards I saw many screen versions of Jane Osten (she became very popular nowdays), Duma's masterpieces and so on but none of them are so impressive and authentic. I cry every time I watch it till the end cause I feel the feebleness of Valmont in front of his own vanity. The three characters (Marquise de Merteuil, Valmont and Madame de Tourvel) made the movie, and what is the best thing about this screen version is that sometimes it is even more intense than the book, more impressive not speaking about the brilliant cast including young Uma Thurman and Keanu Reeves. "},{"Title":"Dangerous Liaisons is BETTER than the remakes","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some people may not be able to understand DL because of its upper crust dialogue. Others may be turned off because of the period of time in which the story takes place.But I would like to tell those people that these elements are what ADDS to the movie. I think Glenn Close's character (Merteuil) was much more heartless than Cruel Intentions' Catherine. Why? Because Mertueil was giving advice and misleading Cecile-- a girl possibly between the ages of 16 to 18 (?) and above all things, Cecile is part of her FAMILY! I think Cecile was the daughter of Madame de Volanges and Volanges was Mertueil's cousin.Now, considering those factors don't you think that sounds heartless enough? Merteuil is noticably much more OLDER than Cecile. And for her to be playing games like that and misleading someone so much younger is just plain wrong. In Cruel Intentions, Catherine misleads Cecile but their age differences leave little impact. It appears as if Catherine is a senior of her prep school and is just misleading a freshman. And the only personal resentment Catherine has of her is because her boyfriend fell for Cecile.Another element that I like from DL is the language and implied sexuality. In Cruel Intentions, everything is so blatant-- the dialogue and the sex. What DL offers is cleverness. For example, when Valmont comes into Cecile's bedroom, he says something to the likes of I'm going to teach you some Latin and moves between her legs. The scene fades and opens up with a church scene where the priest is speaking Latin. How funny is that? I can't remember much else of the dialogue but I can assure you it is smart and brilliant. And the cast are much better actors (except for Keanu Reeves).Glenn Close does a marvelous portrayal of Merteuil and the time period she is from makes it more interesting. Merteuil looks for independance in a time where most women were marked by their silence and confined to the indoors. In Cruel Intentions, Catherine has little or nothing to complain about. She has looks, wealth, and an education at a fine school. Her having sex or having drugs is nothing of suprise since the story takes place in modern times.  "},{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I watched that movie I knew it was going to be a classic. It had everything -- great actors, great cinematography, great scipt, great costumes.  John Malkovich is demonically good, Glenn Close is pure evil, Michelle Pfeiffer simply amazing. Few days ago I saw Cruel Intentions and I was appalled by it, Cruel Intentions is nothing but a ripoff. I will give Dangerous Liaisons 10/10 and Cruel Intentions 3/10. "},{"Title":"Incredible.","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Cruel Intentions first when it came out being an SMG fan. I loved it, upon studying into it I found it was based on the French novel, Le Liaisons Dangerous, sorry I don't speak or write French well.  I tried to find an English translation of the original book but had no luck.  I then found the 1988 Dangerous Liaisons on cable and watched it.  If I saw Dangerous Liaisons first I probably would have hated Cruel Intentions, but I think that watching them in reverse made me appreciate the power of Dangerous Liaisons even more.  It is an excellent movie and it would recommend it to anyone who appreciates high art. "},{"Title":"wow this one should be watched after a hot bath, then snack on chineese food!","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cosy evening in, listen up to every word spoken in this film... the characters really do say what they mean! excellent film, romantic, curtious, bewitching... extremely well acted, could almost loose your self in the power plots & scheeming... when it all comes down to it Only Love Is Real my mind & heart kept saying! Perfect period drama, sewn together tightly with romance & deceit. (Sorry about spelling mistakes in this review!) "},{"Title":"Good Movie. Malkovich the Mack daddy of all Daddy Macks!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER********** Valmont (malkovich) wagers Mertuil (Close) that he can bed Tourval (Phiffer) a woman known for martial fidelity and virtue. He also seduces Cecile (Thurman) and that causes his eventual death with Darceny (Reeves). Great movie, Malkovich is the man. People drilled Malkovich because he isn't what someone would imagine a Lady killer would look like. He goes beyond that, he is able to bring cruelty and danger, two components that can attract the most innocent of women. "},{"Title":"Filthy games by the bored and rich--great stuff!!","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dangerous Liaisons (1988)A cunning, beautifully written, and rather enchanting period movie (set in late 1700s in France&#x97;the same time as the American Revolution). Glenn Close is subtle and changeable and wicked, as well as funny, luckily, in her complex role. Really great. John Malkovich is good, though I agree with a common comment that he doesn't have the dastardly charm a rake like his character would have needed to succeed. Competing young beauties in the form of Michelle Pfeiffer and Uma Thurman make an interesting backdrop. And the games begin.The terrific basis of the whole interwoven intrigues is the simple fact that the upper classes were bored and amoral. They were willing to do mean things to good people for amusement. That they end up conflicting with each other is just part of the grand bargain. Why not? Otherwise their pampered lives would be oh such a bore!The script is the star here, even more than the leading actors who do so well reading it, and inhabiting it. Close is actually phenomenal, from the opening scene to the last sad end. Watch all her changes in expression, clear and emphatic but not theatrical. Malkovich is both terrific and poorly cast (an odd glitch from the masterful Juliet Taylor, casting director). There is something chilling and cunning about his role, toying with young women's hearts and generally being an indifferent cad, and we know the actor is good at that. But he's also supposed to be dangerously charming, and he doesn't come close. He wins women by insisting rather than beguiling. It seemed off pitch.But never mind a quibble. It's an amazing movie, rather like a William Wyler version of a 1940s drama&#x97;in color of course, but with a feeling of making it perfect on the screen. It never flags, it's sometimes deliberately maddening, and it even has a kind of Shakespearean ending that works. And works well. High praise. And watchable more than once for the sheer smartness of the writing. "},{"Title":"A terrific Film","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have only now, surprisingly seen Dangerous Liaisons and I saw it because I had seen Previously, Valmont and the more modern Cruel Intentions. I can't believe it's taken me this long to see this movie! It was absolutely superb and I now own it on DVD and plan to watch it many times.SPOILER ALERT One thing I really liked about this movie was that it differed in many way from Valmont and the MAJOR change, (as anyone who has seen both will immediately know what I'm talking about), was more interesting and satisfying to me then the movie Valmont(though I really liked that movie as well). This version is also better cast, with the possible exception of Uma Thurman who is one of my all time favorite actresses, but who really didn't distinguish Cecile in any way, though I think that's less her fault then the movie makers' who minimized the part. One thing I did find lacking in Liaisons, was that, unlike Valmont, Cecile doesn't really have a lot to do.But the casting was still, overall better then Valmont. John Malkovich was mesmerizing and definitely wove a spell over the audience as well as the various women he conquered. He was simply stunning.Glen Close was extraordinary and remains one of the best actresses working today. I never cease to be amazed at her versatility.And PFEIFFER, whose movies, for the most part, I have not enjoyed, is throughly captivating as Madam De Tourvel and though I love Meg Tilly I did feel she was miscast in Valmont. Pfeiffer was perfect in a heartbreaking performance that was just as Oscar worthy as anybody in the movie.Dangerous Liaisons is a fascinating mix of seduction, passion, betrayal, mind games and love, with terrific acting by a cast of some of the best players working today. It is a great movie(9.5 out of 10) and should have won an Oscar. If you haven't seen it, please do. Wish I hadn't waited so long myself. "},{"Title":"Gets better as you get older","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I guess I shouldn't be surprised at the number of comments giving Cruel Intentions equal (or even better) standings than Dangerous Liaisons. Being based on the same material (as well as 1989's Valmont), both tell the same story using similar characters (though set in different eras). The difference lies in the focus. Cruel Intentions plays the 1990s teen drama card, focusing on style and looks, with heavy emphasis on flash and sex, and an in-your-face lack of subtlety. Dangerous Liaisons' is all about hidden intrigue and motives, forcing the viewer to concentrate on dialog and subtext rather than visuals. That isn't to say that the 18th-century settings and costumes aren't fabulous (the Oscar was well deserved).There are some minor flaws (some will complain about the casting & acting of Reaves and Pfeiffer), and the pacing in a couple of places seems at odds with the storyline. However, the dialog is masterful and Close and Malkovich deliver amazingly textured performances. Seldom is the evil man (and woman) do to each other - and themselves - so well portrayed.Not to be condescending, but Dangerous Liaisons really is for the more mature audience - one able to enjoy the more subtle and complex dialog and motivations of the characters. Cruel Intentions is for the teenage set; Dangerous Liaisons is for the more experienced (and perhaps more cynical) folks.  "}{"Title":"The Costume Drama Gone Stark-Raving Mad.","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rich aristocrat Glenn Close (Oscar-nominated) wants lover John Malkovich to seduce newly married Michelle Pfeiffer (Oscar-nominated), a woman who has just gotten together with Close's ex-husband in Baroque France. Why? For a crazed and demented bet. Stephen Frears' tight direction and a clever little screenplay raise this film to safer waters. Many times the breath-taking cinematography, art direction, makeup and lavish costumes get in the way of a truly wicked story. The three key performers all do some of their best work with Malkovich shining the most. Watch for Swoosie Kurtz and Keanu Reeves in prevalent roles as well. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  18th century drama of an evil woman (Glenn Close) and man (John Malkovich) who manipulate (and destroy) people around them...especially Uma Thurman and Michelle Pfeiffer.  Beautifully done, literate, sexually explicit adaptation of a 1782 novel.  It's actually very funny at first (Close is having a whale of a time) with the manipulations, but things start getting serious and the humor stops dead during the last half hour and the movie becomes extremely unpleasant (but fascinating).  Close is just magnificent--her best film performance ever.  The looks and way she says things is just unbelievable.  Malkovich is seriously miscast but he's OK--he looks all wrong for the role.  Swoosie Kurtz, Thurman and Pfeiffer turn in adequate performances.  Keanu Reeves turns up briefly proving again that he can't act (whose idea was it to put him in a costume drama?).  Also beautiful production design (it won an Oscar) and costumes.Well worth seeing...especially for Close. "},{"Title":"a nicely written and acted period piece (plus it's got Uma in it!!)","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie has a delicious mean streak running through it that helps it be something more than just a typical romantic comedy.the only problem i had was with the casting of john malkovich. i think he a fantastic actor but was miscast in his role. he does do a good job with it nonetheless. glen close is absolutely perfect and nasty in an understated way. a gorgeous michelle pfeiffer brings just the right touch of beautiful innocence to her role, as does a stunning young Uma Thurman (her topless scene should have been worthy of some kind of special oscar for best use of nudity.)this was remade recently as Cruel Intentions, but moving this movie up into modern times makes the story lose something. it's normal to see characters behaving like that in the 90's. but for this kind of deceitfulness and double crossing to be set in the 1800's, adds another more significant layer to the proceedings.recommended.rating 8 "},{"Title":"Pros and the Con","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Movies are a con &#150; their job is to fool us into believing, into buying into a story. A common film type involves cons in the story. That way, we get to see actors acting characters that are actors. This way, you can have a folded narrative where the characters and actors are doing more or less the same thing.Common on stage as well, this form gets really powerful when on or both layers involve sex. There is a very precise place for this script on the family tree of drama. Most of the other productions understand this, and tantalize the viewer with sex and sexual witticisms in the narrative.This one tries to be more of an Oscar Wilde play, where the complications and confusions themselves are the interest rather than the game itself.That means that the characters must matter, something not originally intended. So poor misses Uma and Michelle need to grind away with every trick they have to try to engage. They have some appeal, but they are not strong enough to create a character that grabs us. They are as empty as poor Keanu.So we are left with Glenn and John to grab us. They know how and do, sortof. But it doesn't work because that's not what the story was constructed to accomplish.Watch `Baby of Macon' instead for this type of folding if you want sexual cons that grab.Ted's evaluation 2 of 3 &#150; Has some interesting elements  "},{"Title":"A spiteful game of love, lust and betrayal. I fully recommend this Brilliant movie!","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When we all had the chance to see Cruel Intentions back in 1999, the world had seen a terrific movie, with a tremendous story and great cast. People I am sure were thinking there would be no better movie than that one. Then one day I was told that Cruel Intentions was based on a movie called &#145; Dangerous Liaisons'. So I took it upon myself to get the tape and view this one. To my surprise I was delighted I did so, as Dangerous Liaisons is, if not as good as Cruel Intentions, even a little better, which for me is hard to admit.Valmont can't resist. Wealthy, alluring Merteuil has challenged him to seduce a beautiful and very proper young woman, a task involving Valmont's favourite pastimes love and revenge. What's more, Merteuil offers herself as the ultimate prize. So let the game begin. The unspoken rules to this contest of sinful pleasures are second-nature to rakish Valmont. Lie, cheat, deceive, debauch, double-cross, betray. But don't fall in love.The cast that Dangerous Liaisons has is just first class. The role Valmont is performed grandly by legend actor John Malkovich. I found the little things he does onscreen in this film to be just brilliant. Yet he showed how good an actor he really is. I mean this was a demanding role, with many facets to it, yet Malkovich did it as only he can. I enjoyed his character Valmont, as it really does show how selfish and cruel men can be. I am not sure that I would like all men to thought of like Valmont, but unfortunately some men are like him. Malkovich has been in some first-class movies like Being John Malkovich, The man in the Iron Mask, Con Air and I also like his performance in the TV version of the novel, &#145;Heart of Darkness'. Then you have the other main star of this film, that being the very beautiful Glenn Close, who played the nasty and &#145;bitchy', Merteuil. I enjoyed how her character was plotting the demise of a very innocent young daughter of a good friend. She wanted her to be known as a sluttish young woman, which is a terribly cruel scenario. Yet I can not forget to mention the other great members if this cast. I enjoyed the role of Madame de Tourvel, played by Michelle Pfeiffer. I have seen her in so many versatile roles, as a strong woman (e.g. like Catwoman), a romantic as in her role in Frankie and Johnny, then to see her rather frail character in this movie, I feel she was the perfect choice. Then you have a fine performance by a young, but talented Uma Thurman. Her character was extremely naïve, and I am sure that she made audiences believe she was a fooled, by the charms of Valmont. Again she is like Pfeiffer, in that she can take on a variety of roles that can have a differing range of emotions. Then to finish this cast of you have a minor role taken on by `Mr. Matrix', Keanu Reeves. He was by no means, that great in this role, but has withstood the test of time, to say he is now a pretty good actor.I enjoyed the work of the director of Dangerous Liaisons, that being Stephen Frears. I felt he put some good touches to this film. Apart from this film, Steve has done nothing that really stands out.  I also like how the time this movie was set in was brought to the screen. This is due mainly to Frear, and the wonderful cast that took part in this incredible film. Yet also like the story that was presented here, with some extraordinary characters. The screenplay for Dangerous Liaisons was written by Christopher Hampton, who did a wonderful job to bring a book and a play to the bigscreen. I felt he got it just right. There is no wonder that a movie like Cruel Intentions was adapted from this film. The story here is so powerful that I am sure many movies will try to replicate such a formula. Yet this story also makes me weary of how easy it is to be taken advantage of in real life. Some people don't care how they hurt people, or the consequences of their actions, as long as revenge has taken place. I hope movies like this show that revenge is not good for anyone, whether it be the person trying to hand it out, or the person receiving it. No one wins, and I know, as I have been in such a position. Then again, if you want to view a really fine piece of cinematography, then this film is the one for you most definitely. CMRS gives &#145;Dangerous Liaisons' 5 (Brilliant Film)  "},{"Title":"Devious fun.","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Based on a play, this 'morality tale'- although I'm unsure of the morality involved- is fascinating. Malkovitch and Close tear up the screen as brutal ugly rivals, and Michelle Pfieffer gives one of her strongest performances as the beauty at the center of it all. Featuring a young and gorgeous Uma Thurman (terrific) and a young and inarticulate Keanu Reeves (miscast) this little gem is very well made, and worth seeing.     "},{"Title":"Vanity and happiness are incompatible","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films.  I have never seen the original adaptation.  I have to mention Cruel Intentions, though, as I see many others have.  I feel disgusted that people are seeing that film first and basing their judgement of Dangerous Liaisons on their reaction of how terrible Cruel was.  Every single copy of Cruel Intentions should be thrown in a (sadly large) pit and burned!  I forced myself to watch maybe 15 minutes of it, and wanted to throw my television out the window after doing it!  The acting was pathetic, the writing was appallingly horrific, and thinking about how much money was wasted makes me ill.Ok.  Enough of that.  Dangerous Liaisons is a very fine film!  All the standards of great film are there, so I'll spare you the 'superb acting, excellent sets and costumes, etc.'  The story is powerful.  These characters... oh! what they put themselves through!  When I watch this film (again and again), I am drawn in by their perceived sophistication and power, but am always in such turmoil over their sad, true natures.  Glenn Close's line, this confirms something I've long suspected; that vanity and happiness are incompatible, which really sums up the film, and both her and Valmont's fate.  The characters are compelling--they make one laugh and weep, and always want to cheer them on.  Glenn Close is amazing in this film--but I can never tell in the closing scene if she's 'the criminal who is sorry that she was caught,' or if she truly is in realization of her crimes.  I will keep watching the film to see. "},{"Title":"Brillant, but...","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  British master Stephen Frears did a very wonderful job with this French story and an American cast. There is creativity, beautiful sets, intelligent script, but this movie had, in my opinion, a little problem  the American actors (except in the case of Malkovich). I madly love this kind of movie of the French Renaissance.  Most of the movies of that kind I saw were French film. I think the French actors have more that sense of that period than the Americans, or the British actors. They have the cultural background, the language. An actress like Fanny Ardant or an actor like Fabrice Luchini can move, speak, and be really like the people of that time. Not the Americans. Here, Michelle Pfeiffer just looks like an American dressed in a French woman, so is Uma Thurman. I don't mean that this cast done a bad job, I just say that it's always better when the actors are French. "},{"Title":"Dangerously entertaining","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Continuing my recent powdered wig kick started by 'Amadeus' and 'Marie Antoinette'.I remember this generating some heat when it was first released, but despite featuring several lovely women who I was certain were featured in various stages of undress (*sigh* Uma), and that I likely could've slipped this one past my Mom (because, artsy-fartsy), I had never seen 'Dangerous Liaisons'. Big mistake. I loved it. Why I should find the scheming and sexual politics of the Libertine idle rich of the pre-revolution so fascinating I don't know, but I loved every soapy minute of it. Glenn Close is particularly brilliant. Now the completest in me feels it necessary to seek out 'Valmont' (1989) and 'Cruel Intentions' (1999). "},{"Title":"Somewhat decent","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay, gave it a go today. I think it has the same problems that Cruel Intentions has, which seem to come from the source material. It just becomes repetitive and sort of dull. And I actually expected something campier than what I got. It's just far too subdued for the material. Call me crazy, but I prefer Cruel Intentions. Both are far from great, but at least Intentions had some more fun camp in it. Malkovich did nothing for me. I've never liked him much as an actor and this is no exception. Close is spectacular though. She makes the role work in such a quietly perverse way, in a way Malkovich fails to. Still, don't see all of the love for this, although it's not bad at all. "}{"Title":"Dangerous Liaisons - supremely discounted ! ! !","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dangerous Liaisons must be among the most unappreciated, most undervalued films you'll ever come across. This is a masterpiece, people, please heed my word for it. There is such presumption that a great deal many of films at this excellence exist, but they do not. Many have tried and failed to make movies of similar type, period pieces, what have you. They'll all inevitably become too proper, the speech overly poetic. Where has all the human commonality of relation gone? Where is the playful human spirit evident? 999 out of 1000 fail, and Dangerous Liaisons does not. This movie is a masterpiece, and it is wickedly entertaining.The writing and deliverance of dialogue is, phenomenal, no less. It lies with the very elite in this category. The character dialogue is intensely intoxicating, it is constantly emotionally moving, and it very well should keep you on the edge of your seat. The writing is of the highest grade. Dangerous Liaisons has an array of glorious lines, possibly more than any other great film. Here are just a few - You'll find the shame is like the pain, you only feel it once. - Without the correct polite vocabulary, how can you indicate what you would like me to do, or make me an offer, something I might find agreeable? - Like most intellectuals, he's intensely stupid.The acting is of the strongest sorts, no doubt. Glenn Close, John Malkovich, Michelle Pfeiffer, Keanu Reeves, and Uma Thurman compose the cast whose combined strength is absolutely overlooked. Each performer plays to the top of their capabilities, and all five are truly tremendously talented. Not to take away from Malkovich or the others, but Glenn Close devours the spotlight of Dangerous Liaisons. Marquise Isabelle's antics take center stage. Close and Malkovich act as divine beings pestering in persons' affairs. Pfeiffer and Thurman are irresistibly alluring. Reeves is appropriately modest. Their performances are beyond delightful.The costumes appear lavish as is the set extravagant, without question. The cinematography is gorgeous and lush. The direction is suitably strong. The essence of Dangerous Liaisons is entirely exquisite, utterly seductive, and magically delicious.Dangerous Liaisons does not involve deep immersion, rather it's plainly, immensely amusing. It requires more widespread approval, to be recognized amongst the all-time greatest films. Dangerous Liaisons is one of the best cinematic pieces, one of my favorites, and certainly top 50 of all-time. It is being vastly underrated and understandably so.4 stars (****), for sure. "},{"Title":"It's harder to be good than bad.","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sumptuous garments and opulent locations decorate this story of intrigue, seduction, revenge, and assorted mishigas among the aristocrats in France before they were taken down a peg or two by the sans culottes. The imagery is impressive. We get to watch these elaborately dressed people swishing around in finely appointed chalets, their heels clicking, their speech elegant, ironic, witty.The question, though, is what the hell are they up to -- and why? Everybody seems intent on seducing or traducing everybody else, except the most virtuous of the women (there are no virtuous men) who put all their efforts into resisting. What it all amounts to is an occasional display of acid wit in a rather dull, if ultimately tragic, plot. Laclos' scandalous novel was published in 1782 and the appeal of evil and sex, especially together, doesn't seem to have dimmed over the years. One version was put together by Roger Vadim in 1959. Milos Forman directed another in 1989. A Korean version had appeared in 1970. Cruel Intentions in 1999 updated the story to New York and starred Sarah Michelle Gellar, she of Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Evil and sex, sex and evil.Uma Thurman, as the teen-aged innocent fresh from the convent, dominates every scene she's in. And why not? She's taller than anyone else in the movie. When she has her clothes on and isn't fluttering those big blue eyes she makes you think not so much of sex as basketball. Her character provides the film with a certain comic element, which comes as a big relief. She's a virgin when she first appears but John Malkovitch, the Chief Cad, is eager to, well, virginea reserasem vincula, and eventually has her eagerly doing -- THAT with three men almost simultaneously.Glenn Close plays a real mean woman. Not only is she doing every man in sight but she reneges on her promises too. There's nothing amusing about HER. One of her lovers is Keanu Reeves, and Close is responsible for Reeves' undoing of Malkovitch towards the end, in a duel with épées in which Malkovitch appears to commit suicide by challenger.The story, baldly presented, seems more of an exercise in style than anything else. Witty and waspish dialog from time to time, but I didn't get any sense of social commentary. The decadence of the aristoi in pre-revolutionary France? That's not how it was interpreted at the time. Marie Antoinette got a kick out of the novel. Penetrating insights into human nature? Not when you have simple good and simple evil and the former always succumbs. Othello did it better.But the wardrobe and locations are unbeatable. The period furniture may be hateful but the music is comely and easy to listen to. And the chiefly American performers handle the roles surprisingly well. Malkovitch is superb as the enthusiastic rake although, I have to say, with his not especially handsome face I don't know how he was supposed to have exercised such power over so many women. I'm more handsome than Malkovitch and I carry around a cloud of pheromones but I've always had to work at it. I suppose just being filthy rich must have helped him a lot. Come to think of it, I'm glad Reeves punctured him during the duel. Not that I enjoyed seeing him get his just desserts but just out of envy. "},{"Title":"Wicked Games To Play Sly Words They Say...","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Evil intentions, wretchedness at its core, words to deceive, smiles to betray, spells to seduce; so to say, a world of one principle win or die and all that being beyond one's control... Isn't that something that tempts, lures by its appalling thrill and thrilling shock? Common as it may seem in films galore, that is, however, not the only thing you can find in DANGEROUS LIASIONS.This movie, being based upon the novel by Choderlos de Laclos, shows the worst aspect of human nature. Since it is focused rather on dialogs and deliberate deeds than some linear content, the movie supplies the viewer with an intense insight into certain wickedness that we encounter. The two characters, Marquise Isabelle de Merteuil (Glenn Close) and Vicomte de Valmont (John Malkovich), represent two driving forces of the whole intrigues and fates of other characters. They calculate what damage they can do in order to destroy love, disturb human happiness and harm genuine feelings. Calm independence, instrumental charity, deceitful sexuality, corrupted desires and vain pride are the features that seem to characterize them. True villains, one could say...yet, in the long run, we find out it is not entirely this way. It appears that even a real villain may encounter honest love that is able to transform them from within. But let me move towards the very essence of my opinion of this movie. There are actually three strengths that the film may boast SCRIPT, PHOTOGRAPHY and PERFORMANCES. There are moments when dialog clearly takes over action. Yet, it does not mean that the film is vain in words. What the characters say appears to change the reality, influence their decisions and, foremost, manifest their perception of others. So to say, their thoughts are expressed in words like in a play on stage. Here, unlike in any other movie, the clever script plays a decisive role. Sly words that lure, faithless words that harm, honest words that cure... When applied to the couple, the words resemble to us the wicked games that are being played and the wicked things that are being planned.Photography together with the entire visual aspect of the film is what I particularly like about DANGEROUS LIASIONS. The scenes are subtle, the pictures are memorable thanks to the accurate balance of colors and fine camera-work. For instance, consider the moments that show the meeting of Valmont with Madame Tourvel in the garden and close-ups of Glenn Close's face that open and close the curtain of the drama.As far as performances are concerned, I think that it is not difficult to highlight the three cast as marvelous Glenn Close, Michelle Pfeiffer and John Malkovich. Ms Close known for sophisticated interpretations of various roles, does her job exquisitely portraying a true villain filled with decadent jealousy, outrageous dishonesty, appalling sarcasm and deliberate wretchedness. Mr Malkovich is unforgettable as the sort of 'casanova' of the story, a kind of man no woman can resist a lustful lover and a crafty schemer. Ms Pfeiffer, on the other hand, is genuine and convincing (even touching) in her role of noble, innocent, honest and gentle lady, a kind of woman most men would find desirable. Moreover, as the plots go on, the viewers easily predict that the two fall in love because of wonderful chemistry between Ms Pfeiffer and Mr Malkovich. However, what appears in the end is, especially for people who have not read the novel, absolutely surprising and unpredictable... The supporting cast, like in many other movies where the lead is strong (in some cases too strong), are a bit shadowed; yet, I would like to mention the acting of young Uma Thurman highly worth appreciating in the role of Cecile who goes through the way from youthful virtue to sophisticated skills but bitter experience.Wicked games to play sly words they say... wicked things they do to find out what is true... I have chosen these words, loosely derived from the famous song by Chris Isaak, because I think they most resemble the gist of the film. The way the entire plots are executed, probably, does not matter that much as what comes out in the end... Interesting journey through human nature, through its faults, miseries, lusts, weaknesses, efforts, drawbacks to the very core, the simplest of all. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Rococo Delight","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Who are these characters? The Marquise de Merteuil, Monsieur le Vicomte de Valmont, Madame de Tourvel, Madame de Volanges and her daughter Cecile, and the Chevalier Danceny become entwined in a plot thicker than most writers of the last half century could imagine.Glenn Close, John Malkovich, Michelle Pfeiffer, Swoozie Kurtz, Uma Thurman, and Keanu Reeves -- respectively -- portray these characters.The movie is based on a novel written over 225 years ago, which consisted of fictional letters written by various characters to other characters, some of whom do not appear in this film adaptation.Who really loves whom? Who wins the game being played cannot be decided easily. "},{"Title":"Cativating period drama","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My View on the narrative.Adapted from a French play, Dangerous Liaisons focuses upon the sexual innuendos of Sebastian De Valmont and Isabelle De Mertieuil. An extravagant look upon different traits in rich French society this period drama captures brilliantly the wanting desperations of a diverse set of characters. Through the sexual driven ambitious big-headed Sebastian and the supposed classy but fruity Isabelle the plot thrives on character values and through terrific acting by Malkovich (In the line of fire) and Close (101 Dalmatians) the film presents an engaging struggle and challenge for the characters to overcome. It definitely engages audiences through spicy tantalising dialogue and graphic scenes of a sexual nature between various characters. The plot is consistent and interesting throughout. As moving and engaging as it is though, I couldn't help but feel the film moved too soon and contained too much detail for the brain to contend with. It jumps too far ahead of itself at various scenes which will leave audiences playing catch up. From what I did gather it is enticing, exciting and emotional throughout and is an extremely powerful film, especially at the end. It's not a personal favourite and one which I would not buy but it is worth watching for the brilliant interplay and costume design. Deservedly Oscar winning for best art direction, costume design and best adapted screenplay, Dangerous Liaisons is terrifically captivating for a period drama and justifies the genre brilliantly especially through settings and costumes. Character interplay.What make this film interesting are the fantastic character roles. Malkovich, Close, Pfeiffer (married to the mob) and Reeves (The Matrix) all have engaging story lines to participate in and through tense situations involving sex, betrayal, loyalty and trust this film emphasises a variety of characteristics in different social classes and in doing so makes the film very engaging.apart from a few confusing scenes the film captures the genre perfectly and is a very engaging watch. watch it if...you enjoy period dramas. "},{"Title":"One of the Best...","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll preface this by saying that I have not seen this movie in a good amount of time. Yet, I just saw the trite and rather disgusting remake Creul Intentions and it made me want to comment on Dangerous Liasons.DL is truly a great movie. It has all of the elements of a triumph in film making. The acting is superior. Malkovich and Close (sp?) are amazing. The setting and the storyline flow greatly. The writing is great, the directing is good. The balance and chemistry between the actors and their characters is exceptional. The thing that makes this movie disturbing and a trifle hard to watch is the subject matter, the characters are conniving, crazy, and intriguingly watchable.Paramount Film Making! "},{"Title":"I will take your refusal as a declaration of War.","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie, the producers and the director did an amazing job of keeping it from being anachronistic, and yet allowed the speech to be clear and concise to allow modern audience to understand everything very well. Glenn Close and John Malkovich were amazing, and Michelle Pfeiffer really impressed me at the time it came out with her dramatic acting ability. My favorite part I adore the moment Valmont gives his ultimatum to the Marquise, and Close goes to the door, and he leaps to his feet as if he's won, and she turns and looks at him with a smile, that turns to a look of pure venom and through her teeth says, Very well then. War! It gives me shivers every time. "},{"Title":"Consummate Direction, Cinematography and Acting","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A blend of big names and a magnificent supporting cast take on this adaptation of the play Les Liason Dangerous and act their socks off - two of the most enjoyable hours you can spend with your clothes on.Set in the supremely hedonistic environs of eighteenth century upper class French society, and supplied with sumptuous locations, sets and costumes the film tells the story centres on the carnal adventures of the lead characters. Each of the two has, for years, cut a swathe through the bedrooms, marriages and hearts of the land. Marquise Isabelle De Merteuil sets her old flame the Vicomte Sébastien De Valmont a challenge he decries as totally inadequate to earn an assignation with her - one which would avenge both on an old adversary - he assigns himself a sterner test and there begins a film that is both heart rending and side splitting. "},{"Title":"Highly amusing.","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although this movie is always everywhere credited as a drama/romance, I regarded this movie as an highly amusing 'dark' comedy, with subtle humor and characters. It of course is not the sort of movie that makes you laugh out loud but it's the sort of movie that amuses you throughout its entire running time. I like to compare this movie and its style a bit to the Stanley Kubrick movie Barry Lyndon.The movie has a simple story, set in the late 18th century France, about two rich and above all bored aristocrats who take pleasure in hurting other persons, out of the high circles of society, feelings and setting persons up against each other. They do this mostly by seduction which provides this movie with a most of the time overly present atmosphere of sexual tension and eroticism. The story isn't that complicated but it is made out to look complicated by the unusual and unpredictable characters and the typical old fashioned dialog. It takes a good storyteller to still tell a story like this, amusing and likable enough but above all also understandable enough. Luckilly director Stephen Frears is a more than good storyteller. It makes Dangerous Liaisons an original and always amusing movie to watch over and over again. That's also why I think that this movie should have won an Oscar for best directing rather than for best adapted screenplay. Strangely enough the movie was nominated for best movie but not even for best director. Stephen Frears personally deserved some more credit for this movie.The movie is extremely well cast and all of the actors deliver a fine and effective performance. All of the actors deliver the difficult dialog in a fine- but above all, believable way. Actors that really stand out in this movie are Glenn Close, who also received an Oscar nomination and John Malkovich who plays his character exactly the right way; Dry, convincing as a good kind-heated person who falls truly in love but above all also as a cold-hearted brute, who enjoys hurting other persons feelings but not cold-hearted enough to make us completely hate him, or not care about his character's faith. He plays his character exactly right but it of course is also thanks to Stephen Frears that his character works out the way he does. It's mainly thanks to Malkovich's character, since he is the character that mostly carries the movie, that the movie and its story work out so well. Also really great and impressive in her role was the then still teenager Uma Thurman, in one of her earliest and perhaps also heaviest roles. She also looks truly beautiful in her role and I'm not only saying this because of her 'nude' scene in this movie. Other well known actors in this movie are Michelle Pfeiffer, who also got nominated for an Oscar and Keanu Reeves, from the period when he still mostly starred in comedies. He wasn't too impressive in this movie but it still was sort of fun to see him in a role and movie like this.Besides the acting the most powerful and effective element of the movie is its visual look. The movie is visually a delight, with some impressive looking costumes (also an Oscar win for that.) and some marvelous cinematography. This and also most of its other visual elements, certainly help to make the story and characters work out as good as they did.I don't really see this movie as a classic (yet) or an essential must-see. It's not quite impressive or provoking enough for that but it comes really close. Visually this movie is definitely perfect though. When you watch this movie you'll definitely won't regret it.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Cats and Mice in lace","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dangerous Liaisons (1988) Totally fascinating script about the 17th century world of wealthy, frilly, powdered, terribly bored, rich white folks who exhaust their days in mean-spirited mental games with each other. Glenn Close (as an incredibly manipulative bitch), John Malkovich (as a snotty dandy whose only pleasure is damaging women), Uma Thurman (who is the younger, naïve one of the bunch), and Michele Pfeiffer (the morally pure one who is considered fair game). We're talking an ugly, artificial, empty, ugly world here&#133;and I'm no fan of gold-leaf lacey stuff. Well acted, beautifully photographed, scored, set, and costumed &#150; this is a first class drama with lots of twists, turns, cats, and mice. You'll just want to take a shower afterwards. "}{"Title":"Great!","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the best movies I've ever seen. Close is the best Merteuil possible ever, and Malkovich the best Valmont that could be whether in theater or cinema. Pfeiffer is the perfect innocent gazelle. The whole cast is worth itself to watch the movie, though it's one of the best scripts made from a novel that has been done. I truly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Right Here","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I ABSOLUTLEY LOVE THIS MOVIE!! I seen this movie when a couple 5 years ago on tv .. I didnt get to see the whole thing so i figured out the title and went and rented it .. I love John Malkovich and no matter how old he may get he will always be a very attractive, outspoken, genious of a man... This movie proves his skill ( I own this one it just had to be bought)  Anything he portrays is great for instance Mary Reilly another great film///  Rent Them Tonight you wont be disapointed "},{"Title":"Big dresses, excellent dialogue, John Malcovich...","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A fantasticly acted film about destruction of characters with a few carefully placed words. Glenn Close and John Malcovich act their pants off. The dialogue is sharp witty and cutting without modern day expletives we are normally used to. Makes you want to be an actor Aoife "},{"Title":"Great movie, one of my favorites. John Malkovich is perfect.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorite of all times.  It's a great story with a good ending, superb acting, specially that of John Malkovich, he is one of the, if not, the best actor I've ever seen on screen. Everyone should have the pleasure of watching this movie. I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Fascinating, but slow.","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love the rich, intricate plot, but it is delivered a little slow by today's standards.  The acting, for the most part, is magnificent, only excepting Keanu Reeves.  He has seriously matured since he was in Dangerous Liaisons, and it is painfully obvious every time he opens his mouth, and Ted speaks his lines.  The scenery and costumes are so opulent, it almost makes one wish to visit the time. I would give it 4 out of 5 stars--not perfect, but well made and enjoyable, especially if you knit. "},{"Title":"Very good film, but terrible music!","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before I saw Dangerous Liaisons, I had seen the most recent adaption of the same book, Cruel Intentions, and found it to be so cliché-ridden that I nearly vomited. Therefore, I was rather sceptic before I put DL into my VCR. But I was wrong! This turned out to be a fab film, and I was especially impressed by the ending. The acting is superb. Glenn Close is wonderfully cruel as Marquise de Merteuil, and John Malkovich and Michelle Pfeiffer were also great. The cinematography is beautiful, and the costumes correct and appropriate. The only thing I can complain about, was the music. It was way too dramatic, and more suitable for a war drama or a crime mystery. Otherwise, this was a great film, which I would recommend to everyone who likes dramas. "},{"Title":"Male love wonderfully realised","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the only films I've seen that deals with male love.The film is a brilliant adaptation of an old novel and play and is wonderfully brought to the screen. John Malkovich is perfect as the arrogant male manipulator.  The film, although a period, piece is as accurate today as perhaps the period it was written about.  The idea that this man pursuit of sex and power blind him so much that he doesn't realise that he's in love.  As he tries to maintain his arrogance even though inside he doesn't want to (it's beyond my control).  In the end he realises what he has done and what he should have done, and makes one final act of redemption.He, is caught between the jealous, experienced woman, who controls Malkovich without him  knowing(typical man), yet loves him and between a naive young girl who falls in love with him, again without him realising his love for her.Overall, a wonderful film.  The dialog is perfect and executed brilliantly. The performance of Malkovich should have won the best actor oscar and Michelle Pfeiffer is surprisingly good.  Highly recommended, even if you don't like period drama's or love stories. "},{"Title":"I've always known I was meant to dominate your sex and avenge my own","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" That 'Dangerous Liaisons (1988)' was adapted from a 1782 novel &#150; Les Liaisons dangereuses, by Pierre Choderlos de Laclos &#150; is something I find remarkable. The story is basically about sex and seduction, and the cruelty with which people conspire to corrupt innocence and virtue for their own perverse pleasure. Immeasurably scandalous at the time of its publication, and remaining so for centuries, the novel has lent itself to various stage and screen adaptations, though Stephen Frears' 1988 film was the first English-language film version, perhaps green-lighted after 'Amadeus (1984)' revived the costume drama sub-genre Milos Forman would direct his own version of the novel, 'Valmont (1989),' the following year. Such lively subject matter proves more than enough to brighten up the typical ceremonial dreariness of the period piece, and, indeed, the film feels more modern than most modern-day explorations of sexual behaviour. The eighteenth century, in which we imagine most proud aristocrats to be prudish and formal in their romances, is revealed to possess an undercurrent of depravity, a wicked streak that characterises human interaction.Glenn Close is deliciously fiendish as Marquise Isabelle de Merteuil, a woman who has all but perfected the ability to control every man around her through seduction and betrayal. Her male counterpart, Vicomte Sébastien de Valmont (John Malkovich), expends his life in similar pursuits, every woman whom he corrupts serving as a trophy to his reputation as a scamp. As a means of revenge, Merteuil asks Valmont for a favour &#150; to deflower the young, convent-educated wife (Uma Thurman) of a former lover. Valmont initially dismisses this assignment as being too easy, instead setting his sights on Madame Marie de Tourvel (Michelle Pfeiffer), a beautiful woman known for her virtue and steadfast morals. It's all too apparent that Merteuil and Valmont are in love with each other, and, indeed, had once shared a relationship. However, their passion is doomed from the outset, for to surrender to their desires would be to allow their rival to declare victory over them; their stubborn pride ensures their inevitable downfall.'Dangerous Liaisons' might have faltered had the performances been inadequate, but nearly every cast member delivers strongly, with only Keanu Reeves seeming anachronistically out-of-place in the eighteenth-century French setting. Glenn Close is superbly devilish as the manipulative and superior Merteuil, whose every spoken word is clearly distinguished from its intended meaning, veiled behind a attitude of smug satisfaction. John Malkovich was never the most handsome man in Hollywood, but he uses his words as a weapon, measuring each syllable with flawless elocution and emphasis, every remark assuredly drawing him closer to his victim's bed. Keanu Reeves, in his earliest success, seems completely out-of-his-depth in such a formal upper-class setting, though this does work positively in terms of his character, who is similarly disoriented amid all the treachery. Michelle Pfeiffer, looking very pretty, is wonderful as Valmont's prized quarry, slowing succumbing to his sleazy charms. Her beauty becomes even more heartbreaking when we realise that we, the audience, are eagerly anticipating her seduction and corruption by Valmont's hand, and immediately feel shamed by our complicity. "},{"Title":"Sensuous betrayal","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a stunningly beautiful movie. Glen Close proves once again that she is a queen of the silver screen as the Marquise Isabelle de Merteuil, a manipulative aristocrat who loves a good scandal. She loves them so much that she sets them up if she can't find one any other way. She is the complete narcissist who does't care if she ruins someone's life.John Malkovich is good as Valmont, the irresistible Vicomte who falls for the wiles of Isabelle. In order to win her over, he is willing to do anything, including ruining a naive young woman(played by Michelle Pfiefer). I do want to say that, Malkovich was good in the part, but I still think that the part should have gone to the actor who spent two years in the theatrical production, Alan Rickman. Anyone who has seen Mesmer (not a great movie...watch it for Rickmans performance alone), knows that he would have been perfect for the role.The costumes were elegant, and showed the decadence of the time. The cinematography was perfect, as was the score.If they had put Rickman in, the movie would have been a 10...as it is it's a 9 "},{"Title":"The littleness of mans existence.","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films, if not the best films I've ever saw. It's not because there are so many famous actors but also because the movie is presenting one of the most common themes, love, in a way that could be so romantic and tragic. The pretence that man can control his feelings and the bet we make with our egoism can be catastrophic.It is so illusionist and ironic that love is just a game, just a bet, because there is always one moment in our lives that we are ready to cry craven to love. If we don't have the courage to admit it then it is not worth carry on living. The end of the film show the littleness of both Marquise de Merteuil and Vicomte de Valmont and the death of the last is his and ours redemption and catharsis. Dangerous Liaisons is a film that shows all mans feeling and how life can play with them, especially when man allows that.  "}{"Title":"Claustrophobic and Airless","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dangerous Liaisons is based upon Les Liaisons dangereuses by Pierre Choderlos de Laclos, a novel which also served as the basis of the more recent high school black comedy Cruel Intentions. It is a tale of sexual intrigue and jealousy set among the aristocracy of late eighteenth century France, in the years leading up to the Revolution. The protagonists are the Marquise de Merteuil and the Vicomte de Valmont, and the plot revolves around their attempts to corrupt the morals of two young women, Cécile de Volanges and Madame de Tourvel. The Marquise's motive is to gain revenge on Cécile's fiancé, a former lover who has jilted her. Valmont, a notorious womaniser, is attracted to Madame de Tourvel not so much for her beauty, although she is exquisitely lovely (she is, after all, played by Michelle Pfeiffer), but rather because she has a reputation for piety and virtue and therefore represents a challenge to him. Valmont easily seduces Cécile, even though she is in love with her music teacher, the Chevalier Danceny, and eventually, through persistence and deceit, wins the affections of Madame de Tourvel. The film then details all the complications arising from this intrigue.The film can be seen as one of Hollywood's periodic attempts to copy the heritage cinema style of historical drama which was very much in vogue in the European, particularly the British and the French, cinema during the eighties and nineties. (Martin Scorsese's The Age of Innocence, which also starred Michelle Pfeiffer, is another example). It was shot entirely on location in genuine historical buildings in France, and great care was obviously taken with the elaborate costumes and with creating an authentic period atmosphere. There is also some fine acting. Keanu Reeves is rather wooden as Danceny and Uma Thurman's Cécile comes across as a simpering ninny, but all the other main characters are very good.The critic Hal Hinson rightly described Michelle Pfeiffer's role as Mme de Tourvel as the least obvious and the most difficult, because virtue is more difficult to portray than wickedness. Pfeiffer was one of the loveliest Hollywood stars of the eighties, but here in addition to her physical beauty she also radiates an inner beauty as well. John Malkovich's Valmont, by contrast, is a reptilian villain who drips with malice. Merteuil is icily calm on the surface, but Glenn Close makes it clear that beneath that surface her character is a woman prey not only to illicit sexual passions but also to irrational hatreds and jealousies.Despite its period detail and the quality of some of the acting, however, Dangerous Liaisons has never been my favourite film. It has always seemed to me to be claustrophobic and airless, set in its own highly artificial world. The sense of claustrophobia was presumably deliberate- most of the scenes are set indoors in the very ornate interiors of the period, and there are a number of shots focusing on closed, or closing, doors. The sense of unreality may derive from the fact that Laclos' source novel is an epistolary novel. This can be a difficult literary genre to adapt for the screen, as the characters' motivations are depicted not directly through words and actions but indirectly through the medium of letters, which cannot always easily be translated into dialogue without losing a lot of the author's meaning. However talented the actors may be, the characters in this film never come alive as rounded human beings, and the atmosphere of world-weariness and heartless cruelty never seems real, except perhaps to those who take at face value all those History Made Simple textbooks that tell us that the eighteenth century French aristocracy were a bunch of creepily decadent sadists who thoroughly deserved their fate at the hands of Madame Guillotine. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Too bad they don't film the book","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw both Dangerous Liaisons and Valmont long before I read the original French novel, and now I understand why both movies left me feeling that something was missing, that the stories were lame, even though they were both good movies if one likes period pieces. It is necessary to read the chilling conclusion of the novel, in which both the lead characters are much more wicked than in the films, to appreciate Laclos' criticism of the prevailing morality, or lack of it, among the privileged aristocracy of his day. The other defect of the movie versions was the casting; granted that all the actors in both films were good actors, except of course Reeves, but they simply were not believable in their roles. Close and Malkovich were not beautiful enough, and Firth and Bening were not wicked enough, to make the plot believable. I wish someone, maybe a French director as has been suggested, would make the definitive version. (I did think Henry Thomas was perfect in the role of Danceny in Valmont, his sweet innocence combined with budding bravado was excellent--why haven't we seen more of him lately?)  "},{"Title":"good, bad and ugly with lace and diamond drop earrings","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is remarkable in every aspect, but hard to watch. Like watching a kid pull wings off butterflies.  I wouldn't have stuck with it had somebody not assured me that natural justice prevails.  This is not a spoiler.  It wasn't the sort of justice to which i am accustomed, even in spaghetti westerns.  Or maybe it was sort of like The Good, The Bad and The Ugly at a certain level. Just substitute a woman's body for a Wells Fargo crate of gold bars. There was no presence or visual in this film that did not contribute to the vital and fascinating reality of its remote late 18th century universe.   "},{"Title":"A bad attempt to make a French movie","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even if we forgive the fact that the book is different from the movieand that some liberties should not be taken by a screenwriter. Buteven if all that aside, this still does not explain lack of characterdevelopment, lack of emotional charge through the movie and lackof French manners and ways of life that should be a background toany movie set in France. Who ever hoots in a theater in France?What music teacher (not that he is a music teacher in a book)could challenge a nobleman? What about just the general charmand etiquette of French nobility that despite all of their wickednessis still the predominant mask? Where was that? Perhaps JohnMalkovich was the wrong actor to try to display a combination of aseducer and a charmer all at the same time. As far as MichellePfeiffer, well she is beautiful as always and she fit the role shewas given..her typical role. The virtuous, sweet woman who tries tocontrol things but fails. This is her role in every single movie she isin and she is good in that role, but unfortunately does not go anyfurther in developing it. Keeanu Reeves is terrible andundeveloped as a character and I can't believe the only point ofUma Thurman was for the nudity. I mean she can act and theycould have made her into a stronger character to illustrate all theemotions and changes she had to go through. As far as GlennClose, I also thought that the emotional load of the movie, of hercharacter was not passed on to the viewer because of her weakperformance or weak writing. This movie could of been great ifmade by the French who could not only understand the novelbetter but also allow the viewers to taste France and that timeperiod in all its beauty and bitterness. To make people feel thefunction of women as victims and at the same time see that not allwas quite that simple. This movie was made in two dimensionsand it needed at least one more in order to live up to the novel.However, it turned out to be a typical, wanna be Blockbuster flickwith a little bit more of an interesting story line.  "},{"Title":"Well done","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is so incredibly well done, and all three lead characters are at their peak career performances. It is clever, funny, and tragic all rolled together, and one that you will be thinking about long after the movie is over. Of the three main characters, Michelle Pfeiffer has the least stretching to do as an actor, but her character calls for a demure, soft-spoken individual. John Malkovitch and Glenn Close are both deliciously malicious and carry the film well. Keanu Reeves is better suited for an action film - he appears wooden - but does a decent job, anyway. Lastly, Uma is refreshing and captivating, and plays opposite John Malkovitch without losing her identity. All in all, masterful, and visually and intellectually stimulating to watch. Still to this day it holds its' own in a world where action is the name of the game. "},{"Title":"Absolutely superb!","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Once in a very long while a truly amazing film gets made, and this is one of those films.On paper this is an intelligent and bitter-sweet period drama - an almost typical tale of love, vanity, manipulation and betrayal, with a small dose of philosophy thrown in for good measure - but on the screen it's a heart-wrenching journey I'll never forget. The wonderfully multi-dimensional characters are brought to life by great direction and some astonishing performances by actors who clearly understand every facet of the characters they play (Glenn Close deserves a special mention, followed closely by John Malcovich and Michelle Pfeiffer). Nobody does anything out-of-character, and there are no hidden twists; this is simply a masterwork in the art of combining rich characters in the right (or perhaps wrong) circumstances, so that you can watch their inevitable fates unravel. This is certainly no Disney film but the story isn't excessively dark either, and it carries timeless messages that almost anyone should be able to relate to and understand.It's worth mentioning that the film is technically excellent as well. The sets and costumes, the excellent score, the camera work... everything is done brilliantly (i.e. so well that you don't notice how good they are on first viewing).So why not 10/10? It came close, but for me the wooden performances from supporting actors Keanu Reeves and Uma Thurman did spoil things just a little, and the fact that no two actors in the movie have the same accent doesn't help either. But worry not within five minutes you'll be too enthralled to notice. "},{"Title":"A Classic!","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Still a classic. The acting is superb, the editing and storyline outstanding. This film is one of the best performances of both John Malkovich and Glenn Close. Glenn close plays a manipulative and cunning upper class woman bent on manipulating everyone around her and John Malkovich is her twisted equal. Everything in this film was Oscar caliber. The cinematography blends breathtaking scenery with dramatic intensity, the editing is flawless and has mastery removed any distracting moments (which could have unnessarily lengthened the film)and the acting was the best work of every single cast member. Uma Thurman may have topped her performance in Les Miseables but for everyone else this was truly their swan song. See this MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Very Good, Nearly Excellent but...","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very fine, smashingly entertaining film about love and intrigue in pre revolution era France.  Great costumes and swift direction keep the pace fast but not overly so.  We get a chance to savor everything laid out for us but not so much as to make it seem pompous as is the case with so many other costume dramas.  The film can be enjoyed on so many levels as comedy, drama, sex drama and tragedy that it seems to be able to please everyone.The cast is excellent overall.  Despite being rather odd looking, John Malkovich is perfect and you can clearly understand why he would be so taken with the lovely Michelle Pfeiffer whose sweet gentility hides an unbridled passion.  There are plenty of men who use their style and will to compensate for their looks and manage to bed any number of fine women. As for Glenn Close as the Marquise de Merteuil, she's perfect when she's being conniving and manipulative especially in the early scenes with Malkovich.  The two have smary smart aleck behavior of school children who think they know better than everyone else.  Their snobbery is both repellent and a joy to watch.  The problem with Close's performance comes later when Valmont comes to claim his `reward' which is to have sex with Merteuil.  Close has never presented well as a sex object even when she tries very hard to do so in films like `Fatal Attraction'.  There's always this recognition that she's too smart-too intellectual-to truly give in fully and with abandon to carnal passion.  And here, that lustiness is what is supposed to drive Valmont on to conquer Pfeiffer's Madame de Tourvel and eventually lead to his (and everyone else's) destruction.  When he comes to claim his prize and is incensed to be rejected, you can't help but feel thankful that he won't be able to and you can't understand why he's so furious over it.  The character of Marquse de Merteuil requires an actress who is both very hot and very smart.  Unfortunately, Close isn't it.  There aren't many actresses who truly present both.  The way her character is represented in the original novel is that of an unbelievably beautiful sexy woman who uses her sex to manipulate men into getting what she wants.  Her beauty and, more importantly, her sexuality and her freedom with it, is her greatest weapon.  With Close in the role, it creates a vacuum because she simply doesn't project that.  As odd as it would seem, the role calls for someone along the lines of Raquel Welch.  As limited an actress as Ms. Welch is (or was) visually and suggestively, she's more in line with the source material than Ms. Close is.  With someone like Welch, you could perfectly understand Valmont's feelings when he's rejected.  What heterosexual man wouldn't want to get it on with someone like Raquel.  Though a lesser version of the same material, the film `Valmont' has Annette Bening in the role of Merteuil and she's at least visually more appropriate for the role.Stephen Frears direction is flawless.  He knows just how to pace the movie throughout.  It's brisk and fun in the beginning and engrossing and melancholy near the end.  He stages Marteuil's humiliation at the opera perfectly and here Close is very fine as she recedes from her box trying to maintain a level of dignity and every so slightly stumbling on the way out.  "},{"Title":"Really sizzling","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. The manipulativeness of the characters against the purity of others' was genius. Malkovich is a fantastic actor who grasped the part with both hands and made you watch him. Glenn Close was cold and it suited her well. Pfeiffer was a little to skitterish, but not too bad. She didn't play the part with enough conviction. I thought I would see her more into her belief's and not so easily convinced before she fell for him. I knew she would give into him too soon within the film. Malkovich was supposed to play it like he didn't know how she would sway, but the audience knew. This is Michelle's fault, because she played the character to bald-faced like a bad poker player. Why was Keanu Reeves in this movie? He does a terrible accent and I kept expecting him to go into a Bill and Ted moment. The film itself is great and it shows the hypocrisy and boredom of being weahty back then. "},{"Title":"Hit period romance","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In retrospect, an extremely unlikely hit for Frears - and a most difficult film to actually pull off. I don't mean the period affectations necessarily, nor the design trappings (Milos Forman had created something of a template for claustrophobic, character-infested classical-period films with Amadeus). Rather the film revolves around small increments of love as differentiated from lust, and the small, gravitationally mutating inflections inbetween.Close, Malkovich and (less notably) Pfeiffer really fulfill the faith that a straightforward Frears account of the novel puts to them. Close gives the Marquise de Merteuil a delicate line between acrid delight and paranoid hysteria - but find no need to go all out bonkers when its crossed. The explosive danger of tethered lust is best played by Malkovich playing Valmont as youthful only in need. Still a career best. There's a nice cameo from Uma Thurman too. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Betrayal, games, sex and love.","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A modern, well-made take on the classic tale Les Liaisons dangereuses by Choderlos de Laclos, published in 1782. My first meeting with said tale was in the early 90's, through the film Dangerous Liaisons, which I love; despite this, forget about the older versions for a second and open yourself to this modern-day one. Ryan Philippe plays a brilliant, constantly calculating, Jude Law-ish Valmont, and Sarah Michelle Gellar does a subtle, wonderful, low-key treacherous Merteuil. These two, paired with the brilliant acting of innocent Selma Blair, make up a good portion of the film. The direction is very good and the soundtrack the same. The dialogue and editing makes for a snappy, well-made film where you're continually well-fed, served a story of betrayal, games, sex and love. "},{"Title":"very original, the characters are not necessarily divided as good and bad.","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was very interesting and exciting. I think the best part was at the end, when the nuns brought the message to her, she slowly turned her head to other side. I believe they showed the broken heart and what does it do to you very openly and real. The 3 main characters are very very good! Don't watch it right after a break up, it will break your heart.) The other interesting part was the internal decoration Although it had the signs of its era, there was something modern and original about it. The characters were not directly good or bad. Good ones have their evil sides and bad ones have their regrets. All together the movie is a big success, you will enjoy it if you like to watch original scenes about history. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dangerous Liaisons was a great movie, although I couldn't really handle the way the actors talked and the french-victorian setting. But the scenery was beautiful. This movie showed how love can ruin people and it was sad. I liked all the actors' performances and it kept me intrigued. John Malkovich never disappoints and I liked him in this movie. He made me mad sometimes and I just wanted to yell at him several times. Glenn Close was great as a witch and she is very good at playing those types of characters. Michelle Pfeiffer was good and I think that deep down she truly loved Vicomte back. Uma Thurman was alright and I think she was a little scared of Vicomte because he took advantage of her. Keanu Reeves played a character we could've done without. He kinda got on my nerves. On several occasions I felt sorry for Vicomte because he was in love with Michelle Pfieffer but Glenn Close kept telling him he couldn't have her and she kept playing head games with him. The ending was very sad and I almost cried. Especially when Vicomte started crying when he was telling the men to tell Michelle Pfieffer how much he cared for her. I don't think he really meant hurt her but Glenn Close just wanted Vicomte so bad. This movie was good and I think I would like to own it. It's just as good as Cruel Intentions and John Malkovich never disappoints. But thanks for reading my review! Bye! "},{"Title":"A conservative story","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Dangerous Liaisons', Stephen Frears' film of sexual intrigue in the last days of the French monarchy, is one of at least three movies based on the same book. It's always interesting to compare different takes on the same theme, in particular because it helps reveal what lies in each interpretation and what is innate to the underlying story. In the case of this particular version, one can see clearly how it is derived via the intermediate medium of a play of the novel the film is full of two-handed dialogues, which Frears often captures by framing just two heads in close-up, one usually a little behind the other. Yet the film is not at all static (a common problem with movies based on plays) indeed, it whirls along, racing towards its conclusion with barely a scene that does not play some role in advancing the plot.My point of comparison is Roger Kumble's 'Cruel Intentions', a version of the story set in an American high school and actually a movie I detest. That film is full of the worst vulgarisms of the Hollywood teen-flick, and also makes some bad calls in how it chooses to represent parts of the story; but there are also problems that lie in the story itself. To summarise it, two people play sexual games with the lives of others, with the lead male (an apparently irresistibly attractive character) loving and leaving a host of women principally for the pleasure of breaking their hearts and ruining their reputations, sometimes at the behest of his female partner. But when he falls in love with one of his victims, he and his partner fall out. His partner betrays him to one of his cuckolds, who duly kills him. But the record he has kept of her activities come out, and her reputation is thereby finally destroyed.The problem with this is that first half of both films invite us to cynically enjoy the devious duo as they manipulate others; but their second halves require us to sympathise only with the male lead, redeemed (but also destroyed) by love, and to cheer his posthumous revenge. I have nothing against cynical films, or love stories, but I find it hard to accept stories that try to have their cake and eat it the female lead is to be enjoyed as long as the male lead is her partner in crime, but detested once he falls in love and our sympathies supposedly shift. In Kumble's film, this shift (in the male lead's character, and the audience's expected affiliation) happened far too quickly to take me with it; in Frears film, the effect is more subtle, the philanderer only truly repents his misdeeds on his death-bed, and the more hesitant nature of his transformation was ultimately more successful in moving me. Also, in Kumble's film, the avenging cuckold was angry with the male lead, but the character actually died accidentally while being attacked (yet the female lead was still held to blame, which made no sense). In Frears' story, she has clearly set up the dual in which he is slain. But in both films, the ending seems odd the hero dies, but at least the reputation of the villainess is destroyed... it seems like insufficient compensation (although in Kumble's film, this was compounded by the final shot which seemed to suggest that everything was alright because the hero's beloved at least inherited his Jaguar!).The story could be seen as sexist, for judging its female lead more harshly than its male one. Yet both films contain the same interesting line, in which the female lead confesses that she became the person she is precisely because there are so few opportunities for women to wield power and influence by honest and open means. Incapable of love, the character is surely at least in part a victim of the circumstances that have turned her into a monster. Yet both stories shy away from considering the consequences of this, in favour of indulging the dreamy love of the hero and the beauty he falls for, which sits awkwardly with the initial cynicism and asserts a highly conservative moral often present in Shakespeare's works that the worst people are those who refuse to accept their alloted place. Which is very odd, considering that the book was written as an attack on aristocracy.So I don't like the story, full stop. But if you must see it, watch this film, not the newer one. And John Malkovitch in particular is very entertaining among a stellar cast. "},{"Title":"The best movie I have seen in the past year","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At first I did not want to watch it because it looked like a lame costumed love story and only the presence of Malkovich among the cast gave me some kind of hope. The movie however turned out to be outstanding. Excellent actors, excellent plot, amazing understanding of human psychology. Even the presence of Keanu Reeves didn't spoil it for me. His character was supposed to be a young, inexperienced, baby-faced, and semi-retarded 19th century dude, and Keanu nailed that role simply because being young, baby-faced, and semi-retarded dude is his natural state. The movie for some reason made me think of Sex and the City. Dangerous Liaisons and Sex and the City are the total and complete opposites of each other. Sex and the City is written with no understanding of human psychology whatsoever (even though it appears to be pretentiously analytical at times), the horrible actors portraying single-facetted characters could be replaced by cardboard signs displaying their defying characteristic with no damage to the plot or popularity of the show. The moral (if any) of this shallow drama-comedy-NewYorkAd is as pathetic as the rest of the show and is not worth mentioning. And that is exactly why it became so damn popular. What would you expect from a population that actually elected GWB. Anyways... If you think that Sex in the City sucks - you'll probably like Dangerous Liaisons. If you think that Sex in the City is a deep psychological melodrama you simply won't understand Dangerous Liaisons... What I am trying to say is that if you are like me &#150; you are intelligent, if you are not like me &#150; you are not intelligent and your name is Keanu Reeves. Now bow and worship me! "},{"Title":"is lame","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Two devious society figures in pre-revolutionary France engage in a battle of wits and depravity to seduce/corrupt various innocents; and generally urge each other on to new affronts to conventional morality. Sounds fun! Sadly, this movie offers a tiny fraction of the enjoyment that idea should provide, because everyone is trying too hard to get Oscar nominations, to enjoy themselves. The rave reviews D.L. gets are due to viewer's & critic's desires to feel superior and worldly.Worse, the movie painstakingly over-explains that primary relationship and squeezes many increasingly meaningless developments into the final 20 minutes, where they have no impact because they're so poorly scripted. I'd lay good money that 9 out of 10 of the movies fans can't explain the obtuse latter machinations; John Malkovich was holding out for a bedroom session with Glenn Close? Um... That's unfathomable!; It's beyond my control...? It takes too long for anything of importance to occur. At no point did I feel a recognizable human emotion, become invested in who ended up with who, or care about who might die.John Malkovich, as usual, is absolutely terrible, and he only got worse from here. I remember this movie almost scene for scene after seeing it only once 20 years ago, and disliking it then also. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although this film is technically brilliant and features some good performances the only thing that makes it a stand out is the impressive nude scene of Uma Thurman. Her scene was said to have brought gasps from theater audiences "},{"Title":"Good film but disgusting","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSOkay, I'm a prude, so sue me.  The film was disgusting as it was well-made.  The nudity and the sex could have been implied in the film instead of shown on-screen.  I had to watch this for one of my history courses this semester and it was enjoyable but had to cover my eyes through the sex scenes. The film is full of deception.  In fact, that's the main theme of the film as well as the novel it's based upon.  John Malkovich was wonderful in his character as the devious playboy, Valmont.  Michelle Pfiffer was just as good as the young, married Christian woman who is deceived and seduced by Valmont.  My pastor always told us that once sin occurs, something must die.  In a way, this film does show what happens when sin rules one's life.  Relationships died, people died, and love and trust had died due to the sins of the characters in the film.  The film is very well-made, however.  I enjoyed the lush atomosphere, the settings, and the overall historical backdrop of the movie.  I give it 6/10. "},{"Title":"Dangerous Liaisons","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An unusual film filled with fake passion and two very good deceivers doing something just a bit odd, from director Stephen Frears (Mrs. Henderson Presents, The Queen). Oscar and BAFTA nominated Glenn Close plays Marquise Isabelle De Merteuil and John Malkovich plays Vicomte Sébastien De Valmont. These two for some reason like to deceive people into thinking that they love them, probably for the sex or to break up Close's family so they can be together. I can't remember many of Close's partners, but Malkovich falls for BAFTA winning, and Oscar nominated Michelle Pfeiffer as Madame Marie De Tourvel and Uma Thurman as Cécile De Volanges. Also starring Keanu Reeves as some gay like guy called Le Chevalier Raphael Danceny. An interesting idea, I just don't know why they enjoyed deceiving people to like/love them. It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Costume Design and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, and it was nominated for Best Music for George Fenton and Best Picture, and it won the BAFTA for Best Adapted Screenplay, and it was nominated for Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Direction for Stephen Frears (Mrs. Henderson Presents, The Queen), Best Editing, Best Make Up Artist, Best Original Film Score and Best Production Design. Uma Thurman was number 95, and John Malkovich was number 59 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and Malkovich was number 53, and Thurman number 15 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and the film was number 30 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments. Good! "},{"Title":"Story Kills the Great Acting","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dangerous Liaisons is a beautiful film, the costume, art direction, and makeup all should have won Oscars and are wonderful. Yet the story is weak in very many places, it is also very commonly used and filled with clinches, it could have ducked and rolled missing many of them, and their for worked out fairly well, but it doesn't even try that. The screenplay is as I kinda said horrible at avoiding clinches, yet is filled with good dialogue, this surprised me, maybe the screenplay should have been written by two writers. The acting is amazing, John Malkovich is my favorite actor, and he is extremely good in this film, as is Michelle Pfeiffer, and surprisingly Keanu Reeves, Uma Thurman, and the supremely overrated Glenn Close also turn in good performances. The direction is decent, I believe it is part of the reason that the performances are so good, but her could have helped with the screenplay a bit. The visuals are okay, but it's the art direction and stuff that is amazing. "}{"Title":"totally confusing","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie in the theater when it was released (at least part of it) and it is the only movie that I can remember ever walking out of. It happened about 45 minutes into the film. I walked out because I had no idea who was who and I had absolutely no clue as to what was going on. I was totally lost. I heard people in the theater starting to chuckle and they obviously found something funny, but I was clueless. I figured what the heck was the use in staying? This is the only time I felt so utterly helpless in trying to understand what was happening on screen. I did not like the feeling one bit! Maybe after all these years, I should try renting it and giving it another go...hmmm? "}]