[{"Title":"Utterly dreadful","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Every time I watch this movie blood comes gushing out of my eyes. Yes, you read that correctly I've watched this wretched, foul thing more than once.Caddyshack 2 went wrong for so many reasons Harold Ramis dialing in a script and abandoning the direction duties, Rodney Dangerfield (wisely) walking away from the project because they wouldn't allow him to tinker with the script, Bill Murray showing excellent judgement and not being part of it, and a puppet being pushed forward as the feature player of a cast who deserved much better.I can't help but think of Dyan Cannon in this and wonder why she's perpetually laughing and smiling. The only conclusion I can draw is that she is indeed the face of pure evil. Stay with me a moment. She must have been watching as the film came together and revelled in the untold agony that it would inflict on countless soon to be extremely sorry movie goers who would have this film inflicted on them. She may also have been extremely drunk. That's what I need to be right now to wash the foul taste of this complete and utter failure out of my mind. If I'm lucky it'll be washed out forever.I have seen this film several times. I blame several of them on childhood and being a very dull and dim-witted boy who apparently had no aesthetic sensibility. Perhaps puppets are just funnier when you're a kid. No, the Muppet show is funnier now ... guess I was just dull. Caddyshack 2 is that rare kind of film that is so extraordinarily disappointing on so many levels that you convince yourself after the end credits that it couldn't have been as bad as all that. It WAS. It IS. It will only get worse with time.My reasons for going back to this film, mercifully, are becoming fewer. Randy Quaid is limited in his role as Jackie Mason's lawyer. His opening scene isn't bad and brought out my only chuckle. We see him a few more times but it becomes as tired as the rest of the movie and descends with unfortunate rapidity from incidentally amusing to vapid wasteland. Randy Quaid acquits himself well, and this film owes him big time because if there was reason to watch this film as anything other than a torture tactic, he was it.Maybe that's the trick of the movie. It has enough potentially endearing qualities that people watch it, are horrified at what they've done to themselves but later because the pickings were so slim can remember only what did actually amuse them. Years later they unwittingly watch it again and the cycle repeats.Jackie Mason takes a lot of the blame for this film but in fairness, I'm not sure he deserves it. He's really trying out there but it is impossible to not to notice that he spends the entire movie doing a Rodney Dangerfield impersonation. That's who the movie was written for but I'm not sure even he could have saved it. Ultimately this fails miserably through terrible direction, bad editing (shall we count continuity errors?) and a rehashing of the same story with none of the wry humour or heart that made the first film endearing.Dragged kicking and screaming up to a three out of ten instead of two by Randy Quaid's bulldog determination. It isn't even bad enough to laugh at. I've definitely seen worse, but trust your memory -- this one is a dog. If you've never seen it you've made excellent life choices and I salute your excellent judgement. "},{"Title":"Sub-Par","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Caddyshack II tries to continue the comedy of the first, but never does really come together the way it was intended to.  Chevy Chase is the only returner from the original and this hurts the film.  Jackie Mason, Robert Stack, Jonathan Silverman, Dyan Cannon, Randy Quaid, and Dan Aykroyd do their best, but the material is just not present.  The direction is also poor as few viewers will really care what happens by the end of the movie. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Where's Rodney?","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie has serious problems if it is not going to have Bill Murray, I could have said that long before this movie was released.  The movie was even going to be worse if Chevy Chase is going to be in the movie, but only for five minutes. But this movie should have never been made without Rodney Dangerfield.  This movie is almost nothing like the first one.  The first one a was dirty, raunchy, rapid-fire comedy that was hilarious.  This movie is a silly PG film.  The two almost don't have any connection.  The first one oddly enough had real characters, you could identify somewhat with the characters, whether it was frustrated Danny (who also is not in this one) or obnoxious Judge Smails.  You may not have like Judge Smails, but you REALLY didn't like him.  The characters here are all cardboard and inoffensive. The edge in the first one is completely lost here.  Despite that there manages to be a few funny moments.  The movie really never catches fire, despite the cast that includes Jackie Mason (who attempts to be the lead) Robert Stack, Marsha Warfield, Dan Aykroyd, Dyan Cannon, and a few others.  Overall do not watch this film.  The movie overall is predictable, and at the end the film is a complete departure from the first one.  I do not know why they even attempted to do this film without members of the first cast.  Although Ted Knight is dead that something still could have been done to improve the script, with the other three comedians, and maybe Michael O'Keefe.  If you saw the first one, which is hilarious, don't bother with this one, it's not worth your time.    "},{"Title":"watch this movie","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Watch this movie .....only to truly appreciate how good the original is. I'm not real hard to please, but this was one of the worst movies I have ever seen. It hurt me deeply, because I like Chevy Chase, Jackie Mason, and Dyan Cannon. The writing was just terrible! I thought Chevy would have at least ad libbed some better stuff than he did. There was hardly anything to laugh at in this movie. I went into it wanting to enjoy it. I wanted to laugh but nearly cried. In the beginning credits it read Special Appearance by Chevy Chase. This worried me from the start. Chevy is actually in more than I thought he would be. It's more than a special appearance. Too bad the appearance wasn't special. Mason's character would have been a good secondary character but got old as a main. I would rather have seen more (much more)of Dyan Cannon. At least her character was fun, if not well written. I also missed the gratuatis teen sex scene. Mr. Gopher went from being cute and innocent to a pesky rodent that deserved to be blown up. Jonathan Silverman is the only character that interested me and we didn't see enough of him.I take it back. Try..to watch half of this movie, then...remember the Alamo, the Maine, and CaddyShack I. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Caddyshack Two is a good movie by itself but compared to the original it cant stack up. Robert Stack is a horrible replacement for Ted Knight and Jackie Mason, while funny just cant compete with Rodney Dangerfield. Ty Webb is funny, being the only character from the original. Most of the other characters in the movie lack the punch of the original (Henry Wilcoxon for example) except for the hystericly funny lawyer Peter Blunt, being played by Randy Quaid. Every line he says reminds me of the originals humor, especially the scene at his office (I don't go in for law suits or motions. I find out where you live and come to your house and beat down your door with a f***ing baseball bat, make a bonfire with the chippindale,maybe roast that golden retriever (arff arff arff) then eat it. And then I'm comin' upstairs junior, and I'm grabbing you by your brooks brothers pjs, and cramming your brand new BMW up your tight a**! Do we have an understanding?). Offsetting his small role however, is Dan Acroyd, who is obviously no replacement for Bill Murray. His voice is beyond irritating and everything he does isnt even funny, its just stupid. Overall Caddyshack II is a good movie, but in comparison to the awesome original it just cant cut it. "},{"Title":"no","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  A while ago I attempted to sit through the entire Caddyshack epic back-to-back, but part II took me three sittings.  I toughed it out though. I'm not a quitter.What happened here?  What somehow made the original a classic lies with the filmmakers' decision to toss the script more-or-less and rely on the improvisational genius of the veteran comics.  Here, the viewer is dragged though a lifeless, by-the-numbers 80s light comedy PLOT and left feeling hurt and confused and certainly not filled with mirth.  Oh sure, you've got the talents of Jonathan Silverman AND Marsha Warfield (I keep waiting for some forward thinking, cutting edge network to bring back her talk show) vying for your attentions IN THE SAME MOVIE!  And you get to see Jackie Mason in a lead role!  That's not enough?  Well, the two returning characters, Chevy Chase's Ty Webb and the gopher certainly pull their weight.  Chase has no shame and everybody knows it.  Robert Stack could make Hooked On Phonics sound like Crime and Punishment, so there's no fault there.  Quaid and Akyroid are annoying as always....Oh, I thought of something good!  The Kenny Loggins theme song is fantastic! Far superior to his contribution to the original Caddyshack.  Whenever I face a challenge in life, I am heartened by thinking of this inspirational song.  I'm goin' all the way!  I was pleased to see that it appears on a 2 disc best of Kenny Loggins.  Good call. "},{"Title":"This one isn't nearly as good as the first, but it isn't one of the worst movies ever.","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  While this one certainly is not the original, it certainly isn't bad enough to be on the list of worst movies ever.  I found some of the jokes to be funny and it wasn't a complete waste of time so I just don't see how it has such a low ranking.  Well maybe I do.  The main problems I had with this one are the story and its focus.  This movie really has nothing to do with caddies, other than Silverman's character there are no other caddies that are focused on.  In fact, other than the fact it is a country club, Chevy's character is back, and the gopher it really doesn't have much else in common with the original.  Jackie Mason is the focal point here taking the Rodney Dangerfield role from the first.  Here is one of the problems; he isn't nearly as funny or likable as Dangerfield.  The scenes with his daughter also get annoying as it gets somewhat serious at times.  Chevy reprises his role as Ty, but other than the fact he goes nananana he almost is a different character.  Dan Akroyd sort of takes the place of Bill Murray's character and has a few funny lines, but his performance will not make anyone forget Bill Murray from the first one.  Also, you do not have special appearances in a movie, when that appears it just makes your whole movie seem a bit generic.  Also, both Chevy and Dan were in the movie more than say Marsha Warfield who is listed ahead of them.  There are some good performances though...I liked Randy Quaid's character and Robert Stack was rather good too.  It is good for a couple of laughs and I do not really think it is all that awful, but if only they could have done a better job with the central story in this one.  I just don't think Jackie was very good and he kind of pulls the movie down a couple of notches. "},{"Title":"Vile","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I have vague memories of this movie being funny.Having seen it again either I have changed or I was thinking about a another film altogether.It seems as if we are supposed to be sympathetic to Jackie Mason's character however nothing in the movie actually engenders that emotion. Its notable that he is really the only person accorded tender dialogue with loved ones. No-one else's character is allowed to rise to the status of even vaguely human.I don't even like golf but as the film went on I found myself really rooting for Robart Stack and the club guys, really hoping they would repel Mason and Chevy Chase. "},{"Title":"Worst. Sequel. Ever.","Date":"18 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" It's eight years after the mega-hit Caddyshack, and the studio wants to milk that cash cow again, but it all went horribly, horribly wrong. They couldn't get Rodney Dangerfield, so they went with the third-string facsimile, Jackie Mason. Ted Knight? No, Robert Stack. Bill Murray? No, a bizarre and whiny Dan Ackroyd, in what has to be the worst performance of his career. I guess Chevy Chase's phone wasn't ringing off the hook, since he reprises his role as Ty Webb.And it all went downhill from there. Where else could it go? Randy Quaid is just awful (surprise!) as is Dyan Cannon, Jonathan Silverman and Dina Merrill. The script could have been written by a high school drama class (and probably was), the direction is tepid and unfocused, and the whole thing is a limp and deadly mess.Save your time and money and brain cells. It was like watching a car wreck--you want to avert your gaze, but you just can't believe what you are seeing. The worst sequel of all time. Ever, ever, ever. "},{"Title":"Fun, but stupid","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" After all seeing the very funny movie Caddyshack, I was looking forward to seeing the sequel, but I have to admit that I was nervous because I heard a lot of bad things about Caddyshack 2. I was also reading on the internet how this was voted one of the worst sequels of all time, which is sad. But I wanted to see the movie still, just at least see if it was really that bad. So I rented it anyways and watched it the other night. Now, I agree, this movie is really stupid, but it's a funny stupid that's very light hearted and has a few really good laughs. I know Randy Quaid can be annoying at times, but he really steals the show and his comedy is outrageous. I didn't like how they were trying to replace certain characters from the first film, but I let go and ended up laughing and having fun with Caddyshack 2.Jack Hartounian is what you might call, New Money, but he's a very successful in construction and is worth millions. He's a bit out there, personality wise, and dresses a bit crazy, but knows the hard work of the common man. His daughter, Katie, begs him to join a golf club so she could be with the upper class elite. But he makes a fool of himself and wants revenge on those who made fun of him. He buys the club and turns it into an amusement park! But this doesn't stop the elite from trying to tear him down.Caddyshack 2 is stupid at times, like the gofer, they took the joke a little far. And Dan Aykrod's character, I love Dan so much, but it's like he took on Bill Murray's character from the first Caddyshack and made Dan really annoying. Jackie Mason is a bit out there and can't stand up to Rodney Dangerfield. But Caddyshack 2 still has a few good laughs, I mean, if you couldn't laugh at Randy Quaid and how he delivered his lines, check your funny bones. Caddyshack 2 is a silly movie, but it's all in good fun, but if we are just going to keep comparing to the first movie, then you're not going to have a good time.5/10 "}{"Title":"Pretty Lame...","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The near-classic first film is really a great comedy, whereas, this one recycles some of the jokes, and doesn't do nearly as well. There was a magic about the first film where everything just worked, whereas this time around, nothing worked and for the most part was rather unfunny. Watch the first ten-twenty minutes for the return of Ty Webb, and then go about your business... "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Caddyshack II is one of those pictures which makes you ask 'Why?' As in; 'Why was it funded?' 'Why was it made?' and 'Why was it released into the public domain?'.To say the least it's a bad film. It serves little purpose but to underline how superior its prequel was by setting an almost identical set of characters against each other in a similar storyline as a 'New money' land developer attempts to buy out the establishment's golf course sanctuary. Right off the bat making the follow-up a whole 8 years after the original is somewhat bizarre. I mean if your going to cash in on highly successful picture such as the first one then you have a window of a few years to do so. But leaving it 8 years means that the formula is hardly fresh enough to simply do a follow up, or poor imitation as this is, so your sort of obliged to reward fans of the original by giving them at least reference to if not indeed actual contributions by the actors who made the first one so memorable. But there's little if any of this.Instead we get cheap imitations. Okay the passing of Ted Knight in the interim years would have made it impossible to bring back the memorable Judge Smails but Robert Stack's inclusion as 'Chandler Young' (a fellow WASP elitist akin to the Smails character) is unimaginative and seriously lacking in the sort of anarchic frustration that made Knight's turn so watchable. Jackie Mason's 'Jack Hartounian' is a feeble attempt at recreating the non stop wisecracks delivered by the Al Czervik (Rodney Dangerfield) character of the first. While Dangerfield's role was endlessly quotable Mason's is completely forgettable. Bill Murray's laughably ridiculous groundskeeper 'Carl Spackler' and his war of attrition with the pesky local gofer is substituted for his Ghostbuster's co-star Dan Ackroyd's role as the militant 'Capt. Tom Everett' who's high pitched voice just splits your sides with frustration as opposed to the intended laughter.Randy Quaid , brilliant as Cousin Ed in the National Lampoon's Vacation series, is quite the opposite here playing Hartounian's unstable lawyer. The looks of disbelief shown by the actor's looking on at Quaid's character's intended to be hilarious acts of inappropriate violence echo that of the audience. Your not laughing. Your just asking 'What the hell is he doing?'Chevy Chase shows up, all be it occasionally and wisely rather fleetingly considering the disaster that's perpetrating itself around him,as club pro 'Tye Webb' in the films only direct reference to the original not withstanding the golf course itself that is. With his deeply tanned skin and loud Hawaiian shirts Chase looks like he's just got back from a lengthy summer vacation and needs a paycheck. He distances himself from the events in the actual picture enough that he takes little of the blame and leaves with some, all be it little, credibility still intact. Jessica Lundy as Mason's daughter 'Kate' takes over from the 'Danny Noonan' role of the original as teenager struggling against class divides. Sounds ridiculous doesn't it? At least in the first Danny (an Irish Catholic from a blue collar family) and his laughable attempts to make inroads into the White-Anglo-Saxon-Protestant dominated world of the golf club mover and shakers was played out to some memorable set pieces such as being dismissed by the resident Lutheran Bishop as well as being mocked by the offspring of the local yacht club. Lundy's embarrassment of her father's inability to fit-in is hinted at being because of his Jewish roots. That aside it may also have to do with him being a classless moron but such intricacy's are swept aside though I stopped caring long before they were resolved. At the end of the day Noonan was trying to get ahead in life. Miss Hartounian's biggest problem is getting the hob nobbers at the local golf club to like her multi-millionaire father so that she can get a date with the club's prodigal white kid. Or so I gathered. Anyway in summation its poorly written, badly scripted with lame set pieces and wastes a lot of talent. Indeed kudos if you were able to sit through it to it's conclusion. It really is a penance. There is that question mark though of why did so many of the original actors not return as opposed to being replaced by performers who on paper at least looked their equals. Maybe they just weren't asked. Or perhaps I suspect they actually read the script. Stick to the original!!! "},{"Title":"Bad!!!!","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Why was this movie ever made?They have tarnished the original Caddyshack with this crap.I was only able to watch half of it and i didn't laugh once.At least i didn't pay to see it because it was on t.v. but i won't get back that hour of my life that i spent watching this dreadful mess.There wasn't one original star from the first except for Chevy Chase and he probably regrets doing this film.Jackie Mason was supposed to be the outrageous,funny buffoon like Rodney Dangerfield was in the first but Jackie Mason wasn't funny at all.Jackie Mason is no Rodney Dangerfield.If you want laugh,watch the first Caddyshack.If you like terrible movie's,then this you're movie.This movie stinks like a barnyard in july.Avoid at all cost.  "},{"Title":"as highlander II was to Highlander, so was caddyshack II to Caddyshack","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" It sucked.I returned the video after watching half of it. Not funny,just a cheap and desperate attempt to cash in on a very very funny original.  junk, forget it, don't waste your time etc etc "},{"Title":"Does what it sets out to do.  Creats laughing. )","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" ahh, digging in the $5 dvd bin.  come up with this controversial doozy.  Still remember being almost 13 looking forward to this movie.  Having never totally understanding film at the time, I loved it.  Today 2004...  I still like it.  Provides a decent laugh.  Sure, it probably doesn't deserve the name that it's under...  but neither did the Italian Job.  (which I prefer to call The American Job.  )  But hey, you just don't go into this film expecting  the first movie.  If you did, you'll be crying for decades.  Fortunately, I see the movie for what it was.  More of a parody of the original.  Nothing can beat the original. Caddyshack II doesn't bother to try.  And I love that for it.  )5/10Quality 0/10 Entertainment 9/10 Replayable 10/10 "},{"Title":"They never should have bothered","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" What were they thinking! The original Caddyshack was brilliant and should be considered a classic. Everything worked even though it shouldn't. I still quote lines from it 25+ years later.The cast of the original was superb. For Caddyshack II however none of them seem right. There is no chemistry at all. All the jokes fail badly. I just felt sorry for both Mason and Akroyd (maybe they realized that they missed out on a fantastic movie the first time and were trying to make up for it) I generally will sit through just about anything I've paid $3 to rent but after 20 minutes I couldn't handle any more. Its THAT bad. "},{"Title":"Must Be Seen to Be Disbelieved","Date":"21 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Caddyshack 2 is so bad it must be seen to be disbelieved (and I loved Caddyshack). It is an insult to movies, golf, gophers and humanity in general and must rank as one of the worst movies ever made.It's not bad in a bad Adam Sandler movie way either. It is so bad its surreal. It is so strange and poorly written you will be convinced that the screenwriters must have been dropping acid. Everyone in the movie is embarrassingly awful and Dan Akroyd, who speaks his lines in a strange, high-pitched voice, should have his SAG card revoked for his performance as a crazed grounds keeper.The movie stars an incredibly miscast and unfunny Jackie Mason, and his love interest is played by an ancient and cadaverous looking Dyan Cannon (I am not kidding). To give you an idea of how old Dyan Cannon is, she was once married to Cary Grant. For masochists only. "},{"Title":"NOT GOOD, but for the circumstance NOT TOO BAD","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Caddyshack II is NOTHING compared to the original Caddyshack. But, there are legitimate reasons for it. (1) Rodney Dangerfield was supposed to be the ace of this film BUT he didn't like the script, wanted to change it, his request was denied, so he didn't do the film. (2) It was low budget, Bill Murray had grown to superstar status. Ted Knight passed away in 1986, and Chevy Chase the so called ace of the first movie (although it was Rodney all the way)couldn't't be on more than 5 minutes, because it would cost too much to pay him. BUT you had Dan Aykroyd, Robert Stack, Randy Quaid and Jackie Mason, all serviceable substitutes, who none had their best performances. "},{"Title":"Bad follow-up to Caddyshack","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" When I first viewed this movie, I didn't know the title of it. I realized it had Chevy Chase in it with the same name he had in Caddyshack so I had an idea this was Caddyshack 2. At the end of the movie when I did find out it was Caddyshack 2 I was disappointed. They could have done better. Dan Akroyd I thought was bad. The whole story was bad. Call this movie by another title, but don't call it Caddyshack 2. You give that great movie a bad name. Jackie Mason's daughter when I first saw her looked like his wife. How old is this girl? Geez. How about making this movie a little believable. I thought Chevy Chase was good. "},{"Title":"A good movie, not as bad as many say it is.","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  One of the most interesting things is that this 1988 film is highly touted as an `in-name only' sequel.  There's nothing wrong with that except this The return of Chevy Chase as Ty Webb. This connects the viewer to this character (from the original Caddyshack in 1980,) and makes fans thinking or wanting Caddyshack II  to be similar to the first one.There are rumors that Rodney Dangerfield was supposed to return.  He carried a big part of the first film, so his return would have put Caddyshack 2 over the top.  Jackie Mason  is the `new' Rodney for this movie and does a decent job, even though their comic deliveries are way different.  Dan Aykroyd was great but not in the film enough.  He should have been involved to the tune of how much screen time Bill Murray got in the first one.  Robert Stack (Airplane!) was good in the `new' Ted Knight/Villian role.  (We miss you, Ted!) Danny Noonan should have been back.  So many others could have returned to show us what happened to their characters eight years later.  Bushwood should not have undergone the total makeover it did.  Instead, the characters involved, rather than the club itself, should have been the main focus like they were in the first one. When you watch this film, keep in mind that it isn't a major sequel and you may think it's another good or bad eighties comedy.  Fans of the first should see it but don't be shocked when the comparisons between the original and Part II are so far apart.  "}{"Title":"A far cry from the first Caddyshack...","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Why is this one no good when the first one rocked?   Try the fact that they attempted to replace Rodney Dangerfield with Jackie Mason!   Please! That's like replacing the Beatles with Wierd Al.  Randy Quaid is the only one that saves this movie from a zero.However, don't let this stop you from watching the first movie which was outstanding. "},{"Title":"CaddyCrap should be the title of this movie","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  caddyshack II does NO justice for the caddysack.  thin plot, thin actors(exception of randy quaid).  the ONLY thing that is decent with this movie is the soundtrack..maybe.  this movie should have been destroyed when the script was written.  "},{"Title":"The old, funny, classic shack, isn't back","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Here's another example of a sequel that falls into the too late, and why bother category. It has one asset Jackie Mason. He's a classic, and rightfully likable guy, where Bushwood won't accept him, so he retaliates and that he does with personal malice, by planning to knock it down and put up an amusement park. All the magic to the original Caddyshack has gone, save for a couple of original stars, including that notorious gopher who we see more of, in this. Chevy Chase chatting up some hotties, uses some rude, tasteless lines that kind of mirrors how this quality whole movie comes across. Dan Ackroyd, donning a real high squealy voice, comes across as really annoying, a pain in the butt, which is where he gets shot with an poison arrow. Watching Weekend At Bernie's Jonathan Silverman at the start, getting used, by a snotty heartlss bi..h, that has him running many yards to fetch her a soft drink, made me thirsty, which had me thinking later, this scene was pointless and unfunny, although I'll always remember it. Mason and some hotties are really the only things, this movie has going for it, oh, and that gopher. Off by many tees. "},{"Title":"Caddyshack 2 A Cautionary Tale of Bad Sequel Making","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Caddyshack 2 is a study in god awful sequels. Along with Blues Brothers 2000 and Beverly Hills Cop III, CS2 is in the trinity of terrible sequels to 80's comedy classics.The basic plot of CS2 is the same as the first a vaguely ethnic new-money guy crashes the WASP-y Bushwood Country Club. There are subplots about a groundskeeper and a gopher and young people learning to stand on principle, and it all climaxes in a golf match. But the original Caddyshack felt like a raunchy celebrity roast; the sequel feels like a lame afterschool special. CS2 was rated PG while the original was rated R. This highlights sequel kiss-of-death # 1 the studio wanted it to appeal to a wider audience (read something for the kiddies). No part of the first Caddyshack is for kids; even the Gopher is more like a good acid trip (does anyone else see that dancing gopher?) &#x96; than a family friendly puppet. CS promoted sex and drugs and a contempt for authority. That's because it was directed and headlined by comedians who also promoted sex and drugs and a general contempt for authority. But the studio wanted a family accessible sequel since the PG rating is generally seen in Hollywood as better for box office returns. And so there are literally Looney Toons cartoon characters in Caddy Shack 2. Instead of Rodney Dangerfield's hilariously profane Al Czervik, we get a cornball Jackie Mason as a developer-with-a-heart-of-gold. Instead of the class warfare middle finger of Caddyshack, CS2 brings a saccharine Up-With-People message about self-acceptance. Bill Murray's brilliant comedic menace as the burned out Carl the Groundskeeper, is replaced by a grating Dan Aykroyd. Aykroyd is best as the straight man (Elwood Blues on SNL, Joe Friday, Louis Winthorp ). When he goes for zany like he does in CS2 he is like the unhip but well-meaning uncle at a family gathering who likes to do funny voices for the tots but then uses the same shtick when coming over to talk to the adults. CS2's second sequel kiss-of-death is the lazy attempt to recycle the original film. Even though Chevy Chase was the only original cast member to return, CS2 limply retreads most of Caddyshack's other character types. Robert Stack is no Ted Knight and Jonathan Silverman is too bland to fill Michael O'Keefe's shoes in the Danny Noonan role.Coming back as Ty Webb, Chase's one stab at edginess in CS2 is a bizarre and unnecessary scene in which he chases off a table full of attractive women in the club's lounge by propositioning each of them with silly euphemisms for sex. The joke falls woefully flat and is out of character with the charming Ty of the original. The third sequel kiss-of-death plaguing CS2 is its troubled development history. Harold Ramis, who co-wrote and directed the original, was reluctantly coerced into scripting a sequel. Rodney Dangerfield initially pushed hard for a sequel, but later pulled out over creative differences with the studio. Ramis also dropped out and urged the studio to let the sequel die. Instead the studio brought in other writers and director Allan Arkush who had more experience with TV than big screen filmmaking, (which may explain why CS2 feels like a made-for-TV project). Other than Chase, none of the original cast wanted anything to do with the sequel. Lawsuits popped up over the use of characters and unfulfilled contracts. All indications were that CS2 was a project that should have been terminated in early development but, as is the case with many Hollywood disasters, the suits saw dollar signs and ignored the warnings of the creatives. Caddyshack 2 is simply unacceptable. It's only redeeming value is as a cautionary tale for future filmmakers and studio execs about how to kill a comedy classic's name by attaching an abominable sequel to it. "},{"Title":"Not completely horrible but...","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Only Chevy Chase and the gopher are back. The Bushwood country club are getting new electric golf carts and the caddies won't be needed anymore. Jack Hartounian (Jackie Mason) is the inappropriate construction boss with a golfing daughter Kate (Jessica Lundy). He doesn't fit in with the snobby high class members especially since some of them from the historical society want to stop his low income apartment building. The only true friends may be Ty Webb (Chevy Chase) and caddy Harry (Jonathan Silverman).Rodney Dangerfield doesn't come back and they replace him with Jackie Mason. I respect his old school comedic style. He manages to put some of those jokes in here. I find it endearing at first. Chevy Chase is back but he's just a supporting player anyways. This is Jackie Mason's movie. I don't even know why the gopher is back. It's really just a mascot without Bill Murray. The movie isn't as horrible as one may expect, but the lost of so much comedic power could never be truly replaced. Dan Aykroyd is probably the only one of the new cast who actually gets this sense of humor ostensibly to take over Bill Murray's comedic spirit. One must judge this without the Caddyshack name. Even then, this is a bland comedy. "},{"Title":"Just painfully unfunny","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This is one of the worst sequels I've ever seen, and the only other sequel I can think of that was a bigger drop in quality from the original is Speed 2 Cruise Control.A glaring issue is that the title is now meaningless. There's only one caddy, and even he gets fired from that very early on and is barely in the film. The sequel doesn't have anywhere near enough connection to the first film to slap II on as if it's the continuing adventures of the first film's characters, so having Caddyshack in the title really doesn't make any sense whatsoever.Jackie Mason is the utter antithesis of anything even remotely funny, I didn't laugh once while watching him, and I literally groaned at least a few times. It's like the thinking behind some of this casting was They were funny in other Harold Ramis movies, so they'll be funny in this too, Dan Aykroyd and Randy Quaid fitting the bill for this concept. Quaid isn't too bad, but this movie is easily Aykroyd's worst hour, doing a terrible and annoying fake voice. Robert Stack is pretty lame as the straight man and doesn't make any impact at all, but at least he isn't annoying either. All the new characters are just very obvious variations of the characters of the original film, and not even the slightest effort is made to keep this fact hidden. They even recycle the technologically advanced golf club and use it on a new character, and when something that obvious comes back with zero self-awareness, it's pretty clear that the filmmakers aren't even trying.The theme song of this movie is called Nobody's Fool, ironic as when I finished watching this thing, I definitely felt like somebody's fool. "},{"Title":"I actually like this movie...let me tell ya why.","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" OK first off I'm not gonna say I like this film more then the original, that would be crazy and completely absurd. That being said I think Caddyshack 2 gets a lot of undeserved hatred and ridicule. I must admit when I was a kid I saw Caddyshack 2 way before I saw the original so I think I had the luxury of not comparing the two films to each other and experiencing it as a stand alone movie. I have since watched the original many times and it's one of my all time favorite comedies. So many great quotable lines from so many great comedians make it a classic and far superior, but the sequel has some pretty damn funny parts if you give it a chance. The characters in the sequel don't go by the same names but are quasi-replacements of the original characters (except for Chevy Chase). Now this is a good thing and a bad thing as at first it seems very weird to do such a thing, but I think they made the right choice. To replace the actors and keep the same named characters would have been a much bigger mistake and would have been sacrilegious so they made the best of a bad situation and made that decision. Robert Stack, Dan Aykroyd, Randy Quaid and Jacky Mason aren't Ted Knight, Bill Murray and Rodney Dangerfield but they're not chopped liver either and that's my case for the sequel. While it's not the original it has it's moments so give it a swing and see if it's a hole in one, a bogey or just above par. "},{"Title":"A rather blatant jab at the world of high society","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This movie is a blatant attack at high society. It is a very left wing movie at attacks the conservative, prejudice ideas of the rich. The movie is based around a building developer of mixed origin who is building a low cost apartment block in a very upper class district of an unnamed city. The residents resent this because they do not what lower class people living among them so they push for an injunction, based on a historical horse shed which is only seventy years old, to have the development stopped.The daughter of the developer is the member of a country club in the area that is also frequented by the upper class people of the area. She is welcomed among them, but her father does not like these people. Instead he prefers to play poker with the builders and loose so that they might have extra money to take home. He was one of the proletariat who though a lot of hard work managed to become incredibly wealthy, yet he still considers himself one of the proletariat. He does not hoard his money, but is rather willing to loose it.He is contrasted with the rest of the country club. It is a community of people with a lot of money. They are portrayed as the bad guys. They do not want the poor living in their area and will do anything to stop it. They hoard their money and this is seen with the slave auction where $5000 was raised for charity the previous year even though a lot more could have been made. The quote is that the slave auction is held when they feel guilty about the amount of money that they have, yet they are not willing to let go of it. The developer does not consider his money as his security blanket and thus is able to let go of over $110,000 to purchase all of the people. He then puts them to work on the building site which shows their incompetance when it actually comes to hard work. Stack's comment about not know what work really is like is contrasted with this scene where he simply bumbles everywhere. He claims to know real hard work, but the workers on the building site are true workers. He simply lounges in his exclusive country club.Robert Stack reminds me of Troy McClure from the Simpsons. It is hard to imagine him in anything else other than Unsolved Mysteries (the US version of Australia's Most Wanted, except they also focus on the supernatural). It is funny seeing him playing a role in a movie, and even then it is one of the rich bad guy.It is interesting though to wonder if the makers of this movie really to consider the rich to be like this and are more like the developer, or if they live this way yet criticise the rich for living like that. It makes one wonder if the filmmakers of Caddyshack II are in fact hypocrits or not. "},{"Title":"Not  a  hole  in  one","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" If you had to choose this to either be A) The worst movie of the 80s. B) The worst sequel. C) Worst sport movie or D) All the above. I choose D. I saw Caddyshack a year before I saw The first one, and that was back in 1992 when ABC decided to air this movie as part of their Saterday night movie night. To be honest here. This movie is not good as any of the movies that came out in 1988. The only good one I seen that year was Willow. The main problem was that it did not compare to the first. The cast in this one did not have same type of cemenstry that the cast in the first one had. First of all they replaced a red head Michael O Keef w a dark hair cool new comer Johathan Silverman, then they Replace Bill Murray who save the first one w another Ghost Buster Dan Aykoyd, then they replace Roddney Dangerfeld w an obnoxious Jackie Mason. And then Harold Ramis decides to give Allen Arkush the directing job and has not directed another movie since this one. The rest of this film was just slow and dry. Just remember that this was one of the first movie that Warner Brother put a new thing called DVD. The DVD cost $5.00 at Walmart and there no special feather. Just the movie in full screen along w chapter names.Food for thought. If its a nice and sunny day and its 70 degrees outside. Instead of spending $5.00 or or watching this movie. Why not go out the country club and treat you and your friends to a nice game of gold. Or if its a nice and sunny Sunday afternoon. Take the family to the miniature golf course and play a nice round of miniature golf "},{"Title":"biggest waste of my time since disaster movie","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" the other day a friend asked me about Caddyshack II he asked if it had Rodney Dangerfield and Bill Murray, i said nope, he said why make it without them? thats the question everyone has about this movie, WHY? why no Rodney? why no Bill? why no Harold Ramis? thats right Harold Ramis didn't direct this one, left it to Alan Arkush, the man who used to make trailers for Roger Corman movies as well as Rock & Roll High School. in this film Jack Hartounian (Jackie Mason) and his daughter join Bushwood CC, and the club Owner Chandler Young (Robert Stack) hates him, so Jack buys Bushwood from Ty Webb (Chevy Chase, the ONLY actor from the 1st film). instead of Bill's Carl Spackler, we get Dan Aykroyds annoying Tom Everett, who shoots himself in the @$$ with a poison tip crossbow. The Gopher is, for some reason, able to talk (voiced by Frank Welker) and Chevy is reduced down to a cameo. this movie needed Harold Ramis directing, Rodneys one-liners, Bill Murray hunting gophers and most of all it needed to be funny. "}{"Title":"If you don't compare it to Caddyshack I, you'll be okay.","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Alright, so Caddyshack I was better in all respects. Perhaps I didn't seem to hate Caddyshack II as much as everyone else because I wasn't expecting all that much and I wasn't comparing it to the original. But please, it is not that bad. I see other people on here giving it a one or a two, and that's uncalled for. There are far worse movies out there, and Caddyshack II has a couple of funny moments, (especially those with Dan Aykroyd). True, the storyline is weak, and Jackie Mason, (although funny), is no match for Rodney, this movie does not deserve all of the criticism it gets. It's still mildly amusing. However, I will agree with others on these following aspects Randy Quaid was terrible and incredibly annoying in his role, the story with Hartonian's daughter added a sappiness to the story that was so trite and predictable, the carnival idea was definitely not funny, Chevy Chases cameo seemed desperate and detached, and it was too long. At least Aykroyd was funny, and was maybe, dare I say it... as funny as Bill Murray. Thats right, I know it sound like blasphemy to Caddyshack I fans, but when he said  I read you loud and clear Mrs. Esterhouse I almost fell of my chair. That was funny. The rest of the movie... not so much. Just don't knock it until you try it, but don't expect a homerun, or in this case a hole in one. "},{"Title":"Aykroyd.....","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I was surprised after watching Dan Aykroyd in Caddy2 to see that he was ever hired for another movie after that. I mean, I know the script was terrible but that had to be worst performance by anyone that I have ever seen. It wasn't funny at all but just annoying. I think that it was Aykroyd's character and acting that really put this movie in the bottom 100. "},{"Title":"not gonna do for me what Caddyshack did","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Caddyshack II is an inferior sequel to Caddyshack I, no matter which constituent of the film is examined. Caddyshack II uses the same script and character basis as Part I, thus not expanding on a story but rather making a sorry attempt at recapturing the laughs and good feelings that the original generates. Jackie Mason, starring as Jack Hartounian, makes a pitiful attempt at retracing the steps of Rodney Dangerfield, who played a very similar role in the original as a havoc-raising real estate owner. Jackie not only fails to par up with Rodney's performance, but degenerates the film even more when he inserts his own style of humor into the sequel. His lack of energy, perhaps a result of age, kills any power that the other characters may have been trying to produce. Caddyshack II is flashy and fake, while the original Caddyshack seems to express realistic emotion. What am I referring to? Take for example the improvisational comedy scene between Bill Murray and Chevy Chase in the original. Their chemistry is that of long time friends, thus their stage time really shines. Chevy and Bill, or Ty Webb and Carl Spackler, work well with one another while the sequel's characters' relationships' lack the flare that makes the dialogue and scenes come alive. Caddyshack II is like an animated Disney film. it greatly represents the film fashions of the 1980s, and since Caddyshack was made in early 1980, We can safely declare that the film may have been preserved from a Hollywood style that may have done more damage than benefit.   "},{"Title":"There's only one reason to watch this film......","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  And that's because Randy Quaid rocks!!! This part is along the same lines as Cousin Eddie of National Lampoon's Vacation Fame. He's insane, over the top, and hysterically funny. Just watch the scene where he goes golfing with  Chandler Young. As for the rest of the movie, it's amusing, but falls well short of the original.  "},{"Title":"Utter Pants....","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  If you loved the first - do yourself a favour and don't put yourself through 1hr 20 minutes of utter hell.I would like to pretend that this movie never existed.  It amazes me how a talented man like Ramis could have come up with such a p**s-poor sequel. The things people will do for money...The only humour in this film comes from Mason.  That said,he is still only a pale inmitation of the great Rodney Dangerfield.Caddyshack II remains to this day a disgrace to the original. "},{"Title":"Absolutely terrible - don't waste your time - watch paint dry instead.","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The movie was bad enough, Dan Aykroyd's imitation of Bill Murray's character was maybe the worst thing I have ever witnessed - I cringed every time he opened his mouth to speak, that nasally whine was worse than fingernails on a blackboard, worse even than Jar-Jar binks.Whoever was involved in producing this movie should have their union cards taken away - to sully the name of the classic Caddyshack with this pathetic sequel is akin to blasphemy.  "},{"Title":"Not a worthy sequel but there's a few good laughs","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone but die-hard Caddyshack fans. Only they would probably get some fun out of seeing The Bushwood Country club back. The movie is slow paced and not all that funny, but Chevy Chase's scenes are hilarious. Ty Webb is one of Chase's best characters. The laid-back absent minded golf expert who dosen't even keep score when he plays golf, definitely makes this movie worth watching. "},{"Title":"Quite frankly, one of the greatest film achievments of all time...","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I don't think anyone gets it. Caddyshack 2 was the pivotal film of the 1980's. It has certainly told me a thing or two about film-making. Whilst perhaps you couldn't realistically name Allan Arkush as a director-god, there surely must be some similar accolade which can be bestowed upon him. In this film, (or should I say 'piece of work'?) Arkush reintroduces us back to the intense situation from the first film, but this time with different characters. With some show stealing performances from Sid Conrad, Ben Hartigan, John MacBride as the naked men, Diana James, Trish Ramish, Mary Stavin, Tamara Steffan as the girls in bar, and the unmatchable Carlos Cervantes (I), Dennis Bowen, Mark Christopher Lawrence, and Kenny d'Aquila as the construction workers, Arkush has managed to maintain sobriety and kept a cool directing hand during production.There's no film that can better it... "},{"Title":"No Bill Murray, boring, and slow paced","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  WHERE THE HECK WAS BILL MURRAY?  What I didn't like about Caddyshack 2 was that it didn't have Bill Murray, who made the first Caddyshack terrific, the sequel seemed less funny and it also seemed slow paced.  It seemed relaxed, not hilarious like the first one.  I give Caddyshack 2 a C, which is a fair grade from my point of view. Whoever wants to watch a relaxing and slow paced movie, pick Caddyshack 2.  "},{"Title":"really underrated","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I was really expecting to hate this, I'd heard so many bad things about it. So maybe that's why I liked it more than most of the reviewers here. I didn't have such high expectations that it would be as good as the original. Well, it isn't as good as Caddyshack of course, but it is good on it's own merits, & very funny at times. I thought Jackie Mason was just terrific in this, he has great comic timing even when his jokes are old ones that I'd heard before. Even his delivery or his mannerisms make me laugh. The supporting cast were all real good for the most part, especially Chevy Chase who had some great one-liners, & Dyan Cannon was real good & fun to watch as usual. She looks really beautiful in this, considering she was in her early 50s. The girl who played Jackie Mason's daughter was pretty good too, & really nice to look at. The worst part of this movie was the Dan Akroyd character. Bill Murray would have been so much better. Also, the movie is just too silly, and just plain dumb at times, the gopher is used too much, and Marsha Warfield is in it (but thankfully, not too much). So, if you don't expect much, you might enjoy it. It's not a great comedy, but it's not embarrassingly bad like most people say it is. The problem with those people is they want to compare it to the original. You can't really blame them for that. But when you watch it, try to forget about the original and accept it as something separate from that. I wish Rodney & Bill Murray were in it too, but they're not. So what? I wish John Candy was in it. He would have been great too. But he's not, so what? It's still pretty funny. Hey, if I liked it than it can't be that bad. My standards are pretty high. "}{"Title":"So it's not Caddyshack. What's the problem?","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Caddyshack 2 has a dreadful reputation, due only to the fact that it is a sequel to a highly-held classic. People have criticised the film on a lot of grounds, but they all ultimately hark back to the fact that this is not Caddyshack.I would begin by saying that we should just take Caddyshack out of the equation and consider this film on its own merits, but I think that would be unfair. The movie does have a lot in common with its predecessor. The class-related themes of 'snobs versus slobs' and the desire to fit in to a class above your own are as prevalent here as they were in the first movie. The two things that are truly lacking here are Bill Murray and Rodney Dangerfield, who are replaced with Dan Ackroyd and Jackie Mason respectively.Now I am not about to try and argue that Ackroyd comes close to Murray in the movie, but Jackie Mason is an admirable successor to Dangerfield. He comes off as a cross between Dangerfield and Arnold Stang, but without biting too heavily on either. I wouldn't say that he is anywhere close to being as funny as Dangerfield is in Caddyshack, but there is a whole lot more point to his character and his dilemma in the film.Chevy Chase only pops up and handful of times in the movie, which is another common complaint. Maybe these particular naysayers didn't notice that he only popped up a few times in the first movie. For my money, his scenes here are a lot funnier, if somewhat over-directed.While I'm on the subject, it is really the over-direction of this movie that brings it down. It comes across as far more self-conscious in its attempts to get a laugh. Many of the jokes are laboured and there's far too much of the Gopher, who seems to have taken on a far more anthropomorphic personality and a voice, just in case we didn't grasp the idea that its meant to be funny.Characters are similarly hammered home, particularly the smarmy yuppy kids. Jackie Mason rarely misses a beat, and is consistently likable and very funny, but we didn't need the tango sequence at all! The director is clearly not of the same school of thought as Harold Ramis. Not to suggest that Caddyshack was subtle, but the jokes here are just a little overcooked, and most of them are unnecessarily embellished with a quirky music cue.All things considered, this is a fun, goofy movie with something to say about class and identity that very few movies at the time were saying. Don't be put off by the appallingly low rating on IMDb, check it out for yourself. "},{"Title":"A huge leap downward from the original","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" When a hardworking entrepreneur is rejected from a prestigious country club, he starts a battle between the members and eventually buys it from Ty Webb(Chevy Chase) and turns it into a theme park/golf course in which everyone can join.This is by no means a good movie, but it is still slightly amusing at times. Almost all of the comedy is cheap slapstick and bad jokes except for Chevy Chase. Chevy Chase plays one of his greatest roles as Ty Webb for a second time and plays it great. He is not only the funniest character in the movie, he is the only funny character in the movie. Even Dan Akroyd fails to bring humor to this film which aspires to be a great sequel to a classic comedy but falls to rubble with others shown on Comedy Central. The movie might have been better if Ty Webb(Chase) had a larger role but instead he was reduced to a minor character and the star became Jackie Mason(Who??) They should have brought back all of the cast and made a sequel the right way! This is a perfect example of what not to do when making a sequel to an already great movie. Overall, Caddyshack II is humorous but a large mistake.I do not recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"A equal That Exceeds the Original","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Everyone is entitled to an opinion. The only critic who counts is yourself. I think this is a great movie. Much better than the original.In Caddyshack, Rodney Dangerfield is funny, but obnoxious. He was asked to do the sequel, but things got in the way. Jackie Mason shows the saying that less is more. He is funny, but a man with real family issues, a more rounded person. It's no drama, but a movie that makes you feel. Actually in some points, you feel sorry for Jackie Mason, especially when his daughter walks out on him.It has a good soundtrack, and overall, a good sorry. A good end to the series.In the TV show Alf, Alf says that he cried in Terms of Endearment. The wife , Kate Tanner, played by Anne Schedeen, also says he cried at Caddyshack 2. "},{"Title":"What The Hell?!","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie sucks. It's horrible. If anyone liked it, those people should get there heads examined. Jackie Mason's character sounds like a retard. That guy who tries to kill the gopher is a loser and he sucked. Even though Chevy Chase was in this movie, he wasn't funny. This movie had crude and unfunny jokes and did not have Rodney Dangerfield, Ted Knight, and Bill Murray. Even though Jackie Mason's character had the personality of Rodney Dangerfield's character, Mason's character sucks. Rodney Dangerfield was funny! He should have returned! I don't care about Ted Knight, but Bill Murray should have returned, also. The original Caddyshack was Murray's career performance. If he was funny in the first, he could have been funny in the second.Final comment I recommend this movie to... NO ONE!!!!!!!! THIS MOVIE SUCKED!!!! IT HAS SUCKED, IT SUCKS NOW, AND IT WILL ALWAYS SUCK!!!!!!!2/10 "},{"Title":"It's not THAT bad...","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" ...although I'll be the first to admit that it's not that good, either.Fans of the original Caddyshack probably won't like this film (I can tell that right off from many of the reviews here). If you want to see this, it might be better to try and see it as a movie by itself and not as a sequel. It has its moments, but it isn't the original.*May contain spoilers*A mere 8 years after we first visited Caddyshack, all of the original members are gone except for two (the first hint that it won't be the same). We meet Kate Hartounian, a college girl and daughter of a wealther- not to mention goofy- building contractor, who is hoping that a membership at the posh Bushwood will net her some badly-desired popularity. The people she is trying to impress just happen to be suing her father for some apartments he is building near the country club, so they turn down his membership and he vows to get revenge...in his own goofy way.The film has some bland humor. The only two original characters that came back in this one are Ty Webb (Chevy Chase) and the gopher. Fans of the original will find three very different things about this film, compared to the first The movie is Caddyshack 2, yet we aren't seeing anything about the caddies as we did before. The movie isn't racy at all, except for one hot little dance number, and finally, the gopher is present but he doesn't play any kind of major role as he did in the first one. He makes a few cameos to do something funny, but that's it. There just isn't any toilet humor in this film that will appeal to fans of the first.I liked it, but mostly because I'm a fan of Robert Stack. So I say- give it a chance.  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I have no idea why everyone hates this movie to call it garbage a travesty an unexceptable sequel is just unfair i mean what else could they have made for a sequel then. Cause seriously I think it should have had a sequel (Rodney Dangerfield) says hey everyone were all going to get laid and then a little dancing goffer and thats it thats the end of Caddyshack even though the film rating on first one was (R) and the second one was (PG) it was still lots of fun .(7/10)  "},{"Title":"very stupid, but hilarious flick","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This move is incredibly stupid, but I find it very amusing to watch.  It is an 80s movie, so it is off to a bad start before the first scene!  The best part in this is definitely played by Dan Aykroyd as Captain Tom Everett.  He is trying to bash a gopher's head into oblivion.  He also is hired to blow up a golfer because Robert Stack as Chandler Young wants to win a golf match.  During the course of the film, Aykroyd as Everett blows up a Rolls Royce, drives an RV with a hot dog stand attached to be in-cognito, shoots himself in the tailpipe with a poisonous arrow and hits an explosive golf ball at a watermelon in a noose!  What the hell kind of script does this sound like?  Yes, a terrible 80s script, but the movie is very funny.  Another good part is when Todd is sliding down a water slide and trying to show off for a chick.  How the hell can you show off by going down a slide, you just go down it, right?  He claims Yeah!  Oh Yeah!  and is pumping his fists as he slides down a waterless slide and burns his ass.  An entertaining movie with a very stupid plot, what else would we expect from the 80s!? "},{"Title":"Horrible unfunny trash","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is quite possibly the worst sequel ever made.  The script is unfunny and the acting stinks.  The exact opposite of the original. "},{"Title":"Faulty Cloning at work","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Have you heard the theory of cloning redundancy, where a copy is poorer than the original?  Caddyshack 2 is a perfect example of that.  They try to duplicate everything from the first movie.  Now, in a few cases this work. Robert Stack is actually a little better than Ted Knight, when they play essentially the same character.  I actually like Randy Quaid, who is no more or less offensive than Bill Murray in the original.  But Jackie Mason is no Rodney Dangerfield, and worse of all, C2 demonstrated once and for all that Dan Ackroyd is one of the worst comedy actors of all time.  There is very little that I like him in, and C2 nailed the coffin shut on his comedic career as far as I'm concerned.  He seems to feel the same, sticking more to tuffy like Driving Miss Daisy and hosting Psi-Factor.  Other than that, it's mostly, been there, done that for Caddyshack 2.  Watch the original twice rather than each version once, and you'll get more for your rental money. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies of all time","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie is so God-awful that it was literally a chore to watch.  I wanted to eject it from my vcr and throw it across the room, but kept thinking (foolishly) that it would eventually get funny and then everything would be all right.     You lose, we win, yay! This movie should be required viewing for anyone who even once entertained the thought that Jackie Mason was funny.  After that, beat them ove the head with this movie until the tape cracks.  And if you're even considering renting this turd (or worse yet, have!) I have one thing to ask of you didn't you even look at the cover?  I mean, with crap like this you can tell with just a glance how bad it is!   Oy vey!  This movie sucked. "}{"Title":"When does the hurting stop?","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  In this dreadful follow-up, Jackie Mason stars in the role that was custom-made for Rodney Dangerfield.  Unfortunately, Mason is no Dangerfield. Also missing from this poor excuse for a sequel are jokes, a plausible story, and (most important) Bill Murray.  Chevy Chase does make a few appearances that surprisingly ease the hurting, but his contribution is nowhere near enough to save this death camp of a film. "},{"Title":"unnecessary...VERY unnecessary","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I saw Caddyshack II when I was ten and I mostly laughed because of the horse scene. I should have realized that the movie was as empty as...I can't come up with a good comparison. It's stupid and not even really funny. The cast members from the original who chose not to star in this made probably the best choices that they ever made in rejecting this; why, oh why, did Chevy Chase return?! And how on earth did Jackie Mason, Robert Stack, Dyan Cannon and Dan Aykroyd get involved in this swill?! I bet that every person who had his/her name even remotely attached to this junk (e.g., the caterer) is ashamed beyond redemption. So, all in all, it's beyond dreadful, terrible, and everything such. Avoid it like you would the Ebola virus. "},{"Title":"Totally unfunny and stupid","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie sucked big time. I never saw the first one so I am not comparing it to the first one. I saw it because a friend gave the DVD to me as a gift and I couldn't return it. SO I had no choice but to check it out. Most people who hated this movie were right. The snob characters were so one dimensional and carbon copies of each other. Robert Stack's character was snobbish and outwardly mean and nasty for no reason. His friends were snobbish and outwardly mean and nasty for no reason. His daughter was snobbish and outwardly mean and nasty for no reason and so on. Why on earth would Jackie's daughter want to hang out with them?Jackie Mason should take target practice because he was shooting off 20 jokes per second and totally missing the mark. Every time Chevy Chase would show up, I would hate him. As the movie progressed and he shows up again, I hated him even more. None of his jokes or weird antics produced even a smile. Spoiler alert. Maybe not thoughWhat the was Dan Ackroyd doing in this movie and why did he go after the gopher after it stole his twinkies?The movie was predictable and has no redeeming quality to it. Maybe Randy Quaid shined in it alittle but that is not saying much. Don't waste your time and make sure to tell your friends not to get you this movie.  "},{"Title":"a good movie, just misunderstood","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I liked this movie.No one I know likes it, but I do.I didn't like it as much as the first one but it was still good. The script and plot may not have changed at all, but the story was better than Caddyshack 1.The only reason I didn't like Caddyshack 2 is...NO RODNEY DANGERFIELD!I think the movie would be better if Rodney Dangerfield had Jackie Mason's part. Although I did like Jackie Mason in the movie, it would be alot better if they kept Rodney Dangerfield.Another flaw in the movie, that I didn't hate as much, was Dan Akroyd. The movie was done 8 years after the first one. Bill Murray, Carl, could've quit his job as an assistant greenskeeper and joined the military, you know? If Warner Bros. had thought of that, it could've made the movie better, also.This was my comment for Caddyshack II.I give it 8.2 out of 10It could've been better, but good nonetheless.If you've seen Caddyshack 1 and are debating on whether or not to see Caddyshack 2, I say give it a try. "},{"Title":"Give Jackie Mason a chance -- he's an underrated comic genius.","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Like Richard Pryor, Mason never got the material he deserved. Whatever you know of him is probably wrong. Get past the accent and go see his stand-up. You'll be very surprised -- he's one of the best stand-ups I've ever seen and I have seen a lot of stand-up comedy (from Lenny Bruce to Eddie Murphy to Jerry Seinfeld to Chris Rock -- Jackie Mason is definitely up there). He's known for being a comic's comic. Even Howard Stern said he is one of the top 3 funniest comedians ever.The accussation that Mason is no Dangerfield is ridiculous. Dangerfield is known for having been a huge Mason fan. Dangerfield's career was going nowhere for a long time until he started following Mason's shows. That is when Mason provided Dangerfield with inspiration for his, get no respect routine. While I think Dangerfield is great, see them both do stand-up and you'll see Mason is the better comedian. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people would have you think ...","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Seriously. If this had been the first Shack movie, it would have been passable as funny, silly and goofy. Light satire commentary on the class system would make this an enjoyable late-night rental.However, everyone wants to compare it to the first film, and maybe that's not fair. The first film is a cult classic; what could possibly follow it up? Nothing. So take this second film as a stand alone, and it certainly has its moments.Jackie Mason is amusing, doing his best Rodney-wannabe impersonation. Is he as good as Rodney? No. Are his lines as good? No. But he is funny. The rest of the cast falls in line as being decent, but not outstanding. You'll recognize faces amongst the cast and wonder how they got to where they are today.The film is predictable, but aren't most in this genre? Again, it's not the best comedy you'll see, but if you like Cannonball Run-type fun, you'll enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Not a hole in one but at least a decent par","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This inevitable sequel to the raunchy 1980 comedy classic falls a little short of its hilarious predecessor and winds up being a bit too annoyingly slapstick. Not a bad film but it could've been much better especially if much of the talent from the first film had returned here instead of miscasting a bunch of series newcomers. This sequel was aimed at more of a family audience than the adult oriented original and that may be one of the problems. Live action family oriented comedies that cast people who are known for their levels of raunch barely ever really work. Still, some fair laughs are generated in this tale of a snobbish millionaire (Jackie Mason) who figures that he can easily buy a country club but instead he winds up in heated battle with its current management who is not willing to sell it to Mason's terms. His idea is to combine a miniature golf course and amusement park along with their regular golf course. It causes some disagreements. Chevy Chase is the only returning cast member but his role here is much less showy and Dan Aykroyd attempts to fill in the void left vacant by Bill Murray and only moderately succeeds. Letting the gopher return to the golf course as well provides more boredom than laughs because he's not really funny anymore. His presence is unnecessary. Still, it's an OK sequel but the absence of much of the original film's success often makes the viewer think about what could've been.   "},{"Title":"Awful! Just awful!","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This film should never have been made! It stinks, it's awful, it's no good, it's bad, it's terrible. Starting to see a pattern here? Jackie Mason is certainly no Rodney Dangerfield. Gone were Ted Knight and Bill Murray, who, along with Dangerfield, were essential to the first film. It seems that the three of them (the stars) all knew a stinker of a script when they saw one. The one who didn't have the good sense to bow out of this was Chevy Chase, who stuck around but was extraneous to both films in my opinion. This film is quite simply NOT FUNNY. Nor does it have any other endearing qualities. This thing relies heavily on anti-Semitism to work and it works to it's detriment. I hated this thing. A waste of everybody's time. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as good as the first","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  While this lackluster sequel isn't nearly as good or funny as the first, it's got a few laughs and is likeable enough.I'm not much of a Jackie Mason fan, but was amused by his performance here. Randy Quaid was hilarious as always and stole the movie from Mason.I also got a few chuckles here and there from the golf course makeover.So, don't expect much, but it's good for a few laughs and worth catching on HBO...  "},{"Title":"It's NOTHING compared to the original, but still quite amusing in its own right","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Eight years after the classic original Warner decided to do a sequel to Harold Ramis' director debut. Only Ramis isn't in the chair this time (surrendering the honors to sitcom director Allan Arkush), but he did pen the script.The only returning characters are Ty Webb and Mr. Gopher. There were supposed to be more but Bill Murray and Rodney Dangerfield hated the script and Ramis would not let them make their own changes, which I think was a huge mistake and quite arrogant and out of character for Ramis. Taking Murray's place is Dan Ackroyd as Captain Tom Everett, a mentally-scarred war vet turned mercenary, and Jackie Mason as Jack Hartounian, another boorish, blue-collar millionaire property developer. He's entertaining, but he's certainly no Al Czervik.Ted Knight passed away in 1986, so Judge Smails couldn't return either. Instead we have Robert Stack playing the villainous Candler Young. Again, I like Stack, but he just can't live up to Ted Knight.Hartounian agrees to join the prestigious Bushwood Country Club to please his teenage daughter who is desperate to fit in. The snobs don't take too kindly to his unsavory humor or his connections to the local working class. Together they conspire to shut him down, but Jack Hartounian doesn't give up easily.Almost everything that made Caddyshack so good is dumbed down in this sequel. The R-rating, the raunchiness, the complex character interactions...all gone. Though they somehow still managed to squeeze in a single F-word (courtesy of Randy Quaid's obnoxious lawyer Peter Blunt) in a PG, which is very rare. Caddyshack also had dozens of speaking roles and didn't care if the audience couldn't keep up with it. Those kind of quirks make it endlessly watchable, while Caddyshack II is merely good for a laugh only once in a while.The theme of the working class clashing with greedy snobs who have had everything handed to them might be a little more relevant today, I just wish that they hadn't comprised the film so much. Had there been more continuity with the original we could have had another classic.Not as bad as its reputation suggests, and there are a decent amount of laughs. But just not enough.I do appreciate the Mad Magazine and Root Beer references though. "}{"Title":"Just a tiny tap!","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I didn't like Caddyshack much, and was very pleased when I saw its sequel, on which I am commenting.  Soon after the movie starts, a gopher (or is it a beaver?) has a diet root beer and sets the tone for the movie.  The self-made millionaire at the posh club also has his say while riding the hurdles.  Cryptic references aside, this is the story of a social clash that originates and is resolved on the links.  Loads of humor, and with various characters blended in, such as Chevy Chase as a big shareholder, Dan Aykroyd as the alternative problem-solver, and Randy Quaid as the attorney who can shout out the wrinkles in your suit while being polite. "},{"Title":"i think i'm the only person in the world that likes caddyshack 2 better than the first","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  caddyshack 2 was great. i liked it a lot better than the first. the first one was a bit dull and not that funny. caddyshack 2 is not one bit dull never unfunny, and always entertaining. i give it *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Unexceptional sequel, but cute.","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Very few sequels are up to par (excuse the pun) with their predecessors, and this is no great exception.  It's far-fetched, and out there, but seeing the underdog come out on top of a bunch of snobby, rich, perpetual yuppies is kinda fun.  Chevy Chase's character is an amusing distraction as well. "},{"Title":"Stinker!","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Caddyshack was an hilarious film with three different plots tied into one main landscape, a golf coarse. Bill Murray after the gopher, Chevy Chase and his caddy, Rodney Dangerfield and his gambling on golf games and the film was a hit. Then came Caddyshack II, bad move. The film is to stupid to enjoy, no funny jokes at all, and if it's a sequel where is the original cast? We got Chevy Chase and that's it! We got the gopher but he is not needed at all. Jackie Mason is to obnoxious to be enjoyed and Dan Akroyd as a soldier paid to help the villain cheat at golf, he is totally gay in his part. The cast is up in the air with bad talent! A few good performances here and there like Randy Quaid or the gopher but the film lacks! Nothing original. It just ends up the same with Jackie and the villain playing golf with the bet on leaving the golf club at stake and it's totally predictable. Jackie wins, woo who! But here's something the last film didn't have, special affects! We have Jackie using weird mechanical golf clubs that look totally cheesy, like they're wrapped up in tin foil, and they come with special tactics that look like crap! The Special Affects are cheese, not good at all. I loved the original Caddyshack but this film is a total bomb. Where's the plot, where's the original cast, where's the entertainment? Down the tube. This film gets the big 4, they tried but they tried with little effort. Avoid this film, not recommended unless you like to get a good nap. "},{"Title":"The Shack Ain't Back!","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  A truly horrible sequel that shows some of the cast from the first film cruising through an awful script. Bill Murray has left, leaving Dan Akyroyd to chase the gofer around. No hilarity ensues.Rumors have recently arisen of a new Caddyshack film. I just hope they don't make it as bad as this.1/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"what? are you kidding?","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  i am in a vast minority here. i also didn't much care for the original caddyshack, aside from the chase/murray duo scene and select rodney jokes. okay, break it down rodney vs. jackie- both jewish and have similar humor. rodney's a bigger name and more distinct. jackie has an incidental and more observational approach to his jokes and is more 'up yours' in this sequel. jackie's attitude toward everything is memorable and in a way, inspirational! his quick lines and over-confidence left me wishing i could express myself in such a way. rodney was good, but there wasn't enough of him, and he was more 'in your face' and dismissive. jackie, in a rare film appearance, makes a perfect sub for rodney (come on, a gun shaped hair dryer?!?!) really, look at the little things!stack vs. knight- both play snobby yuppies very well. ted knight, despite his wonderful tv/film career, kinda shows his age. but, he does pull off the snobbish demands of the part and we want to see him fall. ted looks kinda weak and is pretty annoying, playing his anger and frustration too slapstick, while stack is more incidentally snide and vengeful; you really hate him and enjoy see him constantly fail. stack wins with me.murray vs. aykroyd- well, both had great, vintage SNL-like scenes with the ever-present and enjoyable chevy chase (ty webb). i did like the murray/chase one better. murray plays his great, annoying, chatty character with obvious improv skill and is loveable- yet annoying. and the exact same can be said for aykroyd. both get annoying after a while, but it's a tie.i really loved part 2 over the first. they are 2 totally different mooded films. part one is more drug/bathroom/sex humor with a cast full of great names. part 2 uses golf as a backdrop for a 'stick-it-to-the-rich' type of comedy that makes one feel better about being working class. 80s script? yes. a bit far-fetched? yes, but wasn't the first? an insult to the sport of golf? yes, it's a movie. thin story? yes, it's a comedy with actual humor- not 'dances with wolves'!! besides- part 2 has a much better soundtrack!! PLEASE- DON'T EXPECT THIS TO BE A SEQUEL TO PART ONE!! IT IS 98% ITS OWN MOVIE AND SHOULDN'T EVEN HAVE THE NAME 'CADDYSHACK' IN IT. that said, i am a big fan of caddyshack 2 and it is a great exponent of 80s fluff entertainment with quality humor. VIVA JACKIE MASON!!! to all the reducers- lighten up! it's a great comedy of its own. randy quaid was wonderful, jonathan silverman was wonderful, heck, everyone was!! all this chatting and now i feel like watching it! i think i will  "},{"Title":"Good thing I don't throw in with ratings!!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Amazing, one of my favorite movies way down at the bottom. Guess I can take some pride in not liking what the general populace tends to go for. Jackie Mason is hilarious in this movie, and so's Randy Quaid. I can never get enough of his strong-arm tactics, just like in Moving. He was also notable in National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation. Love that guy. "},{"Title":"NOT Caddyshack!!!!","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The only conceivable flaw of this film is it's title!! Please stop comparing it to the first! I did in my previous review only to separate it from the first. If you haven't seen the movie and are curious, TOTALLY forget about the first and invent a different name for this. There is nothing alike and has a mood all its own. This is a great exponent of screwy mid-80s comedy. I seriously doubt such big names in this cast did the movie because they were broke or even wanted to remake the first. Anybody who ever wanted to give a kick to the snobbish aristocracy should love this little opus. I maintain, the only reason this is in the IMDB bottom 100 is because of its title. I usually hate movies like these (i.e. adam sandler, will farrell, farrelly bros....), but this movie just keeps me laughing hysterically. I dunno, maybe it's like a bad relationship I can't get out of or just a ridiculous guilty pleasure. Either way, this is the single most underrated movie of the 80s behind 'The Stunt Man.'Robert Stack- WE LOVE YOU!!! (1919-2003) "},{"Title":"It At Least Lives Up to Its Reputation","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Caddyshack II (1988) BOMB (out of 4) One might see CADDYSHACK II and right off the bat thinks it's just a cheap, piece of trash thrown together quickly to cash-in on the success of the first film. I mean, this here is often what happens when you have a hit film but that's not exactly the case here because this came eight years after the original so they certainly had time to come up with something better. You can read the various production problems elsewhere and you can also read the plot summery elsewhere. No matter what you read or see, CADDYSHACK II is without question a horrid film that lives up to its reputation as one of the worst sequels ever made. Chevy Chase is the only person back and then we have Jackie Mason, Robert Stack, Dyan Cannon, Randy Quaid and Dan Aykroyd basically playing rip-off characters of what were seen in the original. Again, it's clear that this here was a horrible idea right from the start as the cast and writers have freely admitted this. It's still shocking to think that the studio wanted something like this but I guess they thought it would be easy cash. The entire screenplay is just so unfunny that you can't help but wonder why anyone signed onto it. The entire finale dealing with a competition runs way too long and it takes forever to get where it's going. There's really nothing working in this picture, although there might have been one or two small smiles throughout the entire running time. The cast are just annoying and you know you're in trouble when a fake gopher gives the best performance. "},{"Title":"not as bad as the first one","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" i actually almost liked this this movie.i thought it was witty and better written.the dialogue is better than the first one.there are also a few amusing moments.i even chuckled a few times.plus,i thought the characters were better and the movie had a better,more substantial story.having said all that,i still didn't think it was a great movie,but at it was watchable,even entertaining at times.the rating for this movie,on this site(3.4/10)is even less than half the rating of the first Caddyshack movie,and i am truly mystified.i will never see the appeal of that movie.as for Caddyshack II,not the best movie every made,but nowhere near the worst,either.my vote for this movie is a 5/10 "}{"Title":"I know I'm gonna get booed for saying this, but......","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This was better than the original. Yeah, it wasn't an outstanding film, but the first one was just a stupid satire of waspy golf clubs and the poor catholic caddy who gets to live the good life (real original). It wasn't such a bad movie either, but this one has Jackie Mason (what a combination!) who is the center of the film. The whole class struggle hooey theme is still in place, but its easy to block out. And Mason's jewish accent is always music to the ears, and his interesting take on life comes across in all his performances. When he used the word fanzanoon (which isn't even a real word in any language) and then explained what it meant, me and my friends exploded with laughter. Even though this movie won the Razzie award for worst song, and worst supporting actor, Dan Ackroyd, and was nominated for worst film, while Jackie himself was nominated for worst actor, I recommend seeing this film, which is often on comedy central, the WB, and premium cable.  "},{"Title":"A movie for lazy golfers","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie is just as dumb as the first one. The purpose of these movies is for rich, country club, golfing, lazy, morons can enjoy. These movies rip on the working class, and just have the chessiest humor in them. But what would I know ? I live in middle class suburbia, and don't play golf. So, I guess I can't be in the Caddyshack Posse  "},{"Title":"very funny and enjoyable","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Some of you people out there are just pathetic. You give this movie a bad review because it is not quite as good as Caddyshack. This is a great movie and no sequel could stand up to the original but thats no reason to give it a bad review. This movie and is very entertaining and I think the cast was great, not as good as original cast but adding a few very funny actors including Robert Stack, Dyan Cannon, Randy Quaid, Jackie Mason, Jonathan Silverman and Jessica Lundy just to name a few and all these actors did a very good job, especially Robert Stack who was hilarious as Chandler Young. Sure Rodney Dangerfield was not in this movie but it did not need him, and again some people prefer to put down this movie just because he appeared in the original and not this one. Jackie Mason is great as the main character and fills in nicely. If you loved Caddyshack and you don't enjoy this movie something is just wrong with you, as sequels go this is one of the better made movies. To everyone out there who gave this a bad review you are mental, I suggest you seek help. "}]