[{"Title":"Pleasant, light entertainment","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Movies like this never win awards, never top lists, are never hot topics around the water cooler (do people ever have powwows around water coolers in real life?).  This is the kind of movie critics like to cite as evidence of the decline of Western Civilization, because they make easy targets  they don't change lives, and they have few defenders.  But, leaving aside Western Civilization for a moment, I want to say a word for the underdog.  I watched the tape today, and was struck again by my happy mood after watching it.  The story is featherweight, the acting likable if sitcom-ish, and the ending is as sweet as you could ask.  Andrew Dice Clay's performance is indeed surprisingly good, and the occasional forays into real dialogue about the mating game touch on real issues.  Casual Sex? won't change your life, but it's a pleasant way to spend a few hours.  If you care what the snobs think, just don't tell them. "},{"Title":"When sex is anything BUT casual!","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Near the beginning of the AIDS epidemic, Stacy (Lea Thompson) and Melissa (Victoria Jackson) plan a vacation at a health spa to find a safe guy to date and/or marry.  Stacy has, as they say, been around; Melissa is more of a novice in the world of men.  Right away, they run into obnoxious Vinny, who displeases them both and makes them doubt if they are going about things the right way.  Things improve. In between classes of exercise, Stacy hooks up with Nick, a spa employee who sings at the social gatherings.  Melissa, too, earns the attention of good guy Jamie, a massage therapist.  Will there be any obstacles on the path to true love?  Of course!This is a genuinely funny movie about sex, told from a woman's viewpoint.  There are some great speeches about the mysterious ways of men and women, offered by Stacy and Melissa.  Scenes at the spa are both entertaining and lovely to look upon.  Then, too, Andrew Dice Clay, as Vinny, gives a performance that sizzles and surprises with its ever-growing sincerity.  Viewers who think they've seen every decent romantic comedy will have missed something special if they pass this one by.  Hopefully, video stores and libraries will still have a copy of this nice film in stock. "},{"Title":"Cute, sexy, and Andrew Dice Clay actually being FUNNY!","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This Woody Allen-esque exploration of sex through the eyes of two female friends (Lea Thompson and Victoria Jackson) is a pretty entertaining little sleeper.  The two discuss their sexual experiences, past relationships and societal attitudes, each taking turns talking to the audience.  Eventually they travel to a spa where they encounter lust, rejection, love and, of course, sex, sex and more sex.  Andrew Dice Clay actually turns in a great comic performance as an obnoxious spa patron who has the hots for Thompson, and Mary Gross adds a few laughs with her usual soft-spoken schtick.  Jackson is cute, though a tad wooden, but Thompson's performance is right on the mark.  As an added bonus, the two venture to a nude beach in one scene, so we get a nice long look at their bare bottoms (Jackson's cute buns make two extra appearances as well).  Overall, there's really not much here, but what there is is pretty entertaining, and worth the price of a rental. "},{"Title":"Its Casual","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dice Clay proved he was more than just DICE. Lea Thompson showed that she could do comedy & that she looked so good on a nude beach. I read someplace that when they first tested the film Lea & Dice did not get together as in the final version. The test audience wanted the unlucky Dice to get the girl in the end. I totally agree that ending would have been dumb if it just ended with DICE back in NYC alone. It needed to happen. All in all it was a good 80's flick. I still watch it when its on TV. For you tv version buffs, the TV edit has more scenes with Lea & Victoria outside of Lea bedroom after she makes it with that bad actor wannabe. Do I smell a directors cut?  "},{"Title":"Casual Sex","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Witty comedy that may not solve the dating problems of the 80's...but does offer a lighter look at what happens in the dark. Also, a slightly tamed look at the DiceMan, which turns out to be his best screen work.  "},{"Title":"GOOD ENTERTAINMENT","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a much better movie than I expected and is very well done with some witty dialogue and good performances by all.Thompson and Jackson play two young women from with different sexual experiences who go off on vacation to find love.Andrew Dice Clay is surprising good as the guy who turns to be the love of Lea's life without either of them expecting it.Not hokey at all and the sexual inuendo is far more adult and funnier than you usually saw in the teen or young couple flims of this era. "},{"Title":"A Cute Comedy","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Casual Sex? is one of those movies that will either be totally forgotten over time, or will be slightly remembered. It's a very cute comedy, but it can easily be forgotten if you don't have it on video or DVD (I've got it on DVD).The film has some average performances by little-known actors & actresses. Lea Thompson is very cute in her role, and Victoria Jackson was almost as good (although she was sometimes over-the-top with her character). Viewers will be able to see them both fully nude from their backsides at one point in the movie, but Victoria shows herself in other parts of the film as well.Perhaps what makes this movie really worth watching is Andrew Dice Clay. He gives a really classic performance as The Vin Man, and he's really funny in some parts of the movie. He looks really cool too, especially when he wears his leather jacket. And best of all, his lines that he says are terrific and sometimes memorable.To sum up, this is a cute-but-average comedy movie. It will appeal more to women than men, but it's a great movie to watch with your partner on a date. It's a very light comedy, so don't expect it to be raunchy. And don't miss Andrew Dice Clay's performance! I give this movie a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Mildly amusing","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A mildly amusing sex comedy. Lea Thompson was OK, and Andrew Dice Clay pretty good here. I thought that Victoria Jackson was the real star here, though. She seems to have disappeared since then. I would have liked to have seen more of her. I can only recommend it casually, though. "},{"Title":"Not all that bad...","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Though I would not think of watching this film at the theater, it's not all that bad critics made it out to be.  Some situations are fairly funny, the story takes wild turns and more importantly, it is Andrew Clay's best performance.  Behind the x-rated nursery rhymes and sexist jokes he can act if given the right role (like most actors!).  He is the only true Good thing about this movie and steals every scene.  Remember this years from now when another Tarantino-esque young director has his way, Andrew Dice Clay will be given a juicy role and make a a-la-Travolta comeback. "},{"Title":"Funny, yet light","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Casual Sex is a good comedy, for women, but I actually enjoyed a few parts. Those parts were all of Andrew Dice Clay, who actually can be a good actor when the time comes around (if not a little sarcastic).  Hopefully he can make a comeback someday (if he hasn't already), because these type of films aren't made as often as they used to be.  A- "}{"Title":"Andrew Dice Clay's best performance","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is not all that bad as critics made it out to be. Some situations are fairly funny, the story takes wild turns and more importantly, it is Andrew Dice Clay's best performance to date in a non-Dice character.  The movie came out on DVD in May 2001 and I had to buy it.  I watched it before on VHS and only because Dice was in it and I've gotta tell you, not only I wasn't disappointed, moreover, very much impressed.The story focuses on Stacy (Lea Thompson) and Melissa (Victoria Jackson), two best friends. So girls just wanna have fun but at the same time are searching for something more than just a one-night stand.  They go to a health resort to try their luck among health nuts and just plain weirdos.  That's where Stacy meets Vinny, aka the Vin Man (Andrew Dice Clay). I'm the best from the east, I'm a wild and crazy beast, I'm the Vin Man!Of course, Stacey dismisses him as just another brainless dick.  Not so fast, fruitcake.  Turns out that the lewd, crude, tough macho exterior was hiding an insecure little puppy.  Vinny reveals his sensitive, vulnerable side and before you know it, he's the most likable and memorable character in the movie.  Andrew's performance is amazing, you can really see his character development; he's an arc.  There's a scene where he almost makes you cry.So when the story begins to switch back and forth between Melissa's whirlwind romance and Stacy's attempts to rid herself  -- and her apartment -- of a wannabe rock star, you'll find yourself missing Vinny and a little disappointed... but not for long.  Just wait until Stacy gets that letter... -)   You'll now see a very different, extremely endearing Vincent Falconi.Behind the X-rated nursery rhymes and sexist jokes Mr. Clay sure can act if/when given the right role (like most talented actors!).  Remember that you heard this from me first.  The Diceman is destined to make a Travolta-style comeback... "},{"Title":"More entertaining for women than men","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Released in 1988, Casual Sex? focuses on two young women, Stacy (Lea Thompson) and Melissa (Victoria Jackson), who go to a health resort to find a safe man in the new era of AIDS. Stacy has a promiscuous past while Melissa is a novice when it comes to sex. The former hooks up with a musician (Stephen Shellen) and the latter a nice guy massage therapist (Jerry Levine). Andrew Dice Clay is also on hand.This is a fairly amusing 80's romcom with, thankfully, very little raunch despite the title. Although Thompson is her usual winsome petite self she's physically too thin for my tastes; Jackson is better with her irksome nasally voice, but her character is too bimbo-ish. Still, both are likable enough. Amazingly, it's Dice Clay who stands out as Vinny, a particularly annoying guest at the resort, who has an interesting character arc.The topic of the film -- romance & sex in the 80s -- is told from the woman's point of view and therefore appeals more to women. So the fairer sex will appreciate Casual Sex? more than I did, but the movie's still worth catching for men because the three male characters ring true and Dice Clay's performance and his story arc make the movie worthwhile.The film runs 97 minutes and was shot in Los Angeles.GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think one of the reasons there is so much animosity against this one is that it is undeniably dated. But it made over $12 million, baby! Two girls go away to a holiday resort looking for a change of pace, hoping to meet some nice men for a change. They discover that they can't find the perfect man, and this forces them to reconsider their attitudes to men in general. The first 37 minutes of the running time are particularly hard to endure. You've got to be a die-hard fan to embrace this one. I thought this was cute and not bad. from an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose. "},{"Title":"A Chick Flick For Guys","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you love Lea Thompson (And I do), Casual Sex? is a must see. It is fair to say, I like it more than most people do. It is about two friends Stacy (Lea), and Melissa (Victoria Jackson), and their hunt for Mr. Right. Melissa succeeds when she meets Jamie (Jerry Levine), But my primary focus is in Lea and the person who steals the film Andrew Dice Clay as Vinny, so I will leave Melissa and Jamie alone. Until seeing the comments section on IMDb, I did not know there was an alternate ending with Stacy ending up divorced and unhappy, while Vinny remained a pathetic excuse for a human being, that was test marketed and rejected. I think that was the right decision. Not only is there a chemistry between the characters, but it fits the context of the film better. Spoilers ahead What happens is Stacy meets Nick(Stephen Shellen) and he moved in with her. It turned out he was a slacker musician, with an overinflated view of himself I am going to be bigger than Elvis. Eventually she had to throw him out. At the same time she meet Vinny from New Jersey, who was an arrogant individual who thought he was God's gift to women, and she and Melissa put him in his place. Later on, he wrote to Stacy saying The Vin Man needed improvement, so I started dressing better, stopped hanging out and hitting on women. Stacy said I'm impressed, deep down he like the rest of us, messed up. Later on, during the Christmas Holiday's, Vinny goes for a long road trip (He is alone for the Holidays (As is Stacy)), and as he said I did not realize it, but I came to see you.(Stacy). But she basically ignores him (Probably because of the bad experience of Nick), and as he walked away, she called him back, and he asked if she wanted anything to eat, Stacy said Everything is closed, but I will make you something. Vinny said I will make you something. Stacy said I will like that. Vinny said wait I got you something for Christmas which was a puppy. The next scene is years later, at Christmas, when Melissa and Jamie come over, and while Stacy is decorating the tree, Vinny is tied up by their boys, and Jamie will be getting the same treatment. When Stacy sees that she says There goes your boyfriend., and Melissa says the same, the film ends with Stacy saying Yea, there goes my boyfriend. (With a look of contentment and happiness). As the song comes on No More Casual Sex Mon. What I really like is the way that Vinny started out as a real jerk, and made the changes necessary, so he could grow as a character, which would allow him to end up with someone like Stacy (Which from a guy's point of view, is a worthwhile goal), but also how Stacy was able to realize this. Thus, overcoming her doubts about not only Vinny, but herself (There is a scene where she mentions being alone to Melissa, and her body language showed how unhappy she was) and still gave Vinny a chance to prove himself (Character growth is usually a good thing, and that is what we saw with Vinny, and the Happy Ending is what showed that (Which is why that ending fit well within the context of the movie)). What is also interesting is the end where the virginal Melissa, and the shy Jamie were living with each other, and how the bad boy and girl (Vinny and Stacy) became the married couple with kids. I guess people can tell that I will give Casual Sex? a high grade and I do, which is A+. 10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Rubbish. Avoid.","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After a variety of sketchy farcical/romantic complications, the movie settles for a sentimental epilogue, and remains unsurprisingly dull. The biggest shock is Andrew Dice Clay - the comedian you love to boycott - whose 'Vin-Man'character utterly fails to get laughs transforming himself from a macho beast to a caring, sharing New Man via the 'Pretend You're Sensitive Handbook'.Definitely a lightweight movie, without any heavy ambitions, and for the most part an unlikable one. With script and direction by women, it's considerably more arch and dehumanized than the usual sex comedy. Most of the men in this film are portrayed as belonging to a disgustingly hairy, penile-obsessed subspecies. "},{"Title":"You only need to know one thing","Date":"1 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When you review a movie, you have to struggle with an old philosophical concept. Whatever reality is, we all experience it individually. And that experience is filtered and shaped by our differing intellects and emotions and upbringing. Which means the world seems one way to me and another way to you. S o, how can I tell you if a movie is good or if you should see it, when the movie I see isn't the same the movie you see? It's quite a problem. However, there are times when bridging that divide is simple. When the stark nature of reality is so unmistakable, so undeniable that there can only be one way to understand it. Casual Sex? is just such a thing. I only need to write 4 words and you will know whether this is a movie you will be at all interested in or not. Those words are&#x85; Lea Thompson gets naked.If the idea of ogling one of History's Cutest Women appeals to you, you'll definitely want to give Casual Sex? a look. I f not, you can probably give it a pass. Unless you're a Victoria Jackson completest, that is. This is That Role for the Saturday Night Live alumnae, the role she was born to play, the role she is better in than anything else she's ever done.Thompson and Jackson play two friends, one promiscuous and one scared of sex, who both find themselves abstinent. One because she's scared of sex in general and the other because she's scared of AIDS. But they've had enough of the chaste life, so they head out for a week at a health spa. The movie that follows can only be described as a girly sex comedy. Though it got an R rating back in the late 80s, it's tame even by those standards and today, it could almost fit on the ABC Family Channel. The ladies spend their time lusting after hot guys and being lusted after by the not-so-hot of the male sex. One of those not-so-hot is the infamous Andrew Dice Clay, playing a G rated version of his New Jersey horn dog stand-up act. Clay is memorable for showing us he can act and for demonstrating that men did not wax themselves back in the 80s. He's basically a walking carpet when he takes his shirt off.Among the other notable things about Casual Sex? is the look back it gives us on the horrible fashions of the Reagan era. I know people love to rip on the 1970s, but the bad, music video influenced clothes of the 80s are a sight to behold. It's also interesting to watch a movie where the opening credits are nothing but words on a blank screen, instead of the mini-movies they've become today.Even though the sex=death atmosphere of the late 80s is clearly what inspired the filmmakers, they stay far away from that theme for the most part and settle in to tell us a mildly amusing tale of Victoria Jackson's character becoming comfortable with her own body and Lea Thompson's character&#x85;well, she really doesn't learn much of a lesson or resolve any issue. She's darn cute though.Feminists, however, should be warned about Casual Sex?. Even though it's directed by a woman and was written by women, the movie still believes that all it takes is the right man to solve a woman's problems. There is an alternate ending to the film that's more politically correct, and watching it makes the real ending to the movie seem even more odd.Ultimately, though, all you need to know about Casual Sex? is those previously mentioned 4 words. If you see this movie sitting on the shelf at your local video store, just remember those words and you'll know exactly what to do. "},{"Title":"Not a single thing about this movie works. Hilarious.","Date":"12 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can't remember the last time I saw a film with no redeeming features at all. But I will keep a straight face and say why.This was made before 'Sex and the City', so can be forgiven for some of its, cough, more 'challenging'/embarrassing views on sex. (Oh, the groin-grinding scene. Oh). Congrats on being 'racy', but your movie makes no sense.If we're supposed to witness the sexual revelations of two women, why do it in a spa on holiday, why not in their natural environment, where events can potentially be longer lasting? Why does the main character break up with the musician? It wasn't because he was cloying and desperate; it was because...erm...the sex was too good.The boring blonde character falls for the attendant, who has some scenes where he's doing his job and she reads too much into it. This could've worked, but why does he then fall for her? Because the character needs a love interest and she's so crushingly stupid, the movie has to make one up. Got it.The Vin Man Oh, oh, oh, Vin Man. He's so ridiculous and creepy, I can cope with laughing AT him. But then we're supposed to sympathise with him, to the extent where we can believe that the main character will end up with him and spawn his children. And how are we asked to do this? We a shown that he is a LONELY ridiculous creep.But, but...The monologues suggest that the play this movie was based on was written by two snotty, pre-pubescent girls who had just gone to see 'The Vagina Monologues' and didn't get it. I won't be in a hurry to look it up.Watching something fail so totally as this film was an entertainment within itself. "},{"Title":"Better as a send up","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Director Genevieve Robert has attempted to make a comedy-drama that makes serious comment about modern day sexual relations, and with Casual Sex? she is well wide of the mark.The storyline is very weak (concerning two young girls' search for the perfect guy), while the serious and moral content makes very little impact. Don't be deceived by the title.Finally, the comedy only works very occasionally, but look out for Andrew Dice-Clay in a stand out performance as the 'Vinman'. Casual Sex? may have been much better made purely as a send-up of sex in the 80's.Thursday, July 2, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Andrew Dice Clay steals this movie","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Very light, very superficial comedy about Thompson and Jackson at a singles resort. After seeing Clay's stand-up act, I was really blown away by him in this. His Vin Man is the best thing in this movie, and one of the most memorable characters in any 80s-type movie. I still didn't like the movie, but he was fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Annoyingly predictable sex comedy","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Lea Thompson and Victoria Jackson portray two lonely ditzes who take a vacation to a resort that is almost completely inhabited by young sex addicted men. The women are desperate and find themselves willing to give in to the demands of sex addicts. Absolutely lame and the script offers no new surprises. "}{"Title":"Aged without beauty","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Some films are timeless classics.  Others can be fitted into the same category as Casual Sex.  I can't say how others liked it when it was first released but it definitely isn't worth the rental.  I realize that not many people are going go out of their way to rent it now but beware just in case it crosses your mind.  The attitudes, the story line are all quite goofy.  The acting, though I really like Lea Thompson, was sub-par.  Also the way it tries to act as a moral message for life is just embarrassing.  Stay away, this movie feels as tacky as bermuda shorts. "}]