[{"Title":"An Underrated Gem","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"78 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a faithful adaption of a brilliant novel.  I have seen this movie a dozen times and it gets better with each viewing.  It is subtle, yes, and that probably means it is not for everyone.  Subtle, however, is not synonymous with boring, as unfortunately many people accustomed to a non-stop barrage of sense-dulling special effects and violence have come to believe.  This film is as far from boring as it gets.What I walked away from this story with is a reaffirmation of a force bigger than ourselves that takes our lives in a new direction -- one that we often consciously choose to reject.  Macon Leary, as superbly played by William Hurt, has been sleepwalking through life for years.  His profession says it all he writes books for business travelers who have to visit exotic places but want to feel as if they never left home.  Thus, the title, The Accidental Tourist.He is separated from his beloved wife, Sarah, played very well by Kathleen Turner.  She could no longer live in with the waking death their life had become since the senseless murder of their young son years before.  But he still wants nothing more than for her to return and resume that life. Even after a quirky dog-trainer played by Geena Davis (in her well-deserved Oscar-winning performance) enters his life and his heart he believes his future can only be with Sarah.I don't want to give away the entire story, but I will say that the entire supporting cast, Macon's family (Ed Begley, Jr., Amy Wright, David Ogden Stiers) his editor (Bill Pullman), and a scene-stealing Welsh Corgi contribute richly and completely to the overall power of this story.Some of the best dialogue I've ever heard on relationships, why they work, and why what we want so dearly to work just doesn't work anymore, is in this film.  Don't be lulled by a false sense of security.  This powerful line, is what this film is all about, and it is placed perfectly, as all the memorable lines are.  Give it a chance and an open mind because this film is the real deal.  In my estimation, The Accidental Tourist is American cinema at it's best. "},{"Title":"Deeply Hurting","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"60 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" William Hurt gives one of the most intensely interior performances on record. He is indescribable moving. His emotional paralysis becomes the palpitating centre of this gorgeous Lawrence Kasdan film. I saw the film, when it first come out, on a big huge screen that allowed me the strangely unique privilege of entering a man's soul. In the surface, nothing. Less than nothing, William Hurt floats through his daily existence, surrounded by his quirky family, his wounded, distant ex wife but first and foremost, his impenetrable loneliness. The character never utters a word who could confirm that, and yet is there, ever present, if you look deep, deep into his eyes. The scene in which he almost lets himself go in Geena Davis's arms is as cathartic as anything I've ever seen in any modern American movie. A couple of days ago I saw it again on a normal TV screen and all of the above wasn't there. Still a gorgeous film, a funny, melancholic romantic comedy but what about the interior masterpiece of William Hurt's performance? Gone. Did I imagine the whole emotional ride? Possible but unlikely. I took my VHS copy to a friend's house with a phenomenal home entertainment centre and a massive screen. William Hurt's performance was back. His is a performance conceived and designed for the big screen. One hundred per cent cinematic. The TV screen is far too small to allow us into a man's soul. If you haven't seen it I urge you to see it but in a big screen, the biggest you can find. Now let me leave you with this little tip. Look into William Hurt's eyes when he is in the taxi in Paris and sees the boy, who reminds him of his own son, walking down the street. It is the best performances by an actor in one of my favourite film moments of all time. "},{"Title":"Superb Movie with lots of food for thought.","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"37 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a wonderful film by Lawrence Kasdan about a man who withdraws from his relationships with other people (and the world) after a terrible family tragedy. William Hurt plays the character of 'Macon', a man who writes books for people who don't want to travel and has become as grey and dull as his suit. His wife Sarah (the vibrant Kathleen Turner) separates from him and after an accident he goes to live with his family who live a life organised by his sister, Rose (Amy Wright) and settles into a dull routine. Even his dog seems to be turning against him, then he meets Muriel (Geena Davis) when boarding his dog and she not only teaches the dog new tricks but also shows Macon that his ways can be changed too. William Hurt gives a truly marvellous performance as a man who has given up on life and has become almost catatonic. This is a film that gets better with each subsequent viewing, containing much food for thought especially for anyone that wishes for a 'safe' and 'planned' life. The wonderful dreamlike score is by John Williams and it was nominated for an Oscar amongst many nominations for this film. Thankfully this outstanding movie is now available on DVD and in the correct viewing format. "},{"Title":"Quiet wonderful movie","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An underrated gem. I liked it mildly the first time, even more the second time, and loved it the third time. It is one of those rare movies that get better every time you see them.The basic story revolves around a couple losing their only son, and the man trying to cope with it. The couple separate, and the man gets involved in another affair, and has to decide between making the marriage work or pursue the affair.However, the movie is not very plot driven. It is very much a character based very slow movie. It has a very sad touching feel to it, and perfect for watching alone on a cold dreary grey evening. The funny moments are interspersed throughout, and are very fine.However, it is one of those movies that you either like very much, or find it exceedingly boring. However, if you liked movies such as The Big Chill or On Golden Pond, you will like it very much.   "},{"Title":"Stepping Outside Your Comfort Zone","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Accidental Tourist is a quiet and contemplative film that adults rarely have an opportunity to experience from an American perspective. Macon (William Hurt) is a Baltimore travel writer whose son was accidentally killed in a robbery. His wife Sarah (Kathleen Turner) leaves him when Macon withdraws to a somnambulist response, a favored routine to life that is Macon's family way. Macon's brothers (Ed Begley, Jr. and David Ogden-Stiers) are 40+ year old bachelors and living with their spinster sister, Rose in the family home. With the addition of the now separated Macon, the siblings are reduced to an eccentric routines of alphabetizing the pantry and discussions of who could be calling while the phone rings.Into Macon's sedentary and uneventful pattern comes Muriel Pritcherd (Geena Davis), a dog trainer who takes hold of Edward, Macon's misbehaving Corgi, and inserts herself into their lives. A latent Annie Hall dresser whose mismatched clothing and late 50s car screams woman of a certain age with free spirit tendencies, Muriel gives new options to Macon through her unpredictable character and a small son, who takes immediately to him. Edward the dog even manages to behave and the little family becomes a new and invigorating experience for Macon, whose own relatives have long ago lost any sense of independence or initiative. With the unheard of occasion of the spinster sister's wedding to Macon's publisher, (Bill Pullman), Macon and Sarah are reunited and Muriel is dropped for the familiar situation of a convenient reconciliation. When Macon's work takes him to Paris, Muriel accidentally finds they are on the same plane and hotel. Although he is reluctant to interact with her, Muriel is storming the walls of resistance as before. Macon's situation is made more complicated with the appearance of his ex-wife, whose presence is both familiar and upsetting to a Macon-Muriel-Sarah menage.How this trio resolves the situation is filled with wonderful and literate conversations between characters which ring true to the adult situation of marriage and changing lives, goals, and the unexpected. For an American film this kind of complex story telling is almost a lost art in today's car chase, adolescent fart humour, and situational absurdities. However, with long silences and occasional comic relief from the dog, the film is both contemplative and entertaining as it unfolds with bittersweet truisms. "},{"Title":"Cinematographic pearl.","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I agree to almost every word reviewer Takatomon wrote. One of this movie's greatest merits is that it deals with issues in life in a unpolished and natural way. It's easy to understand how this movie can be overlooked by the majority of viewers as this movie isn't for the majority of viewers. That is, the majority that's expecting to be entertained in the Hollywood style of film making. With that I mean those strong performances we all want to see from characters as Hoffman in Rain Man or Hanks in Forrest Gump. Or vast visuals, filmed in the broadest scope, or action packed sequences. Not in The Accidental Tourist. What you do get is William Hurt in what I think is one of his best roles as Macon Leary, writer of travel guides and Geena Davis in an exquisite role as the pet store owner. I've admired actors for the way they can portray mentally or socially challenged people (Rainman, Forrest Gump, Of mice and men, etc.). These parts tend to win the Oscars. But I'd rather give one to Hurt for his portrayal of Macon Leary because this character doesn't show obvious signs of any handicap. Actually Macon is very plain. What can be more difficult than acting out a role of a person who's personal qualities don't jump at you right away? The Accidental Tourist is a movie of high quality and should be given a fair chance. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A fairly well done human drama about relationships, which manages to tackle the subject matter without becoming a romance, this is a superb film of its sort. The screenplay is excellently written, full of witty humour and biting satire, the film editing is admirable and the performances are excellent. Geena Davis won an Oscar for her role, but it is in fact William Hurt who stands out the most in the cast, in an unflinching but somehow amazingly poignant role. On the down side, the film is slow, a bit too meandering, and the final quarter is not really all that interesting, but overall it is an involving, very worthwhile watch. "},{"Title":"Hurt's performance a minimalist masterpiece","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hurt expresses more with the slightest movement on his face than most actors do with pages of dialogue. An achingly beautiful portrait of a man trapped within himself, struggling at once to stay in and get out "},{"Title":"Pleasing concoction of light drama and lively romance with terrific leading performances.","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Usually films about recovery after tragedy are very heavy-handed and sometimes slightly manipulative (Ordinary People etc.). But `The Accidental Tourist' manages to simultaneously be humane to this subject manner and take a more entertaining light approach to it. The script moves along at a slow pace, but it is consistent in its timing. A drama without good acting is nothing, and that'' where `The Accidental Tourist' really capitalises. William Hurt was a great choice as the depressed downbeat man, recently divorced and still feeling the repercussions of his son's death. Kathleen Turner appears at the start of the movie only to hastily disappear and then make a mark halfway through. Even though she could have done with bit more screen-time, she is also brilliant as the equally depressed ex-wife. But Geena Davis really takes advantage of each moment and lights up every scene she's in. She's perfectly cast as the kitschy, free-spirited dog trainer and was well deserving of her `Best Supporting Actress' Oscar win. There's some genuine support from the supporting players including Bill Pullman, Amy Wright and David Ogden Stiers. But they don't receive much limelight, nor do they demand it. At the halfway mark the movie turns into more of a muchly familiar dilemma, of choosing between two women. Either moving on with your life or hanging onto memories while you still can. This has been used many times before but it is handled very well here. With terrific performances, a compelling script and a good narrative, `The Accidental Tourist' hits a bullseye in all categories. It engages the audience in it gentle yet charming manner. 7.5/10.  "},{"Title":"Never let yourself be lulled into a false sense of security, says Hurt","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" as he writes his travel column. His column is a metaphor for being the passive observer who travels and critiques places, but never truly appreciates them...not until Geena Davis comes along, at any rate.Hurt plays Macon Leary, a man who has existed, but not truly experienced life. Kathleen Turner is the estranged wife, due to the accidental death of their young son, a tragedy which causes Hurt to withdraw. As another reviewer mentioned, one should watch this excellent film several times, as there is much innuendo and insight into human behavior. Bill Pullman portrays Hurt's publisher, who is amused and intrigued by his eccentric family.What a cast! Ed Begley Jr., Amy Wright, Hurt and David Ogden Stiers are all siblings (over age 40), who still live in their grandmother's house, complete with 1930's wallpaper, a pantry that is alphabetically organized by the sister, and a phone that is never answered because they don't need it. Pullman is priceless as he visits Hurt for dinner, and falls in love with Rose (Amy Wright) for her old-fashioned persona.Macon's dog is comic relief, but also the liaison with Geena Davis, an offbeat dog-trainer. She is quite good, and insinuates her way into Macon's ordered world. She is a single mother struggling, and Robert Hy Gorman is excellent as her young son, Alexander. Macon finds himself growing attached to Davis, her son, and her wayward life. He helps the son with schoolwork, and realizes he can still be open to new relationships. Even after all the tragedy.Kathleen Turner attempts reconciliation,and offers Macon a stable ordered life of commonality. Davis offers instability, excitement and unpredictability. Which will he choose? This is not just a romantic drama, it is a serious character study about control, relationships, and difficult choices. It is one of the few films in which the difficulties of marriage are sensitively addressed, and the acting is superb. "}{"Title":"glacial pace","Date":"26 August 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The DVD cover bills this as astonishingly, irresistibly funny. Edward the dog is funny, but the people are not.From the title, you would think the movie revolved around travel, but the only travel is a visit to a mundane hotel room in France you don't get to leave.The big problem with this movie is the central character Macon is unsympathetic. He is boring, rude, insensitive, self-centred. He is pathologically passive. He speaks in a taciturn monotone. His job it taking the adventure of of travel, writing guides on where to find Burger King and MacDonalds outlets in Europe.There are three romantic relationships in the movie. I could not not for the life of me see what any of the parties saw in any of the others.That created some humour, Geena Davis's dogged pursuit of William Hurt who always responded like a limp dishrag.It was a very frustrating movie. I wanted ANYTHING to happen to break the tedium of watching people going about their very boring lives.There is only one scene in the movie that really touches the heart, when Macon sees a French boy who resembles his murdered son, but you have to wait to almost the end for it. "},{"Title":"Too subtle for the average viewer...","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  But if you're smart and sensitive like I am you will love this film.  Might be William Hurt's most simple, but complete acting job ever. Geena Davis (and maybe Hurt also,) are just a tiny bit too attractive in this film, but they are both such good actors that they pull you into their pain, hope and need for human contact and win in the end. Bill Pullman plays a deeper and richer character than any I've personally ever seen him play since. Macon's family is real (I don't care what Joe Average Typical American Family says,) and endearing. Edward is the best movie dog ever. "},{"Title":"one of the best movies i have ever seen","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" the Accidental Tourist is among the best movies ever made in the world.Maybe it is not absolutely the best, but as to me it is the most well understood one. that probably is the reason why i love it so much. When i watched it, i can even felt what Macon Leary was feeling inside---i could feel the complicated mood when he called Sarah in his hotel in Paris, i can understand that his heart has already belonged to Muriel when he said it's OK to Sarah, who asked for his opinion on the newly bought sofa. he was a captious guy!and i can also read his heart when he close the door to Muriel, not willing to take her on his trip the next morning. Also i can read the deep love for Muriel on his smiling face when he met Muriel at the gate of the hotel at the end of the movie. I can't agree with some people who think this movie lacks energy. it might appear to lack, but u could have felt the passion in their hearts if u can understand them. this remind me of another movie--Once Upon A Time In America, which is also said to lack energy, but i can feel the great passion in Noodles and Deborah's heart when they quietly meet in the bar after Noodle was released from the jail. only a few words from Deborah can make me feel that! Just as sometimes the clothes do not make the man, sometimes the movie is not what it appears! there is seldom any good movies from which we can not feel the passion! "},{"Title":"The pain underneath the comedy.","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Macon has a profession that more or less mirrors his own personality. He writes travel books for people who hate to travel. Macon lives in a shell of emotional sterility following the death of his son and soon after, his marriage.One of his travel guide trips turns up Muriel Prichett (Geena Davis), an oddball, petshop owner who can see right through Macon's hard shell. But Muriel has complications too especially with the idea that her son needs a father. This movie will be a hard-fought journey.Macon breaks his leg and moves in with his brothers and sister. We can see right away where Macon developed some of his dullness. Porter and Rose are obsessive-compulsives who never leave the house, don't answer the phone and alphabetize the groceries on the shelf.A problem arises when Macon's wife asks him to give it another go. So he must make a choice, a free and happy life with Muriel or the comfortable armchair he once had in his marriage.'The Accidental Tourist' is first a movie about characters. Everyone here is drawn with loving care even if they tend to be frustrating (as are people in real life). Even as emotionally distant as Macon is, we know that there is a person in there, he just needs a way to pull it out. This is also a movie for grown-ups that may seem too leisurely paced for thrill seekers. You know who you are. "},{"Title":"It slips through such serious emotional turf so quietly...","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Accidental Tourist (1988)So, for starters, Geena Davis won a best supporting actress for this role. She is a surprising presence, but she is only a shadow, to me, of William Hurt's deceptively taut and perceptive role. Weakest of the three main actors is Kathleen Turner, who is brought far down from the energy she had, say, in Peggy Sue Got Married just two years earlier. This might be because Davis is lifted so high.The story is by Anne Tyler, who won awards and praise for her novel, as literature, before the movie. The hook implied by the title is just the starting point. Even though Accidental Tourist deals with totally, very, beautifully serious things, there is a kind of gleam to it all, a knowing despondency, as if the writer knew what tricks to use to make us feel deep things. And it's sort of okay, even at the end, which is improbable the way it is played out, but is emotionally really satisfying.I liked the movie a lot, for sure. It's about feelings and real people, without crime and violence, and I like all that. But maybe the Oscar might have gone to William Hurt, who pulls off a subtle role with absolutism. He nails the detached, patient, observant, fearful person that his character is. Geena Davis with all her idiosyncratic energy, and later with her more mainstream domesticity (the two are never resolved), is a perfect spark for his smolder. And it pulls together, most of the time, but there are oddities that are meant to be quaint and fun that throw it off course. The agent is awkward, the Leary family is like a comic idea that just makes the depth of the principles odd for their seriousness. And the sudden attempt at reconciliation seems improbable, at least with the knee-jerk way it comes off. The music is oddly repetitive and annoying if you notice it, too.One element, of course, that infects how you look at all this, is the role of the two children, the two sons. They make everything the adults do significant, even if still sometimes questionable. But hey, it's actually a soap opera, which I love, with emotions flying this way and that, and echoes of our own lives everywhere. So dive in and give it all a go. Even it feels slow at times, give it a moment. Hurt, who isn't always on target in other films, is really perfectly cast here, and he makes it work. "},{"Title":"YouMustSee","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Truly majestic! William Hurt is simple, clean and emotionally straight! True smiles; true looks; true feelings.Great acting, great story! 10 for everyone in this masterpiece.The dog is well fit, the emotions are synchronized during the whole movie. Also a surprising end. All actors received lines from the sky.The director is very competent and clever. He was able to put all the pieces together and each one in the right place. This movie is indicated for all those whom have a refined taste for good acting and beautiful storyboard.Its a pity but movies like this one are not made anymore. Unfortunately. I hope in a close future we receive more gifts alike this one. I just downloaded and went through it all, even after a full and tiring day of work and almost falling asleep; when i pressed Play i couldn't stop going through it all!YouMustSee. "},{"Title":"The Accidental Tourist","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Upon seeing this movie again, 20 years later, I find the same feelings I have now as I did then. This movie was quirky in 1988, just as it is in 2008, but the crux of the film remains solid 20 years later. Just as a segment in the Special Features section of the DVD is entitled Just Like Life, so is this movie. Anyone who has ever experienced any significant loss of someone dear to them can relate how it completely changes your life and who you are. The Accidental Tourist reaches into the core of grief, and the need for a second-chance at life, and how someone very special can help one get there.Obviously, Geena Davis's performance is completely note-worthy and her performance also works well with the other characters, like the Leary family. She is a survivor and is a flip-side of the Learys, showing us how important change is in life and the spark one can provide someone like Macon, to not remain stagnant in life, but to move on and progress.At 18 years old, I saw The Accidental Tourist in a movie theater and not knowing much about relationships, something about this movie touched me. I believe that it was, and still is, the power of change and the bright future we all can achieve, even in the hardest of times. "},{"Title":"A Quiet but Wonderful Film","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Macon Leary (William Hurt) is a withdrawn, careful man who is a travel writer, thus, the title of the film, The Accidental Tourist.  As the film opens, Macon and his wife Sarah (Kathleen Turner) are trying to come to grips with the bizarre, violent death of their twelve year-old son.  Sarah leaves Macon and Macon meets the charmingly odd Murial Pritchett (Gena Davis) who trains Macon's dog, Edward, who is at least as traumatized by the son's death as are Macon and Sarah.  Macon's zany sister (Amy Wright), two brothers (David Ogden Stears and Ed Begley, Jr.) and publisher and later brother-in law (Bill Pullman) are also heavily involved.  The story involves Macon's gradual healing, which is largely the result of his relationship with the delightfully weird Murial.  The complexity and towering excentricity of these characters is both funny and heart warming.  This movie does a wonderful job of portraying life's vicissitudes in a humane and humorous ways.  It takes its time but giving it that time is rewarding.  8 out of 10.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A moving and entertaining film.","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An enjoyable and entertaining film. Too often film viewers try to analyse films as though they were produced to portray exact clinical situations, or as training films for amateur psychologists, forget all that baggage, a good film is judged primarily as entertainment. This film shows how lives can interact and act upon others, grief like romance is not the same for everyone and does not follow strict guidelines (whatever the pseudo-psycho-analysts would like us to believe) A heartbroken man has lost his young son. He is slowly distancing himself from real life till he finds someone to love who needs someone to love. His wife played very well by Kathleen Turner is also heartbroken but like so often happens in these circumstances their loss comes between them and although together, they are drifting apart. Divorce is best and kindest for both of them before they spend their life ripping each other apart. In a way it is a re-awakening for both of them from the dark shadows of grief.  "},{"Title":"The movie discusses many issues such as dealing with life after a great loss, how to start over, finding happiness and the troubled road to that wonderful place.","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Accidental touristWhen I voted for this movie and clicked on the drop-down-menu and scrolled down I got to the number eight. When I had registered my vote I felt that it was a just grade for the movie.The movie is about a couple, Macon and Sarah, who are struggling with their normal everyday-life after the loss of a eleven-year-old son. Almost in the beginning of the movie they decide to get a divorce because Sarah can not live together with Macon any longer. She thinks she is starting to develop a way of life which is very similar to the rest of Macon´s family and that is one thing she will not accept. That is her worst nightmare, according to herself. They separate and the movie starts.The movie discusses many issues such as dealing with life after a great loss, how to start over, finding happiness and the troubled road to that wonderful place.What is really good about this picture is the actors Bill Pullman plays a dull person with a social life of a single man, Kathleen Turner is a broken-hearted housewife, Geena Davis plays a dogtrainer who is after a man preferably Macon and William Hurt is the travelguidebookwriter who plays the main character brilliant.There is no motion, there is no action. Instead of having music in the background all the time as in most films, Lawrence Kasdan has let the silence speak and describe the life of the characters. You will be amazed what silence can provide to the narration in movies. This movie turns out to be a regular movie but if you watch this nearly brilliant movie a few times and analyse it then you can see what lies behind the secure walls of most families and the problems they have encountered.  "}{"Title":"I love this movie. I am giving it a ten!","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a fantastic movie that looks inside relationships. It takes a very realistic view of marriage after the lost of a child. I will never understand why the average vote is only 6.7 for a movie such as this, one that is so true to reality, so well done. I love this movie. I am giving it a ten.   I have always liked William Hurt's  (Children of a Lesser God, The Kiss of a Spider Woman, Smoke) performances. He is an absolute genius!  I like the title of  this movie  Accidental Tourist, because the title is intriguing.  How can a tour be accidental when most tours are planned?  That made me curious. I really like Lawrence Kasdan's (Continental Divide, The Big Chill, Mumford ) work, and  now I like his son's work as well.I like the entire cast especially Kathleen Turner (Undercover Blues) and Geena Davis (The Geena Davis Show).  Muriel is a weird character wearing those weird outfit, but sometimes even she can be very adorable. Bill Pullman Julian  (Sleepless in Seattle, Sibling Rivalry, Zero Effect which was written as well as directed by Jake Kasdan, who is the son of Lawrence Kasdan) plays those types of personalities that border on weird really well. Interestingly, I did not notice that it was Bill Pullman until I bought the movie and watched it for the second time. Bill sometimes goes invisible in a movie, but he is not getting overexposed.My favorite quotes Macon Leary  The suit should be medium grey, it not only hides the dirt but it comes handy for sudden funerals.  Macon Leary Always bring a book as protection against  strangers, magazines don't last, newspapers from elsewhere always remind you that you don't belong. Favorite Scenes Macon is leaving Paris and gets a cab, this lovely young adult wishes him a good trip (the kid looks like his son would look like) and then he stops to pick up Muriel. This is an excellent movie! "},{"Title":"The Power of Tranquility","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  To some viewers, this movie may seem lethargic due to the fact that the director made the tone of it low-key and calm. But this is the very power of this movie. William Hurt, the oscar-winning actor, once again shows the world that he is indeed a solid actor with great charisma of catching the viewer's eyes. The role's agony of losing his only son is fully expressed through his great acting. That kind of inner pain which can not be said through obvious emotion is the biggest challenge of all for actors.And Geena Davis Certainly outshined Turner in this film. Her charm as an actress certainly moved me. Highly recommend this movie. It will move you to tears in a tacid and tranquilized way. "},{"Title":"Wonderful character study","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful character study of a man (Hurt) who writes travel books for the accidental tourist, which becomes a metaphor for his approach to life. Slowly paced, both moving and funny, with a great performance by Geena Davis as the eccentric woman who helps him cope with the death of his son.  A nice touch was making the wife (Turner) a sympathetic figure. "},{"Title":"A touching, moving film worthy of repeated viewing...","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw this film shortly after its initial release, I enjoyed it, but wasn't crazy about it.  Then I saw it again.  Then I saw it again...and again.  The more I saw it, the more I really got into who these people were.  I now consider it one of my favorite films.  It's touched me in a way that few films have.  William Hurt is wonderful, although not all that likable at times.  But he's true-to-life and very human in this story and that makes his performance quite riveting. Geena Davis is wonderful, as is Kathleen Turner.  (The rest of the cast is quite good, too.) And I love John Williams' beautiful musical score.  I also have a great fondness for the locations used in the movie.  That particular part of the country (Maryland) during the fall months, which is when the bulk of the film takes place, is truly stunning and so very cozy.  Every year (always in November or December) I sit down with a cup of hot chocolate and watch this quirky, wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Worth watching, but somewhat uneven","Date":"17 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has a lot going for it. The acting is the best part the three main characters - perhaps I should say the two main characters, the roles played by William Hurt and Kathleen Turner - are very three-dimensional. Those actors given their characters many dimensions, and it makes them interesting and sometimes surprising. Gena Davis also does a fine job with her role, but her character does tend to be a caricature at times.That is the problems with most of the rest of the characters they are written as two-dimensional, and they too often come off as oddball caricatures. I'm sure those actors could have done better with a better script concerning them, but they didn't have the chance.Some of the moments are really remarkable, especially the scenes between Turner and Hurt. And then, some of the scenes are just wrong. The worst, for me, was the last 60 seconds of the movie, where Hurt's character meets Davis' character and the music swells it screams make the women in the audience happy and seems like it was pasted on.Equally problematic is what leads to that the second-last scene, between Turner and Hurt, where Hurt finally explains what he sees in Davis' character. It's very interesting and intelligent dialogue - her quirky character has allowed him to try to be someone different, to get out of his old, boring rut - but the movie never really showed us that. That, for me, was a real problem.A lot of this movie is very well done, and I recommend it. But a fair amount of it is facile caricature, and that may boor some viewers. "},{"Title":"This movie meant a lot to me.","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this movie (original theatrical release), I had just come out of a bad marriage.   I don't know what it was about it, but this movie gave me hope. This is a wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"Essential viewing","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This one of those movies I watch at least once a year. This moving story about a broken man trying to start his life up again has so much to offer. It has a beautiful performance from Geena Davis and the boy that plays her son. You just keep on rooting for her and William Hurt to come together, though the right for his character would probably be to stay with his wife. It has some great music by John Williams, it has this beautiful autumn feeling about it, and at times it can also be hilariously funny (the antics of the crazy family of William Hurt are priceless)A rare movie that actually makes you care about the people you're watching. It can be slow at times, but be sure to watch it until the end. It may very well be one of the best viewings you'll ever have.Rating 9/10Most memorable Movie Moment The Leary family debating whether or not they should pick up the phone. "},{"Title":"One of the best adaptations from a novel.","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie when I was 18 years old.  I am 30 now and it still moved me deeply.  Having read the excellent novel, I do acknowledge that some of the finer psychological development of the characters were not covered fully.  Otherwise, the movie is perfect in its place.As an adult who was grieving for the departure of the loved one for the last whole year, I thought the movie captured the feelings of someone dwelling in the grief and seemed impossible for escaping.Both the beginning and the ending of the film are perfect.  Those who did not read the novel may be interested to know that the ending of the movie was an excellent replica of the last paragraph of the novel.The acting--how should I describe it?  Everyone did an excellent job (kudos to the casting choices).  William Hurt, Geena Davis, Kathleen Turner, Bill Pullman, Amy Wright, Ed Begley Jr., David Ogden Stiers.  The only mild weakness was Kathleen Turner--her husky voice somehow didn't fit Sara.There are many attempts in movies to portray grieved souls.  Some were syrupy whereas some others portray the same sentiments through overt drama. The excellent all-round acting made this movie perfect and believable in achieving so. "},{"Title":"Bitter sweet symphony","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Accidental Tourist ranks in my top 20 films. I loved it so much that I saw it about eight times in three months at its french release in Paris in 1987. I was first very moved with the story, then amazed by the performance of the actors and I loved the musical score from John Williams. What I love in this film is the mix between melancholy and humor, together with the very smart analysis of human relations. Geena Davis offers such a strong contrast with the personality of the Leary family's members ! The scene where I laughed most is the moment when Macon Leary's sister and brother are unpacking the shopping in the kitchen. The brother hands the goods to his sister by... alphabetical order ! So, I wanted to know more and I bought the Anne Tyler novel. That was the second very good surprise  the film is so faithful to the book, in its words and in its spirit. I recommend the book very warmly as a prolongation of the vision of the film. A bit like two other favorite films  The World according to Garp and the Empire of the Sun. Accidental Tourist is very much in the same mood as The big Chill and Grand Canyon, that I really love. But I was disappointed by the following films of Lawrance Kasdan. But Accidental Tourist is a must. Unfortunately, it is not released in France, the DVD is available only for the zone 1. Let's hope it will be available soon ! "},{"Title":"A subtle and lovely film","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a film that engages you. It's an old plot but it is beautifully done, (even the child is not unnecessarily intrusive). There are also great cameos and an intriguing sub plot - it is not to be missed.The direction is subtle and well judged and the use of scene is very sophisticated in places. The director handles the three stars very well and they respond, as you would expect, in consistent and persuasive performances. Hurt is so achingly lost that you want to scream at him. Davis is wonderful as the saviour and her sensitivity is there for all to see. Turner plays her role in a way that allows for the unexpected revelation of her humanity.This is a film that could have degenerated into utter tripe in the wrong hands but it doesn't and it is a triumph - it is difficult to understand why it is something of a lost gem. "}{"Title":"Touring the Human Soul.","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Travel-guide writer William Hurt is hurting emotionally after his young son was killed in a robbery. Time is not healing the wounds and wife Kathleen Turner just cannot seem to cope and decides to leave to start a new life on her own. Hurt then finds love in pet-keeper Oscar-winner Geena Davis (who has a young son of her own) and it appears that the hurt will finally go away. But what happens when Turner comes back and wants to work the marriage out? The Accidental Tourist is one of those frustrating productions that always seems to be nearly truly special, but never quite reaches its mark. Co-writer/director Lawrence Kasdan (Oscar-nominated for his screenplay) toes the line on deep human wants, needs and emotions, but never hits the mark. Like the equally under-achieving The Big Chill, The Accidental Tourist is more about missed opportunities than accurate executions. 4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"most underated drama ever","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is a shame that most people aren't even aware of this film. It isn't a major blockbuster, but it is a thoroughly enjoyable low key drama. Before the story begins, the son of a married couple is killed in a robbery in a fast food restaurant. His father Macon Leary becomes reclusive and his wife Margaret leaves him. From there the story explores his issues with the loss and moving on with his life. (his job is writing accidental tourist guides for travelling salsemen so that wherever they go they can feel like they never left home) He finds that life's unexpected twists take him on a journey of self discovery and re-evaluation. We meet his eccentric family and other characters that impact his future along the way. It is an ocassionally subtly funny movie and has some nice dramatic twists, but like Macon Leary, the movie is probably a little too detached for the average viewer. I feel that that's precisely the movies charm. If you want to be wowed out of your seat... this isn't your movie. It's a nice quiet movie that one might think of as steel magnolias for men. "},{"Title":"A must see.","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I cried buckets of tears. It is very emotional and heartfelt. It is a great Sunday night movie, just to watch to relax to and cry. Every adult needs to see this movie. The acting is wonderful, especially Davis. "},{"Title":"Davis' AND Hurt's Best Film","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Probably the best performances I have ever seen out of Geena Davis AND William Hurt.  AND !BIG SURPRISE! Kathleen Turner does not overact in this one--I think it was not long after this film that Turner started going over the top.This is a sad, introspective film so if you don't like to watch movies which portray life's real problems, skip this one.  And, yes, even though Geena Davis is supposed to be a Baltimore city woman and does not have one HINT of our beloved accent, I let it go.  I cared so much about her and her son in this film and wanted so much for Macon and his family to love them as I did.In this film, Muriel (Geena) meets Macon (Hurt), who is deeply mourning the accidental death of his young son which has apparently caused Macon and his wife Sarah (Turner) to separate.  Geena's smile can light up a room.  In some scenes, you just want to hug her!  Her films today have been few and far between.  She needs to rehire the agent who put her in this film, The Fly and Thelma & Louise because they are, by far, her best.For those of you who have never experienced agonizing grief in your own lives, you may not understand Hurt's feelings.  For me, I cried deeply watching him battle his pain and internal chaos--should he stay with Turner, should he start a new life with Davis?  His choices may seem simple to you, but believe me, having been in his shoes, I know that something simple like picking out what clothes to wear to work each day is a monumental task.  I can't remember ever liking Hurt in anything he has done, but he nailed this part.  I am sure he dug up this pain from some godforsaken part of his life, and he surely deserved an award for this role.  I was rooting for him to let go of the past the entire film--it took me a whole year to do so in my own life.Ladies, this is definitely a whole box of tissue movie. "},{"Title":"One of the great American films of the last 20 years","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At last,the dvd has arrived and it is a pure joy from start to finish.I was 21 when I first saw this film at the theatre and I knew it was good then,but now,a little older and wiser,I consider it a masterpiece.William Hurt's performance is mesmerising and Geena Davis is at her best.The dvd has 14 deleted scenes and I do feel sorry for Kathleen Turner,as some of her best work is on the cutting room floor.If you enjoy a  real actor's movie,then this will not disappoint.The last 5 minutes,with marvellous John Williams underscoring,is sheer perfection.How this did not win best picture I shall never know. "},{"Title":"Hurt / Turner together again","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You can't help but think back to Body Heat when you watch Hurt & Turner in the Accidental Tourist. Unlike Body Heat, we see the two as a struggling married couple. The exact opposite from their roles in the passion play movie of the early 1980's. Two amazing actors, the film gets more character drivin as Turner's character brings more and more to her role as the story unfolds. All in all, it is a wonderful look into the lives of 3 people who are living their lives in the past, hoping for a better future. Believe it or not, I recommend this movie for a good date picture for boy friend and girl friend. Give it a look to see how your partner reads the film. "},{"Title":"Bravo!","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An beautifully crafted screenplay for a sharp, moving, gentle film. Great performances by all. Scenes that stand out especially the turkey dinner; the close-up Davis and Hurt embracing as he opens his grieving heart to her.What a cute, well-trained dog!I'll be watching this film again. "},{"Title":"the perfect drama","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nowadays, relationship movies are simple. The characters are underdeveloped. The plots are either unrealistic or extreme. The actors and actresses too over the top. Fortunately this movies does not follow that pattern. From the beginning, William Hurt is a predictable cynic who plans everything. Towards the end there is a gradual change in him. Courtesy of Geena Davis through her aggressive yet subtle pursuit of him. Yet he can't help but slip right back into the old groove. The movie like Hurt himself is a bit distant but it works extremely well here. There is also a classical ending and great final score. Possibly the best serious relationship movie ever. Watch it and enjoy!  "},{"Title":"An excellent film that may be fading from memory","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Quick what movie am I describing?An eccentric writer is rescued from emotional isolation by a working class woman with a chronically sick son. A small dog plays a key role in the story.Chances are you thought of As Good As It Gets, with Jack Nicholson and Helen Hunt. The comparison is interesting for a number of reasons. FOr one, it shows how essentially the same logline or story concept can be treated very differently. But more interesting is that the comparison shows the lack of depth in the admittedly enjoyable As Good As It Gets. Take for example, the children. Hunt's son suffers from chronic allergies and she is constantly frazzled with worry about him. Having introduced this heavy theme, you might expect the story to revolve around this emotional issue. Instead, Dr. Harold Ramis shows up unexpectedly (summoned by Nicholson) and--a bad joke about HMO's later--the boy is cured.In Accidental Tourist, William Hurt plays the writer of travel books for people who hate to travel. He gives them tips on how to travel in their own portable cocoon. Yet his life is shattered (before the film begins) when his son is gunned down at a McDonalds in a random shooting. This withdrawn man withdraws even more, finishing off his marriage. Yet when Geena Davis forces her way into his life he begins to connect again. But she has a chronically sick boy. (She explains, almost blithely, at one point the number of things that could kill him or put him in the hospital.) There is a wonderful moment when Hurt finds the lonely boy walking home from school (being ignored by his friends). They chat a moment, then Hurt's voice over (which frequently quotes from his travel books in ironic contrast to the story) says, Business travelers should never take along something they couldn't bear to lose. As the voice over says that, the little boy's hand slips into Hurts and they walk home together.It's a small, wonderful moment. There are no miracle cures from super doctors. Instead there is the acceptance that love requires risk, that you have to accept the possibility of loss. It's a deep, mature, moving film, wonderfully acted, that also manages to be funny without sacrificing any of its depth. It is Lawrence Kasdan's best film and deserves renewed interest.PS The similarities between As Good As It Gets and The Accidental Tourist cannot have escaped James L Brooks attention. After all, he cast Kasdan in a cameo as Nicholson's shrink. Yet as far as I know, I have never seen a critic comment on the similarities.  "},{"Title":"Its no accident that many folks, including me, adore this great gem of a movie!","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In Baltimore, Macon (William Hurt) is a writer of travel books called, what else, The Accidental Tourist. His premise is that his advice will help people travel without being extremely homesick. Alas, Macon is hurting at this time, due to the untimely death of his only son. As his wife, Sarah (Kathleen Turner) has moved out, also, too grief stricken to continue their marriage, Macon is left with his son's upset dog as a companion. He occasionally visits the family home nearby, where his single sister, Rose, takes care of her two bachelor brothers. One morning, panic ensues. Macon is starting a journey to Europe and he is refused dog boarding at his usual place, as the canine bit someone last time. In a quandary, the writer spies a vet's office which also boards. Although he has no appointment, the unusual clerk, Muriel (Geena Davis) takes the dog. But, oh, when Macon returns, he finds that Muriel wants to train his dog and has set her sights on going out with Macon, too! The writer tries to discourage her in every way, but the lady prevails. Soon, Macon is constantly at her urban apartment, where she barely makes ends meet, as she is also a single mother to a son, Alexander. Muriel, however, is an eccentric woman, who makes Macon smile but who is the subject of ridicule to his brothers and ex-wife. In fact, Sarah makes another play for her former hubby. Meanwhile, Macon's editor, Julian (Bill Pullman) has been courting sister Rose. Will Macon abandon Muriel, who dearly loves him, for a return to his former wife? This lovely film is a life-affirming masterpiece. We love, we lose, we grieve, and we reconnect. Love also comes when we least expect it, at times. As the writer, Hurt is excellent, with a carefully nuanced performance. Turner, Pullman, and the others do great work, too. In her Oscar winning role, Davis gives the performance of a lifetime as the funny, offbeat Muriel. Then, too, the setting in Baltimore is most interesting, as well as a spell in beautiful Paris. Costuming is most noteworthy here as Muriel's outfits are sublimely ridiculous while everyone else is sedately, classically clad. Finally, the dazzling story, based on a book by Anne Tyler, and the wonderful direction by Kazdan combine for a unique film experience. Do NOT leave it to accident to view this great one. Make plans and soon. "}{"Title":"love the undercooked turkey","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Macon Leary (William Hurt) is a travel writer with a book called Accidental Tourist. It teaches businessmen to travel with the least inconvenience and not connecting. It's the same as his life especially after the death of his son. His wife Sarah (Kathleen Turner) can't take it and leaves him. He is pursued by Muriel Pritchett (Geena Davis) from the animal hospital. After injuring himself, he moves back in with his siblings Rose Leary (Amy Wright), Porter Leary (David Ogden Stiers) and Charles Leary (Ed Begley Jr).It's quirky without big laughs. Geena Davis is absolutely winning which actually causes a problem for me. I can't imagine any red-blooded guy would resist her. There should be a line forming around the block of men throwing themselves at her. For some reason, I love the undercooked turkey scene. I find it funny and poignant that Julian insists on eating the turkey. "},{"Title":"A 'Lawrence Kasdan' film about people who find love after experiencing terrible losses in their lives.","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The death in a family is viewed as an irreparable loss which affects everybody.In such a case,it is a wrong decision for a couple to fight with each other and separate.It would be better if the couple stays together to support each other in times of crisis.It is on these lines that American director Lawrence Kasdan's film The Accidental Tourist informs viewers about how wrong choices are corrected by a solitary man when he meets a talkative woman who would like to move ahead in life with him and her son.Although the film is not based on an original screenplay nevertheless it is able to interest viewers as its tone is light.There are various little episodes in these two people's lives which make for an interesting viewing experience.Apart from the leading man who writes travel guides,there are also other people seeking love.It is this story development which gives The Accidental Tourist a different edge as it has been promoted as a sad film. "},{"Title":"Life's changes and the paths we travel with such changes. We are the accidental tourists.","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The main character introduces to us very much like this about what to take and what's not while going on a travel Take one book to avoid people who will want to talk to you. But don't take more than one book because you might not have space to fill your suitcase with other things. Take detergent. Take a gray suit. Travel guide's writer Macon Leary (William Hurt) is someone in control of everything around him and such rules usually work (except if he's traveling along with someone who has his famous guide named The Accidental Tourist). But control doesn't apply when it comes to dealing with emotions, the loss of a family member or a marriage. His guide is useless to help him to cope with things after his wife Sara (Kathleen Turner) decides to left him, no longer bearing to stay with him after their son's tragic death. That was one step, one big change. Life's surprises and life's accidents will lead them to bigger but positive changes that will lead him to rediscover himself as a man, as a better person and as someone who cares about other people's feelings, something he wasn't so used to except for his family. The dog trainer Muriel (Geena Davis on her Oscar winning performance) will be that fundamental change in Macon's life, after an accident (again!) involving his dog Edward and she offers to train the animal who, like Macon, seemed to be deeply affected by the changes around him, biting his owner among other happenings. Muriel's not only interested in the job but also in the man, she wants to know him even though he keeps pushing her away, trying to be distant from her. Of course, they've got nothing in common he is very quiet, moderate, a little bit cold and distant; she's completely extroverted, smiley, cheerful, someone people can easily relate with. Surprise again!We're all accidental tourists in this life, we didn't consciously chose to be on Earth and we don't get an traveling guide on how to live. There's situations we can control and others we cannot, and for the most part we're here to try and try again. We're here just for the ride. That's what The Accidental Tourist is about. A movie about the life's surprises, the unfortunate accidents, the happy accidents and the way people react to them, accepting them or not, but always remembering that these are things no one can manipulate, there's no form of control over them. Muriel deals with her problems with a smile on her face while Macon stays absent from whatever social situations may come on his way (quite comprehensible once you get the chance to know his brothers and sister, who don't even answer the phone when it rings in their house).Romantic, funny, delicate and enjoyable like a warm and sunny afternoon, The Accidental Tourist evokes life with a careful realism blended with what fiction brings best, a tiny bit of illusion perfectly made for any kind of audiences. Lawrence Kasdan's adaptation of Anne Tyler's novel is an inspiring story, an movie to be appreciated and it has all the fundamental elements that makes a great film being great . Perfect performances from the ensemble casting, Hurt enjoying his greatest moment after one Oscar and two consecutive nominations (surprises me that he wasn't nominated for this); Davis bringing grace and excellence as the charming Muriel; Turner has few moments but she shines in most of them; and good performances from Amy Wright (Macon's sister), Bill Pullman, David Ogden Stiers and Ed Begley, Jr.I strongly advise you to watch it more than once, if possible, since it isn't so simple to get the movie's idea right away. Sure, the majority will look at only to the romance that comes to surface but the movie is much more than this, it is also about people helping people, deconstructing ideals and mannerisms, trying new things in order to improve their lives for the best. You can't go wrong with those themes specially if they're being well handled. The Accidental Tourist certainly got that. 10/10 "},{"Title":"I wish they made more movies like this","Date":"8 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The accidental tourist is, for me, the perfect compendium of a heartfelt drama -though never melodramatic- a bigger-than-life story, a romance, and a comedy, never quite being any of them, but borrowing bits and pieces of each of those styles and genres. It is a film of rare elegance and subtlety, and one of its best qualities is, in my opinion, the fact that it feels extremely real all the drama, emotion, humor, love, relationship story is something taken out of real people's lives. This film could have been the portrait of any person out of the street, on any given day.Each and every one of the actors is just perfect in his/her role, from the main roles to the supporting ones. William Hurt shines as Macon Leary, a grayish writer of travel guides for businessmen or people who generally travel by obligation. His aim in doing so is to provide those people a false feeling of security in every moment they are away from home.When the movie begins, Macon's wife, Sarah (Kathleen Turner, another great pick for this role) is leaving him. We learn that their only son, Ethan, had died the previous year, and their marriage just does not feel the same to Sarah. From this moment on, Macon will have to keep living his life, not really wanting to or trying to make any changes. But he's in for something unexpected when beautiful and funny dog-trainer Muriel (Geena Davis) enters his life and turns it upside down... What follows is the story of Macon thereafter, and how he learns more about himself, life, and starting anew even after something as painful as losing a child has happened in a person's life.Even though the movie's starting point and leitmotiv is the death of one's child, this movie is not a melodrama, and it is not a laugh-out-loud comedy, either, even though some of its lines and scenes have made me laugh more than many so-called comedies. It is a simple story, but it is extraordinary in how it is told, in how close it feels to the viewer, in how it makes you believe in that yes, it is possible to reinvent ourselves and to become someone better, more ambitious, wiser, and more able to love and be loved. This is the kind of gem that studios just don't make anymore.My vote is 10/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent Comedy-Drama","Date":"18 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A writer of travel books must cope with the death of his young son and the ensuing divorce. This adaptation of the Tyler book is an excellent comedy-drama that incisively examines relationships and dealing with life's challenges. Hurt is quite good in expressing the pain of loss and separation, and he conveys so much through small gestures. As a quirky dog trainer, Davis is simply marvelous in an Oscar-winning performance. Turner has a relatively small and unsympathetic role but she makes the most of it. Wright, Stiers, Begley, and Pullman round out the excellent ensemble. The dog is a scene stealer. Kasdan's low-key, leisurely direction is perfectly suited to the material. "},{"Title":"The Accidental Tourist","Date":"18 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" William Hurt and Kathleen Turner are so devastated by the death of their son that the marriage falls apart due to anguishing grief. Turner needs time to recover while Hurt is somber, numb, and grief-stricken to the point that he walks around in a daze, his face and demeanor barely able to contain the agony and loss he feels. That is when he meets, by chance or fate, a quirky dog trainer(played by Geena Davis who is a delight)who awakens in him a reason to live again. Turner, however, after time apart, wants to reenter his life and start over. THE ACCIDENTAL TOURIST follows Hurt's dilemma, having to choose between the woman he will always love and the new person who resuscitated him with her charm and unrelenting pursuit for his affections. I think what makes Lawrence Kasdan's THE ACCIDENTAL TOURIST work so well is that it's wholly believable and speaks from the heart, the performances of the three leads completing winning you over because they come from a realistic place. Hurt and Turner, as many married couples do, grieve to the point that they can no longer be around each other due to the painful recollection of the son they lost. Hurt is a travelogue writer who doesn't really enjoy the places as much as clinically define the experiences in a literal instead of pleasurable sense. Davis wears loud, colorful dresses, flashes a bright, wattage smile that is hard to resist(with a personality to match)and is actually the one who instigates the relationship. Hurt actually benefits from being around her because Davis is the type of person whose attitude and personality rub off on you. Turner, though, represents what he once had which is why he returns to her with little difficulty, although I think we can see all too well that this is window dressing. Davis, the other woman, is persistent in being a part of Hurt's life despite his heavy resistance. Meanwhile, there's a subplot regarding Hurt's wallflower sister(Amy Wright)and his publisher(Bill Pullman)who become an item, although she is dedicated to her family(Ed Begley, Jr. and David Ogden Stiers)which might test their courtship. Ultimately, I felt, the film is about healing and moving on past a horrific incident which stifles those truly affected. Turner and Hurt do eventually realize that the love between them will forever last, even if they can no longer be together as husband and wife. It's amusing how an unruly dog(owned by Hurt)is the reason for his meeting Davis in the first place(it bit a neighbor). Established in the film is Hurt's bouts with intense back pain, often a source of misery for him. The end of the 80s was good for Davis who seemed to perform at a high level entering into the next decade. Hurt successfully carries the film as a broken father and listless husband who so desperately needed someone like Geena to give him hope and some semblance of potential happiness. Turner, for the exception of maybe BODY HEAT, has never been more beautiful. "},{"Title":"A remarkably good film, with a strong woman's role","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a remarkably good film, with a strong woman's role (Muriel) for Geena Davis, an excellent actress. William Hurt plays a travel writer (Macon) who hates to travel. His son was killed in a traffic accident, and the stress has led his character to separate from his wife (Sarah, played by Kathleen Turner). He returns to his family home, where his brothers and sister live, and you meet a stunningly civil, stunningly dysfunctional family. Muriel is very off the wall and just the relief Macon needs. Their growth toward each other, and Macon's recovery from the grief of his loss is subtly and well done.The contrast between Davis's character and the one played by Helen Hunt in As Good as It Gets merits thoughtful consideration. In this film, Muriel won't settle for Macon as he is when they meet. Muriel is a competent adult, not a needy woman. If Macon grows and meets her halfway, fine. If not, that's fine, too -- Muriel won't accept the emotionally crippled Macon. There are very few roles where women are written as strong, competent actors instead of passive accepters. (Silence of the Lambs comes to mind as another such movie, both for Clarice Starling and for Catherine Martin, the victim that traps Buffalo Bill's dog and uses it as a bargaining chip.) "},{"Title":"That travel-armchair isn't just your logo...it's you.","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After a year of silent grief over the loss of their son, an East Coast author of travel manuals for business-people and his mercurial wife of seventeen years decide to separate; he gets custody of the family dog, whose need for obedience-training leads the writer to a pert, persistent dog-trainer (who, apparently, also teaches men as well). Terrific adaptation of Anne Tyler's book by Frank Galati and producer-director Lawrence Kasdan, who are careful not to let the eccentric comedy inherent in the story and characters go over the top. William Hurt (in yet another wonderfully precise performance) mends a broken leg at the family home of his directionless siblings, each of whom of are very funny--though not in an outrageous way; the unconventionality of their personalities is touched upon so gingerly, we understand a great deal about them without exposition. This may be some of the best directing Kasdan has ever done. Oscar-winner Geena Davis is perhaps too forceful in some of her early scenes, and Kasdan's camera appears to be checking out her figure without protagonist Hurt seemingly being aware of it. Still, their relationship, which is far from smooth, is quirky and interesting because Davis cuts right through the bull. She liberates Hurt from his grip on the past but, sadly, the formula-end of the story dictates that we must bring back the estranged wife for dramatic purposes. The film's third act loses its way, which is a shame, yet the writing here doesn't mitigate some marvelous moments and fully-realized portrayals. It's a smart, exceptional treatise on love and starting over, and William Hurt proves once again to be a master at his craft. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Everyone Looks Trivial And Foolish, And Not Related To Me","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Macon Leary is a travel writer beset with grief after the murder of his young son and in the midst of a painful divorce. He meets Muriel Pritchett, an odd woman who works with dogs and seems overeager to start a relationship with the reluctant Macon. As he grows fond of Muriel, Macon must face up to his commitments and the tragedies of his past.Every so often I come across a movie where the main character reminds me of myself so much that it is both amusing and painful, which I guess is the point of all good drama. Macon Leary is a truly original character - thoughtful, sad, funny, passionate, hamstrung by his inability to relate to people, and, like so many, unwittingly avoiding confronting his problems. He's the kind of man who plans for every eventuality, only to discover that it's both impossible and fruitless. Hurt is stunningly good in the lead, showing incredible depth to his grief and frustration with tremendous subtlety - Macon rarely gives voice to his feelings but they are all there behind his eyes. Davis is equally good as the peculiarly sweet Muriel (she won a Best Supporting Actress Oscar), who is part Pippi Longstocking part Jane Eyre; I think my favourite moment is when she's washing the dishes and singing about Santa Claus. Turner has the more conventional part but is memorable too, and the support cast are excellent, notably Wright (Wise Blood, Stardust Memories) as Macon's sister Rose. What I love most of all about this movie I think is how quiet it us. Kasdan and his regular editor Carol Littleton pace it gently and carefully, but it never feels slow or dull. There are are a dozen curious nuances in every scene, each verbal exchange, and the movie is chock-full of evocative metaphors; the Learys alphabetising their groceries, Muriel deliberately piling more pickle and onion on her hamburger, Macon choosing to abandon the book which is his defence against strangers, the ghost of his son which wishes him bon voyage at the end. Adding to this are the humorous narrated excerpts from Macon's travel advice guides, which slyly mirror events in his own life. I tend not to like adaptations of acclaimed novels because they are almost always visually dreary. Virginia Woolf and Karen Blixen's writing has never been and never will be cinematic, no matter how many film critics insist it is. Kasdan however is a truly gifted filmmaker, and he repaints the book this is adapted from with a myriad of visual flourishes, taking every opportunity to get you into these people's heads via pictures, not words. He truly understands the difference between a book and a movie. Very faithfully and tenderly scripted by Kasdan and Frank Galati, from an excellent novel by Anne Tyler, and shot in her hometown of Baltimore. "},{"Title":"The Accidental Tourist","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" From director Lawrence Kasdan (Body Heat, The Big Chill, Wyatt Earp), I had only heard of this film because the supporting actress won the Oscar, so that was a good enough reason to watch it for me. Basically, after the death of their son, travel writer Macon Leary (William Hurt) is sleep walking through life, and his wife Sarah (Kathleen Turner) wants a divorce. One day, wanting his dog to be a little controlled, Macon meets the eccentric outgoing dog trainer Muriel Pritchett (Oscar winning Geena Davis) who brings out his inner self more than ever before. They slowly start falling for each other and eventually begin a relationship, but Sarah was bound to come back at some point. She returns during the wedding of Macon's sister Rose (Amy Wright) to his publisher friend Julian Edge (Bill Pullman), and she says she wants to give their relationship another try. Of course Muriel knows this is going on, and follows Macon to the place he and Sarah are going to, making his circumstances very difficult. In the end he makes the right decision to leave Sarah for good, even when he did try to love her again, and he goes back to Muriel. Also starring Robert Hy Gorman as Alexander Pritchett, David Ogden Stiers as Porter Leary, Ed Begley Jr. as Charles Leary, Bradley Mott as Mr. Loomis and Seth Granger as Ethan Leary. Hurt is great as the suppressed travel writer, Turner is good as his questionable (ex-)wife, but for me, it was indeed David that stole the show with her award-winning performance, both amusingly strange and exceedingly nice, an enjoyable comedy drama. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Picture, Best Music for John Williams and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, it was nominated the BAFTA Film Award Best Adapted Screenplay, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Original Score. Very good! "}{"Title":"Emotional, deep and excellent","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of my favorite dramas, this is a wise tale about relationships that easily out guns your average flick about romantic affairs. Whereas affairs can be very exciting, relationships can be very real. And so is this film, it's full of truth. I therefore think it's much more valuable than the average romcom film.Although some things are funny in the book, they are more funny in a tragic way, particularly when it comes to the protective, risk avoiding habits of the Leary family. There is a lot of hope and insight in it however, as the more important characters in the film all grow into a richer, wiser person.You just have to see this film, you'll be touched more than you expected. It has a wonderful pace to give you some time to let in some of it's vast emotional depth. I would vote this as my favorite chic-flick because it really has something to say rather than just blab superficially about how love conquers all.Rather than your typical romance film, this is more about personal growth, as well as a character study in particular of Macon Leary. He has a trauma from a lost son but has learned to avoid difficulties and complications. He has become a shadow of himself, sleepwalking through life and muffling his own feelings under a comfortable blanket of apathy and common sense. He has lost the ability to become emotionally attached, but is given the chance to find it back through a woman (Muriel) that won't leave him alone. If only there were more women like Muriel...she has a past too, is divorced as well, has a problematic child and is afraid to be left behind.An 6.6 rating says more about the people that watched it than that it says something about the film. They probably sell this film too much as a romcom, which it is not (it is too superior to be called that).A classic. Great acting, totally wonderful music score and a classy adaptation of what must be an outstanding literary work. "},{"Title":"Taking off and Landing.","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Life is makin' Macon Leary leery. After the death of his son, he continues to write travel guides for the weary traveler, advising them in such a way that it feels they've never left home while away. In other words, Macon likes his comfort zones, as he goes through his middle-aged lassitude (similiar to Bill Murray's character in 'Lost in Translation' or 'Rushmore'). Hurt is exceptional here, subtly conveying with facial expressions and the like his inner turmoil. After this film, I had a new appreciation for him, as he proves himself a masterful actor here. As way leads to way, Geena Davis' eccentric dog trainer comes into the picture, and Macon finds himself landing in destinations he could've never predicted. The voice-over narration is great at communicating the metaphors of a man isolated, trying to control his environment and not always being as successful as he'd hoped. But that is at the heart of the film, that is, the fact that our best-laid plans seldom come to fruition. "},{"Title":"Only movie I've see a dozen times","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't watch movies more then 1x but this movie was so good that I actually bought the VCR tape of it back in the day. Can honestly say this was one of the only movies I've every owned. The thing with this movie is the profound statements that make me think. One of the lines from the movie goes something like its not just how much you love someone what matters is who you are when you're with them. Wow. Very thought provoking. More then just good entertainment. And the acting is wonderful, too. And the cast - Gene Davis my favorite actress. Well written very much like the book. This was probably the only movie I've liked as much as the book. You'll love it!!! "},{"Title":"Basically a chick-flick even though the main character is a man","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A thoughtful film about feelings, vulnerabilities, and attitudes. Has quirky characters, but no violence, no explosions, and no car chases. Basically a chick-flick, although, oddly, the main character is a man. William Hurt, Geena Davis, and Kathleen Turner all put in very good performances. Pay attention to Macon's siblings, and you'll see the roots of his problems. "},{"Title":"Affection delivers some magic to this gentle heart-tugger.","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A big book novel was the perfect tool used for this charming contemporary movie that was based upon. In this case, William Hurt was actually writing it the same way he narrated. Best compared to the vintage Hollywood offerings, it tries awfully hard to mimic the novel, letting loose the softness that feels like Charmin. But there aren't many of these sentimental comedy-dramas like THE ACCIDENTAL TOURIST left for goodness sake. Edward The Dog (played by Bud) adds some lighthearted fun, but it's Geena Davis who is delightful as a beautiful, sexy-dressed vet who can train animals, and runs after Hurt so bad (Can you say chick flick?). Winning over a loss of loved ones is the idea to discover, and it examines Hurt's bonding with a 7-year old boy in addition to Davis' affection and desire for him. So while it could use a lift on stronger on-screen content, the movie is very achievable on showing off fulfilling and redeeming values in a modern-day society. Read the novel if you'd like, but movies like this don't come out quite often under the blue, blue moon in the sky. Show this to the ones you love! "},{"Title":"A Really Moving People Story","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I waited almost 10 years to see this movie and was sorry that I waited so long. This was a human interest story about people going through crises in their lives told in a humorous but moving manner. The movie would appeal to people who liked The Big Chill, On Golden Pond, Ulee's Gold, As Good As It Gets, and, probably, Feeling Minnesota .  "},{"Title":"Checking on William Hurt's baggage.","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Accidental Tourist is a good movie but it's certainly not a great one. Lawrence Kasdan directs from a screenplay that he co-wrote with Frank Galati based on the original novel by Anne Tyler but perhaps this was material best left in the literary form.William Hurt stars as Macon Leary, a travel writer who specialises in writing guides that help people feel as if they haven't strayed too far from home. He does this by keeping himself isolated from anyone else and by rigidly organising his life as much as possible. All well and good but it has not helped things between Leary and his wife (Kathleen Turner) since they lost their son in a tragic, random shooting a year or so ago. When his wife decides that she has had enough, Leary goes to stay with his sister and two brothers, all of them as socially dysfunctional and strange in a way that's slightly different from their brother but just as difficult to live with. Things are thrown off kilter by two things a slightly loopy dog trainer/single mother (Geena Davis) that Leary meets and ends up enjoying time with (as well as time with her son) and the arrival of Leary's boss, Julian (Bill Pullman).I enjoyed moments of The Accidental Tourist. What's to dislike about the performances from a cast of people including William Hurt, Kathleen Turner, Geena Davis, Bill Pullman (putting in one of his best performances, actually), Amy Wright, David Ogden Steirs and Ed Begley Jr? The script also has a number of nice moments, particularly when comparing Hurt's travel advice to the events going on in his life, but it also has a number of exchanges that just felt completely unbelievable and contrived. Oh, and there's a very cute dog.Sadly, that's about all there is to it. Enjoyable enough but also frustrating in parts and pretty silly despite superficially appearing to be mature and clever. I've seen people defend this movie and praise it's content but I'd have to say that it's just as much of an acquired taste as any other movie like this (and there are many). I love some and simply like others, this fell into the latter category.Struggling male lead - check. Quirky girl who enters his life - check. Supporting cast of kooky characters - check. Major hurdle thrown in for the second half - check. Etc, etc, etc. Take Lost In Translation, Garden State, As Good As It Gets, Elizabethtown, Wonder Boys and many other movies that touch on the same markers and . . . . . . watch them instead. "},{"Title":"A halfhearted compromise","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Anne Tyler's novel about a reluctant travel writer drifting through life more like a passenger than a participant presents an interesting dilemma how to adapt a story about dull, listless people without it becoming a dull, listless film? The outcome is a halfhearted compromise, mixing Tyler's attention to mundane detail with Lawrence Kasdan's typically glossy direction. Casting high profile stars (all of them, by the way, upstaged by a pet dog) in low profile roles further undermines the scenario, leaving a cast of offbeat characters stranded in a decidedly conventional movie. Geena Davis provides a token spark of interest as a kooky animal trainer who draws William Hurt out of his shell, but Hurt's effort to appear distant and distracted only makes him look constipated. And Kathleen Turner's role is little more than a convenient plot device, serving no purpose except to provide Hurt's character with a choice (ex-wife or new girlfriend?), the making of which seems, in the end, only an extension of his indecisiveness. "},{"Title":"Every emotion required","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Wonderfully enjoyable film about one man's relationships with his estranged wife, his lover and his unorthodox family.William Hurt is Macon Leary, a seriously withdrawn man who writes travel guides for businessmen, and tries to live his life according to his travel philosophies. That is, be conservative, keep to yourself, plan everything, don't be adventurous nor sentimental. Hurt is terrific as the man who won't let the world in, Kathleen Turner is great as his lonely wife and Geena Davis is marvelous as the quirky dog trainer Muriel.Lawrence Kasdan's direction is very sure-footed as he allows the actors and the great script to do the work. John Williams' score is nicely complimentary and the supporting cast are superb. Full of every emotion required, including some fine comedy, it's great entertainment.Thursday, May 27, 1993 - VideoThe Accidental Tourist, a best film nominee at the Academy Awards for 1988 (beaten by Rainman), is certainly a wonderful drama about a man who slowly learns to come out of himself after his son's tragic death, thanks to his relationship with a nutty dog trainer.Lawrence Kasdan's fine film is graced with superb performances from William Hurt, Geena Davis, Bill Pullman and a great support cast, while it also contains a marvelous balance of drama, comedy and every other emotion that can possibly be touched. John Williams' score is delicately understated.Friday, February 4, 1994 - Video "},{"Title":"A wonderful trip","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Accidental tourist is one of those rare movies which may make you want to examine your life. Lawrence Kasden directed and adapted the screenplay. He was smart to keep the adaptation faithful to the wonderful book by Ann Tyler because the book needed very little changing to transfer to the screen successfully. Without giving the plot away....the story is about how we deal with change and the unexpected in life. Should we try to plan and control our life in order to avert any pitfalls? Can we? Or should we let our life unfold and accept the consequences... both good and bad? All actors involved were excellent. I think this may be William Hurt's best performance. The original music score by John Williams was very good, as usual. A movie dealing with very tough issues in a thought provoking, entertaining, and moving way. I highly recommend it. "}{"Title":"Misunderstood","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't often comment on here, but I felt this film deserved a few.  I don't think it's quite as great as those saying it's the best movie of the 80's, yet I find myself lingering on it well after watching.  The characters are so well drawn.  These are real people who are weak and normal in as much as they are also quirky and original.  The story is one of real tragedy on an everyday level.If you haven't seen it I highly recommend it.***spoilers alert - this is all about the ending***I believe that the film is not, as one reviewer pointed out, a commentary against commitment.  I too felt that way after watching it.  But then I slept on it, and when I woke up I had a revelation about what is really going on.  This movie is actually all about how the marriage is worth saving.  The marriage is the most important thing in the movie, despite there seeming to be so much time spent away from it, and it really is the real main character.By following Macon so closely through the film, we are strapped to his viewpoint.  What it means is that in the end we must then take a step back and figure things out for ourselves.  The ending is actually bittersweet. His wife really does need him.  He is, in fact, wrong.When he drops off the suitcase, he *thinks* it's a symbol of leaving a certain life behind him - that he has finally changed.  But really, he is only going back to the way he was - only now the woman in his life is not his wife.  He gets in the cab which, in fact, turns around and goes back the way he came.  And who is back there?  Muriel.I'm not going to go over this with a comb or spell it out.  I'll just say that I was really impressed - It's a sad ending because the death of a child is the number one cause for divorce.  This movie shows us how that can happen - how two people can let something get between them.  It goes so far as to show how they were in a position for it to happen before that event even took place. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is sad and touching, with both the excellent performance of Hurt, Davis and of course, Turner. I saw it when it first released in theatres 15 years ago and saw it again couple times later in VHS. The score by John Williams is definitely one of the reasons drives this movie unforgettable. Too bad that both the OST CD and the DVD version are not yet released. I do not have any idea why Warn Bros treats this movie so badly. As even the dumbest movie earn the fame for a 10 or 15 year anniversary special or collector edition of dvd nowadays, I do not see a hint that Accicdental Tourist can not share the same honour and at least let the young audience have the chance to see this great film in the dvd format. "},{"Title":"Recovering from loss","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a film about loss and how one man wanders through life and finally sees a light at the end of the tunnel.  The man is Macon Leary and he recently lost his son to a senseless stick-up robbery at a hamburger joint.  Macon wasn't particularly well adjusted before the death of his son, but after he is simply limping through each day.  See how almost every scene in the early parts of this film are shot in the dark and you understand the depths of Macon's depression.  The good news is that, although you will cry, this is not a depressing movie!  Macon has this enchanting dog named Edward and finds that this little hound requires some training (for reasons you will find).  At the ready is a quirky, stuggling woman named Murial.  Murial has an eye for Macon and she gradually brings him back to the sunshine.  There are all kinds of details I've left out and for good reason.  This is a movie that should be savored and thought out.  If anyone has experienced a personal loss......this rendition of the Anne Tyler Novel will bring some solice.   "},{"Title":"Best line I've ever heard!","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film contains the best line I've ever heard. This might not be an exact quote...It doesn't matter how much you love a someone it's who you become when your with that person and what they bring out in you that truly matters. It helped me find perspective with some relationships I've been involved in. I hope it can help others. "},{"Title":"A good movie that could of been great","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Accidental Tourist is one of those critically claimed films that later became a lost gem of its time. The story focuses around Macon Leary, (played by magnificently by William Hurt) a dreary and conflicted author who writes travel guide books for businessmen determined to travel without any hassle. After a devastating incident involving the death of his twelve-year-old son and his wife, Sarah (Kathleen Turner), leaving him soon after, Macon grows even more detached from reality.After falling down the basement stairs and breaking his leg, Macon eventually returns to his childhood household where his strange siblings (David Ogden Stiers, Ed Begley Jr. & Amy Wright) all live together.Due to the erratic behavior of his dog, Mason takes him to of his dog later meets the free-spirited dog trainer, MurielMacon is handled quite well for the most part but by the third act it is crucial that we have more of an understanding of what is going on in this man's head. Macon is a very interesting character and played exceptionally well by William Hurt. The rest of the actors put on solid performances but don't stand out as much since they all have very reserved mannerisms. Geena Davis was a satisfying edition to the cast however was not the right choice for Best Supporting Actress at the Oscars. At times she stood out a bit too much and had zero chemistry with Hurt. So many big actresses were in the running for this part. While labelled as a comedy, it has very dry and subtle attempts at humor. So its brand of wit is not for everyone. "},{"Title":"Hurt is fabulous, Pullman is lovestruck, and Davis doesn't suck!","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  No one is better at playing cold, distant men who are cut off from their feelings than William Hurt.  His gift for bring emotionally-isolated men to life is on full display in The Accidental Tourist, a sad yet uplifting tale about grief and the ability to love.The acting in the film is superb, not surprising considering the caliber of the cast.  Hurt, Kathleen Turner, Geena Davis, Bill Pullman, David Ogden Stiers, and Ed Begley Jr. are strong enough to make any film watchable, at least.  When given a strong script, like they are with Tourist, the whole film runs smoothly.The script by Frank Galati (based on the novel by Anne Tyler) is crisp and intelligent, never pandering to the audience.  When Macon (Hurt) has to chose between the two women in his life, the dilemma is not resolved neatly, like in many films.  It is portrayed as a difficult, life-wrenching choice. Such honesty is refreshing.Although the death of Macon's son casts a fog of grief over the movie, humour and good will does shine through.  Macon's blossoming relationship with Geena Davis' character is charming, the chemistry between the siblings is funny as hell, and Pullman is wonderful as Macon's lovestruck publisher.The film is a tad too long, but all told, The Accidental Tourist is a moving contemplation about the communication between people and how it affects mourning, love, and friendship.  Good stuff.  "},{"Title":"I could not make it through","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Take my review for what it is worth, but I could not make it through The Accidental Tourist.  I have turned off only a half dozen cassettes in my VCR-viewing career.  After about an hour, I decided my life was too short to see this movie through.Why couldn't I abide this film?  For the most part, I could not care less about the characters.  Quirky characters amuse me, but feeble people do not. I have never much enjoyed any Woddy Allen comedy in the last 25 years because I always want to pummel the whiner that Woody plays.  William Hurt whose work I usually enjoy plays just such a weenie in this film. Sorry! "},{"Title":"Infuriating","Date":"19 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For a good deal of its running time, The Accidental Tourist deals with wandering through life after a couple suffers the worst kind of loss. So that morose feeling is understandable, but mostly this movie is thoroughly depressing. The healing power of human compassion finally arrives in the form of Geena Davis, but she just gets jerked around, and all I really wanted to do was punch William Hurt in the face. I know this is about people being out of sync with their emotions, but there's only so much slack you can offer.I tend to like Kasdan movies for the most part, but I wasn't expecting a movie with such stiffness and awful characterization.4/10 "},{"Title":"A sensitive study of subtle flaws and eccentricities of character","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I decided to watch this film again after many years, and it impressed me more now than it did when it came out. It is a very sensitive film based upon a novel published in 1985 (of the same title) by the well-known American novelist Anne Tyler (born 1941), a denizen of Baltimore. The characters of this novel are also from Baltimore, which some regard as the Centre of the Earth, by which I refer primarily to those innocents who have not seen THE WIRE (2002, see my review). William Hurt gives one of his brilliant performances (which seem to come so naturally to him) as Macon Leary, an up-tight and hopelessly stuffy author of travel guides for Americans who do not like to leave America and wish to travel in their bubble, thus protecting themselves from all contaminating influences such as foreigners or even people from another city such as Philadelphia. But to give an idea of how hopeless an isolationist Leary is, we see him eating disgusting hamburgers at a Burger King in Paris, which he will in turn recommend to his readers. Leary will guide timorous Americans to Burger Kings and other such horrible places wherever they are in the world, so that they need never eat anything strange. In a voice-over in this film, he says of French restaurants and their menus of the day 'Avoid Prix Fixe. It forces you to eat all those courses you don't want.' One presumes that Tyler is being gently satirical in inventing this character (let us hope he never really existed and is a caricature). Leary's series of books are called 'The Accidental Tourist', hence the title of the film. And as for Leary himself, he is an accidental tourist of Life. Meanwhile, Leary's accidentally toured life has been devastated by the death of his only son, and he has been savaged by grief. His wife, played by Kathleen Turner, leaves him at the beginning of the story to live in a separate flat and go her own way, as she says he has not yet come to terms with his grief and she can no longer live with him. Thus, he lives alone in his house with the most charming actor in the film, a dog called Bud, who plays the dog in the film. I would greatly like to have Bud come and live with me! However, as the film was made 26 years ago, perhaps he is no longer about. I like all dog films, and this to a larger extent than one might imagine is a dog film. It is Bud's lack of good behaviour which brings Leary into contact with the charmingly eccentric character Muriel (whom Leary later describes as 'that odd girl'), who is a dog trainer, and who becomes his romantic muse and saviour. This character is played by the wonderfully odd actress Geena Davis, one of my favourites. The film she made just before this one, in the same year, was EARTH GIRLS ARE EASY (1988, see my review), which I think of as one of the funniest films ever made, and Davis's central performance in it made it work. Never having met Davis, I can only presume that in order to play these wacky and offbeat characters to such perfection, she must be pretty odd herself. However, she rid herself of these anomalies when she played the President of the United States in the excellent TV series COMMANDER IN CHIEF (2005), in which her performance was, well, 'commanding', and it won her a Golden Globe for Best Actress in a TV drama. It is a great pity that the rather weird and wonderful Geena Davis has not made many more films than she has, but she won a well deserved Oscar for Best Supporting Actress in THE ACCIDENTAL TOURIST, which shows that she has been appreciated by her peers (as do her countless other awards). She also resembles the goddess Diana (aka Artemis) in that she is an archery champion, and having been married four times, she clearly takes good aim at the heart. If she were ever to 'come up to see me sometime', I could show her my long bow which my grandfather lovingly carved out of lemonwood from South America because he said it had the best qualities (his idea being that he would be making the Stradivarius of long bows). No mere yew for him! Long bows are so much more romantic than etchings. Another excellent actress who appears in this film is Amy Wright, who does a brilliant job of portraying Leary's eccentric sister Rose. The film is essentially a study of people who 'don't fit'. Sometimes they don't fit in a good way and sometimes they don't fit in a bad way. So Tyler seems to be excavating the American psyche to find divergences from the norm, which is an important thing to do in a country where 'normality' ranks second only the 'the dollar' theologically speaking. This film was directed by the highly talented Lawrence Kasdan, who knows a good nuance when he sees one. And in this film we see plenty of them. "},{"Title":"So Good You'll Have to Rewind it Into the Night","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film begins with an aloof travel writer named Macon Leary being left by his schoolteacher wife played by Kathleen Turner. The Learys recently lost a member of their nuclear family and are mourning in different ways. As the film proceeds William Hurt's character becomes involved with a kooky dog trainer portrayed by Geena Davis who inadvertently transforms his life. What makes this picture special is that it follows an ordinary couple not a yuppie Hollywood one trying to save their marriage and at the same time trying to make sense of an unexpected tragedy. I recommend this movie because of its poignancy and light humour but mostly because its contemplative and mature enough for serious adult viewers. All the actors stepped into their roles in a realistic way and played their respective roles intensely. "}{"Title":"Watch it for William Hurt's Masterful Performance!","Date":"22 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'The Accidental Tourist' is a Human-Drama, that is honest, unspoken & devastated. Accomplished Filmmaker Lawrence Kasdan delivers a film, that truly ranks amongst his best works to date, and his handling to this tough & gritty subject, is excellent. But, the Greatest Merit & Strength of 'The Accidental Tourist', is it's Lead-Star, Academy-Award Winner William Hurt, who's masterful performance, leaves you spell-bound. He delivers one of his finest performances in here. 'The Accidental Tourist' Synopsis An emotionally distant writer of travel guides must carry on with his life after his son is killed and his marriage crumbles.'The Accidental Tourist' is a heart-felt, human-drama, that is honest, unspoken & yet devastated. The Journey of it's Protaganiost is filled with sadness, motivation & emptiness. The Adapted Screenplay by Kasdan himself, is moving & well-worded. Kasdan's direction, on the other-hand, is excellent & he makes each moment felt. Perofmance-Wise As mentioned right from my summary, Hurt's performance is the greatest merit of this film. He delivers a performance, that can easily be credited as an embodiment. What Hurt achieves over-here, is impossible to pull off. In short, it's a performance that demands & deserves your utmost attention. Geena Davis, in an Oscar-Winning performance, is decent. Kathleen Turner is dependable. Amy Wright & Bill Pullman lend support. On the whole, If your a fan of Hurt, don't dare to miss this one. And even if your not a fan by a chance, yet don't dare to miss his masterful performance. "},{"Title":"Sensitive psychological drama with some fine acting","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The main character of The Accidental Tourist is Macon Leary, a writer of travel guides from Baltimore, Maryland. The title refers to the fact that Macon writes his guides for reluctant business travellers who want to know where to find American-style accommodation, food and drink while abroad. To my mind this rather dates the film. In 1988 this might have been essential information for any traveller to foreign climes who wanted to pretend he was still in the USA, but today it is rather redundant as any foreign city, or at least any foreign city that an American businessman is likely to visit, will be amply provided with Holiday Inns and a McDonalds and a Starbucks on every corner. At first I wondered if the film was intended as a satire on the insular, parochial attitudes of most Americans, but in fact this aspect is rather neglected. The film is much more concerned with Macon's private life.Macon's marriage starts to disintegrate after his 12 year old son, Ethan, is killed during a robbery at a fast-food restaurant, and he and his wife Sarah separate. Macon moves back to his old family home to live with his eccentric siblings Rose, Porter and Charles, all of whom are still unmarried. While living there he finds himself becoming attracted to a young woman named Muriel whom he meets when he hires her to train his unruly dog. Muriel is a rather unconventional girl whose eccentricities mirror those of Macon's family; another attraction is that she is the unmarried mother of a sickly son, with whom Macon quickly bonds. The situation turns into a love-triangle when Sarah reappears in his life and makes it clear that she is looking for a reconciliation. There is also a subplot about a romance between Rose and Macon's publisher Julian.The film has rightly been praised for the quality of its acting. Geena Davis makes Muriel attractively quirky, although I think that her Best Supporting Actress Oscar was rather fortunate for two reasons. Firstly, hers is really the leading female role (Muriel's love-rival Sarah is out of the action for much of the film), and I doubt if Davis would have taken Best Actress against Jodie Foster in The Accused. Secondly, I think that the best supporting performance in 1988 came from Foster's co-star in that film, Kelly McGillis who in the event was not even nominated. Kathleen Turner is good as Sarah, but best of all, in my opinion, is William Hurt as Macon. Macon is a quiet, reserved individual who finds it difficult to show emotion; indeed, the reason why his marriage broke down is that the more emotional, outgoing Sarah found she could not live with such a man. Such roles are often difficult to play without either seeming wooden or making the character seem boring, but Hurt succeeds brilliantly, showing us the genuine depths of feeling which lie below Macon's surface reserve.The film reunites director Lawrence Kasdan with Hurt and Turner, who had starred together in his Body Heat. Yet the two films are very different. Body Heat was a steamy, erotic neo-noir thriller; The Accidental Tourist is a sensitive psychological drama. It has some similarities with Robert Redford's Ordinary People from eight years earlier, another psychological drama exploring a marriage which has been put under strain by the death of a son, although there are also differences. The Accidental Tourist is less intense than Redford's film and includes a greater amount of humour.The film was nominated for a Best Picture award, but lost to Rain Man. I think that that was the right decision, although there is not a great deal between the two films in terms of quality. 1988 was a year which saw several very good films- others include Mississippi Burning, Pelle the Conqueror, Gorillas in the Mist and Who Framed Roger Rabbit?- but no really great ones. Despite its nomination, The Accidental Tourist is not a film which is well known today. yet it deserves to be better remembered for some first class acting and for its sensitive exploration of the complexities of human nature. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Subtle, yet interesting","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one movie meant for the traveling person. The movie is very subtle, yet very interesting. You can do lots of things when you're traveling, and a book would be very good as well. The cast of the movie were well picked. William Hurt(Children of a Lesser God) and Geena Davis(Tootsie and countless others to name a few) really play out their role in the movie very well I say. Losing a child to crime is more disheartening than losing it to disease. Learning to cope is a must, but when a spouse has trouble coping, things can go from bad to worse. Macon(Hurt) has these siblings who need more of guidance than he does. When he meets Muriel(Davis), he opens up, and makes him feel more alive. She also helps him cope and get more into life. Sarah(Kathleen Turner) is always vivacious in any film. But her character is weak because that's what she is. Simply by letting the world get the better of her. This movie is about moving on. Some people know how to move on in life after a tragedy, some don't. To me, this movie has really gone to the dogs. Somewhat. But I don't mean it in a bad way. Rating 2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"A solid drama, that is almost as good as the book!","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a pleasant surprise for my first film from famous film-maker Kasdan. the Accidental Tourist is a good touching story that is pretty long and takes some patience, but it pays off and is written well. The acting is also good which keeps it interesting. Its the story of a split between a couple who loses a child in a accident (liquor store hold-up). William Hurt is great as the husband who is a travel writer, while I didn't like Kathleen Turner much as his wife who decides to get the separation. Geena Davis however was great as a supporting actress, good performance from her. I also loved Bill Pullman as Macon(Hurt)s publisher. The film is written, directed and acted well, a solid drama from the late 80s. 8/10 #203 on my list of all-time favorite films "},{"Title":"Food for thought","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is everything but a chickflick.  The loss of a son, the break-up with his wife, the different business trips and the Accidental encounter with an odd woman are the wheels of an engine that will make Macon Leary's world turn around.From a muffled lifestyle after the death of his son Ethan, Macon will arrive at a fork in the road, a chance to make changes for himself.  Food for thought for those who think of their own lives and hearts as an untouchable fortress.  The entire movie flows as a chain reaction. "},{"Title":"Ho-hum drama","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After the death of his child, travel author William Hurt retreats into an emotional shell and watches his marriage to Kathleen Turner dissolve before finding a second chance at happiness with eccentric dog trainer Geena Davis.Lawrence Kasdan's by-the-numbers adaptation of Anne Tyler's novel is a passable, if overly pedestrian drama that has many fans with a tendency to over-exaggerate its emotional impact. Anyone anticipating sparks to fly with the reunion of Hurt and Turner with their Body Heat director Kasdan will likely be surprised by this tame seriocomic oddity that is light years from film noir. The storyline relies on bizarre character traits to generate interest, but they only do so sporadically and haphazardly. For instance, much time is spent with Hurt's two brothers and sister, all broadly played by Ed Begley, David Ogden Stiers and Amy Wright. The three of them co-habit in one house and spend their days doing such madcap things as ignoring the ringing telephone and alphabetizing their canned goods. Apparently this is supposed to be more amusing then it really is. When Hurt's editor, delightfully played by Bill Pullman, falls in love with Wright, the attraction is puzzling because Pullman comes off as a real person, while Hurt's family seem like sketches for a rejected skit from an episode of The Carol Burnett Show.Turner is utterly wasted in the film. It isn't that she is not good, but she is saddled with a glorified supporting turn that requires her to vanish for extended periods of time. She is not allowed to have any meaningful emotional moments with Hurt, so that his late act decision contains no surprise. Geena Davis bugs her eyes out and purses her lips in an attempt to appear kooky, and actually she is quite good in the film, but she is miscast and there is no getting around it. Davis is one of the most attractive actresses working in Hollywood and her innate charm is on display here, so that when all of these people keep pulling Hurt aside and asking in genuine bewilderment What do you see in this Muriel woman? - we have no idea what they are talking about and they all seem like idiots. Is she supposed to be undesirable? If so, then the casting is completely wrong.Ultimately, though, the film rises and falls on Hurt. It is his show and the film focused on his emotional journey breaking out of his indifference and fear. In his best moments, I have always found Hurt to be a very mannered actor. His Method approach often seems self-conscious and he loves to overuse an arsenal of tics and odd vocal inflections in place of genuine range. Sometimes it works - here it fails him. He comes off less as a victim of emotional shellshock than he does a somnambulist. It is impossible to see why Turner would want him back or why Davis would instigate a relationship with him. Even worse, when his character starts taking decisive action and makes some daring choices, he seems just as lifeless as he was at the beginning of the film. He comes off as a guy just going through the motions - which would be a good description of the film itself. It looks great, but ultimately it is just going through the motions. "},{"Title":"I don't understand its appeal.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie lacks all energy whatsoever. Rarely do the characters raise their voices above a certain decibel level, making all the dialogue so insipid. Everyone just takes their time doing everything in this movie with very little emotion.Rose and Julian have been subtly flirting throughout the first part of the movie. Then, at one point, Rose undercooks the turkey. When Hurt alerts the potential turkey-eaters (including Julian) about the undercooked turkey, Rose is embarassed. Keeping her voice soft, she accuses Hurt of doing this because he doesn't want Julian to fall in love with her. Then she runs off crying - well, actually, strolls.Does anyone out there think that real people act like that? If you do, perhaps you should get your brain examined.Geena Davis won an Oscar for this movie? That's laughable. At first, Davis seems desperate, practically begging Hurt to call her. After we get past that stage (and we never really do, since she comes to Paris just to be with him after they haven't seen each other for a while later in the movie), she blabs on about nothing. I have no clue why Hurt falls in love with her (Oh my God! What a spoiler! Horror of horrors!), and the two have absolutely no chemistry. Then, after they fall in love, Davis gets excessively angry at random times for no apparent reason. Is she supposed to be kooky? No, I think she's just going through PMS.I would not recommend this movie to anyone but insomniacs. And maybe budding screenwriters, who want to learn how people DON'T behave. "},{"Title":"Found the film boring","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I could not understand why Macon left his suitcase on a wall and then left, presumably for the airport, or even what he took out of the zippered pocket before leaving.There were other previous problems - why Muriel, who has a dog kennel business, has to ask Macon for cash when she gives him dog training lessons? William Hurt, who is a fine actor, goes through the film with a dazed expression on his face, as if he really belongs elsewhere (he does.) Why did Macon's sister inherit the house that is referred to as a family heirloom, when there were older boys in the line of succession. I understand that Kathleen Turner likes to show off her body (on the London stage, for example) but why only a prurient view of her naked back. Who writes this drivel? "},{"Title":"The author of travel books for people who hate to travel could use a book on relationships for people who hate relationships.","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Macon Leary (William Hurt) writes travel guides for people who hate to travel. His books give advice on avoiding human contact, finding American food abroad, and generally making the accidental tourist feel comfortable traveling -- like never leaving your comfortable home armchair. Leary and his wife (Kathleen Turner) are still grief-stricken over the loss of their young son; and the loss has taken a toll on the marriage. Leary suppresses his grief by keeping his feelings locked up in a sort of safe living room armchair for emotions -- much like his travel guide advice. Leary meets the oddball owner of a pet store (Geena Davis) and entrusts her with the care of his troublesome dog while he travels. She offers to train the dog; however, it's not until the dog causes Leary to break his leg that he seeks her expertise.While recuperating Leary stays at his sister's (Amy Wright) house where his two brothers (David Ogden Stiers and Ed Begley, Jr.) also live. This cooky, quirky family live totally sheltered lives; they never have guests, seldom answer the phone, and tend to get lost when they go out. Leary's sister has complete control of the home, taking care of her near helpless brothers. Dog trainer Geena Davis makes regular training visits and she and Hurt eventually fall in love. Hurt moves in with Davis and her seven year old son. Their relationship is complicated when Hurt's wife wishes to give their marriage another try. Hurt must decide if he wants to remain in that Leary groove in the safe armchair or get out of the predictable emotionless rut he's carved for himself.It's possible that Jake Kasdan -- director Lawrence Kasdan's son -- may have concocted a composite of the neurotic Leary family and called it Daryl Zero -- from his Zero Effect film.  Zero also could not handle relationships or deal with messy interpersonal gratuities. "},{"Title":"Hard to express &#133; your terrible loss &#133; Sincerely, Willy and Linda Loman","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you think the summary is a stretch, then revisit this film.Prozac was only one year old in the USA at the time of this film and Zoloft, not approved until circa 1991, was the next available SSRI in the USA. Still, the phases of grief were well documented and clinical data was available at the time this film was in production. I spent seven years as a volunteer crisis worker, and I have also battled clinical depression all of my life. I have put together a little resource package (web page) where you can find information help and support if you have experienced, are experiencing, or know someone who is experiencing clinical depression.The lead male, Macon played by William Hurt, is mired in the first stage of grief from the death of his only child. His denial, the first stage of grief, has been protracted and he is evidently (if you have the eyes to see) spinning around in clinical depression. The blame is misplaced squarely onto the shoulders of his equally depressed wife, Sarah played by Kathleen Turner, and she is portrayed as cold without any supporting scenes for validation of this unfortunate label. That clinically depressed people cannot form mature intimate relationships is inadvertently and incompletely addressed through the relationship that Macon develops with Muriel, played by Geena Davis, and through the crumbling marriage. The film misinforms the viewer through its omission of anger, the second stage of grief. Any tears that do flow (far too few if you ask me) are invalid, as one cannot go from denial to sadness without passing through anger (the second stage of grief) and its expression. Unlike Macon, Muriel is no stranger to adversity or misfortune and would have had the experience and inner strength to handle Macon's anger with her eyes closed. Instead, she is reduced to a harlequinade as well as a caricature of a single mother.Lost opportunities and clinical inaccuracies abound in this film popping in and out of the gluttonized plot like ants at a picnic. Any hope that does eventually come is contrived and completely without merit. The thinly disguised metaphor that Macon is a tourist in his own journey through life, becomes instead a bad practical joke. The joke is that the real accidental tourist in the film, is the viewer.  "}{"Title":"Wanted to like it, gave it another chance, and...it still doesn't work.","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I first watched this film with great anticipation, knowing it was an Oscar nominee for best picture. It looked like the kind of movie I would like. I even remember reading the description on the video box promising a delightful viewing experience, a mixture of comedy and drama. (I laugh now thinking how they oversold the movie with their glowing synopsis on that box.) Like any movie that tries too hard to be quirky, this fails. The main characters journey just simply is not compelling. I really didn't feel he deserved to meet Geena Davis's character (the film's saving grace, no wonder she won the Oscar), and I found his family of dullards to be more annoying than amusing.I know some people here have already posted high praise for this film--but my second viewing of it years later only confirmed the things I didn't like about it the first time. "},{"Title":"Sunday Afternoon Sleeper","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are looking for a movie where you'll feel at least my life isn't THAT bad then this is the movie for you.  Don't get me wrong; I really like this movie...I have since I first saw it in the 80's.  But this is a story that draws you into a world of people with deep quirks and hangups.  There is a lot to like about the sleepy pace of this movie if you are looking for a wintry, November kind of movie, next to a fire, on a Sunday afternoon.  It's the type of thing that you let lull you to sleep or reflect deeply on what's important in life. The Accidental Tourist really is dated now; Geena Davis' Madonna-wear makes you wonder if anyone could take her seriously...but at the time this was made, her style was all the rage.  In some ways the characters are extreme caricatures, or are they?  People are generally weird, we just don't get to see it much.  This movie gets under your skin and makes you prioritize.  It makes you not want to die lonely and alone...but if you are, before the fire in a nice big Victorian during a light snowfall. "},{"Title":"OK, what's the point?","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I like drama. I like deep emotions and great acting. This movie has some of the former and much of the latter. But at the end, you'll still be wondering why Muriel, a virtually flawless woman (except for, if you want to put it that way and as far as I can tell, a physically weak kid), want to put in all that work into restoring the life of Macon. It's not even that the death of his own child led to a cocooned life; it turns out all his siblings are like that, if not more so. In real life, a very attractive woman like Muriel is not going to put in that effort to transform a man, because if she does it for one why wouldn't she do it for all the others? I find the supposed blossoming romance totally unrealistic. Like Macon realized, he's no catch, while she's the best thing that could ever come along. And that's the way it would have stayed - in real life. She had to do all the work to get him to open up, literally giving her body in the process to do so. It was all give and no take. Ain't gonna happen, my friend. "},{"Title":"Well-done and acted...but no depth","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Movie about a man (William Hurt) dealing with the death of his son.  His wife (Kathleen Turner) abandons him and he's all alone.  He meets a wonderful woman (Geena Davis) but is she enough to help him?It looks fantastic (superb direction) and great acting by all (Geena Davis won an Oscar)...but I was bored by this movie.  It only scratches the surface of Hurt's character...I never once got a clear feeling of what was inside.  Turner is given VERY short shrift in this movie too--there are NO insights to her.  Ditto with Davis--but she's having so much fun with the role it kind of rubs off.I suppose the script was OK but I seriously had trouble staying awake!  The movie plods on endlessly with pointless, mind-numbing dialogue.  A clear point of view might have helped here!  Also, when it came out, a lot of my friends saw it and said the same thing--it was boring.  It's only known for Davis winning the Oscar.I'm giving it a 5 for the acting and direction--but that's it. "},{"Title":"the original movie was better","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There were several odd mistakes in the movie, I'm surprised no one else picked up on them. There was a scene in which William Hurt was in a grocery store and on the back wall is a large sign indicating it's the bakery. But if you look, you can see produce (kale, spinach, celery) and off to the side, flats of eggs. Another error was when Muriel first began training the dog, her stockings have seams in them yet seconds later, they are seamless.The original movie, starring Rowan Atkinson as the Macon Leary character had much more charm. This was especially evident during his family scenes, where his siblings were played by Walton Goggins (as Proctor) Ben Kingsley (as Charles) and Stockard Channing as Rose. The original movie also had the better title, that is, The Redundant Traveler, and with the Muriel Pritchett character played by Glenn Close, it was much more believable. The fact that the dog in the second movie was a Vietnamese Pot Belly Pig in the original also just made better sense. "},{"Title":"anger","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is the second lawarance kasdan movie that i have watched (the other was the big chill) and it is the second of his movies to anger me. at least in these two films he seems to feel that divorce just does not affect anyone. his sentiment is that if you are in love with someone then you should go with it. his sentiment is that you should make your choices concerning marriage and divorce based on what is in it for you. in both of these movies he has failed to show just how divorce affects not only the couple, but also children and families involved. what is really funny is that in the accidental tourist the final decision for the main couple to split for good is like this theraputic thing. ha! inaccuracy is one of kasdans talents. divorce tears families apart and it tears people apart. step fathers are rarely the figure that is depicted in the accidental tourist. most of the time step fathers dont know how to relate to a child that is not theirs and the child does not know how to relate to a father that is not theirs. and it hurts. sure, kasdans ideas are nice and gushy and they remind us that americas view of love is a feeling. marriage is a self-less matter. marriage is about commitment, loyalty, giving, and learning how to recieve. kasdan does not understand marriage in the least. was the movie well made. yes. was the acting good. for the most part. does the accidental tourist hold your attention. yeah. and yet the movies message is a lie and a fable in the real world. on a screen it may make us feel good in the end, but in real life it crushes us and it should because we were meant to be married and to live, grow old, and love one person. it is a shame that the oscars even considered these movies worthy for a nomination. well...i'm done "},{"Title":"Good film, but disappointing in some ways","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I guess I have the curse of having read the book -- and while some people may think I'm crazy, but Muriel's character is wrong in the film. Wrong, wrong, WRONG.For one, she's played one dimensionally, while in the book, she is sometimes nasty, shrewish, and uncaring. You never get to meet her parents, and her sister Claire is only hinted at. Dominick doesn't exist either, but he's extremely important to the plot, as he provides one of the choices the characters make in the book.Also, the ending is flawed. In the book, Macon never breaks up with Sarah. Instead, he simply views it as another stage of his marriage.That said, one of the most important moments of the book is captured -- the French boy that helps Macon. In the book, Macon wonders if Ethan would have grown to be such a boy. It's echoed perfectly in the movie.But Muriel is a badly translated character that the Lawrence Kasdan tried too hard to be likeable. She ends up being a one dimensional Kooky Character (capital K, capital C), and it just doesn't work. "},{"Title":"Slow romantic drama","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  William Hurt plays a writer of travel guides designed to make your trip as safe & well-planned as possible, even to the point of suggesting ways to make yourself feel at home while staying in remote destinations.  He goes so far as to recommend places to get a good ol' American hot dog while in Europe, etc, etc.His rather boring, uneventful existence is disrupted when first, his son dies, then within a year, his wife (Kathleen Turner) leaves him, after which he runs into an aggressive and flirty dog-trainer (Geena Davis) who begins pursuing him romantically.  (although, you'll never understand why Geena's character, an attractive, single mom, hasn't found anyone better than him, nor why she'd be interested in such an elusive, muttering and boring man)Although she actually manages to pull him out of his shell and he embraces her and her son, the real conflict comes when he has to deal with the commitment this is leading towards, especially considering he's still clinging dearly to photos and memories of his dead son.Things really get hairy when his wife finally gets lonely herself, and wants him back.  He then has to decide between his fresh new, unpredictable life with the dog-trainer and her son, or the safe, comfortable existence full of memories with his wife.The movie is as slow as William Hurt's character is boring. Some people won't mind this, but when you couple that with the fact that all of the acting seems forced and odd, it doesn't make for a very good movie. Touching story though. "},{"Title":"Lacks energy","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nominated for four Academy Awards, Lawrence Kasdan's The Accidental Tourist has some remarkable performances from William Hurt, Kathleen Turner and Geena Davis, but it is lacking in energy and never really comes to life. William Hurt plays Macon Leary, a depressed writer of travel guidebooks whose purpose is to steer business travelers to accommodations and restaurants that feel most like home, considering it a triumph to ''locate a meal in London not much different from a meal in Cleveland. Macon has become withdrawn and uncommunicative since the murder of his son Ethan at a fast-food restaurant one year ago and Hurt turns Macon's passivity into an art form, barely raising his voice beyond a whisper throughout the two-hour film. When Sarah (Kathleen Turner), Macon's wife of many years leaves him, he offers only a scant protest, content to move quietly back to his grandparents' house with his brothers and sister. The siblings, Rose (Amy Wright), Porter (David Ogden Stiers), and Charles (Ed Begley, Jr.) offer little stimulation and amply demonstrate why they are difficult to live. They obsessively alphabetize items in the pantry, play weird card games, and do not answer their telephone. Rose breaks out to marry Macon's publisher Julian (Bill Pullman) but moves back to the family house shortly afterwards because she has to look after the boys. Macon mopes through each day, resisting any attempt to bring him out of his shell. When he locates a kennel to take care of his overly aggressive dog Edward, he meets Muriel Pritchett (Geena Davis), an eccentric and lonely dog trainer.Muriel is a single mom who has a somewhat sickly seven-year old named Alexander and immediately zeroes in on Macon as a possible catch. Even though Macon rebuffs her overtures and they seem to have little in common, Muriel doggedly pursues him, trying to light a spark of life in the reclusive writer. Muriel seems to offer Macon a way out, but her abrasive neediness and the prospect of having deal with another child so soon after losing his own propels Macon to run the other way. When his wife Sarah returns seeking reconciliation, Macon must choose to go back to the way it was or take a chance that life could work better with Muriel.The Accidental Tourist is based on a novel by Anne Tyler and the dialogue is literary but does not have a feeling for the way that people talk. For example, Sarah tells Macon, ''there's something muffled about the way you experience things, it's as if you were trying to slip through life unchanged.'' At the end, there is no transformation, only a turn from no aliveness to a bit more. If life is about making choices, Macon passively lets life make the choices for him and he ends up with the lesser of two evils more out of exhaustion than commitment. Geena Davis is deserving of an Oscar for her performance but neither her talents nor the considerable talents of Hurt and Turner could make me believe that by the end of the film any of the characters have moved one step closer to happiness. "},{"Title":"A little laboured","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'The Accidental Tourist' follows the emotional rebirth of William Hurt's character Macon, a man of intensely reserved character who has retreated further into himself following the death of his son. The best part of the film is the fine black comedy surrounding himself and his patrician family. But the plot is dependent on a strange woman basically throwing herself at his unresponsive self with no invitation but infinite patience; and when his ex-wife re-expresses her interest as well, it's hard to feel sorry for a man totally unable to count his blessings yet bizarrely attractive to the opposite sex. 'The Accidental tourist' is not a terrible film; but it tries to wear a bit more hear on its sleeve than it actually has. "}{"Title":"All the quirkiness, none of the charm.","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This looked like the type of film I would enjoy, but I didn't. Frankly, it looks like it's trying too hard to exude quirky charm, and in no moment is this more evident than when we find Hurt's relatives alphabetizing their kitchen cupboards--a quirky cliché if there ever was one. (I distinctly remember this being touted on the video box as an example of how funny the film allegedly is.) Hurt's character comes off as a smug bore rather than a grieving parent who's shut down. I can understand why he chose to play Macon in such a manner, but it left me waiting for a part in the clouds that would never come. For a better take on this state of mind, see Juliette Binoche in Blue.The fact that Geena Davis managed to breathe life into this at all is reason enough for her to have won the Academy Award, but Hurt's character doesn't deserve her. Her allergic-to-everything son is the only other interesting character in the film. I haven't read Anne Tyler's book, but it may have been a better idea to take these characters out of it and build a story for them alone.For a much better tragicomic look at grief, may I suggest the wonderfully bittersweet 1990 film about grief, Men Don't Leave. In it, Jessica Lange and Arliss Howard exhibit more chemistry in their first meeting than Hurt and Davis do in this whole film. "},{"Title":"Slow, preachy, sometimes amusing with awful message and conclusion","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite the movie's slowness, I stayed with it -- but when the movie's homily became clear, I began to dislike it - heartily.**** SPOILERS****The movie's central point is that neither marriage nor any other commitment (e.g., to family) should be an impediment to being with those who make one feel more alive, who shake one's stodgy ways down to their boots. After all, we change, or should wish to change over time, to improve - and so, shouldn't we change our lover from the old spouse? If you find one who is younger, fresher, more vibrant, a kooky slim beauty in miniskirts with legs that go on forever, then clearly no eighteen year marriage and common tragic history with a conventional older woman who's born your child, should stand in your way. It's a truly appalling message - no matter the impact of the newcomer on one's own attitudes toward life, toward change, toward him/herself.If marriage means anything, surely it does mean one has bound oneself to another - no matter that one may feel more vibrant, more awakened to the world with another met in later years. Thus, I found myself screaming NO! as the movie attempted to tilt the balance toward I also agree with the reviewer who wondered how/why Geena Davis won an Oscar for this performance - it was not a role that garnered any sympathy from this viewer - a needy, pushy woman determined to break up a marriage that had reconciled. Is Davis' character terribly physically attractive? YES - far more so than Kathleen Turner's fleshy matron, but that's no basis for sympathy.That's not Davis' fault of course - but it's roles that generally win awards, not the performance. Davis's performance of this deeply unsympathetic character was perfectly adequate. **** SPOILERS END *****A side note. This movie and The Accused were both released in 1988. It seems to me that the two movies began downturns in the movie star careers of Kathleen Turner and Kelly McGillis - both due to the same awful and inexorable working of a Hollywood rule. When a leading actress cedes a major female role to a somewhat younger actress, and that role is sexier, more figure-baring, it marks her surrender as a sought-after star in movies of any substantial budget. Though Kathleen Turner and Kelly McGillis are billed above Geena Davis and Jodie Foster in their movies' credits, and though they are older than their co-stars by only 1.5 and 5 years respectively, Turner and McGillis (and any other actress in this predicament) will be directed as far older. Thus, the 34 year old Turner played a character who was supposed to have been married for 18 years, and the 31 year old McGillis played an Ass't. D.A. whom we were meant to believe had decades of experience. This movie takes a catastrophic stand against commitment and responsibility - and in favor of chucking them when one finds fresh pastures through which one may romp more freely. Its bizarre and damaging philosophy is one the viewer is likely to reject - and thus reject the movie. "},{"Title":"Incredibly awful movie","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you like movies with long close ups of boring people with no dialogue, you'll like this movie. You can't really tell what's going on in the movie. You just know you are suppose to be emotionally moved by it due to the dramatic interludes of nothingness.It's definitely a candidate for one of those shows where they make stupid comments throughout a movie to make it more funny or interesting. It would be hard to do that for this movie.It's an accidental movie. Should just be a still shot.It's even hard to get 10 lines out of this. I don't think there was even 10 lines in the whole movie.There is not even a chance to redeem this movie.Stale and uninviting.If I had seen it in a theater, I would have stabbed out my eyes.Maybe if they subtitled in the plot? Nah......there was no hope from the start. "},{"Title":"Unsatisfied with this acclaimed drama","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Strange, unsatisfying drama with a tinge of quirky comedy. I don't know, it didn't do too much for me. At first, I was infuriated. It felt forced and the dialogue felt so utterly written. It almost felt like the actors were reading the book out loud. I half expected Kathleen Turner to end some of her sentences with she said. It does have an interesting message, one that everyone needs to take to heart, that it's very easy to get addicted to routines and never change your life, even when it might be much better to change it. I started to warm to it after a while, but I never crossed the line into liking it. There was one aspect about it that I really liked, though the musical score by John Williams. Very subtle, not overused. Everything we generally wouldn't expect from John Williams. "},{"Title":"Kinda boring","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had very high hopes for this movie, it looked like one that I would really enjoy.  It started out pretty good, the whole thing about his son dying, but the movie quickly begins to get silly and unfocused, I sort of thought the same about Kasdan's The Big Chill.  It may be William Hurt that is the route of this problem, every movie he has the lead role in is usually pretty dull, he always seems to play the same spiritless and droopy character. Geena Davis earned a well deserved oscar for her work here, and I guess she deserved it, because her performance was pretty good.  I guess this just isnt my kind of movie.  4.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Geena Is Good But That's All","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Once again, I found a movie I really enjoyed the first time I saw it, and then years later lost interest during the middle of the second viewing and never finished it. On that second look, frankly, I just found it boring.The only appealing character in the film is the one played by Geena Davis, who plays a kinky person, which made her interesting to watch. I didn't like the fact Kathleen Turner's character left her husband for selfish reasons, which seems to be okay, according to the script. (You didn't give ME enough support when our kid was killed, so I am leaving.) Wow, another plug for making marriage into a joke. "},{"Title":"Boring Boring Boring","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the slowest movie I have ever seen in my entire life. I studied film, acting, theater in college, so I have seen quality films. Very smart and intelligent people I know walked out of it in the theater or changed the channel when it came on TV. Every person I talked to said this was the most boring movie they had ever seen, yet everyone who has posted reviews seems to love it. I am a huge fan of all the actors on board, but even though Geena won the Oscar for this, I felt she should have been more funny to help pick up the pace of the movie. Apparently, she really campaigned for this role too. After I had been through a series of surprise deaths in my own life I realized that it is slow because Macon(Hurt)is mourning throughout the movie. Realizing this, I rewatched the movie, and was reminded that it is still the slowest movie ever. Don't ever purchase this movie even if it is on discount, before watching it 1st. Also try to watch it somewhere for free. It's too boring to pay for, and I can't believe no one else feels this way. "},{"Title":"Lacks emotional connectivity, just like it's lead character","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Mediocre melodrama starts off promising but continues to fall downward into apathetic lane due to an immature script (although with it's share of decent lines) bad pacing, and a counterintuitive tone in nearly all of it's emotional delivery. Thank goodness for lead William Hurt, who clearly guides the film with his underrated, subtle articulations as the out of touch travel writer who begins to reconnect with the world after tragedy has befallen him. Oscar winner Geena Davis is merely decent in her performance, and to be honest did more in her quiet moments then she did with her stilted delivery. A decent TV movie of the night, if one is older and in the mood for a serious comedy, but by no means the classic some have accounted for, and hardly even a worthy movie to indulge in, in and of itself. "}]