[{"Title":"The Secret Of My Succe$s's evil twin","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You have to leave it to Michael J. no-one looks better harried in a casual suit than he. That artfully ruffled hair is just the shizzle. Even when he's been boozing and snorting lines all night, he looks like the picture of life. Here he's teamed up with Kiefer Sutherland, the second best-looking guy in a ruffled suit, and all seems to be set for a zany, New-York-in-the-Eighties comedy along the lines of Fox's previous The Secret Of My Succe$s. Only that they decided to make a dire serious movie instead, probably to allow Fox to work beyond the comedy genre for a change.So Fox plays the young would-be writer of the Great American Novel who struggles with*the death of his mother a year ago*being left by his model wife (meaning they're married and she works as a model -- everyone did in the Eighties) for a swanky French fashion photographer*having to work as a fact checker for a The New Yorker-type magazine instead of being recognised as a literary maven*New York City*partying too hard, taking too much coke and hanging around models with earrings the size of dinner plates too muchHere's how the story went down with me the main character and his entourage live the affluent life of New Yorker young urban professionals that everybody dreamed about in the Eighties. Our hero Jamie Conway has a well-paying job in the media, but he whines because he'd rather be an author. It's sad that his wife left him, but he handles it so immaturely that you begin to feel that she made the right choice. The dead mother in Kansas seems to be thrown in gratuitously to add ballast. The other women in this movie are so stereotypical (the motherly type, lots of club-going fashion skanks and finally the homely girl who goes to bed at ten under a large frilly duvet) that I garnered even more sympathies for the cheating wife. I couldn't buy into the whole coke fiend schtick because Michael J. Fox just looks so damn perky and apple-cheeked all the time.Finally the ending Jamie meets his estranged wife at a party, starts laughing hysterically, then his nose starts to bleed from doing all those lines. He then decides to call that homely girl, whines to her about his mother, and sorta decides that he's through with all those modern women and that she's what he needs. He then goes out into the New York morning and trades a loaf of bread for his sunglasses. Credits.The story reminded me in many ways of The Catcher In The Rye -- only that TCITR a good, captivating book, while BRBC is a boring film. Maybe the book it was based on was much better, but it just didn't translate well to film, or maybe it was crap too. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie at all","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Michael J. Fox does an admirable job in the lead role of this movie adaptation of Jay McInerey's book.  The plot concerns one man's downfall over the period of a week, and how it all stems from his mother dying and his wife leaving him.  The movie follows the basic plot of the book with few changes.  Overall a very decent movie, with a solid cast. "},{"Title":"Better than you might think","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I remember the ads for this film on TV when it came out, and it seemed appealing to me then, even though I did not see it until recently on video. I must say this is not a bad film by any means, and has quite a bit to say about the struggles of young adults trying to find their place in the world.  It seems to me to be sort of the father of Trainspotting in several ways (drugs, youth struggling with identity in society, narration, etc.), although not nearly as elaborately produced, there are some pretty decent elements of style incorporated some of which work well, some not so well.Frankly I was surprised this was a Hollywood picture.  The subject matter is not something that one would think people would flock to see, but maybe the producers thought it might be a new kind of Breakfast Club type film. Who knows, but it was an interesting risk that didn't pan out, as I do not recall this being a very successful film at the box office, but I admire the attempt at bringing it to a wide audience.Some of the scenes seem a bit awkward, like the opening of the film at the former, great, NYC club, The Paladium, and the ferrit scene towards the end, and the confrontations with Pheobe Kates.  However one has to wonder if this was intentional, because of the film makers' apparent desire to show that in reality things are not always so comfortable.Overall a film worth one's time, if you keep your mind open a little bit. This is not Hollywood fluff, but it isn't a Lions Gate release either.  I think Michael J Fox also deserves a lot of credit for doing Bright Lights, Bit City because this was the height of his career and to take on such a risk and a challenging as an actor should be commended.  The movie is a pretty good attempt at handling a subject that is a reality for many youth. I think this audience is the one who would have most use out of such a film so if you fit in that category, it's worth your time.  "},{"Title":"Under-rated","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a good, although not great, movie that often gets a lower rating than it deserves.  All the actors fill their roles perfectly, especially Keifer Sutherland.  The problem is it occasionally tries to be funny (or something?), which doesn't mesh with the rest of the film.  Two guys getting attacked by a ferret is not very funny anyhow, unless they are Bill Murray and Jim Carrey.  Ignore the parts that try to be funny and you will find this movie much more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Fox was miscast","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are two things that went wrong with this film. First and foremost is that Michael J. Fox is totally miscast for his role. I can understand him wanting to break away from the Alex Keaton character on Family Ties. But, although he tries, he simply isn't right as a coke-addled, anguished writer. And it knocks the whole film off-kilter. Another problem is that the story doesn't translate easily onto film. There are some compensations- great supporting cast, catchy theme song (Kiss & Tell by Bryan Ferry), and excellent use of New York City locations. But they weren't enough to make the film a success, and the disappointing returns at the box office bear this out. "},{"Title":"Time Capsule Theater","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I won't bother with recounting the plot--plenty of others here have done that--but I will give some thoughts from the perspective of a 40-something who remembers fondly the movie and the times from whence it came.I remember hating this movie when I first saw it back in the day. I'd read half the novel and hated that too. My main memory of both of them, oddly enough, was the Coma Baby. It features heavily in the book but somewhat less so in the movie.Watching it again so many years later and so many years out from the 80s, I was surprised to find myself enjoying it. Perhaps it was a nostalgia thing. My mind was certainly flooding with associated memories. 1988 was the year I finished high school. I was soon to leave my little red-neck country town and move to the big smoke where a whole new life would begin (and there have been at least three more since then!).Some positives I'm a huge Donald Fagen/Steely Dan fan, so Fagen's soundtrack was appreciated. It doesn't really sound like his regular stuff (until the very end), and was, frankly, often quite cheesy and even out of place at times. But I convinced myself I liked it. Other Fagen fans may also. The movie really grabs the 80s very effectively. Nightclubs, hair, blow, the whole bit. There is a surprising appearance from the wonderful Jason Robards which, shamefully, is uncredited according to IMDb. Considering the size of his role this is kind of odd.Negatives Phoebe Cates seemed completely unconvincing as a model and Michael J. Fox was completely unconvincing as a...sorry, but, hey...as a grown-up. He's never really any different from how he was in Back to the Future or even Family Ties. He's still all got up in jeans and a suit jacket, skipping all over the place, and gulping, Shucks (at least seemingly). No disrespect to the guy. Just that this movie reminds that he was never so well suited to anything with pretensions to being serious. And that last point sums up the problems with this film it eventually becomes apparent that the movie is trying to be taken seriously. It just doesn't work though. A pretentious novel as starting place doesn't help. Ham acting and cheese dialog don't help none neither.Still, an enjoyable time capsule. Kiefer does OK as wise-a** friend. The wonderful Frances Sternhagen, an appearance from the then-soon-to-be-late John Houseman, and even the magnificent William Hickey. Tracy Pollan is gorgeous and Swoosie Kurtz is her usual charming self. The ending is quite poignant, featuring Dianne Wiest, but isn't enough to really justify getting there.If you're 40-something, watch this with ice cream and snacks on a lazy weekday evening. If you're younger or older than that...probably don't bother, coz it ain't really that great. "},{"Title":"Dim lights, fuzzy details.","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It must have struck cinematographer Gordon Willis as highly ironic that he would shoot a film with the title Bright Lights, Big City. Willis, known for his fabulous work with dark, muted colors and characters in shadows or silhouettes, seems absolutely lost within this night-life milieu, which isn't bright and hardly seems big. Jay McInerney adapted his own 1984 novel about a would-be writer in New York City whose job in the research department of a prominent magazine (Gotham!) is constantly threatened by his drug use, which may stem from a broken marriage and memories of his deceased mother. It's not difficult to pinpoint what went wrong here although Michael J. Fox may seem well-cast from the outset, it clearly becomes apparent he's in over his head. Fox (whose plastic voice-over narration was probably supposed to sound hard-boiled) is too well-scrubbed and corn-fed to be convincing as a party maniac; acting disoriented by blinking his eyes heavily and tightening his thin mouth, Fox is strictly a morose good-time guy, mourning the separation from fashion model spouse Phoebe Cates. But there's nothing at stake for this kid when he stays up all night (except for his job at the magazine, which hardly matters to us since the sequences set there are wholly unconvincing). Director James Bridges takes an episodic approach to the narrative, but his continuity (or perhaps the editing) is sloppy and gummy, and the people in Fox's small circle aren't terribly interesting. And did the movie go through a budgetary crisis? The weak nightclubbing scenes look barren and cheap (aside from some city vistas and subway rides, the picture could easily take place in Passaic, New Jersey for all we know). When Fox goes out on a blind date with Tracy Pollan, we know instantly these two clean-cut kids will click on their appearance alone they look like an upscale young couple coming home from a Republican fundraiser. There's nothing dangerous about Michael J. Fox or his approach to this part. He drinks, he snorts, he swears, but he doesn't live the highs and lows of an addict on the edge. Or, is this guy an addict? There's no visual punch in Bridges' staging to suggest he's anything more than a spoiled kid looking for a girl to adore him. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Actually Very Good","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Despite the lukewarm reviews this film is always given, it is actually quite good. It may not fare on the same level as more gritty, powerful 80's substance abuse films such as Less Than Zero or Clean And Sober but its very likeable. Yes, some of the scenes from the book don't actually survive their journey to the screen but even these scenes are charming and enjoyable...in an awkward sort of way. For instance, the coma baby. Who doesn't love the coma baby?!?! He's great. And so is Michael J. Fox in what is arguably his best role. He makes Jamie the handsome, vulnerable guy who really wouldn't be at a place like this at this time of the morning. I can't say someone else couldn't have done it better but Fox pulls it off without trying to sneek around any drama with jokes like a lot of comedy-gone-drama actors try to do. His drunken dialogue in front of Swoozie Kurtz over dinner at her apartment is a genuinely great piece of acting. Keifer Sutherland is there to play Allagash and nobody could play Allagash like Sutherland plays Allagash. And the dialogue is great due to McInerney's wit and ear for the clever talk of the coked-up New York night people. I can't say too much for the directing but the talent here, no matter how misled, is undeniable. "},{"Title":"No pain, no gain.","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had only watched this film a couple months back, and I just had the urge to watch it again. You know what&#x85; if I want to, I could watch it tonight with no hesitation. I don't know why, but Bright Lights, Big City simply impressed me. Watching it the second time around, I picked up on a lot symbolic parallels running through the effectively told story on substance abuse / addiction. Not that they weren't noticeable the first time, but on this occasion they simply clicked. Another thing was the staying power of Michael J. Fox's outstanding central performance. He sells it, a multi-facet turn as a character truly lost under the alluring yuppie Manhattan nightlife scene of neon lights, drugs, alcohol and women. One day wasted after another, where it's hard to distinguish the morphing days and what becomes a downward spiral into descent. And why this option to escape personal damage, because he can't handle what's in front of him. Double vodka and lines of coke. Yeah the character forgets his hurt for the time being, but the effect of this culture deadens him from reality and inspirations. This means the problems only boil over. He risks his job (although he doesn't love it), family (who he has pushed away after his mother's death of cancer) and importantly his own well-being. So I guess its not particularly a happy-shinny outing and it isn't suppose to be, despite some periods played for laughs (namely the scenes with David Warrilow and a payback prank that gets out of hand involving a ferret), it remains powerfully confronting in its depiction.Jamie Conway finds himself wasting his days in a banally demanding job, because as an aspiring fiction writer he's completely stuck with writer's block and to make matters worse his model wife (Phoebe Cates) left him to advance her career. No explanation why, just gone. And his mum had died of leukaemia, which still seems to haunt him. So in the dumps, he ends up going out every night with his pal Tad (Kiefer Sutherland) getting hammered to only wake-up to go through the same routine again, but the lifestyle begins to catch-up on him. Where he slowly begins to open up his eyes to what's happening to his life, and its coming up to the one-year anniversary of his mother's death.There's a sub-plot running through the narrative, where it has newspapers and TV news shows reporting on a coma baby, that the mother is having trouble giving birth to. This symbolic insert (where it does have one oddly surreal dream sequence) perceives the manner of how Fox's character lives in a bubble (or coma), not wanting to face or hear about reality at first despite his troubled and bitter mindset and best efforts from those who really care for him (especially his scenes involving his brother --- admirably performed by Charlie Schlatter). Also the charming Swoosie Kurtz, plays the character Megan which is Jamie's co-worker who can be seen somewhat a surrogate mother figure for Jamie, especially the way she's always picking up after him and calling him to make sure his awake so he's not late at work. Because he's skating on thin ice with the constant attention of the bosses (exemplary performances by Frances Sternhagen and John Houseman) --- coming in late too often and numerous errors finding its way into his work due to a lack of commitment and drive. Eventually after the frustrating build up (losing job, ex-girlfriend back in town), she is the one that he spills his guts out too. Throughout we get peering flashbacks (namely in the mid-to-latter end) of Jamie talking to his bed-ridden mother (an engagingly vibrant Dianne Wiest), where we learn what's happening to her and then she questions him about his life topics. These moments are movingly done, and when he starts thinking of them it becomes a shock to the system in simply facing the facts. Other than Kurtz's character, the other genuine character to help him was Tad's sister Vicky (warmly performed by Tracy Pollan). What Jamie saw in Vicky was someone who was down-to-earth, where he could naturally be around without the use of drugs to liven the occasion. Around her he felt normal, and there was sincerity to their interactions that he could trust and confide. He's reborn (think of coma baby) after his coming to terms telephone conversation with Vicky and utters a memorable line to Tad. While around his yuppie friends (or bad companions); led by Tad (an excellently suave Keifer Sutherland). They didn't really know each other or really took time out to do so. Whenever together it was a shallow illustration of senseless partying throughout long, lost nights. A fitting Phoebe Cates in what small scenes she does have looks great and creates an interestingly vain character that has you totally hook to why she left Jamie. His jealousy of her success really soars in some sequences. Throughout the whole experience you feel like you're in his shoes or better in his head riding the lows.Director James Bridges moodily stylish and slick handling neatly combines the hustle and bustle of the nightlife NY scene. Directionless at times, but efficient. Surrounding the air is an oozing, bluesy music score, which is perfect at expressing the running emotions. Tightly edited and it's well written by Jay McKiernan (adapting his own novel) making good sense of the witty dilogues and character complexities, despite not entirely being clear with the motivations. Edgy location details were superbly brought across.Bright Lights, Big City is a contemplative character drama with excellent performances grounding it. "},{"Title":"Don't bother. Really. Don't even bother.","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I read the original book for a Freshman English class, and was enthralled by a unique character study from a Second Person perspective.  Then, the teacher showed us this, and now I understand why film snobs always complain The book was better.  In this case, it most certainly IS.  There's a major plot point toward the end of the book (which I won't mention here, not so I won't spoil the movie, but the book), that puts all that you read into perspective and makes it all worthwhile.  Here, the point is revealed in the first 5 minutes, and it ruins any reason to sit through this motion picture. Instead of reading and wondering Why is he like this?, which was one of the main reasons the book was such a page-turner, the movie tells you why he does it, and you just sit there and watch him do it, knowing why.  Remember how people say they hate people who reveal the endings to things?  Well, this movie just up and DOES IT ITSELF!  If you still want to see the movie, first read the book, then have some fun with friends picking apart this mish-mosh of a noble failure.   "}{"Title":"When the party's over","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bright Lights,Big City is one of Michael J. Fox's better dramatic films, in my opinion. Why? Because we gradually see that while his character,Jamie Conway, seems to be holding it together, he is dying on the inside. We start out at last call at a nightclub, where we learn Jamie's wife left him to model in Paris. As time goes on, we see Jamie fall apart, losing his job, dignity, and nearly his sanity in a desperate, hopeless attempt to keep up appearances and fool everyone around him,and himself, into believing everything is alright. The disjointed feel, repetitive flashbacks, and haunted tone of his actions show the viewer that this is a man who seriously needs help to get out of the hell his life has become. Although it might like this was excessive in response to his wife leaving, in the end, we find out what started all thishis mother's long illness and death. She had died a year before, and the drugs, booze, and work fixation had been Jamie's, destructive, way of denying his pain and grief. I will admit this is a hard movie to watch. However, Fox's portrayal of the dark side of the fast lane and self destruction is excellent. As someone who has lost a parent young, I can say it realistically depicts the true damage that grieving can cause, especially when denied for so long. If you want to see Michael J. Fox in a serious movie, watch this. "},{"Title":"Not a bad 80's Michael J. Fox film","Date":"23 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I recently D.V.R.'d Bright Lights, Big City, to once-and-for-all give it a real chance. Over the years, I've caught clips of it, but never really saw and/or appreciated it. So, since it's been on T.V. a bit more these days, I decided to D.V.R. it while I still had the chance. I wasn't disappointed, I am a life-long Michael J. Fox fan, and I was glad to have the chance to see one of his more serious post-Family Ties, Back to the Future, roles of the '80's. He was real good in his poignant, compelling and touching role as a talented, successful, but troubled and misguided young man dealing with two recent major blows in his life The death of his beloved mother (A situation I can personally relate to), and his break-up with his beautiful, talented, aspiring model wife. There were parts that were of course depressing and sad, but there were witty, funny, and introspective parts that made this film well worth a try. OH, MAJOR SPOILER ALERT HERE, READ OVER TO END One main point of this film that deserves true credit is that it didn't go with a truly depressing and downbeat ending; Fox's character really faced reality and decided to go on the right, better-guided path for a change. Bright Lights, Big City, in my humble opinion, is NO Back to the Future, by any means, but it did it's job well with story-telling and acting. Kudos to the movie and Michael J. "},{"Title":"Glitzy nights of excitement and sex, big apple style, hide a not so bright world of drug abuse","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of my favourite Michael J Fox movies. We really get to see him in a dramatic role, though I hadn't bothered with that turkey, Light Of Day. This refreshingly original film was something totally different totally for me, a hard hitting drama that plays well on screen, though it might of not had the impact, the novel intended. An R rating slapped on, as a few were back in the day, supposedly for drug use, like Fox's bleeding nostril when he does too much coke, didn't make much sense. We see two hot women kissing in a cubicle, when Jamie (Fox) walks in then quickly retreats, spouting a funny response of dialogue, in that great comic timing of his. Could this be another reason. Whatever it is, nothing should of stopped people under 18 from seeing this. Jamie Conway's life is a mess, which he refuses to acknowledge. The first anniversary of his mother's passing is coming up. His beautiful model girlfriend (Cates-really) a heartless b..ch has reappeared in his life, choosing a career over a sunken Jamie. His prim and demanding boss, an editor of a magazine, an old hag, is pushing him to finish an article, where he'd rather be doing drugs, or trying to write that aspiring never to published novel. Also little brother has just popped into town. As an anti drug movie, this one works well. In the face of mishap, loss, whatever, drugs are not the solution, and it doesn't help when you're swayed by slime bag friends. Fox does well, though he's not great. Though really, he's never been as good an actor as people have been led to believe. Shining performances comes from Cates and Sutherland. Robards was fun to watch too, and Wiest was great as always, as Fox's mother, seen in flashbacks, that we're a bit heavily laid on. BLBC is an engrossing, if intriguing drama about young 80's New Yorkers, and the drug and disco scene, and we can't forget the coma baby. The scene with Fox again confronting Cates who says to him in casual tone, How are ya? where Fox is just thunderstruck, and crashes back against a transvestite, is probably one of three memorable moments. But Fox fan should like it. Well made drama, that should be viewed time and time again, even for under 18's. "},{"Title":"Coma Baby","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Throughout the story Michael J Fox (Jamie) reads about a Coma Baby who does not want to leave the womb. Also throughout the movie, people are constantly screaming Can You Hear Me??? or I cant Hear You!!! The symbolism is obvious... And as you know by now, Jamie wants to hide the pain, kill the pain, run from the pain, avoid the pain. Be in a Coma himself. Nothing better than Coke to escape. And the loud (great) New Order's True Faith can cover any hope to have a conversation where you might have to deal with what you are trying to avoid. I loved the 80's ... I lived the 80's ... And this movie is a good enough rendition of that time. The time when you have money before you have responsibilities. The final scene has him eating freshly baked bread with the World Trace Center towers in the distant background... An amazing metaphor for us in America today... As he says there, we have to learn it all from the beginning again... "},{"Title":"Better than I'd expected","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Personally, I was a bit horrified to hear that Michael J. Fox was trying to perform in a dramatic role, without pratfalls.My bad. He did a darn fine job with it.Keifer Sutherland was almost perfect as the hard-partying friend. The rest of the cast, on-screen for much less time, was also fine. Jason Robards in an uncredited stint as the drunken editor from down the hall did his usual excellent job.Some of the other reviewers seem to have missed the point - this is a story about a man hitting the bottom and beginning his bounce back.One of the best movies I've seen that portrays the reality facing young adults in the 80's in the USA. It's probably got a lot to say about the 20-something young professional experience from about 1975 to the present.I'd not have cast Michael J. Fox - but I'd have been wrong. The rest of the amazingly talented cast did remarkably well - the casting director should get an Oscar for this one. When this happens, one can usually lay at least some of the blame on the director as well - I'll start looking for more of Mr. Bridges' work.The book may have been better - most books are. Deal. Watching the movie without having read the book, I catch many of the nuances, and get at least the gist of the story being told. I've never seen a good novel that'd make a decent 2-hour movie, anyway - it'd have to be reworked to come in under 6 hours. "},{"Title":"takes place in all the cleanest bathrooms in NY","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A lot of the scenes take place in nightclub restrooms and other bathrooms. This is where the characters snort their coke, and stare at their own disappointed faces. What's remarkable for NYC in the 80s (in any decade, really) is that every single toilet stall and urinal is fantastically clean. I take this as a symbol for the movie as a whole - all rather sanitized. It's not bad, but the plot falls off rather suddenly at the end. Some viewers might not notice, of course, since nothing was ever that worrying, in any case it's all too well-scrubbed. All the main character ever has to do to fix things is tell his friends he's going to go home and get a good night's sleep. It's hard on a movie when the big question is will he nap, or won't he? "},{"Title":"A better read","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jay McInerney's story of a young man's broken life, and his struggle to become somebody, would probably have made better reading than viewing. Director James Bridges finds it hard to give the movie any depth, and the overall plot lacks direction. However, Bright Lights, Big City is observant, without ever being powerfully moving. Michael J. Fox does well with the character of Jamie Conway, making him quite believable and easy to identify with. Support comes from Kiefer Sutherland, Phoebe Cates and Swoosie Kurtz.Ending without really resolving itself, this is no must see film, but it's worth a look. Read the book!Wednesday, February 19, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Excellent Film!","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" BRIGHT LIGHTS, BIG CITY (1988) is one of my favorite movies of all time and no doubt the best Michael J Fox film ever. Fox is wonderful in this, not forgetting Kieth Sutherland as well. The story is follows a young kid (Michael J Fox) who lives in Kansas who goes off to New York City and gets slowly into more and more trouble with Drugs. I can't say more good this about this movie. If you have not seen this movie you should, and if you like Drama films with a lot of bumps and jumps you should also take a look at this movie. Trust me you will not be disopointed, with this emotional film. Happy viewing everyone. Also if your a Fox fan this is a must have. "},{"Title":"Not good","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was fooled by comments here into watching this one. It is, in a sense, all flashback without an establishing context. We don't learn until the end that much of Fox's problem results from his mother's death. The other reason -- the 'divorce' -- is made much of but no context for that is established. So -- he drinks, snorts, and fails in his job as a fact-checker for a Vanity Fair type of magazine. And -- so what? The motivation seems just to be self-destruction, and that is not particularly interesting. I suppose the Robards character (like the coma baby) is a 'reflector' of the main character. But the Robards character seems actually to have had a life at some point in the distant past. What is he doing now? Is he still holding down a job? Why was Fox's character broke at some points yet affluent at others? Can anyone drink vodka all day, snort, and still function? His treatment of his brother was not only nasty, but unmotivated. What was the point of the ferret episode? The main character's equation of his friend and ex-wife at the end was incomprehensible. This is an incoherent ramble. No story. Tedious and radically un-involving. "},{"Title":"very sad movie.","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this a long time ago and still remmeber how good it was. Who hasn't had a jaime in their life at some point? Michael J. Fox did an excellent job with tihs role and it's a movie that anybody who appreciates movies about the pitfalls of addictions and the destruction that living on the darkside can wreak would enjoy. It's not a happy movie and it is very 80's(it came out in the late 80's as I recall) but is still very well done and should be seen by anyone who appreciates movies of this genre. "}{"Title":"Me Me Me","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You guys have got to be kidding---this is one of the worst movies ever made, for one simple reason not only does Michael J. Fox's character not give a crap about anyone but himself, but he is aided along by the fact that every other character in the movie cares ONLY about him! None of them have lives; all of their lives revolve around HIM, and for no reason, since there's nothing interesting about him. A typical example of how outrageous this can be is when he calls the character played by his real-life wife Tracy Pollan on the phone at 3am on a weeknight, and she's not even annoyed that he woke her up. She's all bright & bubbly & Oh Hi Jamie, what's up? What can I do for you? Everyone feels overwhelming sympathy for him just because he was (justifiably) fired from his job as a magazine fact checker, for heaven's sake. WHO CARES?? BTW there is another film w/William Hurt called Accidental Tourist that has the exact same problem no one cares about anything except the self-absorbed character, who is boring beyond belief. Avoid these films like the plague! "},{"Title":"Michael J. Fox doesn't fit","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In NYC, Jamie Conway (Michael J. Fox) is drinking and doing drugs until the clubs close. He had lied about being fluent in French and has a fact-checking job on Gotham Magazine. His boss Clara (Frances Sternhagen) has a rush French job expecting him to fail. His co-worker Megan (Swoosie Kurtz) tries to help him. His best friend Tad Allagash (Kiefer Sutherland) is even worst. His model wife Amanda (Phoebe Cates) had left him behind for Paris and he's still struggling with his mother (Dianne Wiest)'s death. He becomes obsessed with a New York Post story about a coma baby. He gets set up on a date with Vicky (Tracy Pollan) by Tad.It's the last directing effort for James Bridges. It's not nearly as cheesy as Perfect but he's been on a downward slide for awhile. The biggest problem is that Michael J. Fox doesn't fit this role. He doesn't have the required darkness. He has a beautiful lightness that can't be extinguished no matter how hard he tries. Otherwise, the movie has the overall sense of a time and a place. With Kiefer Sutherland in the lead, this could have been something special. "},{"Title":"Could Have and Should Have Been Better!","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bright Lights, Big City is by all means not an awful film and in fact, it's actually quite interesting. But with the subject material given, the movie should have been better. Despite my holding interest, boring would be a word to accurately describe the movie. Seriously, it seems like the only thing the guy does in the film is snort coke and that grows old fast. But it was interesting to watch a Kansas guy barely holding his own in a big city while struggling mightily with his inner demons.James Bridges film is about a guy named Jamie Conway who is a fact-checker for a huge New York magazine, but at nights he is a convulsive partier with a bad cocaine addiction. He is also struggling with his past as he moved to New York to get away from anything and he is also having problems with his estranged wife who left him as her career exploded.The acting is actually pretty good. This is a good attempt for Michael J. Fox to get rid of his good-guy image and I think he mostly succeeds. But by the end, I still sympathized for the guy. There are some good supporting turns by Kiefer Sutherland and Jason Robards here.Overall, I dearly wanted to love this film, but I wasn't able to. I liked the film enough, but I was kind of disappointed at the end result. The movie looks good, makes some good points, and tries to be your typical 80's movie. I should also mention it has a killer soundtrack. But, I guess it wasn't meant to be. It was still interesting and a rather good watch and so I rate this film 7/10. "},{"Title":"Some great scenes plus a good soundtrack, good acting, however there's not much else","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bright Lights, Big City is a 1988 film starring Michael J Fox as a cocaine addicted newspaper editor.The movie shows him and his friend played by Keifer Sutherland, the partying & the coke that they do together, plus some parts of the past.Apparently he does cocaine to forget about how his wife left him and how his mother died.It has been a year since this has happened.There is also some messed up part with a coma baby, which he has a dream sequence about.The acting is fairly good from Fox and Sutherland.There are some fairly powerful dramatic scenes, also one funny scene involving a ferret, also the 1980's soundtrack was fairly good as well, especially Century's End by Donald Fagen.But other than that, the film was fairly boring.It was realistic as a lot of business-types were doing cocaine.Movies/Video Games such as Carlito's Way, Grand Theft Auto Vice City & American Psycho will show this.I have never read the book and only heard of the author when he was mentioned in Ellis's semi-autobiographical novel Lunar Park.I personally thought American Psycho(another movie which is partly about business types in the 1980's) to be a better movie.This is a decent film, it was just sort of boring. "},{"Title":"My Favorite 80's Cocaine Nightmare","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The 1980's in New York were all about conspicuous consumption grabbing everything that the world owed you (and then some) and doing blow. Lots and lots of blow.Bright Lights, Big City is my favorite 80's cocaine nightmare. It features Michael J. Fox as a yuppie fact-checker at an upscale magazine whose mother's death has forced him into an aborted marriage and a coke hobby that's slowly destroying him. First, I have to praise Michael J. Fox for taking this role, playing completely against type at the height of his career. This movie is made even richer if you've seen Fox in The Secret Of My Success as Bright Lights plays like the flip-side version in the bizarro world.In Success Fox can do no wrong... in Bright Lights his character Jamie can do no right. Jamie, from Kansas, has never dealt with his mother's painful death from cancer, and has escaped to New York to deny. His marriage to a beautiful girl proved to be a sham; she becomes a model and leaves him for the high life and he's left with even more pain. How do you get numb when it hurts this bad? In New York in the 80's the solution is simple hook up with a yuppie scum in the form of Kiefer Sutherland and start snorting.But the nightmare continues... Frances Sternhagen- as Jamie's boss and substitute mother figure- keeps finding errors in his work as his lifestyle spirals further and further into insanity. His sloppiness is compounded by the personal shame she seems to feel for him... her love makes it WORSE. After the inevitable termination his co-worker Megan (Swoosie Kurtz) invites him to her place for a sympathy dinner. And what does Jaime do? He ransacks her medicine cabinet and tries to molest her on the couch. Ouch...But this is precisely what makes Bright Lights a good movie... based on the circumstances you're rooting AGAINST the hero, getting off on his misery and failure. Maybe this reverse empathy stems from fear of being in the same situation... whatever the reason, it Works, and makes the movie almost a guilty pleasure. This was probably the most mature performance Fox ever gave, and the supporting cast- Sternhagen, Sutherland, John Houseman, Dianne Wiest- are superb.Bright Lights, Big City is a brilliant snapshot of a lost soul in a lost world... it's a lost classic.GRADE A- (If you enjoy the 80's Cocaine Nightmare genre I highly suggest Less Than Zero, American Psycho, and pretty much anything with James Spader) "},{"Title":"A truly Amazing Movie","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bright Lights Big City A truly Amazing Movie it's now one of my favourite Movies.Bright Lights Big City is about a Jamie Conway (Michael J Fox) a writer who moves to Manhattan and gets caught in the New York scene partly because of his friend Tad (Kieer Sutherland). But mainly because of a reason I can't say as it will spoil the Movie.The best thing about a Michael J Fox Movie is when Michael acts the character perfectly. I know that's what acting is all about but Michael will take your breath away. Kieer Sutherland was just right of the roll as Tad. Vicky (Tracy Pollan) only has a little but the most important roll in whole film you will see .The phone call at the end of the film make you want to cry. (Danne West) who plays the role of Jamie's mother again has a little roll but gives a brilliant performance. The only thing I thought was unnecessary is the bit with the ferret but that just me. This Movie is a good example how you can be so down but you can always bring yourself back up. Sometimes you just have to see you'll be OK. I would give this amazing film 10/10. "},{"Title":"Hedonist Inc.","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie shows the consequences of leading a self serving, indulgent lifestyle where being seen at the right place and moving on in the pursuit of glamor and 'good times' becomes life's aim, but sadly no one ever really arrives. In fact, the protagonist only finds the more he indulges, the lonelier and hopelessly lost he becomes. Keifer Sutherland nails the character - Tad Allagash, the protagonist's rich cousin - a coke snorting hedonist who's game is to party hard and then party harder, with the constant fear of missing a good time snapping at his heels. I loved this movie to bits. Its fast and moves easily to the rhythmic beat of New York City. However there is a universal truth to this story, in that there is a Tad Allagash every city and this will never change! "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I like most of Fox's movies with the exception of this waste of time and Casualties of War, but that had more to do with my disdain of Sean Penn than Fox. This movie is one of the most depressing pieces of film I ever saw. This movie was made along the same lines as Less than Zero which is about what I would rate this movie.Lets just say when I left the theater my thought was There is 2 hours of my life I will never get back.Don't waste your time rent Back to the Future and enjoy a movie where Fox is entertaining not a depressed coke head. "},{"Title":"great story, great actors!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Taken from one of the best books I ever read, this film is really well-done the 80's atmosphere is gorgeous! Michael J. Fox demonstrates, once again, that he's not only a pretty boy-face, but a good dramatic actor (see casualties of war too, to believe it!).  "},{"Title":"Once again, the book was better.","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  But this isn't a bad effort.  Fox tries hard and Sutherland is good as the hardy partier.  Fox's youthful looks and diminutive size are obstacles to a good portrayal of Jamie.  Sutherland would have been a better choice for that role and Fox the party guy.  "}{"Title":"Michael J. Fox's best film performance","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  BRIGHT LIGHTS, BIG CITY (1988) ***1/2 Michael J. Fox, Kiefer Sutherland, Phoebe Cates, Swoosie Kurtz, Frances Sternhagen, Dianne Wiest, Jason Robards, John Houseman, Tracey Pollan , Charlie Schlatter, Kelly Lynch, Jessica Lundy,  William Hickey, Sam Robards.  Excellent adaptation by Jay McInerney of his widely popular novel of decadence with Fox making the most of his troubled character on a bender of booze and drugs in NYC  while trying to keep his personal life under wraps unsuccessfully.  Best scene is Fox's heartbreaking late-night phone call to Pollan.  Look sharp for a young David Hyde Pierce as a catering bartender at a fashion show. (Dir James Bridges)  "},{"Title":"9 out of 10, what idiot could vote a 5??","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This great film and novel adaptation is obviously underrated.Although I have not read the book, (and nor should I to be able to personally judge this film), my guess is that probably most people are whining that the book was better. That's like saying that the car was better than the bike. They probably complain that the movie was not a precise enough adaptation. When will people realise that an exact adaptation will usually result in a boring and overly long film?. The movie definitely has the essential qualities for a good film with it's intelligent script, compelling drama, sober realism and superb acting.This is Michael J Fox's best role and he does a great job. I think he's such an underrated actor, he made Family Ties what it was and will never be forgotten as Marty Mc Fly in Back to the Future, but this is his peak film.I could very much symphatise and identify with the main character that slowly loses grip on reality, eventually spending most of his time in a drugged state of mind. Drugs are his only joy, until he's finally confronted by his caring brother and becomes at peace with reality in a moderately positive ending (which was criticised by some). His loneliness and desperation are depicted in a very convincing way, with his heartless girlfriend (Phoebe Cates) and harsh boss. My favorite scenes are the ones at work, where his incompetence becomes painfully evident.Having recently watched Requiem for a Dream (also about drug addiction), I realize this movie's even better. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dim Bulbs, Bad Acting","Date":"6 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's easy to hate Michael J. Fox's Gee Whiz Doc! I dropped the coke in the toilet! performance but please consider all the other serious contenders for movie moronistocracy here. Keifer is SUPPOSED to be playing a successful, EDUCATED (if decadent) Ivy league Preppie, not a scuzzy New Jersey druggie. His accent veers wildly from Brooklyn Paluka to Malibu surfer. Frances Sternhagen spits out every line with the a cartoonish venom of a spinster schoolmarm and Swoozy Kurtz is positively motherly as his long-suffering, over-concerned colleague (who he makes a pass at in the book but here she seems to be more interested than he is for presumably obvious reasons). Jason Robards makes a wasted (and I do mean wasted) cameo as a slurry by-the-numbers drunk. Even John Houseman looks disoriented and uncomfortable in his role as the boss editor. But the worst is Fox's real-life wife Tracy Pollan. Supposed to be the bookish, intellectual cousin of Sutherland's character, she is a blonde bobblehead indistinguishable from the other blonde bobbleheads who populate the nightclub scenes. The only thing remotely watchable in this movie (mesmerizing actually) is Fox's hand. He rubs his face, bites his nail, scratches his chin and when it gets wrapped it a bandage following a ferret bite (! don't ask), then the hand really starts working overtime. At least it helps pass the 2 hours because there is nothing else going on in this star-studded fiasco. And yes, the book is brilliant. Go read the book instead. "},{"Title":"Sardonic look at the 80's...","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" written by Jay McInerney, who also wrote Gia. Kiefer Sutherland, Michael J. Fox, Jason Robards, John Houseman, Tracy Pollan and Phoebe Cates, also a small cameo with Diane Wiest as Fox's mother.There are a few insightful moments, but the 80's coke thing is getting old. This movie is preferable to shallow films like 54 and Wonderland, however. This film has developed its players, Michael J. Fox is sympathetic as Jaime, floundering at his NY job, partying, losing his fashion model wife.Kiefer Sutherland is also appropriately narcissistic, onto the next party, next girl, next high. Fox does not want to turn out like him, and anyone who is interested in his character may want to read the book. If I recall correctly, the book is less than 200 pages.The theme is more realistic in the book; for example Jaime finds himself reading the New York Post; retracted to absurd sensationalism, the meaninglessness of current events, the random anonymity of his life.While some of the scenes now seem contrived, at least the disco scenes are kept to a minimum, and the story is an interesting character study of a young graduate floundering in NY. 8/10 "},{"Title":"great, but was that all?","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I made the mistake to read the book Bright Lights, Big City before I saw the movie, so I was quite irritated by the fact that the screenplay was almost exactly the same as the lines from the book itself. and I think they made a mistake by casting Michael J. Fox for Jamie. He just can't bare the problems Jamie's having. Kiefer Sutherland on the other hand is almost perfect as coke-addict and womanizer Tad Alligash (you could have strange thoughts of that, but I just mean Kiefer's a great actor and he plays his part very, very well.and he looks hot in a suit). I might be over the top about it, but I think he rocks in this movie.  but I wasn't comfortable with the end. it's just, you don't hear anything of the other characters. did Jamie break with Tad or what? don't get me wrong, I loved the movie, but...was that all? didn't they have anything more to say about the ending? by all means, but this movie left me a little bit unsatisfied. you'll probably see it for yourself, if you watch it.  "},{"Title":"Good movie that educates teenagers and youngsters not to take drug that ruin future/prospects.","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jamie Conway, by Michael J Fox...graduated from University and work in a magazine (50-yr history) as a french writer there. The magazine always win fame and never publish anything in fault for 50 yrs. in these 50 yrs publish 20 editions (volume) only one - 2 is being rejected due to mistakes...ok, let's get started... Jamie always indulged to night clubs and go home @ 6am...so he always get up late and late for work. His boss is Clara and colleague is Megan. (The one who help jamie the most) jamie had been overtime in wednesday to tuesday times and was forced to delete 3 lines of the paper due to the deletion/cancellation of a cocktail party as you can watch from movie...Jamie always take cocaine. now matter how much he has he will take cocaine - and finally vomit blood there. In thursday, jamie was late, not only that, clara find him and fire him due to  (1) 2 accent reverse(2) a central electrolate was written as north(3) Candidate name wrong...but finally jamie has amanda...==> this film reflects how serious drug abuse is and want to teach ppl not to take drug so easily. interesting film. good to watch.  "}]