[{"Title":"I might be beaten for this...","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" ...But I like this movie....Critics hate it...Fans hate it....I think even the cast of this movie probably hate themselves for being in it...But i can't help it...I find it to be silly, good humor that always makes me laugh...Madonna is showing us a different side of her, true this was 14 years ago..but still..she was very amusing to watch...7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"underrated","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  The critics pile on most post-Desperately Madonna comedies, but this was not at all bad.  It's a latter-day Bringing Up Baby, and it's no insult to the memory of Hawks, Grant and Hepburn to say this was almost as good.  Not ringing praise, but I think fans of screwball owe it to themselves to see it.  Madonna's Golden Globe for Evita and stunning film debut in Susan were no fluke; she is quite funny here.  Griffin Dunne is a worthy foil, as she brings out his best performance.  I defy non-Grinches not to laugh when she pulls a Knock Knock joke at a staid coop board meeting.  See it. "},{"Title":"Madonna's best film.","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" As most positive reviews have already stated &#150; If your not a Madonna fan, you probably won't like this movie. However, as a Madonna fan, I saw this movie when it played on cable the first time, around 1988, I enjoyed this movie then and I still enjoy it now. It's not deep or even based in reality but it is just very fun to watch. Madonna gives a great performance as Nikki Finn; she's funny, sexy and assertive. It's clear she carries the film; I've read other user's comparisons to Judy Holiday and Marilyn Monroe, and to me, that's not bad company to be associated with. Her character is simply mesmerizing on screen, in late 80's fashion of course...I don't know about the rest of you, but I just enjoy seeing the Madonna we grew to love, before her exploitive stage, before she 'gave the farm away' so to speak, she was sexier then.How about the soundtrack? Great especially the theme song&#133; And Griffin Dunne is hilarious by the way. B+ "},{"Title":"All right, look. I know nobody likes it...","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" ...but I am sorry. I dig this movie. I cannot help it. I admire Madonna greatly for her staying power; by some people's standards, Madonna has been around forever, and EVERYONE knows who she is. My take is this kooky Nikki Finn dragging pathetically straightlaced Louden Trott all around the city on her own agenda, right after she's gotten out of the joint, is FUNNY. Is this movie immature? Yeah, sometimes. Is it predictable? Yeah, sometimes. Is it a fluffy little film that's regarded by some as a cheesy classic of the eighties? Yep. As Madonna said later, Why don't you just deal with it? ) "},{"Title":"Madonna as herself","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  The singer / icon known as Madonna in the 1980's was Nikki Finn. The outrageous and very funny little girl with a sketchy past could only be played Madonna. Who's that Girl is a romantic comedy about two completely different who end up falling in love under the most unusual circumstances. Although its not a great comedy, the story is genuine and the acting holds up. Surprisingly, Madonna does not use her sexuality as much as she has in the past and in future films. Her funniness and charm wins over the audience. Although she is very sexy, she does not use her eye candy to draw the audience. A coming of age drama in the sense that Madonna is growing up and trying to break away from her past. In the end, the movie showcases Madonna as an actress and not the singer. Not since Desperately Seeking Susan two years before, that a film took a chance to promote Madonna off the stage (music) and onto the big screen as a comedic actress. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as its reputation","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie the day it opened in NYC, at the Ziegfield.  At the time Madonna was not quite the cultural icon she is now.  She had a couple of hits, was very good in Desparately Seeking Susan and I had tickets to see her in concert at Giants Stadium. Who's That Girl? gives Madonna an actual role to play, which is not just a variation of her own personality.  She does the madcap/heroine routine better than you might think.  Griffin Dunne is very well cast as the man around to witness all the shenanigans.The story involves a huge cat named Murray, a bride-to-be who has slept with every cabbie in NYC, a mean father-in-law, and a key.  There are a lot of car chases and cops trailing their path. All the elements of a screwball comedy intact.  Sir John Mills is seen briefly.  He shares a glass of champagne with the leads and has the greatest apartment on the Upper West Side, complete with a rain forest and everything. Compared to most Madonna movies (the ones I've been able to tolerate anyway), this is fantastic.  On its own, its not that bad.  6/10.PS The concert was lousy.  "},{"Title":"Better than most of the recent comedies that focus on gross-out humor.","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Admittedly I was only 13 years old when I first saw this movie (in the theater), but it has always been one of my favorites.The story line was held together with some of the best lines. (I still quote them today). Madonna gets slammed for so many reasons, this movie should not be one of them. She and Griffin Dunne made a fun, quirky couple. It did not pretend to be anything than what it was, and who can find fault with that?This movie was part farce, part mystery (okay, not up to Agatha Christie standards) and part romantic comedy. It was no worse than most films that fall into the romantic comedy genre, if anything it is one of the better ones.For those of you out there who hate Madonna, by all means avoid this film, why torture yourself? But for anyone who likes her, or just wants to see a light, fluffy story with some great music (let's hear it for Scritti Politti)then Who's That Girl is a fun, nostalgic trip that will have you laughing in no time.Laugh at Buck, the delivery driver, or Griffin Dunne in that top hat and tails, and who could forget the bridesmaids, having been kidnapped and tied together, hitting on the cops? I'm laughing just thinking about it. "},{"Title":"A great Madonna flick with good music, acting and directing","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" If you like Madonna or not, this movie is hilarious!! I am a Madonna fan and did see this in the theater at the time of its release. However, over time it has not lost its silliness and pure fun. Sure there are some bad lines & cheesy acting but the whole film is just a screwball comedy with Madonna actually carrying the whole film with great bombast. She is cute,funny, and is the only comedic role of her movie career. Madonna usually just plays 'herself' in roles but watching her as Nikki Finn in this film, she really seems like somebody else for once. Of course the film is directed by James Foley (who filmed the dramatic and haunting 'At Close Range' with Sean Penn & Christopher Walken) and co-stars Griffin dunn ('After Hours') who is also brilliantly cast and has fun with the material. The story is nothing genius and don't expect some climatic ending but if you are ever in the mood to watch a fun, clean, 80's romp or if you are a Madonna fan than this is a MUST SEE. The Soundtrack is also very notable and contains 4 Madonna songs the #1 hit Who's That Girl, the #2 hit Causing A Commotion and the beautiful and one of her best ever ballads The Look of Love''(Top 10 Hit in the UK) and Can't Stop a left over pop ditty from the 'True BLue' sessions the year before. It is only on VHS but will soon be available on DVD. "},{"Title":"Who's That Girl The Early Marxism of Madonna","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Before she appeared in a series of Freudian dramas (Body of Evidence, Dangerous Game, Evita), Madonna experimented with juxtaposing the Nabokovian ideal of naive nymphette (see Desperately Seeking Susan) with that of unabashed working-class sexuality. What results is a masterpiece of subtle Neo-Marxist Feminism, culminated in the character of Nikki Fin. At the onset we're forced to inquire about Nikki's identity Really, who is that girl? Is she dressing that way intentionally? Does her sartorial behavior undermine or fuel her existential yearnings? Disguised as a comedy, Who's That Girl toys with the notion that under certain social imperatives (read capitalism reeling from Reaganomics) women must find purpose by not simply exercising hostility on their male peers, but expect social gain and subordination from their attempts. Can I recommend Who's That Girl? Wholeheartedly, I can. "},{"Title":"Good 80's Comedy!","Date":"24 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Madonna, Griffin Dunne, Haviland Morris, John McMartin and John Mills star in this 1987 comedy. This begins in a New York prison where we meet convict, Nikki Finn (Madonna) who is being released after serving 4 years for murder. Soon, an up-town lawyer, Louden Trott (Dunne) is sent by his boss & soon to be father-in-law, Simon Worthington (McMartin) to pick her up and take her to the bus station where she will go home to Philadelphia. He soon finds himself falling for Nikki while trying to help her prove her innocence and learns that Simon is behind her set up. Mills plays wealthy animal collector, Montgomery Bell whom Louden delivers a cat, Murray to. I've always liked this film, Madonna and Griffin have good chemistry and I like the soundtrack. I recommend this good 80's comedy. "}{"Title":"Madonna Comedic Actress","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I kid you not. Yes, Who's That Girl has the distinction for being one in a string of Madonna's films that bombed, but I actually liked this movie more than Desperately Seeking Susan. In Susan, Madonna's character is relegated to being second-fiddle to Rosanna Arquette and is not given much to work with. No disrespect to Rosanna, but in WTG Madonna plays this zany, outrageous character, only done in an 80s style. While it may seem cheesy today, this is actually one of Madonna's best and one of her most underrated films.Madonna plays Nikki Finn, an ex-con who is sent to the slammer for a crime she didn't commit. She's being released from jail after four years of good behavior. Griffin Dunne, who is also a very underrated actor, plays Louden Trott, a lawyer who has the unpleasant task of picking her up from jail to take her to the bus station. Of course, when these two get together, that's when the madness happens. Sir John Mills has a small role as the rich businessman who has a huge mansion in the middle of Manhattan with a rainforest(???) on his roof. This movie parodies everything. Rich people, the sleazy characters who live in Harlem and totally destroy Louden's Rolls-Royce, the gay cops who follow Madonna and Dunne around town, and Dunne's stuck-up fiance Wendy Worthington who has purportedly slept with every cab driver in New York City (played by Haviland Morris, who was Jake's girlfriend Caroline in Sixteen Candles). Hilarious! Plus, Dunne is also in charge of a rare breed of leopard reminiscent of Bringing Up Baby. Plus, Madonna had a great platinum blonde 80s look back in those days and the movie has a great soundtrack. Throw this all into the mix and you have the zaniness of WTG.Madonna is the queen of deadpan acting. There are times in the movie where she says a line totally straight and surprisingly, it turns out to be funny! That's how some of the best comedy should be played - straight. Madonna should have done more comedy and it was a shame that she did not choose to do so. Later on she became much more controversial and got into more of the dark, sexually-charged roles in the notorious movies Body of Evidence and Dangerous Game. Some people say Madonna cannot act, and that is fine, people are entitled to their opinion, but I believe the real problem is that people cannot see the difference between Madonna playing a character on film, instead they still see only Madonna and that is main reason why she is given more respect for her music than for her movies. It's still a fun, screwball comedy of the 80s. Not for everyone, I'm sure some of you will dislike it, so I would recommend it mainly for Madonna fans, but you never know, you might be surprised and like it! Interesting note One of Madonna's friends from her early-80s New York club days, Coati Mundi, who plays Raoul, was a member in the bands Kid Creole and The Coconuts and Savannah Band. "},{"Title":"Madonna at her finest","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Fantastic, Madonna at her finest, the film is funny and her acting is brilliant. It may have been made in the 80's but it has all the qualities of a modern Hollywood Block-buster. I love this film and i think its totally unique and will cheer up any droopy person within a matter of minutes. Fantastic. "},{"Title":"Sweet and Funny!","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  One of the funniest, most romantic, and most musical movies ever; definitely worth renting/buying especially if you have a taste for older style of cinematography. The animals and the songs alone will make you smile while watching the movie.  A definite must for Madonna fans.  o) "},{"Title":"Great Funny Movie!","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Why does everyone say this movie is horrible and stupid and everything else bad that you can think of outta the book!  Come on!  Its so funny! Madonna is hilarious!  In most of the movie, I'am cracking up.  Espicially the part where she is driving.  Now that was funny. Anyone who hasn't seen this movie should!  Trust me!  You'll be laughing alot! ) "},{"Title":"Nowhere to run, nowhere to hide, from the look of love","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" What's his name? Loudon. Loudon what? Clear.That gag still gets me, TWENTY ONE years after the film was released.I loved the film back then and I love it today. I must have watched this a hundred times back in the day, and when I bought the DVD recently I could still remember some of the dialogue.Madonna plays Nikki Finn, a young woman jailed for a crime she didn't commit. When she gets out she decides to seek revenge.Griffin Dunne (whatever happened to him?), plays an attorney for his fiancée's father (John McMartin). The future father-in-law asks Loudon to take Nikki from prison to the bus station and to make sure she gets on the bus, as part of a supposed new public relations programme. A seemingly easy task, but there are complications aplenty, some funny dialogue, and some admittedly stupid-but-funny scenes along the way.Madonna has a stupid voice in this film, which until I was able to watch with subtitles made one or two lines of dialogue incomprehensible for me (hence only 8/10), but on the other hand I can't imagine her doing it in her normal voice.This film shows Madonna's comic side (too lacking these days, perhaps), and she genuinely is funny in the role. Dunne makes a great foil, while Haviland Morris is perfect as the uppity fiancée.Yes, it's predictable, yes, the jokes could be better, but I think this is a great film and will happily sit down and watch it 100 times more. "},{"Title":"It is a nice comedy","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I am really sad that that this film has got so much negative criticism. I think it is a nice little comedy and really funny. The humour in this film is kind of warm and innocent and I like it. I also like Madonna's character and I do not agree that she played herself. She has created a character and a sympathetic one. My favourite scenes were the fighting scene on top of the sinking car and where Madonna climbs over the fence in a fancy dress to claim her love. The humour in the film has a slightly syrrealistic touch and perhaps it is not everybody's cup of tea. But it's their problem, not of the film. I found this film wholesome and sunny. In fact, the day I first saw it I was incredibly sad for some reason and this film lit up my day. And Madonna can act. Just take off your glasses of negative thinking. "},{"Title":"Hilarious fun!","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" If this film had been made in the 50's or 60's, critics and fans alike would have praised it. I myself, enjoyed the film from beginning to end. It's not a timeless piece, and has not aged well over the years, but it is enjoyable to watch, nonetheless. As for Mrs. Ritchie's acting in the film? Not the best on the planet -- but it adds to the film's unique slapstick comedy-aspirations, and showcases Madonna's (often underrated) sense of comedic timing. Madonna plays Nikki Finn, an ex-convict who was framed for a crime she didn't commit. Griffin Dunne plays the hapless future groom/puppet who is sent to escort her from prison to the bus station, where a series of unfortunate events occurs, thus creating the plot. (And there *is* one, folks!) Give the film a shot. You might be pleasantly surprised at how funny it really is. "},{"Title":"Lovely, perfect, fantastic!","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I had seen this movie before, but I could not remember it was this fantastic it has a fun plot, Madonna fumbles around the city with pumas etc. causing a commotion. And the music is just perfect! And the happy ending! Who´s that girl is a great choice for a romanticist like me. In my opinion this could be even the best Madonna movie I have ever seen! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  For late-80s cheese, this really isn't so bad.  There are a lot of pretty funny throwaway one-liners (That was grand theft! - Thanks!) and Madonna gives a fine performance; nothing award-worthy here, but that goes for Razzies as well as Oscars. I'm curious to know if the movie would have been better received if she had used her regular (pre-British influenced) speaking voice rather than the hyper-Bronxy accent used instead. Oh well. As a side note, I got to meet one of the actors who played one of the motorcycle cops through my work; he said that it was a fun film to work on but gave me the sad news that the actor who played Buck the UPS delivery guy died about a year after Who's That Girl  "},{"Title":"Fun Fun Fun","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Though not the best acting, plot or direction the storyline is crazy and most definately fun, I found myself laughing at the unbelieveable situations that Madonna and Dunne got into,  leave your brain at work/school and just watch i guarantee itll entertain you if not for all the right reasons.....  "}{"Title":"Am I the only person on Earth who loves this movie? *SPOILERS*","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  It's a riot! Madonna, back-in-the-day, in her wild getups and all New Yawk-ified, before she somehow transformed into a Brit. Griffin Dunne as the put-upon man of her dreams, who finds the courage to pursue his own. Griffin's fiancee Wendy, the society-slut who makes him recite the cloying Love, sweet love. It's the only thing...there's just too little of at their wedding. And who could forget the panthers?Sure it's goofy. Sure it's kinda stupid. But it's a funky 80s movie with Madonna doing her thing and being Madonna, and has just the happiest ending of any movie off the top of my head (everyone gets someone at the end. Even the two guy detectives end up together before it's over with). You must be inhuman if you don't love it.By the way, for the four or so people left on Earth who haven't seen the movie yet, there be spoilers in them thar above sentences. But I warned you once already in the heading, so NYAH! "},{"Title":"great fun.If you can handle it.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I was afraid to see this movie because of its reputation. But the fact that I'm a huge Madonna fan encouraged me to give it a go. And boy was i surprised! I thought this movie was really, really fun! Its dumb, and eventually gets on your nerves but i personally just couldn't hate this movie no matter how hard i tried. Madonna herself hates this movie and her performance in it, but i thought she was cute, kooky and charismatic. If you can forgive its dumbness you'll love this comedy "},{"Title":"Too much peroxide Too much eyebrow and Too much red lipstick","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I don't see what all the fuss is about. Ok it's story is dumb and so are the characters but so what? Naturally being a massive Madonna fan I kind of liked her character. She was cute and kooky and everything but overall this type of movie in the late 80's were 10 a penny. (In other words it was nothing new.) As for the acting, it did leave a lot to be desired for but if you are into this type of brash Americanism it's fine. The only shocking thing about the film really is Nikki Finn's fashion sense. And oh my God those eyebrows. Run for cover! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Funny","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  There was so much bad press when this movie was released that I avoided it with all cost.  Just the other day I was in a video store that was showing it over their monitors and the few minutes I caught seemed really funny so I rented it.  To my surprise, I thought this was one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  I mean it's a completely silly, screwball comedy, just what I would expect from such a movie.  I don't get why most people hated it, I laughed from beginning to end.  I am a big fan of Bringing Up Baby and What's Up Doc and in my humble opinion this fits right in with those two. As for Madonna, I'm a fan of her music, especially the last two CD's but feel she is sort of stiff on screen.  I feel her best performances were in Evita and A League of Their Own and I would now add Who's that Girl? to this list.  She comes across very natural and you can tell she's having a blast with this character.  Give this movie a chance.  Most stores rent it for a buck and if you really don't like then turn it off, but don't be surprised if you find yourself viewing a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"A Diamond in the rough","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of my favs...It is a screwball comedy, and for those not familiar with the formula will probably not get this movie, definitely in the same vein as Bringing Up Baby or What's Up Doc (coincidentally, BUB was also a flop in its original release, but was rediscovered as a classic confection of the screwball comedy).  In other words, this movie is a check your brain at the door movie, and just have some fun, no redeeming quality, other than to take you on a great trip...I recommend this movie to any fan of wild comedy (and it is easy to forget your watching Madonna, she is really good in this movie)... "},{"Title":"Very cute, i love it!","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so good! I first seen it when i was six, then i bought it recently and i still love it, im 15 now. Plus, the acting was great, and Madonna is my idol and she did a phat job! Alot of people didnt like this movie, and i still to this day dont understand why. "},{"Title":"Not the greatest movie for the sober people among us.","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Okay, when you're a 30-something executive with a penthouse, you probably wouldn't like this film.  But if you're anywhere between the ages of 6 and 29, this movie becomes part of your lifestyle.  Madonna portrays the annoying voiced, yet irresistable bad girl.  A beauty of a movie for a couple of trashed teens at four in the morning.  Anyone not in love with this gem has to grow down a little, look at it from your kids' point of view...it's not going to win any oscars, we know, but not all great films have.  Was Rocky Horror Picture Show up for any????  Still a great film.   "},{"Title":"one of the best 80's movies","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Why does everyone feel they have to constantly put this movie down?  It is cute and funny (exactly what it is meant to be).  Madonna wasn't out to prove herself as an Oscar calliber artist with this movie anyhow!  She was just doing what the character called for, and she did it well.  I loved her in this movie; it is my second favorite Madonna movie after Evita.  The soundtrack is excellent too.  It is no better or no worse than any cheesy 80's flick.  To all the critics, just don't take it so seriously and you might have fun watching it.  Madonna is a goddess!!! "},{"Title":"Marry me, Nikki Finn!","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Nikki Finn is the kind of girl I would marry. Never boring, always thinking positively, good with animals. Okay, as one reviewer wrote, a bit too much peroxide, lipstick, and eyebrows (Only Madonna could get away with that). But that's why I love Nikki Finn, she's not your ordinary girl. She makes things happen, always exciting to be around, and always honest. Sure, she steals, but she doesn't rob or murder (unless you're out to do her in). She knows which rules can be broken and which ones should be obeyed. She knows what to take and what can't be stolen. If you need a favor from her, she's in 100%. Bottom line She knows how to enjoy life. Nikki is always loving (which is why she has a way with wild animals), and completely dedicated to those she loves, and who love her.Who's That Girl? She's the girl for me. "},{"Title":"Nice for a rainy Sunday afternoon","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" As I do like the music of Madonna, I couldn't miss this movie. The movie is quite simple and predictable however, it is very light watching for some rainy Sunday afternoon. If you have high expectations from a movie, or you are not too much of a Madonna music fan, then i think you better of skipping this one. It's a real 80s movie and if you grew up during that era then this is nice to watch it to remind us of the old times. The one thing I admire in Madonna, that she has survived decades of ages and fans, and this movie reminds me of the earlier Madonna days. It looks like a low budget movie to me, but it's still fun to watch if you have really nothing else to do. "}{"Title":"Amazing!!!","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Okay I LOVED that movie! it's my favourite movie of ALL TIME , that was so funny and I loved the tiger.   It was so beautiful when they went into Mr. Bell's jungle, it was so amazing.  I don't know what people are thinking but I thought that it was a great movie and I think you guys who don't like it don't give it the proper credit it deserves.  It was so funny and the story line was so original and Madonna did such an amazing job playing Nicole Finn. MADONNA RULES WHO'S THAT GIRL RULES!!! Peace and Love Madonna "},{"Title":"Great movie that gets a bad rap!","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Don't listen to what the critics have always said about this cute, charming little movie.  Madonna is GREAT in this clever comedy.  I worked at a video store for several years and suggested this movie to lots of customers- no one EVER brought it back and screamed at me for telling them to rent it.  Everyone always enjoyed it.  It's actually a great movie for kids, too.   "},{"Title":"a waste of time and brain power","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" This is the epitome of bad 80's film-making, unless you are a pre-pubescent girl. Riding on a big name like madonna, a story line that physically assaults one's intelligence and humour that is most suited for a nursery school. If there was ever any doubt i think this turd of a movie clearly displays Madonna's absolute lack of acting talent and made me feel highly embarrassed on her behalf. The only thing i can't believe is that they ever let the director near another movie again. Madonna spends most of the movie prancing around like an infantile rag doll, and talking like a baby. It is painfully obvious that the only reason this movie was ever made was due to the fact that Madonna was a big name in pop music at the time. DO NOT BE DUPED INTO SEEING THIS AWFUL ATTEMPT TO CASH IN ON POP STARDOM. Stay away at all costs! "},{"Title":"MADONNA'S That Girl!","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie!!  Sure I love it because of Madonna but who cares - it's damn funny!!! *ALANiS Rocks*.  When I first saw this film in the theatres back in 1987, I thought it was all out hilarious!  Madonna is so funny and I love her dubbed accent and wacky/funky look.  The all-time funniest part is when Madonna(Nikki) screams at a man who is about to get into a taxi.  And also when Griffin Dunne(Louden)trips and falls at the apartment interview scene.  **ALANiS Rocks**.  Madonna's character Nikki steals/shop lifts and fools people throughout the whole movie - her hilarious antics are enough to keep you on the floor the whole time.  Didn't rob nothin', when you rob a store you stick up the cashier.  We busted a few tapes, there's a bit of a difference  I love that!!! It's classic. ***ALANiS Rocks***.  I don't know why this movie got slammed the way it did. I see nothing wrong with it - course maybe if you're a huge Madonna fan then whatever she does is just awesome.  Anyone out there who wants to see some funny, classic entertainment then watch Who's That Girl?  And another very important fact that of which should be known to all man kind or at least to all that exist, ALANiS will always rock ya completely to the end! So does Madonna in this film, and just entirely! Her acting is superb! "},{"Title":"good light hearted fun","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" OK I can't believe this film has only got a 4 on her its defo the 7 I gave it. I really liked this film as a kid & then my kids liked it too when they saw it a few year back I've just rewatched it not sure what to expect & this film has had me giggling & also realising Madonna is quite a good actor, & reminds me why this queen of the 80s was so loved back then, her music & performance was so fun & full of life back then she's lost that over the years, he she plays Nicky Finn cute ditsy bad girl, occasional you see her sexy woman side pop throughso charismatic, this film is full of funny moments yes its silly & far fetched but love it & the soundtrack music by Madonna, a film filled with only happy moments, goofy mobster, crazy elites sweet lawyers bimbo bridesmaids jungle women & panagodian tigers ) "},{"Title":"Well, it is entertaining","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" When I see a movie, I usually seek entertainment. But of course if I know what genre the move is, then I will seek what it is meant to do. For example, if it is a deep film, I expect the film to rile thoughts up in my cranium and make me ponder what it is saying. But Who's That Girl? is not a deep film. But it is entertaining, nonetheless. It's a campy sort of film that's a joy to watch. There's barely a boring moment in the film and there are plenty of humorous parts. I've watched it when I was younger. The cast is always entertaining as usual. I had a small crush on Griffin Dunne even though he wasn't the typical male heartthrob at the time. Haviland Morris also stars. And late Austrian actress Bibi Besch is here too! Overall, a delight! "},{"Title":"Poor, poor Griffin Dunne...","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  What a waste of time.  Even worse, what a waste of talent!  The only reason I went to see this dreck was because Griffin Dunne (remember After Hours?) was in it.  He, and the wonderful Haviland Morris (remember Jake's girlfriend in 16 Candles?) and John Mills (the DEFINITIVE Pip in Great Expectations), were completely wasted.  Dunne and Mills especially must have desperately needed the money.  How anyone would want to star opposite Madonna is beyond belief.Still, I suppose if you really love BAD movies, I mean REALLY bad movies, this might be good for a few laughs at the unintentional comedy (i.e. Madonna's dreadful acting).  Make a night of it; rent this, Shanghai Surprise, Manos, Hands of Fate, and Pod People and you're in for a fabulous night of some of the worst movies ever made!  Break out the beer and popcorn and invite your friends over! "},{"Title":"Great but Underrated Film","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I haven't been a fan of Madonna for quite sometime now, however, I thought I would comment on this film.This film mistaken. One of them, as well as Madonna, was panned by the critics. They were highly mistaken and many potential viewers were turned off by the bad reviews.First, Madonna does an excellent job in this movie which was one of her first. She plays a ditsy blonde in the film, she is far from a ditsy blonde in real life. Most critics were somewhat prejudiced by her singing fame and didn't give her a fair shake. When you view this film I hope that you understand that the accent and the goofiness is just acting. She was absolutely hysterical as was the film.Griffen Dunne is another person who was not given a fair review in the film. If you take a look at his filmography, you will see he is quite an accomplished actor.As far as the movie itself, this is something similar to pretty woman, but came 3 years before the Roberts, Gere success. It's a goof-ball comedy with lots of site gags, slapstick and one liners. Some of the comedy is deadpan and takes a comedy aficionado to really appreciate the more subtle humor.I know this doesn't tell you much about the movie, however, I hope this helps dispel any belief that this is a poor movie. It is absolutely worth renting for an enjoyable night of great fun.Peace.Gary "},{"Title":"so 80's, so funny!","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Madonna gets into action, again and she fails again! Who's That Girl was released just one year after the huge flop of Shangai Surprise and two after the successful cult movie Desperately seeking Susan. She chose to act in it to forget the flop of the previous movie, not suspecting that this latter could be a flop, too. The movie received a bad acceptance by American critic and audience, while in Europe it was a success. Madonna states that Some people don't want that she's successful both as a pop star and a movie-star. The soundtrack album, in which she sings four tracks sells well and the title-track single was agreat hit all over the world, as like as the World Tour. The truth isthat Madonna failed as an actress 'cause the script was quite weak. Butit's not so bad, especially for those who like the 80's it's such a ramshackle, trash, colorful and joyful action movie ! At the end, it's very funny to watch it. "},{"Title":"80's favorite","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" i have to rate this movie at a 10. i'm sorry but i think it's classic comedy. then, if you're rating it to other Madonna movies...well, what? you wanna tell me it wasn't her best movie ever? didn't Mira Sorvino win an Oscar for almost the same performance not ten years later? please, this movie deserves much more credit than it gets. plus, i like to think of it as an A+ sociological study into the lifestyles of the 80's. remember when you could shoplift from Sam Goody and Cartier in the same day? remember when women wore bushy eyebrows proudly? so it was no Last Emperor, it was still good. there are certain movies i'd be willing to watch everyday. three, actually, that pep up my day and make me smile. if you like Who's That Girl? then i'd also recommend Party Girl and Romy and Michelle's High School Reunion. "}{"Title":"Who's laughing out loud? Anyone who sees this film!","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Nicole Finn (Madonna) is just being released from prison. Although she is ordered to go by bus to Philadelphia, she wants to stick around the place she was arrested. This is because she claims she has information that would clear her record. Louden (Griffin Dunne) is assigned to escort her to the bus by his future father in law. Louden will be driving around the city anyway (in his future mother in law's Rolls Royce), picking up the wedding ring and a rare big, big cat for an eccentric collector. Nicki, however, starts the ensuing mayhem as soon as she jumps in the Rolls to take over the driving. Between big cats, taxi drivers, hit men, bridesmaids, and a wedding cake with guns, lawyer Louden knows he's not in Kansas anymore. Is there a way out of the madness? This film is a wild trip down comedy avenue. Madonna and Dunneare perfect foils to each other, making their connection uproarious, as they play out their roles as an ex-con and an uptight, button-down lawyer, respectively. The script is laudable in it's ability to send the viewer into fits of hysteria as one implausible scene gives way to the next one, and the next. Everything secondary, from the supporting actors to the scenery to the costumes, are also quite nice. If you know someone who is in need of a jolt of joy, rent this movie for them. You will both be cheerio pronto. "},{"Title":"Love this movie!!","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I had seen this movie as a kid and loved it. I loved how spunky and full of energy Nikki is, and how she mostly ruins Louden's perfect yuppie life and corrupts him and turns him on to her crazy ways. As a kid in the 80's I saw New York exactly the way it was portrayed in this movie, the domain of Madonna's character, with wild animals running rampant and hideous bald men chasing people around and causing havoc. Now as an adult I find I love the movie for the same reasons, and even more so for the love story woven into the crazy antics of Ms. Nikki Finn. Although I would still love to go anywhere and find an indoor atrium like in this movie. Pure beauty and genius. "},{"Title":"Who's that girl? Who cares?","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  **********POSSIBLE SPOILER********** Madonna plays an ex-con that needs to recover some valuable information that might clear her from the murder that she was put in prison for four years ago.  Griffin Dunne is a tax attorney who's marrying his boss' daughter.  Together, the two of them are supposed to come together in a world where chaos keeps you from getting on the bus...When you get down to it, this is a stupid movie.  Without trying to give away the plot ****POSSIBLE SPOILER****, the bad guys in the movie are trying to protect their boss by retrieving the information that would incriminate them for the murder that Madonna was sent up for.  What kind of bad guys don't commit murder by trying to hide the original murder?!?!?!Then there's the cops who are trailing Madonna who follow the bad guys in a limo, where they have the brides-maids all tied up!  And let's not forget those same brides-maids who fought from the front gate to the front door, still all tied together!  And I hate to say this, but that patagonious feline sure looks like a cougar!  There might be only four of them in the New York City area, so they might be endangered there, but I know there's plenty of them in the Rocky Mountains (see Charlie the Lonesome Cougar if you really want to see a large cat in the movie).  And let's look at the old man who falls asleep on his feet... NAW!The plot is there, but that's all there is to this movie.  I was barely out of my teens when this movie originally came out and I was some-what of a fan of Madonna, but that was the only reason I liked the movie, but since then, she's fell out of popularity with me, and I've faced the fact that she is just a terrible actress (good thing she's got that singing career to fall back on).  It rated maybe a 5 back then, but it's fallen to barely making a 2 over the years. "},{"Title":"Madonna Was Everywhere in the 1980s.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Lawyer Griffin Dunne cannot shake Madonna in this watchable, but overall dull film that plays like an MTV special more than anything else. He is assigned to pick Madonna up from prison and get her out of town immediately, but naturally Madonna has different ideas and it seems that Dunne may fall in love chasing the ex-convict. A typical 1980s waste that is helped more by its smashing soundtrack whether than its direction, screenplay and performances. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Causing A Commotion","Date":"13 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" This movie is a good bit of fun, better than the critics and the IMDb rating would lead you to believe. To be fair, I should note that I am a huge fan of Madonna (as most fans of this movie tend to be), so that may very well be a factor in your enjoyment of the movie.Madonna plays Nikki Finn, a squeaky-voiced girl with hair like Jean Harlow and lips as red as a fire truck. Having been framed for the murder of her boyfriend and after spending four years in the slammer, she's determined to prove her innocence upon her release from prison, and enlists the help of Loudon Trott, a lawyer who was merely supposed to drive her to the bus station, but ends up getting caught in Nikki's tornado of trouble.Madonna's performance is mostly enjoyable in this film, even if their are some noticeable cracks in her metaphorical armor of acting. Griffin Dunne does a great job playing the straight man, saying many funny and quotable things when being driven to the brink of madness by Nikki's actions. There are a few lines and over the top jokes I can't help but roll my eyes at, and the film never bothers to pay off a certain joke that is set up on three occasions.My theory is that most people just went into this film with a bad attitude, already convinced it would be terrible because of Madonna's previous film, Shanghai Surprise (which is a completely abysmal movie in every way). So if you go into this film with an open mind and no more expectations than a good time, you may very well enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Breezy, cheesy and goes down easy","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I will always have a major crush on 80s Madonna. So it came as a bit of a surprise to me that I had never seen 'Who's the Girl?'. Rectified. Much to my surprise, I thought it was a lot better than its reputation.The plot is stupid, but the script is occasionally witty and the cast pull it off well--Yes, even the oft-criticized Madonna, who I found completely charming here. The real star though is Griffin Dunne. He's like a more handsome 80s Harold Ramis with 80s Tom Hanks' comedic energy and timing. He really should've become a bigger star.This movie is pure, undiluted 80s in all of its glory. I enjoyed the heck out of it. "},{"Title":"A great comedy!","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I do not understand why this comedy got such bad reviews when it got out. I assume the critics simply did not get the humour of this movie. I think it is such a sweet and funny comedy. I first saw it when I was very sad, totally down and this comedy cheered me up, it made my day. And even now I watch it now and then when I feel sad and this movie makes me happy again. Madonna is so funny in this film and portraying the grazy-but-lovable Nikki so well. And the other cast is good as well. I cannot really find anything wrong with this comedy except the fact that people cannot stand that Madonna can do many things well, including acting. Don't listen to the critics, watch the movie and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Silly mix between a bunch of movies.","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" The 1980's was a incredible decade for movies even for bad movies like this. I look back to it and think that even the trashiest movies of that decade were not as bad as many movies that appeared in the 1990's and in 2000's. This is a classic example of a bad movie that you might enjoy it and might think well it's not that bad and it's quite enjoyable. Who's that Girl is a silly mix between Something Wild (released in 1986), Bringing Up Baby (1938), and perhaps more movies where a crazy girl disturbs the peace of a quiet man creating nothing but trouble and in the end they realize that they love each other.In James Foley's film Madonna plays a ex-convict recently released out of jail who wants to clean her name and put behind bars the responsible for her detaining. Griffin Dunne plays a correct lawyer who's taking care of the preparatives of his wedding when his father-in-law (John McMartin) gives to him a mission that involves the ex-convict simply make sure that the girl get into the bus to Philadelphia. Simple as that if wasn't the fact that she's a devil in person always with an innocent smile on the face, letting the poor guy crazy. Add to this a destructed and valuable car with a rare tiger named Murray in it (such a great animal actor) who is about to be delivered to a rich man (played by John Mills). The whole confusion of the beginning of the movie is irritating, obvious and very silly. It also includes the irritating little voice that Madonna needs to make to appear as a funny actress. She's very beautiful here but that didn't impeach her to have a terrible performance and win at the Razzie Awards. Plus the screenplay offers a variety of dumb characters (For instance two cops who are watching the girl's confusion but they don't make anything except get in the car or get out to car to lunch) and supposed to be funny situations that leads to nowhere if you think about what happens at the ending. I'm truly disappointed with this movie because director James Foley at the time just came out of a great movie called At Close Range a very powerful thriller with Sean Penn and Christopher Walken, and I think he needed a similar project instead of a cheap comedy like this. Gladly he recovered his talent in 1992 with his best film of all time Glengarry Glen Ross.This is not a completely bomb. It has a fine performance of Griffin Dunne (After Hours). And if most of the moments are not funny at all there are some of the dumbest lines ever. Quoting my favorite there's a scene between Griffin's bride (Havilland Morris) and Buck the muscular delivery boy (James Dietz, he's got some scary look in his eyes) during the failed wedding. She says You'll take care of me, won't you Buck? And he replies Of course I will. I'm very muscular. This dialog appears almost at the end of the movie and that was my only laughing in the whole thing. Still it worths 5 stars because once again the movies of the 1980's gives you a twinkle in the eye and I've seen worst movies than this. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The trip to the bus station that never ends.","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Nikki Finn gets out of prison after being framed for murder. She is suppose to get to the bus station and go to Philly. Louden has to pick her up. This may seem like a dull movie but Nikki is crazy and she makes Louden go all over the place and they don't get to the bus station on time but Nikki is on a mission to clear her name. Louden cannot stand Nikki but as the movie goes on he starts to like her.I could not stand the accent that Madonna had in this movie. It's just as bad as her British one. I always see her as a smart and confident woman but in this movie she's just dumb as a rock. It's the only movie I can think of where she's this way. Besides that this movie is pretty funny and just part of a good time. I liked the guy that was in that apartment shooting everything. This is a good movie to have in a cab. "},{"Title":"Boring, yet fun TBS Saturday afternoon sort of movie","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Madonna is sure flamboyant in this movie, but can she act? And a better question, is the movie even that great? The best answers for both would probably be no, but you may care to differ.The plot is an average one of a comedy romance type. I shouldn't waste valuable text space to describe it.Summing it up, if you're a big Madonna fan, you'll probably enjoy, otherwise, skip it. "}{"Title":"Oh, this was stupid","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I was so looking forward to this movie when it first came out and then was SO disappointed.  I watched it again, years later, on a Sunday afternoon and was just as disappointed as before.  This movie is basically slapstick (let's watch Griffin Dunn get beat up... let's watch Griffin Dunn get thrown around and his car destroyed... let's watch Madonna make Griffin Dunn look like an idiot... let's watch Madonna supposedly fall in love with him and he her after all this turmoil.)  VERY unbelievable.I'm not rating this movie in the Oscar-quality category, because I don't think anyone who made this movie expected it to go that far, but I do think that it was really stupid. Unless you're 5 years old, then maybe you'll like it. "},{"Title":"Just plain terrible","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I was actually planning to see this movie when I noticed it in my TV guide but after about 5 minutes decided time is definitely more precious than Who's That Girl could ever be worth. Describing how bad Madonna's acting looks like is impossible and the end result is one of the most annoying characters ever captured on film. This crap is an insult to movies and intellect. I almost never! rate a movie I don't see from start to finish, but in this case the former is impossible. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Who's That Girl (!!??) - Like, Who Frickin' Cares!!","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Let's face it - Madonna was - Too much peroxide, too much eyebrow, too much red lip-gloss, trying way-way too hard to be little Miss Funny-Girl, and failing miserably.By this point in this little pop-star's career her own personal equation was pretty much standardized as - Madonna + Movie = Garbage.Hearkening back to the 1940s, Who's That Girl? was a real idiot's attempt at Screwball Comedy. This film ultimately fell flat on its face trying to capture the essentially important spirit of humor from that particular era.Is it really any surprise at all that the dismal failure of this flick could pretty much rest solely upon the creamy-white shoulders of Madonna?As I understand it - The behind-the-scenes scenario went like this - Madonna being the big you-know-what that she is, continually over-ruled James Foley's decisions and direction, refusing to work at all if she couldn't have things her way.Yes. Madonna really had that much clout. And, yes, she was the one who ultimately ruined this picture.Anyways - At this point I think that it's really quite pointless to go into any great detail here, outlining this flick's dumb story, except to say that Madonna, who babbles away throughout the story (using a totally affected voice and behaves like a snot-nosed teen) plays an ex-con. (Ho-hum!)You know, I cannot, for the life of me, see how even Madonna fans could say that they liked this fiasco. It completely lacked any humor, or charm, whatsoever.P.S. - Man, when it came to those frickin' eyebrows of Madonna's, like, that material girl seriously needed to either trim them damn things down some, or else register them as some kind of lethal weapon. "},{"Title":"This is a cool one (web)","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I have always appreciated this movie because it's funny, speedy, visually playful and rather anti-conformist. So it's a true 80s movie, all the more than it seems to be the mix of the previous best movie of the 2 stars  « seeking Susan » for Madonna and « after hours » for Dunne. Next, it had a amazing soundtrack with superb hits from Madie (« look of love », « causing a commotion », « who's that girl ») that won't be repeated in her later movies ! At last, this movie is a no-scandal, no-nudity one for Madie and this is the proof that she could be a mega-star without using those tacky tools as she did later. Thus compared to her later movies for Madie and also more generally to nowadays movies in which everything is formated, sanitized, expurgated, this light, no pretentious movie exhorts to nostalgia. "},{"Title":"Madonna at her most insufferable","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Madonna's well-known fascination with Hollywood's golden era glamor (what about this woman is NOT well-known?) led her to seek out a vehicle that hearkened back to the old screwball comedies of the 30s. But while those movies featured charmingly ditzy upper crust types like Jean Arthur and Carole Lombard, this one is built around Madonna's repellent and vulgar 'comic' portrayal of a bottom-feeding street moll with an annoying accent (or more than one) and tacky wardrobe sense. Pia Zadora has more charm, talent and screen charisma than is displayed here by the Materialistic one. Griffin Dunne should get a medal for his attempts to hold the picture together on HIS charm and manages to anchor his scenes adequately even with his co-star running amok in her wild attempts to play a colorful role. A leopard also co-stars for no good reason other than it brings to mind Bringing Up Baby, something this movie otherwise fails utterly to do on its own. The weak script wanders aimlessly in search of situations where Madonna can attempt to be 'zany', but contains little memorable dialog and gives the principles little to do other than bicker with one another in unfunny fashion. Watching this movie reminded me of being stuck in a car with low class neighbors who fight in public. This is not even a so-bad-it's-funny movie, since if it were actually funny, even unintentionally it would have succeeded somewhat as a comedy. It doesn't. It's just irritating. "},{"Title":"This Movie Is Horrible","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" The first time I watched this movie I was ten years old. I thought it was bad then, and at that age I had no cinematic taste whatsoever. I watched this movie on Cinemax about 3 days ago and was reminded why I hated the movie in the first place. Madonna's character, Nikki, is annoying and obnoxious. There's no way that the main character would ever fall in love with her. The jokes were corny and the dialogue was worse than a t.v. soap opera!! I'm glad that I didn't see this movie at the theatre, or rent it. I feel bad for my parents who had to endure watching it with me! Madonna is not necessarily a bad actress, but in this role she is portrayed as a complete idiot. "},{"Title":"A great comedy . . .","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" for people who have absolutely no idea of what a comedy is. That not only includes the people who liked this movie, but the people who made it. What could they possibly have been thinking? Madonna playing Judy Holliday? Please, she can't even play MADONNA (if there actually IS a Madonna). I hope Griffin Dunne was paid well. He deserved every penny he got, because if this didn't kill his career, nothing will. I'm sure that the few people who actually paid to see this movie left it feeling like their pockets had been picked. Madonna is apparently past the point of feeling embarrassed by her virtually complete lack of talent as an actress, but you can't help feeling embarrassed for her anyway. She has no connection with the rest of the cast; it appears like she showed up on the set and said, OK, I'm here, I'm gonna embarrass myself by doing the absolute worst Judy Holliday impression anyone's ever seen, now stay the hell out of my way and then proceeded to do exactly that. I know the phrase rotten Madonna movie is redundant, but it certainly fits this. It's painful to watch a totally inept and talentless actress make a complete fool of herself, but it apparently doesn't bother her, as she does it again and again.The only remotely funny thing about this comedy is that she actually managed to find people who gave her the money to make it. Now THAT'S funny. "},{"Title":"If she screamed Louden!! one more time...","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" An ear-splitting movie, a quasi-old-fashioned screwball romp designed to showcase singing star Madonna's comedic attributes. She does indeed go far out on the proverbial limb here playing a beyond-vivacious parolee attempting to prove she was framed for murder (a body was found in the trunk of her car after she ran a red light...big laughs). After an energetic animated credits sequence--which is much more fun than the rest of the picture--we have nothing to look at but Madonna's black mascara and red lips set off by her platinum hair and pale complexion. What else is there? Griffin Dunne seems defeated playing Maddy's keeper, while the poor-choice supporting cast struggles to get laughs with lousy dialogue. It's an unfortunate set-back to the talents of director James Foley, who unwisely allows his star to run rampant in the spirit of the nutty slapstick films from the 1930s (but even Katharine Hepburn in Bringing Up Baby had a human side). Wretched. * from **** "},{"Title":"Don't bother to find out who the girl is","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  There are things that are better left unsaid, and questions that we better not seek for an answer. If you just wanna know who's that girl, let ME tell you, instead of watching this unbearable movie That girl is a slutty, cheap, lame, pathetic and, of course, BAD ACTRESS, who happens to think that she is cool, pretty, gracious, funny or whatsoever. I mean, ¿how wrong can she be? Is very sad to see an somewhat good singer making such ridiculous interpretation. I wonder how her career didn't fell apart after making this big mistake of a movie.It's no news that Madonna simply can't act, but this one is specially bad. The story is so boring and unbelievably stupid that makes you angry. If it were a little bit less idiotic, it could have made us laugh. But no. It stupidity reaches such levels that there is no way of tolerating this.I just hope Madonna's daughter never get to see this film, otherwise she would be SO embarrassed.Please avoid it.  "},{"Title":"Who's that non-actress?","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Typical Madonna mess.Madonna just is not nor ever will she be even a mediocre actress.Cher was a great singer turned actress but Madonna is horrible. However ,I actually did laugh at the end of the movie to 2 scenes,Madonna dancing in a tutu to classical violinists(This was the real Madonna,stupid ,tacky and it was funny,she didnt have to act out something she probably has done in real life) and the 2 cops who end up having feelings for each other and grabbing each other in their car while the bad guys get grossed out having to watch them.  I did not pay to see this movie ,i saw it on cable by the way.Besides that ,this movie goes nowhere and Madonna comes off more like a whining bitch than an actress. I have always liked Madonna as a person and musician but as an actress,no way. Her movie career is pretty bad , Shanghai Surprise,Desperately Seeking Susan,Dick Tracy et all. Whos that Girl ? More like Why is that girl trying to be an actress when she cant act ? "}{"Title":"Just another dumb comedy","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  The laughs are few and far between in this dull movie, and I can't help but wonder about how this mess ever got made in the first place.  About the only good thing in this movie is the talent of Griffin Dunne, but his best efforts were easily overshadowed by Madonna's obnoxious performance.  I was able to sit through this without getting TOO bored, but that's probably the nicest thing I can say about this time-waster. "},{"Title":"Even for Madonna, this really sucks","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  By now the equation is pretty much standardized Madonna+movie=garbage. Except for Desperately Seeking Susan--which wasn't really a Madonna movie, just a movie she was in--Madonna has yet to make an even remotely watchable movie. Even the movies where she doesn't have a very big part (Dick Tracy, for example) suck. Maybe she's contagious. For some reason, Madonna felt the need to prove that she can do a screwball comedy a la Judy Holliday. She can't. She also tried to prove, once again, that she can act. Once again, she can't. There is not one thing in this movie that is even REMOTELY funny. Madonna somehow felt the need for her character to use a squeaky voice; she wound up sounding like Fran Drescher with a head cold. Poor Griffin Dunne must have really needed to pay the rent to find himself in this dreck. Haviland Morris, who was very good in 16 Candles, plays basically the same character here, but because of the lousy writing and almost non-existent direction (James Foley is a good director, but apparently he was overruled by Madonna on just about every directorial decision he tried to make, and it shows), she doesn't come across as well as she did in 16 Candles. The plot is something about Madonna being framed for her boyfriend's murder, getting out of prison and becoming involved with Griffin Dunne, who works for the millionaire who framed her. This film is almost a complete waste of time--wait a minute, it IS a complete waste of time. If you find the need to waste an hour and a half of your life, do something more productive, like pounding a hammer against your head. It's not as painful as watching this thing. "},{"Title":"Are you people out of your minds?","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" This has to be one of the, if not the worst movies I have ever seen. After watching this piece of sh*t I felt as though I should write to Madonna and demand compensation for my time, but now I feel that I should write Madonna and demand a great 80s album (considering she can't record a good album to save her life anymore) in return for this disaster. On to the movie itself, which can be summed up like thisIt consists Madonna jumping around acting like a spoiled teenager who lost her way. She is trying to impress this absolute douche of an actor who plays the lawyer' in the movie. But, the best was the ending. I was staring with my jaw on the ground into the television as the credits rolled by thinking to my self, That's it? That's the ending? What a piece of sh*t!. If Madonna wasn't a pop icon at the time of this film, this movie would have single handedly destroyed her career. And the funniest thing of the whole situation was that I just watched the damn movie to see where they placed the song Who's That Girl. Well, guess where they placed it?...................................at the end! "}]