[{"Title":"An Underrated Gem","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"32 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Funny, but most of the comments here are raving about the movie, yet somehowit only scored 6.7 stars at the time of this posting. To me, Crossing Delancey is one of the best romantic comedies ever made and ranks highly among my favorite movies in general.Reizl Bozyk's performance as Bubbie Kantor is priceless. Amy Irving and Peter Riegert have amazing chemistry and all of the characters are very well defined and well portrayed, although I think the matchmaker was just a tad over-the-top, even for a yenta. But that's okay, The storyline is paced just right - a great flick to do popcorn by.Though I would ordinarily give it an 8.5, I rated it 10 stars to bring the average closer to what the reviews (and my personal opinion) reflect.  "},{"Title":"Izzy, Sam, and Bubbe","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There are a set of films from the 1980s and 1990s that are very well done comedies about dating or finding one's true love. The best known one is MOONSTRUCK, but others are WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING and this one, CROSSING DELANCEY. Like MOONSTRUCK, CROSSING DELANCEY deals with an ethnic group. Cher's movie was a valentine about Italian Americans. CROSSING DELANCEY is a similar valentine about Jewish Americans in Manhattan.Izzy (Amy Irving, in her best film part) is pretty happy. She is an independent woman who works in a famous private book shop, gets to be in contact with the leading writers of the day (she tells of speaking to Isaac Bashevits Singer at one point), and has a nice rent controlled apartment near Central Park. But her beloved grandmother Bubbe (Reizl Bozyk) is upset that Izzy is still single. She approaches the local, Lower East Side, matchmaker (Sylvia Miles) to find a groom for her granddaughter. Izzy is appalled at this, but she does come to dinner to meet the young man (Sam - Peter Riegert). He's a businessman (he and his brother run a pickle selling business on Delancey Street). Sam is a smart and nice guy, but Izzy is stand-offish because of her set of modern values.The title refers to Izzy's assimilated views versus the standards of her grandmother and Sam. She does not want to be associated with old style lifestyles that represent an earlier era. But Sam tells her a story about a friend of his who was forced to buy a new hat when he lost his old cap Crossing Delancey, and his life was changed was changed as a result (he got engaged in two days). Sam reinforces the story by sending Izzy a new hat (as though to suggest trying something different).Izzy's state of mind is also confused because she has a sexual interest in a popular novelist named Anton Maas (Jerome Krabbe). Maas is certainly a gifted novelist, with a ready line of colorful patter that causes certain types of women (like Izzy) to swoon. But he is a little self-centered for all that, though Izzy does not notice this for awhile. But she does feel, after getting Sam's gift, that she should do something for him - she tries to set him up with a girlfriend. But she suddenly discovers he is a nice guy, and she begins to wonder if she has made a serious error.This description of the film is inadequate, especially at it can barely touch the performances of Ms Bozyk (her only film lead role - after a lifetime in Yiddish theater she got this, and proved she should have had many more film performances to her credit), and Sarah Miles as the loud, overbearing, matchmaker Mrs. Hannah Mandlebaum. David Hyde Pierce appears as one of Izzy's fellow employees at the bookstore - an early role for the future Niles Crane. And Rosemary Harris appears as a Marianne Moore poet at a soirée, who makes the mistake of trying to patronize Krabbe (in his most sympathetic in the film - he returns the comment with interest). The movie has everything, including a version of a comedy chase (involving a taxicab with an unbelievably bad driver) and moments of hamish philosophy by Bubbe over a bottle of cherry herring. Altogether one perfect romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"Charming story, charming stars","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Izzy (Amy Irving) is a talented bookstore employee in New York City. Although it is a low paying position, she rubs elbows with some of the finest writers in the country, by setting up book talks. Despite her success, she is in her thirties and is not married. Izzy is fine with this but her Jewish grandmother is appalled that her sweet relative does not have a husband. Therefore, grandmother arranges for a matchmaker to search out some candidates for Izzy. The first one is a pickle vendor! What was grandma thinking?This film, set partly in an old, traditional Jewish neighborhood in Manhattan, is a movie fan's delight. Irving, charming and pretty, sails right through her role with absolute believability. The rest of the cast is just perfect, including an early role for David Hyde Pierce. What a wonder, also, to get a glimpse of a preserved neighborhood, where time moves slowly. Those who adore romantic comedies must not put a viewing of this movie off any longer. Try catching it at the library or video store today. "},{"Title":"The S E C O N D Best Date Movie of all time!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" PERSONAL NOTE I saw this in the movie theater at University Square Mall in Tampa Florida, around Christmas of 1988. On to the review...Being that the first best date movie is 'When Harry Met Sally', this flick is a STRONG second. It moves along at an unhurried pace, we see the conflict Amy Irving's character faces, Peter Riegert as always delivers, the supporting cast is great, and we enjoy a nice dose of 'The Jewish Grandma'. The pace and feel of this movie is near perfect. Also, it's interesting that BOTH Crossing and Harry use the tune It Had To Be You in them. AT LAST!!! IT'S Available IN DVD!!!! "},{"Title":"A Delight","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It might be ten years since last I saw Crossing Delancey. We wandered into the video store tonight and were more than desperate to find just one movie we were willing to take a chance on, and I spotted this gem.Seriously this one ages well, like a good wine. It's got only better - by that I mean that after time, one picks up the subtleties even more.It's just sensational.The other movie we rented is a Disney action flick. We're waiting to put it in, because we know we are going to be disappointed after this, and we want to savour it a little while more.That's about the best you can say about any movie.10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Out of the ordinary romantic comedy that truly captures New York City...","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all time with an unbelievable cast of great character actors. I remember a New York reviewer at the time calling Amy Irving's performance lukewarm and I could not disagree more. Irving's performance and character epitomize the thirty-something single New York working woman trying to move up in the world.  Irving's character is completely enraptured by the experience of being the book manager of a very prestigious uptown neighborhood book store and falls for the good-looking, European writer who is completely enraptured with himself! Riegert is the nice pickleman who any girl knows would make a great husband but the fireworks just don't go off for the girl. Any woman can definitely relate to the dilemma of being attracted to the charming, good-looking rogue but when you get right down to it, it is the everyday picklemen who stay true and truly make the world go round.And I must say that this film captures the city better than any movie I have yet to see complete with crazy singing woman in crowded narrow hot dog joint, midage man struggling to play handball in local park, elderly women learning self-defense at community Y. Classic New York stuff!  I could go on and on but do note far out performances by Sylvia Miles as the tacky matchmaker and Rosemary Harris, the great English actress, in a cameo near the end.  "},{"Title":"How to Find a Mate in New York City","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Very nice ethnic movie about two people who seem to have problems finding a mate. The movie stereotypes Jewish romantic life in New York City. A matchmaker gets involved in matching up young people. The girl works in a book store. The boy works in a pickle store. He has always noticed here from afar. But, now it's time to put them together for life. Nicely acted movie. It does not seem to reflect how people really find each other in America and as such tends to play on an older 18th century concept of matchmaking for people to find their mates. This is more of a movie for a woman's fantasy than a man's concept of mate finding. But, what I like most about the actual story is that it's not about a rich man who finds a poor girl as in Pretty Woman! Here, both the boy and girl are representative of a similar upper low middle income and life style. Such makes it a believable story. Well acted by all cast members.Larry de Illinois "},{"Title":"Excellent Love & Romance Story!","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I found this movie years after it was out ... a real classic now for me. The characters are genuine ( I love Bubbie! )and very interesting. The music is a treat as well as I found myself singing to it, a montage of 80's music. The movie takes a few jabs at the narcissistic quirks of the artistic world and conflicting egos. There is a careful story plot around the conflict of fame versus character and Amy Irving's character slowly sees past the hype and notes the person. The matchmaker is a hoot! and makes a good compliment to the Grandmother. I was disappointed to see that this was the only movie for Bubbie (Reizl Bozyk) because she really is the glue that keeps the story going. Peter Riegert makes an excellent pickle man! One movie I can watch over and over! "},{"Title":"Underrated movie","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie strikes me, even after all this time, as being better than it was given credit for.  The slow unfolding of the developing relationship is very well done, the characters are interesting and believable, and the grandma is fantastic.  My only complaint - it would be really interesting to see how those two people handled an ongoing relationship.  Talk about two worlds coming together -  "},{"Title":"A sweet, sweet movie","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. Amy Irving shines as the hesitant young woman being wooed by the very appealing Peter Riegert, owner of a pickle store. Her delightful but meddlesome Jewish grandmother, whom she calls Bubby, is worth watching all by herself and reminded me of my own equally feisty Greek grandmother. Irving lovingly interacts with Bubby but seems resistant to her well-meaning advice. Irving seems to know that Riegert is a nice guy but cannot get past his unglamorous profession. As the story unfolds, their would-be romance is complicated by a writer that Irving meets at the bookstore she works in. The writer, played by Jeroen Krabbe, represents the more glamorous literary lifestyle that Irving aspires to, casting a big shadow over the earnest pickle salesman. Comic relief is provided by the marriage broker, Mrs. Mandelbaum, who tries to get Irving and Riegert together. Keep the Alka-Seltzer handy, though; watching her eat is a horrifying experience. This is a movie I never tire of. Underlying the humor and the uncertain romance is the sense that these are good people and that the strength of family and tradition run deep. "}{"Title":"Masterpiece in Miniature","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Crossing Delancey is a heartwarming romantic comedy, but it's so much more than that. It's a masterpiece in miniature, one of those miraculous movies that gets everything right it's beautiful to look at, pure pleasure to watch, a moment-in-amber time capsule of a place, time, and community; it's an artistic success; it's deep, it's funny, and it makes you feel good. Crossing Delancey isn't War and Peace, it's a small story about one woman and her one decision, but faithfulness to tiny details results in depth.The 1980s Manhattan of Isabelle, (Amy Irving) a thirty-something, well-educated, underemployed single Jewish woman, is so faithfully recreated the film feels like a well-made documentary. A rabbi who is on screen for mere moments is so believable I googled the actor to find out if he was a real rabbi. There is a kid selling used books on the sidewalk who is so convincing as a kid selling used books I wondered if he weren't some merchant they just found in his street-side stall and immediately inserted into the movie.Jeroen Krabbe as arrogant author Anton Maes is so believable I want to reach through the screen and smack him. Just one scene, a literary soiree where Krabbe glares at a poetess as she condescendingly advises him to write something in his native language is worth the price of admission. Krabbe's face is partly obscured by his hand; all you see are his eyes. Their murderous look is as mesmerizing as a venomous snake.Peter Riegert packs what could have been a dreary role &#x96; that of a pickle salesman &#x96; with fascination, subtle intelligence, and heart. Every character is perfectly cast; every performance is pitch perfect; everyone is the embodiment of the type of person a real Isabelle would have met in her real life.When I do rewatch this movie, I have to watch it over and over, just to cherish every little morsel the Jamaican cabbie, the steam room anecdote, the heavily made-up street singer who enters a hot dog shop and sings One Enchanted Evening with an oracle's intensity, the delivery of the line, four men and a cabbage; even just the names of minor characters, Cecilia Monk Pauline Swift &#x96; and their hairdos &#x96; are to be savored.The sets are equally, painstakingly, perfect. Just the signage alone A joke and a pickle for only a nickel, and Schapiro's the wine you can almost cut with a knife, and, in Isabella's bookstore, the sign for cashier is shot so that it looks like hier, French for yesterday, appropriate for a movie focused on the past and the bittersweet passage of time.Isabelle lives in available-male-shortage Manhattan. She's nagged by loneliness, her grandmother, and her biological clock. She sleeps with a married, handsome neighbor who offers her nothing but one-night stands. She yearns for a glamorous author she's met at the bookstore where she works.Her grandmother fixes her up with a pickle man, and Isabelle twists and turns for the rest of the film, weighing the advantages of a solid guy who might treat her lovingly, versus the attractions of a glamorous novelist who excites her. Isabelle's struggle is intimate and unique, played out in the microcosms of the formerly Yiddish Lower East Side and suave uptown Manhattan literati, but it's universal, as well. Dreamers everywhere must calculate whether to invest in the near, solid and familiar, or risk everything with the attractive and impossible-to-reach shooting star, and must face those moments when what had seemed attractive suddenly looks toxic, and what had seemed common suddenly reveals its hidden beauties. "},{"Title":"Dated yet Satisfying.","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've been watching a lot of romantic comedies lately, and they all have their conceits. This one is by nature dated, as the lower east side of Manhattan's old Jewish community has largely been displaced by gentrification. I lived in NYC in the 1980s, and it was fun seeing film of communities that have largely been lost since then.That said, while I liked this film, it felt like a take on Hello! Dolly or the like. It was a well-acted, charming romantic comedy with a predictable plot. Girl goes after guy-out-of-her-class, while rejecting perfectly nice guy in her class. Upper class guy comes after her for shallow reasons, and she realizes the value of blue collar guy. The movie or the plot never really made clear why the self-confident and satisfied mid-thirties woman would abandon her lifestyle for the old-school guy, especially when the writer wanted her albeit for the wrong reasons. In a way, it reeked of the desperation that men tried to put on 30-something women in the late 1980s, where any nice guy was better than none, and a pretty 34-year-old woman with a career should be happy to end up with the pickle guy, no matter what her other options might hold. This, even though the writer and director were women.I probably would have rated it a 6.5 if that was an option, as it's a decent flick, for acting, writing and dialogue, and because of the charm of the pre-gentrification NYC settings. But it's certainly dated, almost as if it were out of the 1950s rather than the late-1980s. "},{"Title":"Ultimate in romance for grown-ups","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Crossing Delancey, a warm, achingly romantic comedy, is a rare jewel and deserves to be in the romantic comedy pantheon with such movies as When Harry Met Sally. One of the nicest things I can say about this movie is that, no matter how many times I watch it - and I have watched it MANY times! - I NEVER want it to be over. I want the movie to go on, and to follow them to see what happens next. Each time I come to care so much about these 2 people that, by the end of the movie, I feel they are my personal friends. And this happens every time! I cannot recommend this movie highly enough, although I am sure most would consider it a chick flick. If you have not seen it, it is well worth your effort. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies.","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of my very favorite movies.  Can't believe it's not out on DVD yet.  Hopefully soon.  I digress.   A movie written and directed by women with a soundtrack  sung by the Roches with wonderfully hilarious performances by Reizl Bozyk as Bubbie the Jewish grandma, Sylvia Miles as Hannah the Jewish matchmaker, Suzzy Roach as Amy Irving's girlfriend and Amy Irving herself in a very subtle comedic role (not to forget Rosemary Harris in a funny, funny cameo role), you would expect Peter Riegert to be swallowed up in this company as Sam the pickleman but he holds his own with the ladies and almost steals the show (Bubbie and Sylvia do that Give your mouth a rest, Hannahla, it'll thank you.).  He's one classy, sexy guy.  The New York atmosphere is magical,  the dialogue unforgettable and quotable (the lady sauna scene is a scream), and just a wonderful joie de vivre overall.  I envy anyone who will see it for the first time.  "},{"Title":"Oy! Meets Girl","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I first watched this film one night at about 100 a.m. after coming home from a evening out on the town. I sat down to unwind from the night. Crossing Delancey was one of my choices, and since I have a fondness for Manhattan, at the very least, the scenery would be a pleasure. I was quickly engrossed in Issy's love of books as well as the eclectic personalities at 'New Day Books'. Issy's life, though full of prominent authors and publishers, was unfulfilled which leads to Issy's interest in writer Anton Maes. Jeroen Krabbe plays well the author with the sugary sweet drippings of poetry he offers Issy to keep her handy. It works well. Issy's grandmother offers an endearing kindness to the plot, always looking to improve Issy's life in ways Issy may not be aware are wanting. Bubbie is fragile, yet stealthy in her quest to find Issy a mate, much to Issy's protest. Enter Sam Posner. Polite and grounded, but lacking spark at first glance. He is introduced to the plot by an overly chatty matchmaker. It didn't take long for me to warm to Sam. He was a man who knew who he was, and was proud of his life, however unappealing it may seem to others. (There is a sweet scene where Sam helps Bubbie by washing the windows. It's clear he is getting frustrated, but maintains his calm, all the while knowing she is up to something.) Bubbie continues to encourage Sam though Issy poo-poo's the idea of dating a man who sells pickles. I watched as Sam is put into scenarios where he could have easily taken a different attitude, but chooses to respond with dignity. Near the end of the film, while Issy is still unconvinced he would be a good catch, I was losing my heart to him. There is a scene where Sam peeks through a window with an expression that I can't quite explain. To this day, when I see that scene, I fall in love with him all over again. In the end, it's not about whether Issy 'get's the guy'. It's about allowing people to reveal their true selves to us. (At least it was for me.) There are some Sams in the world that, thankfully, don't live only in the movies. "},{"Title":"Miss this movie, and you miss a REAL gem!","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" THIS is yet ANOTHER one of my Favorite Movies of All Time! A small movie. No dizzying array of special effects. No computer generated images that seem to take over the story-telling. THIS MOVIE, is ALL ABOUT characters. It's character-driven.That means it's a turn-off for about 90 per cent of the viewing audience. You see, character-driven stuff is hard work for most movie-goers, today. No car chases, no explosions, no pyrotechnics, no blue-screen CGI. Poor babies, ALL they have left is narrative and story! WHAT can THEY make of THAT? Look, I fell in love with Izzy, the main character in Crossing Delancey, as played by the wonderful, sublime actress, Amy Irving, the VERY FIRST TIME I saw it! Man, WHAT kind of putz is Steven Spielberg for ever divorcing her? I feel sorry for anyone that dislikes this movie. It's got a GREAT feel good ending to it! "},{"Title":"endearing and funny","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really loved this love story because it seemed so average and normal. I loved the portrayal of modern secular Jewish life in a city, and the humor that can be found in it. I loved how Riegert played a pickle man--an utterly normal, practical, and wonderful character. Great story!  "},{"Title":"Feel good movie","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Watching this movie is a great get-away.  The New York Jewish neighborhood Bubbie (main character's grandmother) lives in makes me feel like I know what it's like to visit there.  I watch it at least once a month.It also has a storyline that is enjoyable and satisfying everytime you see it. Isabella, the heroine, is a dichotomy.  She's such a snob, but she is most at home when she is with her grandmother in her old neighborhood. Just when you want to dislike her, she gets down on her knees and rubs Bubbie's arthritic joints with alcohol.  Sam Posner, the pickle man and Isabella's suitor, is the perfect counterbalance.  Where Izzie is all ambivalence, Sam is all steadfastness and integrity.  The romantic foil, Anton Maes, is an arrogant author Izzie is smitten with.  The lines he uses on her are smarmy and condescending.  He is so smug, you are never in doubt about which guy Izzie should end up with.This is a movie to watch when you just want to relax and feel good about the chances for a man and woman to find lasting happiness together. "},{"Title":"Finding that special someone","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's a favorite movie of mine, nothing profound you know, but very enjoyable. We follow the gradual change in Isabelle (Amy Irving) from a strong disinterest in the matchmaker's schemes to get her hooked up with an eligible fellow, to a subsequent more relenting attitude to Sam (Peter Riegert) who turns out to be a very promising, good looking choice.But first she has to sort out her own ambitions and subtle attraction to someone else. All this comes together as part of life's learning experiences. Family life is very much to the fore too as Isabelle shares gentle moments with a friend who is also a new mother.I think the grandmother (Reizl Bozyk) does a great job of adding humor as she's a very down to earth, practical Bubbie, and she gets her way in the end. The music in this movie has a light touch throughout particularly at the start. Just enjoy the unfolding relationship of two young people in their quest for love, and pass the popcorn please! "},{"Title":"It gets me right *here*...","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was probably the first movie I fell in love with.  I mean, I went through a Star Wars obsession, but Crossing Delancey was my first film *love*.  Even now that, as an adult, I can see it's a bit saccharine and predictable, I love it for its simplicity and its faith that everything will work out for the best in the end, even in the yuppie 80's.  Plus, David Hyde Pierce is in it, as a yuppie coffee-drinking cello player, what more can you ask?  Definitely a chick movie, but one of the best of the genre. "}{"Title":"Warm understated movie with more substance than flash","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A winning movie with wonderful contrasts, excellent cast, and a terrific soundtrack. Peter Riegert (who makes far too few movies) is great as an ordinary joe with more going for him than it first seems. Amy Irving is equally good as the ambiguous bookstore manager and maybe best of all is her grandmother who wants her to meet a nice jewish man. Delancey is a metaphor in a movie with quite a bit of subtlety without being pretentious.  "},{"Title":"Raises interesting questions but never satisfactorily explores them","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" On one level, Crossing Delancey is a fun, heartwarming romantic comedy; on another, it has an agenda that is as pushy as any over-the-top matchmaker. Ironically, for a movie that undoubtedly shares much of its audience with those who loved Fiddler On the Roof, it tries to undo the social revolution that drove Fiddler's plot; Delancey suggests that a Jewish woman might be better off relying on matchmakers and familial authority figures than actively choosing her own spouse, a job she only seems to mess up when it is entrusted to her. And while she's at it, maybe she should rethink her life in the non-Jewish world and come back home. You've come a long way, baby, but what did it get you? For the record, I believe women are best off finding their own mates, and preferably from a set that is larger than two. But what I find most troublesome in this movie is not so much the implied counterargument as the fact that it is made poorly. I can imagine a movie where a woman rejects her background, is miserable alone, encounters repeated disappointment in the Gentile world, and finally returns to her grandmother's milieu to find true fulfillment, romantic and otherwise. It might be done as propaganda; it might be done as a persuasive, touching story. But Crossing Delancey doesn't make a serious effort to do it at all. Izzy never really rejects her background in the first place, never comes across as particularly lonely or unhappy, and only undergoes a single unpleasant romantic failure. Then, when she does surrender to the man who has been preselected for her, the movie fails to make a convincing case that she will truly be happy. Sam is pleased with how things work out. Izzy's grandmother is ecstatic. It is almost as if the romance is between those two characters, and Izzy is simply the one who, through her sacrifice, allows the match between them to be consummated.It's a pity, because the movie does raise some interesting questions before it rushes to extinguish them. There is a rich potential in the premise of a woman unfairly dismissing a suitor due to how he has been thrown at her, perhaps due even to a small amount of snobbery, only to gradually discover his merits and discover that they are good for each other after all. There are certainly possibilities in the idea of a woman being romanced by a man with what she thinks is an aesthetic sensibility, only to recognize that he exploits people and the artistic impulse alike. It would be interesting to see a character seriously wrestle with which components of the literary world she values and which she decides are simply based on vanity, and the extent to which she reconciles her ongoing involvement in that landscape with her attachment to a man who doesn't fit particularly well into it. There are even interesting minor notes that are never satisfactorily explored how do a woman who has essentially used her friend as a means to flee from a potential relationship, and a man who has taken the bait, reconcile their behavior and their future friendship with her when they push her out of the picture again? But as this is not a movie designed for a sequel, we are not meant to explore those questions further.According to its tag line, Crossing Delancey is a funny movie about getting serious. If only its makers had been more serious about exploring the questions it raised, this could have been a better film. "},{"Title":"Sweet Overlooked Gem","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Crossing Delancey is simply an enjoyable movie. That is the best description of it.Amy Irving stars as Izzy, an unmarried Jewish woman living in New York City, working at a bookstore who is content with her life, rubbing elbows with famous writers and planning readings for their books. Her grandmother is less content, and hires a matchmaker to help find Izzy a husband. The matchmaker brings home Sam (Peter Reigert), a pickle seller who has admired Izzy for years, but never spoken with her.Izzy is at first very resistant to the matchmaking, and initially feels that Sam is beneath her. However, she comes to realize that Sam is the real thing.The performances are all around good in this movie. The story is sweet and original, and things just fall into place nicely. Definitely recommended. "},{"Title":"I can't believe","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe that this movie didn't get an oscar nomination.  This was a real romance, that took realstic turns for the better or worse, but in the end Amy Irving threw out  all her aspirations about the ideal mate and went for what was in her heart.  The camera shots on her made you want to jump into the screen and take over(if you know what I mean!).  Not being Jewish, what did they do to that poor little baby in front of all those people?(just kidding!).Rent this movie on a lazy Sunday afternoon, and enjoy.  You might recognize Dr. Niles Crane!. "},{"Title":"A sweet movie with a few forgivable faults","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Interesting, touching movie about appearances vs. outcomes. Amy Irving effectively plays an insecure woman who prefers the company of art people because she thinks it makes her a better person. Her mother thinks she knows better.I like that this movie takes its time without being boring. Riegert is excellent and has an understated charisma, but his character is a little too metaphorical to make the story work. And the choice Irving has to make is solved a little bit too conveniently for my taste. But it's so sincere and sweet without being sappy that its faults don't matter all that much. "},{"Title":"Can you find romance on the lower east side, just off the J train?","Date":"27 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Crossing Delancey and Essex is dangerous at any point of the day, but when a single but sweet book seller (Amy Irving) finds romance with a pickle man (the likable Peter Riegert), it's going to be complicated. She's got all sorts of headaches. When first seen, she's slyly removing the shop-lifted book from an obviously wealthy kleptomaniac during a book store signing event, and has issues with a Dutch author who won't leave her alone, a neighbor with relationships of his own, and most lovingly, her bubbie (Reizl Bozyk), aka her Jewish grandmother who most likely raised her who intends to see her married. Enter marriage broker Sylvia Miles (at her most obnoxious) and you can see why Irving has remained single. She's feeling pressure from all sides, but the sweet pickle man might just be the one to bring her out of her obviously lonely, if still very busy, life.New York in the 1980's was a fascinating place, as busy as any era past and present, dangerous yet exciting. The lower East side remains one of the busiest sections of the city outside of Midtown, and is culturally one of the most mixed. Great location scenes of various New York areas fill the camera lens as it is obvious that Irving doesn't live anywhere near there yet knows it even more than where she most likely lives now. She's patient and calm with everybody, even the aggressive Miles who at one point grabs her and won't let her go until she hears her out. But don't be put off by Miles as aggressive as she is. She's not just a modern day Yente; She really believes in what she is doing, and at one point softens her aggressiveness by admitting that every now and then, she actually manages to be completely right.While Irving and Riegert are a lovely couple as book seller and pickle seller and deliver the goods, it is Reizl Bozyk, a Polish born stage actress, who wins the praise as the feisty grandmother, loving and devoted, extremely well meaning and filled with a sparkle that outshines the Chrysler Building. Her good intentions in her case are the pathway to Paradise for her, and she is a treasure to watch in the only mainstream film she ever appeared in. Jeroen Krabbé is a bit hard to take as the over zealous Dutch writer, but it is obvious that he doesn't stand a chance of winning Irving over. The great Broadway leading lady Rosemary Harris shines in a cameo as a poetry writer, while musical character actress Paula Laurence is hysterical in a deli scene where she all of a sudden breaks out into Some Enchanted Evening with Irving as her target.Small little gems in the detail make this shine as a sweet little sleeper of a film. Joan Micklin Silver made a name for herself in modern Jewish cinema by directing the cult classic Hester Street which brought an Oscar Nomination for Carol Kane, and gets some equally fine performances here from her wonderful cast. Sweet background music helps move the story along, although some of it distinctly sounds like some of the score for the movie version of On Golden Pond. At almost 30 years old now, this film stands the test of time in its vision of life in lesser known Manhattan neighborhoods, the only difference now being that you probably can't walk down these busy streets without bumping into somebody reading their phone. "},{"Title":"Poignant and profound; well worth catching","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" How disappointing that no one, not any of the user reviewers or any of the professionals in the External Reviews really understood, or got this film (and most likely the play itself). Lucky reader, I am here to clue you in. This is NOT a cute trifle, a simple evening's entertainment about the old v. the new, uptown vs. downtown, the lure of glamour v. tradition. No it is much more subtle than that though, sadly, it is hardly PLAYED that way. It's métier is the passage of time, the rhythms and continuity of life, of life and death and the struggle to discover one's identity in an ever challenging world. To defend my posit, I direct you to the last line of the film Okay, it's time to put the Bubbie to bed. Are there sadder, wiser, more poignant last lines in any film? No, it's not that Bubbie is simply tired and wants to go to sleep. Consider what has transpired. What was here single motivation for during the film? To see her Grand- daughter married well. We know that Izzy's parents are not available to her, and we know how much Bubbie loves her. See all the pictures on her wall? Having lived a good, full life, there is but one task left for her to see Izzy married. This she does, and so may be put to bed, that is, pass on. . . and let the new generation have their time. It is an old and sacred tradition. It is a profound one. Again, sadly, the film takes it lightly and should have been played differently. Crossing Delancey, is not just a physical act. . .it is a spiritual one, Delancey indicating the River Jordan, or any border between what was and what is inevitable. Izzy choosing Sam is not just an Oh, I guess I really like you, choice, it represents a profound metamorphoses in Izzy, an evolution in her being, and in ours. When you watch this film, this on these things and when Bubbie asks to be put to bed, see if you don't feel a tear in your eye, as we actually watch the end of one generation, who has finally given way to the next. A word about the music. The soundtrack of any film is of critical importance and this film is no exception. Largely, it is the music of the wonderful Roches, which lends an air of light hip-ness to the proceedings. One problem. . .Izzy starts out to visit her Bubbie. We see her crossing Central Park West and heading for the subway, and we hear a catchy, throbbing number by the Roches --- very appropriate. Cut to her exiting the subway on the Lower East Side. We need different music here--this is a different world. I'm not saying Klezmer, but something. Bad choice. Similarly, after Bubbie's last line, we go right into another hip Roches number, which is very lovely, and is perfect for Roll credits, but--- but --- a moment or two to allow what Bubbie has said to be fully appreciated? Like she would have said, What would it hurt? "},{"Title":"What Kind of Arthritis Does Bubbie Have?????","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Minor quibble I know... But if Bubbie has such horrifying aches and pains that she can't even rub a spit of isopropyl alcohol on her knees that sounds pretty bad. However, you see her practically running with great strength down the streets and wait for it....the STEPS!!! Not even coming close to clutching a handrail and full of vigor. I guess those alcohol rubs work? At least if you want to make this old lady a super kvetcher (sp?) then add it to other aspects. She could handle her Snopps perdy dang well imho.I remember being fairly snobbish when looking for a mate but this potential match owned an artisanal market which is quite prestigious and those pseudo intellectuals were a complete bore. What was she thinking when Goober read his inane poetry to her, complete moron!I agree with most reviewers that Jewish folks were portrayed in a horrible light. The obnoxious matchmaker with her table manners and public belching were deplorable. The pickle man was divine comparatively.I did enjoy the NYC street scenes that are most likely way part of the past as well as the closeness of friends, neighbors, and family members. Most endearing was when Bubbie hands over FIVE HUNDIES to Izzy. That had to have hurt back then. Izzy goes and buys a gorgeous dress to impress versus invest, what kind of Jew is she????High recommend for those who want to see the Lower East Side back in the day and for fans of brisks (sp?) and nursing mothers. Otherwise it is slow, boring, lacking of smart dialogue. The ending might be sweet but not rewarding or surprising. "},{"Title":"Great Movie but can't believe the soundtrack is a rip off","Date":"13 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Saw this movie when it first released and numerous times later. Great film especially about the time period. I think the performances are very subdued but realistic. Even though the theme is Jewish in nature I still think we could all relate to how love evolves and that sometimes it is directly in front of our eyes and we seem to look for something different.Watching it again tonight I began to realize the soundtrack is a copy of Dave Grusin's On Golden Pond. While not exactly the same notes it has all the overtones, pace, chord structures and all of Golden Pond. Again, really like the film but sad to find that the composer had to copy another really great film soundtrack composer. "},{"Title":"Anti-single gal rom-com","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Isabelle Grossman (Amy Irving) is a 33 year old Jewish girl working at a New York bookstore. She is enamored with author Anton Maes (Jeroen Krabbé) who she meets at the bookstore party. She loves her life on the edge of the intellectual world. Her parents are in Florida. Her beloved Bubbie or grandmother gets local matchmaker Hannah Mandelbaum to set her up. She's introduced to Sam Posner (Peter Riegert) who owns a pickle shop. She's not interested at first and even tries to set him up with her friend Marilyn surreptitiously.This is the anti-single gal rom-com. Her single life is somewhat sad. The movie takes little digs like all the lonely looking women around the salad bar. Yet she's always proclaiming her love of her life. It's a rom-com that can cut a little too close. Amy Irving is very lovely and loving. Peter Riegert has the sincerity but needs a bit more charm. There are some funny moments and some very poignant ones. The ending is a bit too abrupt as if the movie ran out of film. This movie has a point of view and has a compelling romance. "}{"Title":"One of the best of the Romance movies","Date":"10 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I hate romantic comedies, sports movies, horror, and adventure; so I only see the best and this is one of the best movies I've ever seen.In romantic comedies it rates right up there with Annie Hall; As Good as it Gets; Sleepless in Seattle; and Working Girl.Most of the romantic comedies suffer from being a repeat of another better movie. The phrase stop if you've seen this before occurs during the trailer advertisement on TV that I mute as soon as I can. This movie is different.This movie has a simple story to tell, and it tells it well. There's no fluff or filler just to take up time.It's a gut wrenching view of the snobbery we feel and have felt put upon us. The movie looks at ourselves through the eyes of another. I recognized myself and my motivations.The characters are charming and scheming without being over the top. The movie has one other attribute that it shares with excellent movies, it seems over too fast. "},{"Title":"a romantic comedy with no romance (or comedy)","Date":"12 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's a safe bet that any romantic comedy promoting itself as a funny movie about getting serious is likely to be neither very funny nor particularly serious. But this one at least includes the novelty of a circumcision scene, and the poor victim (in his big screen debut) exhibits more honest emotion than any of the primary characters, including Amy Irving as a modern, unmarried New Yorker who moves among the uptown literary elite but can't quite sever her ties to the Lower East Side. The film, not unlike its heroine, is unnervingly passive and vacillating, a thirty-something exercise in shallow emotional distress with not enough conflict to keep it interesting. Will she fall in love with self-centered, best-selling novelist Jeroen Krabbe or a sincere but unexciting pickle maker (Peter Riegert) with hidden depths? The outcome shouldn't come as a surprise Irving and the pickle man were obviously made for each other, but when she finally kisses him it's with no more conviction than in anything else her character does in the film. "},{"Title":"Matchmaka, Matchmaka...","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you come to this deadpan, soft touch romantic comedy with your expectations in check you might enjoy it's modest pleasures. Amy Irving is assured and winning in the lead; but there is a remote quality to the character we never quite warm to. When She realizes She is behaving real stupidly, we have been so far ahead of her for so long we don't quite buy it. For someone who loves language and books; She never has a great deal to say. The rest of the cast all do a fine job, as does folk rock legend Suzy Roche in her as of yet only movie. It is unfortunate Silver has not gotten a chance to do more; She has a real nice touch with comedy. This came through even in her minor Big Girls Don't Cry. Along with Betty Thomas, She deserved more chances and better scripts. "},{"Title":"A Long Time Favorite...","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I bought this movie waaaay back when it first came out on video. Sometimes I'll go for months and months without watching it, but when I do, I always enjoys it. It's fun look back to the late 80's.The only problem I have with this flick is Sam. He needs a major makeover! Yes, I know that he is down-to-earth, real, sensible, confident guy, but a decent haircut and a pair of 501 Levi jeans would do wonders for him! His wardrobe looks like it was plucked from the bargin bin at Salvation Army. Loose those ugly, baggy utility pants and put on a pair of jeans, please, lol! Izzy's wardrobe is pretty bad, too. Dull, drab colors. Fortunately, her clothes get better as the movie progresses. Her hair looks like it's taking over the planet, not her co-worker's (Chilchilea Monk,) lol! "},{"Title":"Charming movie","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'Crossing Delancey' isn't an easy movie to discuss. On the one hand, it's a rather banal romantic comedy without real surprise. But on the other, it's something else entirely and worth seeking out. I'm not even quite able to identify what it is that makes it such a rewarding movie - Amy Irving in the central performance, is fine and certainly competent but it's not a big driving performance. I think in some ways, that adds to the character of Izzy - we're not seeing a big star performance, instead it's something more interesting and complex. Irving as Izzy often seems aloof (at least on the surface) and not wholly interesting as a bigger star may seem but I think that adds some realism (how many times have you seen a movie with a real movie star with off the wall charisma playing a timid mouse and found it wildly unconvincing?). That all adds to the movie's appeal.New York is a secondary character. It's not the gentrified areas you might see now, and because of that there's more charm. There are the random, perhaps crazy people one might see while in a store, as Izzy encounters. It's not a flashy touch, but it adds some kooky realism to the film. There's the contrast between uptown and downtown areas, the restaurants and the music. It's all a very vibrant, rich setting.This is a special movie, and still, it's hard to explain why. The setting, the performances, the script and the characters all gel superbly.Watch out for David Hyde Pierce in a bit part. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Endearing, and Enchanting!","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS BELOWAs an unmarried Jewish woman who has old fashioned elders, I can appreciate this movie now at 37 more than I did when saw it for the first time at 19. It is beautiful, endearing, and enchanting-not to mention funny and poignant.From beginning to end, Amy Irving gives a delightful performance as Isabel, (Izzy) an Uptown Girl who prides herself on her independent life in the literary world. Her friends, her colleagues, her entirely lifestyle is highbrow, and she feels comfortable in this world. Then she meets Sam, the Pickleman, who is played by the always wonderful Peter Reigert. Although she likes him, her snobbery almost gets the best of her. Her awkward attempt to fix him up with her friend ends up backfiring, as she comes to realize what a true gem of a man he is. Add to that, she is engaging in a cat and mouse flirting game with the sexy Jeroen Krabbe, an enigmatic (and egotistical) Dutch writer who ultimately only wants her around so she can be his assistant. The line when she tells him off is priceless! Sylvia Miles, as the yenta matchmaker adds a lot of laughs with her over the top performance. Watching her eat alone adds much comic relief. The real scene stealer however, is the magnificent Reizl Bozyk as Isabel's Bubby, the sweetnatured, sentimental, all-knowing Ida.With its New York scenery, rich characters and believable storytelling, this film is among the best romantic comedies ever made. It is one worth watching over and over, to cherish more and more through the years, especially as the older generations of Jews, with their old-world traditions and wisdom become a memory to their children and grandchildren. And any young Jewish woman who has ever encountered a matchmaker (which I have) just has to appreciate Hannah Mandelbaum's sincerity and desire to bring young people together to preserve the traditions and Jewish way of life. This film is a perfect 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Some Enchanted Evening, You May See A Stranger. . .","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie was wonderful and romantic. I don't think Izzy was a self-hating Jew, I think she just wanted to better her social status in the world which is something all of us can relate to. She wasn't as confident and happy as she pretended to be - she told a lot of silly lies so her friends would think well of her After attending a bar mitzvah and having coffee with a couple of her old high school mates, one of them told Izzy I wish I know someone that I could fix you up with, in a very condescending tone. Izzy kind of got her back up and said Actually, I am seeing someone, and when her friend looked at her in surprise she said, You know Anton Maas? She pretended to be dating that self-absorbed, second-rate novelist to impress her friend. Izzy would never have admitted that she was interested in a pickle man because she was just as shallow and pretentious as her girlfriend.When her co-workers asked her if she was doing anything special for her birthday, Izzy once again lied and pretended she was going to a fancy restaurant (Lutece) for dinner. She was actually having hot dogs with her girlfriend at a local fast food restaurant.Izzy was all about appearance and surface values. It took her down-to-earth grandmother and meeting Sam to bring her back to her senses. She realized life was more than having a rent-controlled apartment in Manhattan, a somewhat prestigious job, and an attractive male cut-out to sleep with. She was basically very lonely and really longed for someone nice to become involved with.Sam was pretty much every woman's dream - who wouldn't want a guy like him - handsome, confident, intelligent, kind, hardworking and considerate. He was respectful to Izzy's grandmother and was really interested in what she had to say. He was even kind to that horrible old marriage broker hag. (Although, how he could sit across from that slob at the kitchen table while she slopped down food faster than a starving hound, talked with her mouth full, and licked her fingers was beyond me).I thought it was pretty crappy of Izzy to tell her friend Marilyn that she wanted to introduce her to Sam, and then abruptly change her mind because she suddenly found him interesting. Real friends don't treat one another like that. Marilyn liked Sam and was happy to go out with him, so it was a good thing she hadn't fallen in love with him, since he really wanted Izzy and Izzy decided she wanted him.Isabel was an old-fashioned girl at heart because she wanted a husband and a family but couldn't admit that to herself. None of things she had meant anything without someone special to share them with. The key was finding the right someone special and Izzy finally found him. "},{"Title":"Cute romantic comedy","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The thing I liked most about this movie was the writing. There are parts in the film that are exceptional, such as when the guy tells Isabelle (the protagonist) a story about a friend and his hat. The story he tells is simple, but says so much about his character. I liked the conflict with Isabelle, as she decides whether she likes him or not, despite all his shortcomings (he works in a pickle store, he isn't an author).You can understand why she would be interested in the author over him, seeing that she works in a bookstore.What I didn't like about the film is that the two lead characters aren't stand-out performances. Especially the pickle guy, he says his lines in an amateur fashion.If you like this movie (and it is good), then I recommend Moonstruck. "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is one of my favorite romantic comedies...favorite films, period, no matter the genre. Peter Riegert and Amy Irving are perfectly cast, and make a beautifully contrasting compatible couple, just like real people. Sylvia Miles and Jeroen Krabbe put in superb performances as pretty annoying characters, and Reizl Bozyk steals not just scenes, but every single frame in which she appears. David Hyde Pierce is fun to see, pre-Frasier fame, and Suzzy Roche proves once again that singers become actors much more easily than actors become singers (The Roches--Suzzy and her sisters--provided most of the music for this film, and are among my favorite musicians). I really enjoy the setting the same New York as Woody Allen's, but without the whining. This film creates an inviting urban world; I'd love to hang around the bookstore in which Ms. Irving's character is employed. I acknowledge freely that I'm a sucker for romantic comedies, but this film gives us so much more depth of character than many such films that it rises above the crowd. The comments here by viewers who hate the film I cannot understand. My best guess is that they don't yet appreciate character-driven stories, and are waiting for nudity and special effects. Their loss. "},{"Title":"Riegert, mostly, sinks this.","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ugly New Yorkers should be the title. With the exception of Amy Irving, this has got to be one of the ugliest casts in movie history; both women and men. While Irving looked terrific in her earlier days (Voices), she's aged sort of in a bad way by this time, but still looks reasonable enough. As for the others the women, young and old, range from homely to repulsive. And to make things worse, there are some rather nauseating/awful and pointless scenes.I'll start with the former. First, there is a circumcision of a Jewish baby - as if we cared about circumcision rituals, and what is said and done in them. Then there is the awfully yeechy scene where Irving plucks out grandma's facial hairs, one by one. And to top it all, we even get to see grandma's fake teeth!!! Someone give me a vomit bag! Then there was the repulsive old woman singing in a diner what a damn monster! Was this movie's casting person hiring for a horror film or a romantic comedy?! As far as pointless is concerned, we have a reading of poetry by a boring old woman, and we have a oogie-woogie oochie-goochie goo scene with an irrelevant baby.But all of this is just side noise which would be forgivable (apart from the hair-picking and the fake teeth) if the core of the movie were good enough. But it isn't. There are too few attempts at humour, in what is supposed to be a romantic comedy, and when there is some humour it's lousy and unfunny (like the flirtatious Jamaican cab-driver sequence; yawn...). Another problem is that neither of the two love-birds' characters are particularly sympathetic! She is somewhat stuck up, and he is a whiny a**hole.But the BIGGEST problem of the movie is Riegert; Amy Irving may not be at the height of her beauty in this film, but she is certainly far too good for this little greaseball. In even plainer English he is too ugly for her. Plus, his character is always whining; he is constantly offended by Irving's actions like a little girl, always playing the beleidigte Leberwurst whenever Irving doesn't act the way he'd have wanted her to. Just because he buys her a hat and a cake doesn't mean she has to go out with the greasy pickle-selling schmuck. Most of the movie is Irving apologizing to Riegert for her tactless behaviour, when in fact she should be looking for a better man. This is probably the first romantic comedy where I didn't want the couple to hook up! First Irving starts off by flirting with a slimy, phony writer, and then she has her sights set on the easily-offended Riegert - SOME choice that is. There is very little chemistry between the two leads, and it's really no wonder Irving is a good actress but even she can't pretend that she is attracted to the unmasculine Riegert. With all the weaknesses in the script, the movie would have been considerably better if they had cast a funny, charismatic, likable male lead; Riegert is light years away from being any of that. "}{"Title":"A testament to xenophobia,","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" trying to pass itself off as a romance. I hated that this pretended to be a warmhearted little romance, when it actually extolled the virtues of intercultural prejudice. Amy Irving's character, in the beginning, was a self-hating Jew who had nothing in common with the pickle vendor, and chose to surround herself with uptown goyim, even if it meant sleeping with somebody else's husband. As the story unravels, we see that every single Gentile is snobby, or phony, or hateful, or somehow otherwise flawed, and every single Jew is mensch and warm and good and wise - even, it turns out, Amy Irving, who needs only the love of the mensch, warm, wise, pickle man to turn her from a self -involved adulteress into a good Jewish woman. Yech!The only reason I even scored this mess a 4 was for the excellent soundtrack featuring music of The Roches. "}]