[{"Title":"Wonderful movie!","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"82 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The first part of this movie, showing Eddie Murphy's life as an African prince, is one of the funniest things I have ever seen. I loved it. The wedding ceremony alone was so funny, I almost fell out of my chair from laughing so hard. I thought this could be one of the funniest movies of all time. At about the halfway point, though, it stops being a laugh-a-minute riot, and kind of settles down into more of a quiet romance movie. The scene at the basketball game (with the man who worships Murphy) is the last really hilarious thing that happens. After that, it never again reaches the energy of the beginning. This is not really a bad thing, though it is still enjoyable from start to finish, even during the quiet parts. It has good actors, and it is fun to watch, and that makes it a great movie. I highly recommend it; it is one of my favorite comedies. I give it 8 out of 10 stars. See it if you haven't. "},{"Title":"Excellent humor and a nice story","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"64 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I once used to be a fan of Eddie Murphy and his movies, but in recent years the only one of his movies that I loved was 'Shrek'. He's excellent as the voice of Donkey, but the rest of his movies aren't exactly the best examples of fine humor (think of movies like 'The Nutty Professor'). It's a good thing that from time to time you can still see one of his older ones on the television, so you won't forget that the man really has some talent.In this movie Eddie Murphy plays, most of the time, the role of Prince Akeem of Zamunda. On his 21st birthday he'll have to marry a woman he has never seen before. Because he isn't too happy with that and because he wants a wife that can do more than doing exactly what he tells her to do (like for instance barking like a dog), he decides to go to America to find the love of his life. The only problem is that the girl shouldn't love him for his title and his money, but for his personality. At first all he gets is a big culture shock, but eventually he'll find a girl he really likes...This movie is really one of the funniest Eddie Murphy has ever made. It has a good story and offers plenty of laughs, but this isn't a comedy full of toilet humor and may therefor seem dated to the youngest viewers (let's say those who were born in the nineties). Personally I really appreciated the fact that not all humor was about farting, vomiting and other bodily functions, but perhaps that's just me, perhaps I'm just getting too old to understand today's humor (almost 27 right now). There are some excellent parts in the movie (I really love those old men at the barber shop for instance) and overall the quality is high enough to enjoy the entire movie. That's why I give it a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Another Great Comedy Starring Eddie Murphy","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"44 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After several years of starring in rowdy action comedies and con man capers, Eddie Murphy gets a chance to deliver a more restrained performance with this film and he manages to do so very well. Murphy portrays Akeem, an African prince who is being pressured into a forced marriage by his parents (James Earl Jones, Madge Sinclair). The woman that they have chosen for him only sees him for his royalty and therefore does not really love him. Akeem sees this right away and brings his loyal servant, Semi (Arsenio Hall) along with him on a discreet mission to America where Akeem hopes to find a beautiful woman who will love him and accept him for who he really is and not just see him for his royalty. Posing as common folk, Akeem and Semi get jobs at a McDonald's style restaurant and Akeem soon falls for the daughter (Shari Headley) of the restaurant's owner (John Amos). The film features many hilarious scenes and characters especially a group of boxing obsessed senior citizens who spend their days arguing with a barber shop owner. Murphy and Hall demonstrate their levels of versatility by managing to go under heavy makeup and portray several different costarring roles. Yet another example of why Murphy is one of the funniest actors in recent Hollywood history. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's greatest movie.","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"47 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If Trading Places is Dan Ackroyd's greatest movie, then Coming to America is Eddie Murphy's greatest movie, and for much the same reasons. Although the movie may be considered a comedy, and indeed has its humorous moments, its theme is quite serious. For it's about a man who is willing to sacrifice money, privilege, power, and position in quest for personal happiness. This is a powerful role and Eddie Murphy is great in this role. This movie is proof that when given the chance, a comic actor like Eddie Murphy is capable of playing a complex character that is central to a story. The producers of this movie evidently knew that in Eddie Murphy they had a actor around whom they could create an excellent movie, and with this movie they were right. "},{"Title":"Royal Laughs","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  COMING TO AMERICA (1988) *** Eddie Murphy, Arsenio Hall, James Earl Jones, Madge Sinclair, Shari Headley, John Amos, Eriq La Salle, Louie Anderson. Murphy does a fine job as an African prince unhappy about his upcoming nuptials to a woman he has never met so he sets off to New York to find his true love (and queen) with some sweet moments as well as comic (thanks largely to his and Hall's neat hat trick of playing several different characters thanks to the miracle of Rick Baker's make up).  Look sharply for Vondie Curtis Hall (of tv's Chicago Hope) as an overly welcoming fellow native stateside; Cuba Gooding Jr. in a blink-and-you'll miss cameo (getting a haircut) and the clever inserting of Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy as the Randolph Brothers from Murphy's and director John Landis' previous joint effort Trading Places.  Best bit Murphy becoming a real New Yorker and greeting a screaming abusive neighbor with Yes! Yes! ... and F**K YOU TOO!!!  "},{"Title":"Hilarious romantic-comedy-drama with a great ensemble cast","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Coming to America centers on the story of young prince, set up for an arranged marriage. He leaves his home in Africa to find a woman that he can truly love. Like all good tales, this one has already been told many times. It covers how a newcomer must adjust to a new culture, including encountering difficulties in the romance department, and fathers who just don't understand. This is all done to comedic effect, but not without romantic and dramatic overtones, to the credit of all involved.I could watch this movie every week (actually, I have been lately, since it's on CINEMAX). The writing and direction was fantastic, the film is perfectly paced, with constant sight gags and witty repartee. The film works because actors selected have great timing.Eddie Murphy (Akeem, et al) is quite versatile as the lead. He's in his very best form, earnest when he needs to in this feel-good comedy, with on-point comic timing.Shari Headley (Lisa McDowell), she's level headed, perfect in delivering outrage and frustration as well as contentment and laughter.Allison Dean (Princess in Cool as Ice) as Patricia is not only hot, I love her nappturality hair styles. (Shari's got some nice ones too). Allison ideally portrays the jilted, petulant, and gold-digging little sister.Eriq La Salle (Darryl) is the outlandish villain you can actually feel sorry for. His Jeri curl, damn, it's atrocious.Arsenio Hall (Semmi, et al) was a great, smarmy, sidekick.I could go on and on. The supporting cast, from James Earl Jones (King Jaffe Joffer) and Madge Sinclair (Queen Aoleon) to Frankie Faison (Landlord) and Samuel L. Jackson (hold-up guy), are spectacular.Every time I watch it again, I find something new. I enjoyed it when I was younger, but now I like it even more. "},{"Title":"Murphy and Hall shine","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It must take a lot of hard work to play multi characters film,and the hard work of Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall really pay off.They take a very unique idea for a film,play most of the characters in it,and the results are nothing short of hilarious.Murphy plays (among others), Prince Akeem of Zumunda.Akeem,discouraged with the arranged marriage tradition of his beloved country,seeks to find the true meaning of love in America.The typical fish out of water style here is worked to perfection by Murphy,as well as Hall.Also excellent are James Earl Jones(as always),and Madge Sinclair as King Jaffe and Queen Aoleon, Akeem's parents.Jones and Sinclair would later portray husband and wife again 6 years later,as the parents of Simba in The Lion King,a little trivia for those of you who may not have known.There is a clever tie-in involving Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy,portraying their characters from another Murphy film,Trading Places.A unique story,great character acting and a great supporting cast make Coming to America great fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Probably the funniest movie ever","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had to buy it on DVD... I saw this movie about 100 time on VHS and I felt this movie has to make part of my digital-collection. I saw it first time in theatre in the out-coming-year and the gags influenced my whole youth. Even nowadays (I'm 27 years old) I often talk about this movie with my friends. I simply love it like all the Eddie-Movies till and including Boomerang.Where's the spoon? Aha........... "},{"Title":"Gotta love this off the wall comedy","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Eddie Murphy is the Prince of Zamunda, he is very wealthy and very pampered. When he refuses to marry the bride his father has arranged for him, he goes to Queens to find his queen. With his closest companion (Arsenio Hall) they try to blend in with the everyday people of New York, taking jobs as cleaners in a local burger bar.The entire film is packed with slick gags, hilarious characters and delightful parody. Coming to American is a romantic comedy that entertains you again and again, and Eddie Murphy is on top form throughout.Recommended 7/10 "},{"Title":"Pure 80's fun ...","Date":"17 April 2012","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Coming to America is one of these films that best exemplifies the 80's exuberance and unique appeal, it's raunchy and outrageous on the surface but sweet and good-hearted inside. And the film carries such a tender naivety in its portrayal of the fictional country of Zamunda and Royal Family's lifestyle that it makes today's films depressingly cynical in their desperate attempt to copy reality by any means or feature likable losers making their bones on redeeming bitches.Yes, a country like Zamunda is very improbable but that makes the beginning of the film so fascinating. That Prince Akeem, waking up on his 21st birthday, would be treated with such an exaggerated devotion echoes one of Cinema's greatest values escapism and dream. It doesn't work in every case but here it does and for a simple reason the Coming to America plot line perfectly contrasts with the Coming from Zamundaset-up, Zamunda had to be in a total opposition with New York for the film's own comedic purposes. It doesn't avoid some clichés like the passing of zebras and elephants to show that the film is set in the African continent, yet it's one of these moments we remember the most from the film just before, as the trailer says, the fairy tale stops as soon as the first shot of New York City appears.Coming to America, directed by John Landis and starring Eddie Murphy, is in the same vein than their previous work in Trading Places, a movie that I compared to Frank Capra's classics. Only this time, it's not a wags to riches story but quite the opposite, it's a Cinderella story told in reverse since it's the Prince Akeem who comes to America to marry a woman, and as he explains to his friend Semmi (Aresnio Hall)  I want a woman who will arouse my intellect as well as my loins. This premise leads to a succession of situations so funny that you almost forget about the romantic purpose of Prince Akeem's trip and the presence of Arsenio Hall as the second lead of the film is responsible of that as he literally outshines all the other cast members and creates the perfect comic-straight man duo that this kind of stories need. Semi's priceless look from the window when Akeem shouts Life. Real life! A thing that we have been denied for far too long! is the perfect counterpart to Akeem's naive enthusiasm as he joyfully gives the F-word back to an angry neighbor.After they find a place to live and a job, the whole New York's discovery part is a tribute to the actors' extraordinary talent to portray different characters from chatting barbers to drags, from singers to pervert reverends, they both nail their roles and we, as viewers, are invited to spot them every once in a while. Eddie Murphy is top notch as the old Jewish man in the barbershop, such an uncanny impression that I admit it fooled me the first time I saw it. The beauty of Coming to Africa is that it features two levels of true appreciation, one on the story and another through a series of sketch-like vignettes demonstrating two sides of the actors' talent, without overdoing them. In a way, Coming to America prefigures the appeal of Eddie Murphy's Nutty Professor and his wonderful talent as a comedian when given a good role, and Prince Akeem is one of his best. But to attribute the success of the film only on Eddie Murphy's talent would be untrue, and even more unfair.Another force of the film relies on the whole casting, starting with the perfect couple that could have ever played Akeem's parents James Earl Jones as the authoritarian King Jaffe Joffe and Madge Sinclair as the most comprehensive mother but no less Queen Aoloan, both who'd team up later to play much ore memorable royal couple in a certain Disney film set in Africa. Both Jones and Sinclair possess a majestic and absolutely irresistible aura, and the powerful image of King Jaffe Joffe inspires an ominous sensation beautifully conveyed by the music that accompanies his own entrance in New York. The rest of the cast include another veteran actor, John Amos, as the McDowell restaurant chain owner, Shari Hadley as his beautiful daughter, Eriq La Salle as her soon-to-be ex-boyfriend, Samuel L. Jackson in his typical scene-stealing 80's supporting roles and it also features briefs but heart-warming cameos of Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy as &#x85; you know, and if you don't, well, make a guess.As a comedy and romance (not a romantic comedy, mind you) the film is not without some predictable situations, but it delivers what is expected, it's funny, it has a happy ending, and most of hits scenes can be watched regardless of their context. It's a great movie to watch and re-watch and its classical status can't be denied, since 24 years later after its release, the image of Murphy as the Old Jewish man, Arsenio Hall as a woman, the McDowell's logo and the unforgettable 'Soul Glo' will forever be associated with the 80's, a decade where movies were made just for fun and only for fun. "}{"Title":"Trading Countries","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"21 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Eddie Murphy stars as Prince Hakeem, who comes to America with his servant (Arsenio Hall) in search of a future wife who can respect him for his intelligence, not his money. The film is another '80s fish-out-of-water comedy in the vein of Crocodile Dundee -- it delivers some of the best jokes of Murphy's career. Although it never becomes great and is quite uneven at times, entering its rough spots where the jokes seem to slow down and become not quite as funny, the movie is always entertaining and Murphy's charismatic lead performance displays his skills as a comedian -- unfortunately Hall is not as fortunate. Frankly, he stinks.The movie features a wide range of cameos and/or star appearances (before they became stars) -- James Earl Jones, Louie Anderson, and Samuel L. Jackson popping up in various scenes.The movie works as a sort of sequel to TRADING PLACES (1983) -- both star Eddie Murphy, both were directed by John Landis, both deal with the prospect of trading places (or countries, in this situation), etc.Also, it features a great self-referential moment (linked to Trading Places) when Murphy gives a couple of bums a wad of money. It turns out the homeless guys are more than just familiar faces...Recommended. 4/5 "},{"Title":"I just did not think it ran well on all cylinders.","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This Eddie Murphy comedy was somewhat funny at times, but I don't know...for me it missed the mark. Started out relatively strong, but faded in the end when it got a bit to sentimental, which admittedly a lot of comedies tend to do. The story has Murphy as a Prince who is to be married to a woman who has been groomed to be his bride by following his every command. Eddie's character does not want this though, he yearns to find real love so he is off to America a place where not everyone knows who he is to find Mrs. Right as it were. He gets a job as a worker at a McDonald's rip off type joint (which to me is the funniest parts of the movie) and falls for the daughter of the man who runs this establishment all the while keeping his identity as a prince a secret. Arsenio is rather good as his faithful traveling companion as is most of the cast. They are not the problem, the fact this movie tends to lag is. Slow lengths of the film where there is not all that much funny stuff going on, the movie is under two hours, but feels more like a two and a half hour movie. I say I would have liked it more had they trimmed it down ten or so minutes and kept the laughs going throughout the whole movie as they were the first part of it. "},{"Title":"A trip down memory lane part 1","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I remember when I got my first VCR. Coming To America, Married To The Mob and Grease where the first VHS tapes that I had. Me and my mother used to watch Coming To America like crazy before my mom made the big mistake of lending the tape to a friend we never saw again. Years later I'm finally reunited with this movie and decide to write this review.The story as you all know is about a Prince named Akeem(Eddie Murphy) that grows weary of being pampered and being given a bride chooses to flee to America to find a bride of his own. He moves to a slum in Queens, New York and lives in a rundown hotel and works at the local McDonald's knockoff called McDowell's owned by Cleo McDowell(John Amos). He ends up falling for Cleo's beautiful daughter Lisa(Shari Headley).The chemistry between Eddie Murphy and the rest of the cast is perfect. Arsenio Hall(who plays Semmi) as well as Eddie Murphy show you that they are experts at playing different characters in the movie. The barber shop scenes will always be the funniest scenes in the movie but the scene at the club when Akeem and Semmi are searching for that special lady is not far behind. Even most people will claim its kind of cheesy but I found the scenes with Prince Akeem and Lisa charming and they don't make a bad looking couple on screen. Movies like Coming To America are the reason why people are always going back to Eddie's early films as opposed to his films in the 2000s(with the exception of Dreamgirls of course). He looks like he wants to be in these movies and he puts his all into his roles in contrast to the movies that are terrible where he phones in his performance. Coming To America is a great film and is one of the best comedies to come out of Black cinema. Strongly recommended to anybody that likes blasts from the past. "},{"Title":"This is one good Eddie Murphy movie","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is famous because of the number of characters that Eddie Murphy and Asinio Hall manage to play. It is not that this is something new, but rather the make up is so well done that you cannot even recognise them. One character that Murphy plays is in fact white, and when I suggested to my friend that this was Murphy, his reply was - it can't be, he's white! The basic plot is simple. Murphy is Adeeb, the heir to the throne of an obscenely rich African country and he is going to be married to a woman whom he had not known until she was presented to him on his 21st birthday. He has had everything done for him since he was a kid and is getting sick of it. When he learns that his wife to be's opinion is tailored so that everything he likes, she likes, he gets fed up and decides to go on a trip. His father thinks that it is to sow his wild oats, but he wants to find a wife. So he takes his servant, and goes to Queens in New York because, logically thinking, that is where he is going to find his queen. Moreso, he wants to live like a pauper and hires the grungiest flat available and gets a job as a floor mopper at McDowells, a restaurant that is very similar to a certain other restaurant which shall remain unnamed so as to protect me for defamation.The plot and themes aren't deep, but that is not why I watch these movies. I watch them because Murphy has a cool sense of humour. He plays Adeeb, a naive African prince really well, and he plays the other characters even better. The barber shop scene is the highlight of this character swapping, even though he also plays the lead singer of a band called Sexual Chocolate.The movie is very formulaic with the beautiful woman that Adeeb loves and the horrid, slimy boyfriend. In the end, as can be expected, she decides to marry him. This is not what I am interested in, but rather the spice that Murphy adds to his movie. Also the tie-in with Trading Places is also quite cool. "},{"Title":"All good fun!","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What haven't I heard about Coming to America, a lot of people in my life have always brought up this movie and rubbed it in my face how they have one movie they could stump me with. What can I say? I had to rent it and see it for myself, after all, this was the decade where Eddie was king of comedy. I have to say that my friends were right this was just a really funny and enjoyable movie. We have Eddie as the lead and John Landis directing, there is no wrong. Well, that's wrong of me to say, just love these two guys. But is the movie as good as everyone says it is? I did laugh and have a good time, this was something original for it's time and just had a good time entertaining the audience.Akeem Joffer, the prince and heir to the throne of the African country Zamunda, is discontented with being pampered all his life. The final straw is when his parents present him with a bride-to-be he has never met before, trained to obey mindlessly his every command. Akeem concocts a plan to travel to America to find a wife he can both love and respect. He and his servant & friend Semmi arrive in Queens , New York, and after several scrapes, find an apartment. They begin working at a local restaurant called McDowell's passing themselves off as students. Akeem falls in love with Lisa, Mr. McDowell's daughter, who possesses the qualities the prince is looking for. The rest of the film centers on Akeem's attempts to win Lisa's hand in marriage, while adjusting to life in America and dodging his royal duties and prerogatives.I know everyone loves the line the royal penis is clean but my favorite that had me on the floor is when Prince Akeem has moved to Queens and he's all excited, goes outside to scream good morning to everyone and some guy says F you! and the Prince doesn't realize that it's actually an insult and screams Yes! Yes! F you too!. Trading Places is one of my favorite comedies of all time and I loved that John Landis included the Duke brothers joke into the movie, I nearly died laughing, but there is a flaw in that joke. Unfortunately for those who hadn't seen the movie would not get that joke and John should have taken that into consideration. But I really did enjoy this film, I'm really glad that my friends wouldn't stop teasing me that drove me to see Coming to America, this is the Eddie Murphy that I will always be happy to watch.8/10 "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's best.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  ****Starring Eddie Murphy, Arsenio Hall, Shari Headly, and James Earl Jones.Eddie murphy has made many great movies, like the Beverly Hills Cops series and the Nutty Professor duo.  But Coming to America is, by far, his best.  Murphy portrays an African Prince who visits Queens to find his soulmate.  If he does not, he must marry a woman he does not love. He also plays a barber, a singer, and a few more.  Arsenio hall is his sidekick, Semmi.  He delivers as much laughs as Murphy.  Headly plays Murphy's soulmate who loves Murphy for who he is, not what he does (something Murphy lied about.)  James Earl Jones is Murphy's father who does not care what Murphy thinks and is a little perverted at times.  Overall, this is my favorite movie of all time. "},{"Title":"Eddie and Arsenio at their best!!!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie 7 or 8 times and it still cracks me up.  This is my favorite comedy of all time.  All of the characters were funny, but I actually ached from laughter in scenes with Arsenio's preacher and in the Barber shop.  That alone would be enough, but there's more.   James from Good Times - John Amos and Mister Soul Glow himself - Eric LaSalle put in excellent performances as well.  Unfortunately, the critics and The Academy didn't think much of this film.  I guess the ultra-rich African theme didn't appeal to some.  The fact this movie plays regularly on syndicated TV over 10 years later proves this film is a classic.  This film is a must see again and again and again.  Each time you'll catch things you missed the previous time; much like the Nutty Professor.  This film was so hilarious that I didn't just want to live in Zamunda, I was ready to move to Queens (If Akeem and Semi were really there, of course).   "},{"Title":"One Of Eddie Murphy's Finest","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I know this is going to put me in the minority, but I am not at all a big fan of Eddie Murphy's over the top and in your face style of comedy. In fact, in many of his movies I find him to be vaguely irritating. That is not at all the case, however, with Coming To America, which - in my view - must surely rank as one of his best efforts.In this movie, Murphy adopts a deliberately low-key and somewhat innocent style of comedy as Prince Akeem of Zamunda, which serves to make him all the funnier. Akeem travels to America in search of a bride, after rejecting the arranged choice of his parents, the King and Queen (the great James Earl Jones - who was perfectly cast as the King - and Madge Sinclair respectively.) He decides that the appropriate place to find a bride who will eventually be Queen of Zamunda is, of course, Queens, N.Y. - and the story takes off from there. There is a stellar cast of primarily black actors. In addition to Murphy, Jones and Sinclair, we see established actors such as John Amos (in a very funny role as the father of Akeem's love interest) and Arsenio Hall as Akeem's servant. Also interesting are somewhat early views of then (1988) lesser know black actors such as Samuel L. Jackson, Vondie Curtis-Hall and Eriq LaSalle. Shari Headley (with whom I was unfamiliar) does a reasonably good job as Lisa, who Akeem falls in love with.There are not many weaknesses to this movie. Unfortunately, Murphy slips back into his more outrageous style playing a couple of lesser characters who hang out at the local barber shop and, as I often find with Murphy, I found those scenes irritating. But as Akeem he was wonderful. Headley's performance didn't blow me away, although it wasn't bad, and the scene in which Akeem and Semmi (Hall) seem to interview prospective brides in a Queens bar started out humorous, but got old very quickly. Minor quibbles, though. This is a very funny movie.9/10 "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's last great solo movie","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If somebody in the 80's would say that people will run away with scream at the mention of  a new comedy with Eddie Murphy  he would end in mental hospital . Eddie Murphy was AWESOME in the 80's . 48 hours , Trading places  , Beverly Hills cop and finally Coming to America &#x96; all great movies , a true classics. Add to that a successful stand up tour Eddie Murphy RAW and a quite successful music career (with popular My girl wants to part all the time song) . After such successful decade came much weaker decade &#x96; the 90's. Still Murphy made great Mulan , good Life , decent Distinguished gentleman and Metro . Eddie lost his touch in after year 2000 . Yes , he got Oscar nominee for Dreamgirls and was great in Shrek franchise , but his solo movies became terrible disasters that nobody wants to watch. Today Eddie is not funny anymore and keeps making all those dreadful family friendly crap movies . Maybe some day he will be back&#x85;Coming to America is Murphy's second movie made with John Landis . Just like Trading places it's a movie with a lot of heart underneath lot of fun . It pretty much feels (just like TP) like an movie that Frank Capra would made in the 80's. It's not a romantic comedy as many of the reviewers say , even if the love story is important part of the movie . It's a comedy and romance mixed together very well &#x96; an reversed version of Cinderella since it's prince who comes looking for woman , not the other way around. It's hard to believe today that this movie was made by Disney. We have some nudity , F-words , sexual jokes and even some toilet joke . Yet , everything is presented here with such charm and good taste that you won't be offended , but laughing out loud. The movie does throws too many jokes and some of the are obviously weaker than others . Overall the movie manages to have a high quality jokes from the beginning to the end.Most of the fun here comes from the confrontation of live in Zamunda and America . Those are two different worlds . Zamunda is presented as a country straight from fairy tale . The movie never makes an attempt to copy reality. Zamunda has to be in a total opposition with New York for the film's own comedic purposes . Same goes for a simple , but incredibly effective duo of Prince Akeem (Eddie Murphy) and Semmi (Arsenio Hall) . First one is amusingly naive and enthusiastic about everything . Second is pessimistic and down to earth . Together they hilarious . One completes another and the results are wonderful.The power of the movie might lay in the performances of the actors and actresses . Coming to America is probably one of the best acted not only comedies , but movies of ALL time. Every character that we meet here is memorable , likable and has at least one great comic moment (for example  the lady at the post office). CTA is pretty much a black movie , since the only non-black person here is Louie Anderson (creator of cartoon Life with Louie) as the sympathetic worker at McDowell's restaurant.The main star is of course Eddie . This film marks the first time Eddie Murphy played multiple characters the same film. Something which has gone on to be a trademark of his (Nutty professor  ) . Murphy is top notch as the old Jewish man in the barbershop . Yes , the make up is brilliant too , but it's amazing how he disappeared completely in that role. It shows you how REALLY TALENTED guy he is . Murphy also makes Prince Akeem a true human character &#x96; when the movie needs it you can see an intelligent , humble , sensitive human underneath all that joyful attitude.Arsenio Hall also likes to dress up ( he's hilarious as the woman in the bar) and gives a great supporting performance as Murphy's sidekick . He's pessimistic attitude brings a lot of fun. Who could forget James Earl Jones as the King and as the Queen ? They both are perfect royal couple &#x96; tough on the outside and good hearted inside. No wonder they played another royal couple &#x96; in Lion king. John Amos is delightful as the greedy but sweet McDowell , Shari Hadley is charming as Lisa , Eriq La Salle is amusing as the shallow playboy .Watch out for really young Cuba Gooding Jr. as one of the barber shop clients , Samuel L. Jackson as a robber and for Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche appearing in one of the most brilliant easter egg EVER . Coming to America was one of the movies of my childhood . After all those years it holds incredibly strong . It beats the s*** out of Murphy's recent comedies and it's simply one of the greatest comedies EVER. It's funny , charming , has heart , it's wonderfully acted and has all the magic of 80's cinema . I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"One of Eddie Murphy's best","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Were it not for the lousy Beverly Hills Cop III, John Landis and Eddie Murphy would've pulled off a wicked hat trick of awesome movies. But we still have Trading Places and Coming to America, the latter of which remains a sterling example of both a director and star who know what the hell they're doing. Murphy gets the chance to show off his comedic wit and his ever-likable persona as the unhappy African prince who goes to America in search of true love. Both Murphy and Arsenio Hall hold a masterclass in playing an array of different characters in the same scene, resulting in a number of setups that keep Coming to America very memorable and . . . nay, a classic. This is a genuinely funny movie with great performances all around (not least of which from John Amos, Eriq La Salle and James Earl Jones), and loads of comedic bits.Fantastic movie.8.5/10 "}{"Title":"This movie makes you feel royalty","Date":"21 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is so rich with funny scenes that you can't help feeling good about yourself after watching this movie. There are so many gems in this movie from the She's Your Queen song, the McDowell's vs. McDonald's shtick, to the preacher relating a bikini pageant to God's creation. There is countless amounts of funny humor. Coming to America stars Eddie Murphy as Akeem. Akeem is an African prince from the made up country of Zamunda. The depiction of Zamunda was hilarious, and I'm floored that some critics took it serious due to it making fun of Africans natures. First off, the portrayal of Africa is nothing like Africa itself and I think we all know that not all African women are subservient and are only interested in wealth. Yes, the African culture stresses obedience among other things but there is a fine line between being obedient and being subservient. Let's note that the portrayed is very fictitious, so don't get too serious about this. Most people who saw this film surely know that many African countries suffer from dire poverty, so some people might not find the story of a fabulously wealthy African Prince aristocrat going to America, not interesting. The reason for this is that Zamunda is based on the country of Zaire. Akeem's father, King Jaffe Joffer (James Earl Jones) the cap and lion pelt sash wearing king is modeled on Mobutu Sese Seko who ruled the country of Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of the Congo) from 1965 until shortly before his death in 1997, was one of the most evil dictators of the 20th Century, right up there with Hitler, Stalin, Pol Pot and Idi Amin. The idea of a popular movie glorifying this level of theft, treating it as an object of amusement, is nauseating to some. Still the movie is interesting. Akeem go to Queen to avoid a loveless, arranged marriage and find a wife whom he can respect for her intelligence, non-materialistic and independent. That's so funny in a way, because how he misunderstood that by going to Queens that we will find a royal type woman. He will give up all his wealth and stand up to his domineering family in the name of freedom to feel disconnect in America due to the fresh off the boat misunderstanding of everything, and getting into all kinds of ridiculous situations with being an immigrant in America. Eddie Murphy's playing of the pampered prince was equally funny as Murphy manages to look smug and naive at the same time. I could easily understand his need to get away from the Royal Family and see what some other part of the world was like. Akeem and his sidekick Semi (Arsenio Hall) get mediocre jobs at a McDonald's rip off, McDowell and meet some interesting characters on the way. Characters like Lisa McDowell (Shari Headley) and her father Cleo (John Amos). Star spotters will have a field day locating Cuba Gooding Jr., Donna Summer, Louie Anderson, Eriq La Salle and Samuel L. Jackson in their minuscule supporting roles. Not only those Murphy and Hall play the two main characters, but countless amounts of sub characters in makeup. The make up on this film is amazing. Eddie Murphy was Clarence the barber and horrible singer Randy Watson. Believe it or not, the Jewish guy is also Eddie Murphy. Mind blown. Hall was also Morris the barber and Reverend Brown in the film. The movie was light and frivolous, just as expected. Gags were aplenty. The acting bordered on corny, but that's common in comedies. I left the video wondering if Queens was actually that bad or if it was just all part of the joke. Good funny movie and a very sweet story, made at the peak of Murphy's popularity. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Hilarious.Some of Murphys funniest roles","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Coming To America is a brilliant,hilarious movie with a great story,characters and cast.Eddie Murphy did a fantastic job as Prince Akeem,Clarence the hairdresser and the Sexy Chocolate guy,who where all very funny.I also thought Arsenio Hall and James Earl Jones did a fantastic job,and altogether makes for a great movie with a great cast.Definitely some of Eddie Murphys better work.Prince Akeem (Eddie Murphy) is tired of always being pampered.When he turns 21,he decides to head to New York to find his own princess instead of getting his father King Jaffe Joffer (Jammes Earl Jones) to find one suited for him. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy plays a really sweet character, for once, in Coming to America","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Before this movie, Eddie Murphy mostly played smart-ass guys who said a lot of profane things which was very evident in his stand-up programs as well. Here he plays Prince Akeem who seems the be the sweetest person who's only use of the f-word-or any other dirty one-was in greeting his Queens neighbors in mistakenly thinking they're warmly greeting him. This was Murphy at his most charming and charismatic. So we want him to get the girl here and Shari Headley is so charming as the leading lady. And Arsenio Hall was perfect as his sidekick Semmi. Actually, both Murphy and Hall do some other characters that are also very funny. And besides them, there's also James Earl Jones, Madge Sinclair, and John Amos to round out the compelling veterans in the supporting cast among newcomers like Samuel L. Jackson and Eriq La Salle and Louie Anderson. What else, well since Eddie and director John Landis were also involved in Trading Places, there's an appearance of a couple of that movie's players that was another bright spot in the picture. Really, all I'll now say is if you haven't seen Coming to America, what are you waiting for? Watch it! "},{"Title":"It's pure Eddie Murphy gold!","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I fist saw the movie trailer, I thought it was funny and couldn't wait to see it. When I finally did, I couldn't stop cracking up! Eddie is SO funny as Prince Akeem and who knew that Aresnio Hall had Comedic chops too as Semmi. When you look at Prince Akeem, you can't help but feel that he seem partially based on Michael Jackson. (In the famous person wants to be with someone who WON'T hitch with him 'cause of what he is phase, oh and the 'Soul Glo' product looks like it's inspired by MJ's hair too is another sign.) James Earl Jones and Madge Sinclair are good as Eddie's parents and John Amos is good as Shari Headley father too. This film has the most funniest scenes, such as the ones with Eddie and Arsenio as multiple characters! This film is pure Eddie Murphy gold and is one of his best movies! "},{"Title":"Very funny Murphy film","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" MPAARated R for Language Quebec Rating13+ Canadian Home Video Rating14AI haven't seen this film in a long time so I don't remember much of it.It stars Eddie Murphy,Arsenio Hall and James Earl Jones.I remember it being very funny and entertaining.Fans of Eddie Murphy should watch this film.The film is basically about an African prince who with his friend, come to America(Queens, New York to be exact) and pretend to be poor so the prince can find a girl who will like him for his personality and not for the fact that he is a prince.Coming To America is a very funny and entertaining Eddie Murphy film and its one of his best. "},{"Title":"Look out Queens, royalty of a different kind is on its way...","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The 'Innocent Abroad' is a pretty standard device for a comedy, but for me what makes this example stand out is both Eddie Murphy's dedication to his craft and the fine gallery of supporting players that are on call to back him up. Of course, these days we know by now that Eddie isn't fazed at all by taking on multiple roles, but this is the film where arguably that tactic has paid off the most, and this initial success came relatively early in his career. Today when he tries it, the makeup is left to do the work but the jokes rely heavily on bodily functions. The bonus in this film is that the humour in Coming to America is largely cleverer, and yet the makeup is still terrific! So if you're expecting a reputed disaster of Norbit-sized proportions, then you have nothing to fear.Joining in the fun are such familiar faces as John Amos in the role of the prospective father-in-law, and even a brief cameo role from a pre-fame Samuel L. Jackson that nestles alongside other well-known names and faces... For director Landis this represents something of a 'career plateau' too, as he has since struggled to be this contemporary or relevant again. A unique group produce big belly-laughs and a nice warm feeling, then. This is expertly constructed late-80's comedy. "},{"Title":"'It was a most gripping victory'","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Coming to America is harmless fun&#151;though at the time of the release I remember some African&#150;American groups being less than delighted about it. I can't remember the reason, and being neither black nor white, I saw the film without any politicization surrounding race. And when viewed in that vein, this is a charming, traditional, popcorn love story, with the mainstream laughs you would expect from a 1980s Eddie Murphy film.It's the old tale of the prince in an arranged marriage who wishes to seek, instead, an independently minded woman. And he meets her on his first night in Queens, New York, the place that seems the farthest from the mythical Zamunda, a wealthy African nation where zebras and lions roam outside the royal palace and James Earl Jones is king. The courtship is fairly speedy as the movie has to finish within two hours; though I'll hold back on whether Prince Akeem gets the girl or not due to IMDb rules.However, this was produced by Eddie Murphy and he came up with the original story, so there are suitably naughty bits&#151;in the day when Murph wasn't a Dad and wasn't making kid-friendly fare. The opening scenes of a pampered prince are enjoyable, not to mention an early appearance of Garcelle Beauvais; Madge Sinclair, as the queen of Zamunda, plays her role with such class she could pass for royalty. Murphy's and Arsenio Hall's multiple roles are memorable, including Murphy's (white) Jewish character, Saul, and singer Randy Watson. Eriq la Salle gives a convincing portrayal of a spoilt heir, in direct contrast to the conscientious prince&#151;there is meaning behind these roles.Despite these characterizations, Coming to America breaks little new ground, but it is largely satisfying. It is what it says it is&#151;a romantic comedy&#151;and succeeds on both those counts. "},{"Title":"It Starts Dull But Picks Up Halfway Through","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Coming To America is a film that I was hoping to like, but it's flaws prevent it from being at least decent.Coming To America's plot details the ambition of a man to find a wife that is more appropriate for him rather than someone picked out by his parents. So he comes to America to look for one. The film's plot is predictable as you can pretty much figure out who he ends up with. The film's dialogue though is at least not as cheesy as I thought it would be. There are characters in here that are written so horribly and unfunny that it brings the movie really down, the people at the barber shop were corny and very over the top, this was also due to the acting but the lines that were said wasn't funny at all. Stronger side of the film is the second half, when they find work and things starts rolling.This film doesn't feel like a John Landis film but rather an Eddie Murphy film. The film feels uneven, as the first quarter of the film is so boring and dull that none of it was funny and lowered my expectations on how the film would play out but surprisingly enough the second half wasn't too bad. The first few scenes play out a little too over the top, slapsticky and deals with clashing of cultures but when the tone of the film shifts to a romantic comedy, which I have a weakness for, it starts to become a little funny and the pace becomes a little faster. If the whole film was like this, I would have brought the rating up a notch.The film was photographed by Woody Omens, who did an awesome job in Mel Brooks' History of the World Part I as in that film, he captured big beautiful shots while at the same time not distracting us from the comedy. This film was very close and focused on the characters. Omens could have captured maybe a little more of the palace just to get that sense of royalty and importance. Even in New York, i felt that an opportunity was missed because most of the time the film takes place in closed and small spaces.The film is more soundtrack driven and at times can get your head bobbing as it sounds fun and upbeat. The soundtrack keeps the tone of the film light and fun which is a big plus for me. Nile Rodgers was the composer for this film but he has done better individual soundtrack pieces for other films.The acting in this film is so-so, there are moments where it's over the top and at times simple which keeps the scene feeling familiar and light. The first half of the film is a little over the top as Eddie Murphy at times take different roles and those supporting roles at times don't deliver the comedy very well. I know Eddie Murphy can play characters that are a little bit sentimental like the protagonist in this film, and in particular the second half of the film. His servant, played by Arsenio Hall, is a little more funny and has great chemistry with Eddie Murphy but their relationship wasn't played out as much as I hoped. There are others in the supporting cast that were fine and were fun to watch like James Earl Jones, Shari Headley and Allison Dean.The film is a little bit sloppy in it's comedy and story but it picks up in the latter half, though predictable. The acting is a little too much at times but there are sentimental moments in there that are done well by Murphy and Headley. I wished the film spent a little more time on the chemistry between Murphy and Hall. Overall, it's OK but I won't be going back to it anytime soon. "},{"Title":"Light hearted fantasy/comedy","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" John Landis' fantasy-comedy is very light-hearted and thinly scripted. The story finds 'Prince Akeem of Zammundah' (Eddie Murphy) traveling to the United States with his assistant (Arsenio Hall) to find himself the ideal bride.The film can be a lot of fun, and sometimes funny, but one must not take proceedings at all seriously or Coming to America becomes corny and flat. Ultimately predictable, and with no substance, it may not be much of a movie. However, isn't it nice to see Eddie Murphy in a much tamer picture which has seriously toned down the language, even if it does pop up here and there.PS Look for the in-joke from Trading Places. Very funny!Thursday, January 7, 1993 - Video "},{"Title":"Extremely over-indulgent but it has its moments","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In some ways, seeing this film is a tad disturbing to me. First, the film has a pretty big budget and plenty of gloss--and this has the effect of muting Eddie Murphy's natural comedic talents. Second, while it's obvious that he and his buddy Arsenio had a great time making this film, I felt like I was watching an inside joke and just didn't see what all the hubbub was about, as the movie made huge bucks at the box office. While there were some decent moments here and there, it just seemed like Murphy was standing around smiling at the camera expecting to be loved and adored instead of being funny. This was especially true during the scenes where he and Arsenio played multiple roles--it just wasn't all that funny. "}{"Title":"Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall are funny!","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Coming To America is one of the best comedies ever made without a doubt! The movie is about an African Prince (Eddie Murphy) who travels to New York City with his best friend (Arsenio Hall) to find a wife who can respect him. The film co-stars James Earl Jones, Madge Sinclair, John Amos, Frankie Faison, Shari Headley, Eriq La Salle, Paul Bates, and others. If you haven't seen Coming To America, rent it or see it on television. You'll like it! I like it!10/10 stars! "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was awesome! Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall are hilarious. Eddie Murphy is Prince Akeem and Arsenio Hall plays Akeem's sidekick, Semmi. Eddie Murphy is going to Queens, New York to search for a wife before he has to marry a woman that he does not love.  This movie is wonderful and hilarious and I recommend it to anybody who is an Eddie Murphy fan. Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Murphy still holds the throne of this comedy fable.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  COMING TO AMERICA was Eddie Murphy's finest hour, and a big shift from raucous movies prior to this. So far, this remains to be Murphy's best effort, and not like these overblown remakes of the 90s. It's still the old-fashioned love story where a modern-day Cupid finds a new mate. but it took a genius like John Landis to turn it into a royal fairy tale set on the streets of Queens. And talk about a BIG movie, because it certainly feels like one! Murphy handles a very capable part as an African prince using his royal oats to find the new bride-to-be he really wants. While he seriously proves to be funny (and has often tried), he's less vulgar and much more profound in his comedic acting. Notice how two cultures collide, and how they interact directly with the movie's sense of humor. Best moments the cameos of Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall anywhere in the movie. Whenever you see any of John Landis' creations, always remember to look for the little ad that says See You Next Wednesday. "},{"Title":"A Hilarious Movie","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Eddie Murphy stars as the Prince of Zamunda. Prince Hakeem is very wealthy. He refuses to marry the bride that his father chose for him, so he decides to go to Queens, New York and find his queen. He arrives in Queens with his best friend/servant and seeks a queen. They try to blend in, so no one knows that he is royalty. He works to act just like the other people in New York and even gets a job at a fast food restaurant. The movie is hilarious all the way through and romantic at the same time.It is interesting to watch Prince Hakeem search for his queen and deal with environments that he is not used to. The prince has to leave his life of luxury behind and learn how to live like people with normal lives. Eddie Murphy does a great job in the film and is sure to cause the audience to laugh. "},{"Title":"Incredibly funny 'fish out of water' comedy which is also surprisingly touching","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Prince Akeem (Eddie Murphy) is an African prince who is the soul heir to the kingdom of Zumunda. He lives a life of luxury and is waited on hand and foot. His father King Jaffe Joffer (James Earl Jones) has selected a bride for Akeem to marry and expects Akeem to marry this lady due to it being tradition in the kingdom of Zumunda. However, Akeem is very much against this tradition of 'forced' marriage and wants to marry a bride that he truly loves. With the approval of his father, Akeem along with family servant Semmi (Arsenio Hall) both head to New York for a 40 day period. King Jaffe sends Akeem to New York so that he can 'sow' his oats and then he expects him to come back and marry the woman that he's selected. However, Akeem is determined to find a princess of his own choosing.This is another in a long line of 'fish out of water' comedies so it was never going to win any prizes for originality. However, the way that Coming to America creates the humour is very funny. Akeem and Semmi both arriving at the airport and saying to each other 'don't make it obvious to people that we're rich' whilst wandering around with huge gold chains round their necks and whilst carrying about 20 suitcases, Akeem stepping out in the road and shouting 'Halt' to the Taxi Driver, the scene where Akeem is asked to mop the floor and starts pushing the mop bucket round the floor whilst the mop is still in the bucket. All these scenes were really funny, but what I liked about it is that a lot of the humour was quite subtle rather than being 'in your face' humour.One big plus with this film is the whole premise itself; Akeem could continue living the life of luxury and continue to be waited on hand and foot, but that's not the life that he wants. In order to find his ideal wife he's prepared to slum it out in a rough neighbourhood in New York, do manual labour. He's also looking for a woman with intelligence, but he also looks for a woman with morals. It also really helps that Akeem is such a likable guy - he's wealthy, but is still generous and isn't arrogant. He's also caring and is also a very moral person. I really liked his character and when I saw him in ordinary clothes when he's in New York I almost forgot that he was a prince. The fact that Akeem is looking for a woman with intelligence and morals means that the romance angle of this film is already far less shallow than the romance that you'll see in most rom-coms (which is one of the reasons I normally avoid rom-coms). The blossoming romance between Akeem and Lisa (Shari Headley) was both touching and convincing and it just gave me a really 'warm' feeling inside whenever they shared screen time together.Murphy puts in a good performance which is far more restrained than what we are used to seeing from him. Hall is also good and the chemistry between him and Murphy was excellent. James Earl Jones probably gave the best performance and it was a good choice to cast him in the role of King Joffer - his booming, deep and commanding voice helps to give him a real sense of authority. This film also features Samuel L Jackson in a minor role before he hit the big time. Murphy also experiments with taking on multiple characters himself which is something that he also did later in his career in The Nutty Professor. He's a talented actor and Coming to America was probably about the time when he started to reach the end of his peak. It's a shame that he doesn't seem to enjoy the same amount of success that he achieved in the 80's as he is a really good actor.Coming to America is a wonderful film that is funny and touching at the same time. It's a predictable film, but it's also a 'feel good' film which put a big smile on my face when it finished. Definitely worth checking out.SIDE NOTE; There is a scene in Coming to America which links back to Trading Places which is another of John Landis' films. I won't say anymore than that, but I thought that this scene was really funny (although you'll need to have seen Trading Places to understand the joke). "},{"Title":"Charming but could be funnier","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Coming to America is a movie which is generally remembered fondly. But in retrospect it is not quite as funny as you might remember it as having been. It has enough laughs to keep you more or less satisfied but it never truly reaches the heights of comic genius. The comedy is hit and miss, some of it really works but much of it does fall flat. The movie does have a story and a star that are sweet and endearing. Yes, this may be the one time Eddie Murphy can be described as sweet and endearing. He plays Prince Akeem, heir to the throne of the fictional (and somewhat bizarre) African nation of Zamunda. It's impossible not to be charmed by Akeem, who after being pampered to ridiculous extremes his whole life just wants to be normal. Most of all he wants to find love. In Zamunda a marriage has been prearranged for him. His beautiful bride-to-be has been groomed to be completely obedient and subservient to him. This is exactly what Akeem does not want. He wants an intelligent, independent woman who will love him for who he is, not for his wealth and royal status. Akeem will set out on a journey to find his ideal woman. Destination...Queens? It is here, in a run-down area of perhaps New York City's least glamorous borough, that Akeem will seek his bride. He adapts to the commoner's life pretty well, almost reveling in being a poor man mopping the floor in a fast-food restaurant. His friend and traveling companion Semmi meanwhile longs for the lavish lifestyle they have left behind. The back-and-forth between this odd couple provides some laughs. It does not take long for Akeem to zero in on his ideal woman. Lisa is the very smart, and very beautiful, daughter of the owner of the restaurant in which Akeem works. Unfortunately she is in a relationship with Darryl who, in one of the movie's gags which doesn't work very well 25 years later, is heir to a Jheri curl fortune. Lisa's father likes Darryl because he's got money. He would never approve of his daughter being with poor Akeem. If he only knew. Akeem will never let on about his wealth. He will try to win Lisa's heart using his personality alone. It is a very charming pursuit.By Eddie Murphy standards Coming to America is a very tame comedy. There is nothing all that raunchy or outrageous about it. Unfortunately there are stretches where there is not that much funny about it either. Comedic high points are scattered throughout but there are some pretty long lulls between the better moments. The movie is performed very well. Murphy is excellent. Arsenio Hall, playing Semmi, proves a good partner for Murphy. Shari Headley is excellent as Lisa, making it very easy to see why Akeem would fall in love with her. Eriq La Salle makes for a convincing jerk as Darryl. John Amos has some very good moments in playing Lisa's father. And James Earl Jones is a commanding presence as Akeem's father, the king of Zamunda. But for as good as all the performances are the movie never quite kicks into high gear. It is paced rather slowly, taking quite the meandering route to the finish line. Murphy is very charming as Akeem, and the character has a few good fish out of water moments, but he is not as consistently funny as you would hope. In fact the funniest Murphy moments in the film come from some of the other characters he plays rather than from Akeem. And that is a problem in what is for all intents and purposes Akeem's movie. This is a movie which definitely has you rooting for its main character. It just doesn't have you laughing with him enough. Not a bad movie by any means. But no comedic masterpiece either. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy is Comedic Gold","Date":"12 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Coming to America is Eddie Murphy's undisputed best comedy. It's a very lovely, endearing comedy and definitely one of my favorites. Murphy pours out the talent in excess playing a variety of outlandish characters; he and Arsenio Hall truly shine, glistening as lustrous as Darryl's SoulGlo soaked hairdo. Murphy and Hall are a delight as Prince Akeem and Semmi, however they leave most of the jokes for their other funnier parts. Murphy falls into the role of Randy Watson and gives us something for the ages, Sexy Chocolate. Hall generates charisma for Reverend Brown. Clarence, Saul, and Morris in the barbershop make for a memorable scene serving as a slight introduction and significant landmark to Black-American culture. The makeup and costumes for these characters are excellent and you can hardly recognize the stars. When these side characters appear on screen the rest of the movie becomes irrelevant to the momentary pleasure of the given scene. James Earl Jones and Madge Sinclair are strong presences as the King and Queen establishing an uneasiness to the plot. Shari Headley seems bound for stardom playing Lisa McDowell. John Amos is as likable as ever as Lisa's dad. Allison Dean stands out as Lisa's sister, Patrice. Samuel L. Jackson shows up for an unforgettable robbery scene. While Coming to America starts out as a straightforward comedy, it gradually settles into a touching comedy-romance. Coming to America has no forced punchlines. The laughter comes out smooth. "},{"Title":"Prince Akeem keeps himself an apartment with Semi attached.","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" John Landis reunites with Eddie Murphy in this comedy that many view as an absolute modern classic but that always leaves me a little cold, especially if compared to the duo's previous work together, Trading Places.Murphy plays, amongst others, Prince Akeem, an Africa prince who doesn't want an arranged marriage. He wants to find someone who loves him for who he is and where better to look for a potential queen than . . . . . Queens, New York? He sets off with his assistant, Semi (Arsenio Hall, stealing many of the scenes that he's in), and keeps his wealth and status a secret while he searched for the love of his life. That may just be Lisa (Shari Headley), a young woman who seems to have all the right qualities but who may not react too well when she discovers the truth about her new friend.Coming To America is, at heart, a basic fish-out-of-water tale and a romantic comedy but it's also (in a way that undoes a lot of the good work for me) the beginning of Eddie Murphy's ego-driven movie period.There's a lot of good stuff in here. Murphy, in his main role, is very good and actually makes for quite a sweet romantic lead with a surprising lack of the cockiness that has infused most of his other main roles. Arsenio Hall is just brilliant and should have gone on to much greater things. The supporting cast includes fun performances from Eriq La Salle, John Amos, Allison Dean and the great James Earl Jones. And it's easy to see why the prince falls for Lisa because Shari Headley is a lovely, sweet woman.There's even a lot of fun with small moments involving Murphy as the lead singer of Sexual Chocolate (hilarious), Samuel L. Jackson as an armed robber, a number of potential dating prospects and a highly rewarding cameo for fans of Trading Places.Then we get Murphy and Hall and Murphy playing the old men chatting away in a barbershop about famous boxers. And we get that again. And again. It wouldn't drag the movie down so badly if the pacing was tweaked here and there but this is a simple romantic comedy that drags on to near the two hour mark. It comes as no surprise that Murphy came up with the story idea as it seems as if director Landis just didn't know what could be omitted.Coming To America is certainly not a BAD film, as many of it's fans will testify, and it's a real cut above many of the other star vehicles of the late 80s but it's also not a great film, in my view. The script isn't sharp enough, the laughs not big enough - when it does hit the mark it just makes you wish it did so more frequently. And, considering the length of the thing, the finale feels rushed and tacked on.If you haven't seen Coming To America before then give it a watch, it certainly endears itself to many more people than turns them off. I am just not that big a fan. "},{"Title":"For those who think that Murphy is either a talking donkey or actor in bad comedies.","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It is 3 minutes and 45 seconds after the movie starts that the central character of Akeem, played by Eddie Murphy actually speaks. It is 45 seconds after that when the first joke is fired, not a great one it must be said (it's literally a toilet joke), but from that point on you don't go another 3 minutes 45 seconds without laughing, quite often not even 45 seconds.The beauty of Coming to America is that it relies on what is almost a threadbare plot and gives enough room for the actors to provide the funny, in the wrong (*cough* Sandler) hands lesser comedians (*cough* Schneider) could kill the film with their hamming (*snort* Ferrell) or lack of range (*ahem* Look at me, I'm down to Earth - Aniston).Luckily at this time Landis had Murphy in his prime, Arsenio as a great character actor and foil, and a bunch of bit part guys and dignified straight men (John Amos, James Earl Jones) willing to dumb down just a little.That threadbare plot involves the sole heir to the throne (Murphy) of a made up African nation going to America to find his bride, as he is not happy with the arranged marriage being prepared by his parents in his native land.The lushness of Akeem's situation is very clearly illustrated early on, he has dozens of people at his beck and call, barely does anything by and for himself, and has access to anything and anyone he chooses.His Father the King is James Earl Jones, and he clearly wants Akeem to follow tradition and accept his custom built new bride. When Akeem shows some trepidation the King agrees to let him take a break, thinking that a month away will let him clear his system, or perhaps something less crude, so he will come back in a better frame of mind. Along for the ride is his faithful friend Semmi (Hall) so he has someone to talk to and to keep him out of trouble.Once in America, specifically New York, Akeem and Semmi seek to blend in. Early efforts don't go so well, which would generally be the case when wearing the GDP of some nations, and having more staff on hand than many multinational companies.After they manage to simplify matters by moving into a dingy apartment they get to the business of getting Akeem some tail. They hit every disco in town with no success, other than highlighting Murphy and Hall's talent for multiple roles and proving that every chick in New York is apparently nuts.The local barber points the boys in the direction of the Black Awareness Rally happening that night, and it is at that event that Akeem notices Lisa MacDowell (Shari Headley), a confident, intelligent and beautiful young woman who is the daughter of the caterer to the event.Search over. Only Lisa MacDowell does not know that Akeem exists, and he does not want to win her over with money and tales of don't you know who I am. Besides that Lisa already has a boyfriend, the son of the Soul Glo empire named Darryl (Eric La Salle).Leo MacDowell (John Amos) runs a Macca's rip-off restaurant called MacDowells and Akeem and Semmi get jobs there as cleaners, never letting on their true backgrounds.Over time, Lisa acknowledges Akeem and they gradually seem to be getting nearer and nearer... then, just as things heat up Semmi and Leo meddle (Semmi 3X!) and stuff gets complicated.><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>< Now this is a comedy, and a damn good one, so aside from the factual stuff above it is hard to explain what happens without just recycling the jokes, and I ain't no Two & a Half Men writer. Suffice to say that Murphy and Hall play many roles each, often in the same scene, always to great effect, and that there is not too much dead space between laughs from the first scene through the last.When you have a million jokes being fired every which way they aren't all going to work and some fall a little flat or haven't dated extremely well in 20+ years, but no joke stands out as failing or as being embarrassing. Highlights include the Soul Glo jingle (still hilarious), the Black Awareness Rally performance by Randy Watson (Murphy) and emceed by the Reverend (Hall), and the early courting ceremony when Akeem first meets his (arranged) bride to be.Aside from the songs (the background music is great) this film hasn't dated a bit, despite the fact that I can't think of a single white guy in a lead role (aside from the lettuce-washer!) it shouldn't be taken as a black movie, Coming to America is simply a funny movie, period.I knock .5 of the score simply because the last 10 minutes lag just a tad, the first 100 odd minutes are comedic perfection and extremely rewatchable.Final Rating - 9.5 / 10. For everyone who thinks Eddie Murphy is a talking donkey (and hack actor) please watch this to see that at one time he was the best in the biz. "},{"Title":"Likable film, Murphy shines","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't think it is John Landis's best film or anything, but there are a lot of very likable things about this film. I agree that when the film slows down, some the jokes do too and the pacing lags slightly then. That said, it is confidently directed, has a sweet story and the jokes that work do outweigh the ones that don't quite. The film looks good too, with some interesting locations and lush cinematography and the soundtrack is memorable. Eddie Murphy does a fine job carrying the film and manages to be very likable, not to mention some fun cameos of his courtesy of clever make-up. Arsenio Hall is good too, and it is wonderful to see James Earl Jones and Madge Sinclair again, same with scene stealers Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy. So in conclusion, I like Coming to America very much, and Murphy does shine here. 8/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"One of my favourite Eddie Murphy films!!!","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is a clever and witty film that shows off Eddies great acting ability's and the movie is overall a great one to watch. It deserves to be recognized as one of the best Eddie Murphy has ever done.In this film, We see Eddie Murphy playing a prince who comes to America and he does not quite fit in. The storyline is good and is portrayed quite well by all of the cast in this funny movie.The film can get stupid at times and quite predictable, the film can also get quite sappy but the approach to that is good and done better then in a lot of other films. But most of the time the film is exceptional and well worth a watch for fans of Eddie and comedy.Overall, you should watch the film whoever you are because it is funny and clever, Eddie absolutely shining through his role and makes the prince a character worth remembering in looking back on Eddie Murphys career. I rate this film 73%. "},{"Title":"Talk about culture shock!","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Eddie Murphy really outdid himself in this movie. Coming to America gives the meaning of culture shock in a whole new level. Murphy plays Akeem, a African prince who is bored of his privileged life. He has lived in a lap of luxury by his king father(James Earl Jones) and his queen mother(Madge Sinclair, Trapper John, M.D.) The king was not only loyal, but somewhat very demeaning. He gives him a bride for a future queen, but she is more like a servant instead. Akeem is not only bored but is unhappy with the tradition of his family. So what does he do? He goes out to America to find a bride. He and his servant Semmi(Arsenio Hall) goes out, and head for Queens, New York(My birthplace to be exact). They strike out at the bars when they meet weird women. It was a howl where Arsenio plays that very ugly woman who wants to tear the prince apart, and your friend too! YIKES! Then the go to this McDonald's knockoff McDowell's who's owner(John Amos) has a daughter(Shari Headley) who is seeing this Jeri-curled man(Eriq LaSalle, before ER) who is big money and demeaning at the same time. To Akeem, love was a big deal to him, the wealth wouldn't make him any happier than he is. This movie is like the way of African royalty without the stereotypes. Of course Akeem would need a little lesson of American life of he wanted to come back again. 3 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Does enough with its humour and its sweet narrative but do not expect anything more than mere good fun.","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" How much do we know about Africa? How much do filmmakers know about Africa? Recent films like Blood Diamond and Sahara with their ideas that Africa is either one large desert with corrupt officials poisoning water supplies or either a series of villages getting liquidised and a massive slave trade as they work for their lives uncovering diamonds are the sorts that would probably do enough to discourage you from ever going. Then you have African films and films made by recently deceased director Ousmane Sembene, who set his last film Moolaadé in an actual village; away from disease, liquidation and poison water &#150; maybe it's the sort of place travel enthusiasts would love to go to and just get lost within for a week.Then there is Coming to America; a sweet and charming 1980s comedy made by the Americans about Africans quite literally coming to America &#150; the ultimate fish out of the ultimate bowl. Director Landis clearly does not want to take sides when it comes to either ideas of representation or stereotypes. He shies away from Africa's problems (and I mean BIG problems given it was 1988) and instead focuses the African based action on the royals of fictional (surprise, surprise) country Zamunda and their routines and hardships. Prince Akeem's (Murphy) biggest worry in a standard day is not where the next meal or a clean drink of water is going to come from but the annoying flower petals that constantly get dropped at his feet throughout the day but he is also frustrated with his inability to live his own life.But Landis isn't stupid and uses the setting of Africa as a utopia full of beautiful female servants, waiters waiting on you every need and a palace complete with acres and acres of giraffe and elephant roaming garden only to compare in a drastic manner the situation America (New York's 'Queens' in particular) finds itself in; it is a brutal and quite powerful comparison between America as Americans know it, yet perhaps refuse to accept and a far off continent know as Africa. And so the prince of this heavenly kingdom grows tired of being pampering and grows some ideas that incorporate Freud's readings the scene I question is when Akeem discusses moving away and breaking off from his parents' supervision (something all adults must do eventually) in a room that disturbingly resembles a child's nursery, what with its quite wallpapers and colourful surroundings.So instead of staying behind and risk becoming a perhaps less psychotic Norman Bates, Akeem travels to America with his good friend and royal supervisor Semmi (Hall). They are African's instead without everything to gain, nothing to loose but everything to loose and nothing to gain &#150; but that's the way Akeem wants it and the experience of everyday life in a 'normal' living environment is set to do him some good. What follows is a standard but enjoyable and somewhat funny venture through someone's life via meeting people, getting jobs, meeting members of the opposite sex and most importantly to Akeem, living out. But this is where the humour and the manner in which Landis wants to sit on the fence or not becomes a little blurred. Most of the innocent humour is limited to jokes about royals Queens, palace, kings, etc. but there seems to be some ill motivated gags revolving around a barber shop where three African Americans and a Jew hang around all day; discussing various things like who the best boxer to ever live was &#150; the fact that Cassius Clay changed his name to Mohammed Ali seems to spark some sort of undertone and needless racism but Murphy's energetic delivery aids in the racism going under the radar. Maybe Landis was lucky he had such a performer to give that delivery.However familiar the routine is, the execution is fast and snappy which entertains. Boy meets girl, girl is already taken by someone else of a higher level and boy must win girl. The spin on this is that whoever watching might have been in that situation, Akeem's trump card the whole time is that he is a hundred times richer than the supposed already rich guy the girl is with. This situation in the past has had Akeem's caricature as a poor and unknown guy who must work his way up but the spin on the material here is refreshing. Then again, the nasty product placement in the form of McDowell's instead of McDonald's is sad even if it comes off as a spoof in both name, emblem and choice of meal. The film also dabbles into the lives of others working at the restaurant and one sad case's own America Dream as he attempts to work his way up the fast food chain's ladder into management. Coming to America's finale may seem a little formulated but it's just the motions being gone through. The racism may seem in bad taste what with the 'black awareness week' thrown in as well as the barber shop sequences but the film is uplifting and somewhat funny. I just wonder what royal themed location they would've chosen has the coin come up Los Angles 'King Estates' in south L.A. perhaps? "},{"Title":"Very funny film","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm an Eddie Murphy fan, well let me rephrase that, I'm an Eddie Murphy fan before he started doing family movies. At that I believe he is not as good now as he was then.Anyways, this is a very funny movie that I enjoy. The gist of the movie is that an African prince (Murphy) turns 21 and is to be married to a woman he has never meet before, and then when he does meet her, he doesn't want her. He makes a lie to his dad the King (James Earl Jones) saying that he wants soil his royal oats. So the prince and his best friend (Hall) go to Queens, New York and live life in America.While this is a comedy, it does have some more serious tones to it. The prince, while he could have stayed in a very nice part of New York, decided to live in a very poor part of Queens. Basically he is willing to give up his riches to find the one (his queen).If you like Eddie Murphy, or comedies in general, you will love this film. "},{"Title":"Basically a love story","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Besides being part of the most successful works from director John Landis, Coming to America has become a cherished memory in the minds of many people. The plot is simple yet original, predictable yet amusing, but (only if you are in the proper mood), this movie can bring out some emotions of the good kind (again, only if in the right time and mood). Although not a specially deep piece, it has the ability to both make me laugh my head off and feel hope that one can get what you want if you want it badly enough, no matter the circumstances. I know, it's only a movie and they're sometimes meant to entertain rather than to educate or contribute with a different prospective about life, but that doesn't mean some of us will not want to watch it over and over.Landis is a real genius. "},{"Title":"good comedy","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Coming to America was a very enjoyable and funny comedy, great cast, good acting, good writing, and an interesting story. Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall are great as the prince and servant, but I liked the choice as James Earl Jones as king he was perfect. Coming to America maybe Murphy's best since he doesn't know how to do movies like his anymore so enjoy Murphy's best stuff with this film.  "},{"Title":"Check this out if you wanna laugh.....","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There was a time I thought that Richard Pryor was the best comedian in Hollywood. Eddie Murphy proved me wrong with this movie called Coming to America. This is his first movie I've seen & I was deeply impressed by his acting. I think Eddie is the best black comedian in this business now. This movie is something that will make you laugh from the beginning to end. Thanks to Eddie Murphy I would rate it 8 outta 10Watch it guys...laugh your heads off... it's worth spending your money. Have fun... "},{"Title":"Funny Funny Funny Funny Funny Funny Funny Funny Funny Funny","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Man, this is a classic cult movie among my family. We were still kids and we already quoted and saw this movie endless times. The movie is a knock-out laugh fest until it ends, and has an unbelievable amount of surprises and gags that will make you laugh your pants out. Eddie Murphy is genius as Akeem, an african prince searching a bride, as an hysterical barber, as a failed pop singer who leads a band called Sexual Chocolate (truly classic), and as a white old man with an accent. Yes, you read it, he does all this. Arsenio Hall is also a treat as Akeem's friend, Semmi, as one of the barbers, as a preacher (gotta see it to believe it), and as a horny woman in a bar scene(!!!). If you have the faintest sense of humor, you'll laugh until it hurts, guaranteed fun with actors who later became important doing career-starting parts (like Samuel L. Jackson and Cuba Gooding Jr.). A great great comedy, a true jewel. See it, it's an unmissable! "},{"Title":"Murphy's funniest!  An '80s classic!","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Coming To America is an '80s classic!  It is one of my favorite movies.  I probably have watched it over 30 times, and every time I do, I notice another subtle crack in the dialogue that I hadn't before.  Just the brief glances at the camera given by Murphy and others are enough to leave me in stitches.  And the cameos are hilarious.  The barbershop sequences are my favorite.  Just think how many careers were started with this movie  Aresenio Hall, Eriq LaSalle, Cuba Gooding Jr. (I just found out about that one).  This movie is a must-see for anyone who appreciates Eddie Murphy's comic genius.  I'll forgive him for Vampire in Brooklyn and Holy Man.  Eddie Murphy is a comedy king!   "},{"Title":"Eddie you steal the show!","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Eddie Murphy once again proves just how funny he can be! The other night I was flipping my channels on my DIRECTV system only to come to HBO and find Coming to America on. I never saw this hit comedy, but now after 13 years I got to enjoy the many laughs of Eddie Murphy he is just as funny as can be in this film just like his many other fun hits. Murphy is just as funny as can be playing a prince who ventures to Queens, N.Y., in search of the perfect princess. Scene after scene is just great laughter, I love seeing Eddie Murphy work as a McDonald's janitor! Now that was a thing that looked good and provided much humor! Plus Arsenio Hall and James Earl Jones give great performances to be noticed. Watch Coming to America it is one of the best from Eddie Murphy. "}{"Title":"Murphy and Hall, African Style","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After playing a series of macho, smart-assed characters, Eddie Murphy seemed to be typecasted as the know-it-all upstart. But when he made the extremely-funny Coming to America in '88, Murphy had finally hit a new stride. He plays Akeem, a pampered African prince who, along with his royal sidekick Semi (a hilarious Arsenio Hall) journey to America to find a perfect, independent woman to be his bride, and not just an air-headed slave to marry him just for the sake of him being a prince!!Murphy and Hall do a slam-bang job of their careers, and the supporting cast do equally great performances as well. Catch Eriq LaSalle, Vondie Curtis-Hall, and Samuel L. Jackson in bit  "},{"Title":"The Eddie Murphy Romantic Comedy!","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have to say, I first saw Eddie Murphy in The Nutty Proffesor which was hilarious, crude, but totally a hoot.(Also it was Rated-PG-13). Yet, when I saw Coming to America that's when I noticed something else about Eddie. That he ran things with his movies differently back then, not to mention that Coming to America is an older film,(And it's Rated-R). It surprised me really it did, but it didn't seem to bother me. Even with the language and the sexual Parts that were included. Anyway, Eddie did come up with a great storyline for this film. Heis extremely funny with all the people he plays. They are all a total hoot! I would recommend this to any Eddie Murphy fans. This is a terrific film. Yet however do mind the Rating (R) since there is Strong Language and some sexual content. Other than that this a good film. "},{"Title":"Murphy's Good Old Days","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Before the atrocities of The Adventures of Pluto Nash (2002) and The Haunted Mansion (2003) Murphy actually acted well. In this 80's comedy classic Prince Akeem (Eddie Murphy) isn't ready to marry yet for the thrown of his country, Zamunda.Akeem and his servant Semmi (Arsenio Hall) decide to go to Queens, New York to find his own bride. While in Queens, Akeem poses as a poor man and goes to work for McDowell's Resturaunt. Soon he finds love in the owners daughter Lisa (Shari Headley).Coming to America is one of Murphy's classic's. What ever happened to him is unknown to me. He is funny, he has depth to his character , and is able to portray the naive prince. Arsenio Hall is even funnier as Semmi and various other characters including an insane minister, a predatory woman in a strip club, and a hairdresser. Arsenio Hall out does himself in this one, making you laugh in almost every scene.Both Murphy and Hall play many roles and are hilarious. The story is filled with laughs of adapting to their new environment and working at a restaurant being sued by McDonald's. There is some heavy language and some nudity but it doesn't take away anything from this Murphy comedy classic. Coming To America. Starring Eddie Murphy, Arsenio Hall, James Earl Jones, John Amos, Madge Sinclair, and Shari Heardley.4 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST COMEDIES...","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...made in eighties. And certainly, one of the coolest movies around.Why? Take a wild guess. It's Eddie Murphy at one of his best roles + Arsenio Hall. And of course, how can I forget the beautiful Shari Headley. Add always brilliant James Earl Jones and you have a winner. But how's the story? Superb with great laughs (no wonder - written by Eddie Murphy) and some nice romantic scenes, that don't get too annoying. And it never gets boring despite seeing movie for more than once.All I can say, Coming to America remains one of my favorite movies and Yes, it's a classic that will never fade. Thanks to Eddie. A very strong... ...8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"That boy Eddie Murphy good","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Coming to America is one of Eddie Murphy funniest films to date. This the first film where he played multiple characters and set the standard for other actors. My favorite scene is at the charity auction where Eddie plays Randy Watson. Arension Hall is also very funny as Eddie's sidekick. 10/10 "},{"Title":"New York City, here I come","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Good comedy in which Hall and Murphy pull out all the stops as they turn the big apple upside down looking for true love. I didn't realize till the end that the boys played multiple roles; sure fooled me. Not the best comedy I've ever seen, but there sure were a lot of fine looking women. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's coming of age film is solidly funny","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Eddie Murphy - along with Bill Murray, Dennis Miller, Mike Myers, and perhaps just a few other SNL alumni - is one of a small number of this group who have gone on to later, worthwhile projects. Along with Myers and Adam Sandler, Murphy is arguably the biggest star to emerge from the long running NBC television institution. And one can see, in a movie like COMING TO AMERICA, what the basis of this stardom is; Eddie Murphy is a natural. He's brilliantly funny, charming, and causes his fellow cast members to shine - never before and never since has Arsenio Hall seemed so talented; the now completely obscure Joe Piscapo must be kicking himself for having gone off on his own rather than, somehow, remaining Murphy's sidekick.Still, Eddie Murphy, initially an obvious raw talent, needed to grow up a bit. Just a teenager when he became famous, his early comedy was a bit mean spirited, particularly toward women and gays. So what a better way to grow up than to play the completely likeable character he plays here. As Prince Akeem, he has the audience rooting for him to get the girl and to be his own man. It's nice to see him as a character who is not very cocky.My favorite scenes, however, both when I watched this movie the first time and when I watched it again very recently, were the barbershop scenes. The comedy of these scenes is just so pure, as Murphy, Hall, and another actor - made up to look like an assortment of old timers - engage in some brilliant sketch comedy (I loved the bit about Rocky Marciano vs. 137 year old Joe Louis). In fact, every scene with the old timers was a standout moment in this movie.While some of COMING TO AMERICA may be a bit dated (Jherri curl jokes, some cheesy 80s electro-funk, etc.), for the most part, the entertainment value holds up quite well. John Landis' solid directing no doubt helps quite a bit, too.   "},{"Title":"Just tell me you didn't love me when you thought I was a goat herder, and I will never bother you ever again.","Date":"7 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Coming to America is directed by John Landis and adapted to screenplay by David Sheffield and Barry W. Blaustein from a story originally created by Art Buchwald. It stars Eddie Murphy, Arsenio Hall, James Earl Jones, Shari Headley and John Amos. Music is scored by Nile Rodgers and cinematography by Sol Negrin and Woody Omens. Plot finds Murphy as Akeem Joffer, an African prince who comes to the United States in the hope of finding a good woman he can marry.Released at a time when Eddie Murphy was ruling the 80s, Coming to America proves to be viable material for Murphy's talents. That's not to say it's a great film, a good one? Debatable now, and it was for sure a success at the box office, but it feels like a lazy excuse for some one liners and the picture hangs on a flimsy premise thread. As a whole it barely works as a romantic comedy (in fact the romance is distinctly tepid), but as a series of comedy set-ups for Murphy and Arsenio it does entertain the nostalgists and those who like immature gags. You do feel that with director Landis stating that Murphy was a pain on set-that Eddie had lost the zest and the willingness to learn that he had on Trading Places five years earlier, that Murphy didn't let Landis produce the picture the director originally envisaged.No doubt about it, I liked the film much better back in the day, back then the fish out of water comedy hadn't been done to death, and of course Murphy was still coasting in on the wave of charismatic success, which to myself and many others was enough to warrant being in his company. However, watching it now it feels tired and weary, the one film in Murphy's 80s comedy output that doesn't hold up, a chore to get through at nearly two hours in length, many comedy sequences stretched too far (the multi character gimmick played by the leads runs out of steam), an indulgence to ride in on the appeal of the film's two stars. The film actually marks a turning point for Murphy, he would follow this film with eight years of cinema mediocrity, something which I do believe lends Murphy fans to praise Coming to America far higher than they should.It's certainly not a stinker, not at all. There is occasionally fun to be had, some well written gags, honest intentions to create a charming characterisation for the people. While a cameo appearance by a future star is always worth watching. But in the minority as I am about it, and I do consider myself a Murphy fan, I have to say the film smacks of cheating and laziness, and no amount of penis gags can alter how I now feel about it. I'm off to cuddle my copies of Trading Places, 48 Hours and Beverly Hills Cop. 5/10 "},{"Title":"One of Eddie's Biggest Hits (Overrated in My Opinion)...","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Eddie Murphy had one of his biggest hits with COMING TO America, an expensive and somewhat entertaining comedy which found Eddie playing the crown prince of a fictional African country who travels to Queens, New York to find himself a wife after deciding that he's tired of being waited on hand and foot and not thrilled about having no say in the wife that has been selected for him. Eddie's Prince Akeem and his manservant Semi (Arsenio Hall) arrive in Queens, pretending to be broke and get jobs at a fast food restaurant where Akeem falls for the owner's daughter (Shari Headley). This film is lavishly produced and well cast (James Earl Jones and the late Madge Sinclair are perfect as Akeem's parents, the King and Queen)but there's a certain emptiness about the whole thing that doesn't sustain a film of such length and expense. Murphy is charming as Prince Akeem and he also gets to shine in one fabulous scene in a barbershop where he and Hall play everyone in the scene, but the film does not sustain interest until the end. Eddie later became involved in a lawsuit that claimed he stole the idea of the film from someone else which also casts a pall over the film which makes it hard to view all these years later, but it was one of Eddie's biggest hits and for his hardcore fans, there are laughs to be found, but personally, I think Eddie has done better work (BOOMERANG, THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN, THE NUTTY PROFESSOR, BOWFINGER, DREAMGIRLS), but judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy Rules!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Coming To America 1988 Starring Eddie Murphy Arsenio Hall, James Earl Jones, John Amos, and Eric La Salle. What I mostly like about this movie is the story and dialog in it. Akeem an African Prince goes to New York in Queens to find out how life is out side of royalty. This movie is packed with laughs, love, and some drama. I give it *** out ****. Eddie Murphy at his finest performance in acting yet. Arsenio Hall joins in this movie as one of the supporting actors of it. John Landis the director brings this movie to great heights. The dialog and story is great. I don't think I could write anything better than this. This is a true true great movie. Some content is not ready for young viewers, but still adults can enjoy. "}{"Title":"What is this, velvet?","Date":"8 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hilarious tale of an African prince named Akeem (Murphy) and his royal servant (Hall) who head off to the United States in search of the perfect Queen. After deciding to go to New York City (they saw that the city had a borough named Queens), Akeem becomes a pauper in order to woo the perfect woman (Shari Headley) to become his wife. Although the film had many pre and post-production problems (director Landis almost walked off the set due to a fight with Murphy; Murphy was successfully sued by columnist Art Buchwald for stealing his idea of an African prince who goes in search of a wife) the final production is pure comic genius at it's best. Undeniabley, Murphy is the king of a thousand faces. Eddie Murphy gets a chance to deliver a more restrained performance with this film and he manages to do so very well.The film features many hilarious scenes and characters especially a group of boxing obsessed senior citizens who spend their days arguing with a barber shop owner. Murphy and Hall demonstrate their levels of versatility by managing to go under heavy makeup and portray several different costarring roles. This is an excellent film, well produced and flows beautifully from one scene to the next. The movie has a brilliant cast of African Americans. This is Eddie Murphy at his best with witty dialogue, good jokes and romance. If you like Eddie Murphy, and you like comedy, then this is a film not to be missed.Overall rating 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A romantic comedy","Date":"5 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Coming to America is a romantic comedy starred by comedian Eddy Murphy, and starred by actress and actors Arsenio Hall, John Amos, James Earl Jones, and Shari Headley. Coming to America was produced by George Falsey Jr. and Robert D. Wachs on June 29, 1988. In the film Coming to America, Akeem Joffer, a royal prince has become tired of his daily life, so he wants to pursue the life of his own. Akeem plans to come to America to find a nice wife that he can both love and respect. Akeem and his best friend flip a coin and that decided the city which Akeem would go, which is New York City. Seeking for a wife, Akeem plans to meet a girl who loves him for who he is and not because he's rich and also because of his prince status. Will he find that ideal women? Coming to America's cinematography is outstanding from the sound, to the dialogue, to the visual effects, to the editing of plot. The dialogue was very comical. The visual effects were very clear and precise. The writers of Coming to America made a clear theme of the movie and the movie carried a very interesting plot. Coming to America have two major essential themes. The first theme of the movie is loving someone for who they are and not for their money and wealth. Akeem's appointed lover Imani was a big gold digger. She loved him for money and wealth. Akeem knew she wasn't a real woman. Another theme discussed in the movie is that money doesn't buy happiness. In the beginning of the movie, Akeem is fed up with the life of a prince and wants to enjoy a real life. He was in for a treat when he moved to America. I give this movie a 10/10! It is a very good movie filled with comedy and romantic scenes. Children ask parents before watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Comic genius","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I rate this 11/10 ... why?It is flawless... the storyline is a joke in itself yet so likable!The movie has many fall of your sofa with laughter scenes in it... this is better than many of the highly rated comedies on IMDb... trust me this an excellent movie... well directed... well scripted... well executed...Eddie Murphy is in his prime for this movie... top class acting along with Arsenio Hall whose facial expressions in the movie are perfect for the scenes he is in.This is my favourite Eddie Murphy movie of all time... As a kid I watched this over 20 times... total classic! "},{"Title":"Good Eddie Murphy movie!","Date":"19 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Even though I'm not a big big fan of Eddie Murphy, I think this one he did, was actually pretty good. Now what put me off with this movie was the fact, at the beginning, breasts were shown even when they were needed to. I know I'm a woman and proud to have breasts, however, I just wouldn't consider showing them off in PG. I just think it's rather pointless since its not all to do with porn! That's why it lost 2 stars from me.Anyways I really liked the way the story went. It's different and looks refreshing, I mean like c'mon this was 1980's and it's now 2016, to me it just looks like a fresh new movie! It's one of the movies that makes me felt that way for no absolute reason!Shari Headley was such an amazing actress. I really liked her beautiful pink dress in the end. I reckon, it does really make you feel like a princess when wearing it, it is so long! Seriously, it is stunning on her, I'm jealous!It's a good movie with a few laughs and I think it's fair that I give this a 8/10 rating.... "},{"Title":"The best comedy of the 80's","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie back in 1990 on video, back then I was only 10 years old. and it has been my favorit movie ever since. the storyline is about a African prince named Ahkeem (played by Eddie Murphy) who is going to be married against his will, so he packs his bags and travels to America together with his servant semi (played by Arsenio Hall),to find a wife. Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall are both great in this movie playing a wide variation of characters. you can even see an early appearance of Cuba Godding Jr. I recently bought the film on DVD and the magic was back in better sound and quality, in the 11 years that has past I must have seen it 50 times it that good !.so if you havent seen this movie yet, don't waste no time run to the video store and get it you will not regret it.  "},{"Title":"My all time favorite movie","Date":"6 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is still my all time favorite movie. Has a little bit of everything. Sooo many hilarious one-liners. Arsenio Hall in the bar scene is the best! And the McDowell's golden arcs story line is genius. This is Murphy's best role ever. I have been watching this movie for almost 20 years and it's just as funny today as it was the first time I watched it. It's a combination love story combined with hilarious comedy. I have nothing negative to say about this movie. It is the best comedy I have ever seen. I think they should make a Coming Back to America and have the same stars. Maybe a little cousin of theirs comes back to America looking for them or something. I just want to see more! Great movie! 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's Most Complete Role is Also One of His Funniest","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As the wanderlust-stricken heir to a wealthy African nation, Eddie Murphy reaches the top of the mountain in this one. Featuring a perfect blend of the budding comedian's trademark sharp-edged comedy and his creeping desire to play more serious roles, it's among the rare breed of films to actually succeed unequivocally in two distinct genres. It's also the first time Murphy has taken on multiple characters in the same film, and remains his freshest performance(s) under such heavy makeup. Arsenio Hall and James Earl Jones helm a lights-out supporting cast, while John Landis's direction maintains a quick tempo and clear bearing. It's one of those movies that's astoundingly easy to step into midway, making it a great candidate for syndication, and is rarely so bogged down in drama that it lasts even five minutes without a good belly laugh. Sweet, hilarious and timeless, I'm constantly finding new ways to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Looks like a Bulldog....","Date":"24 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It is the 21st birthday of Prince Akeem of Zamunda and he is to marry a woman he never saw before.Now the prince breaks with tradition and travels to America to look for the love of his life....This film was the last highpoint of Murphy's career as the lovable sweary character, any highs after this were from wearing fat suits or talking to animals, But this is the Murphy that made him famous, from breaking the fourth wall to playing more than one character, Coming to America has it all.Easily his most accessible film after BHC, Murphy exudes charisma as the humble Prince looking to find love. As always the story is simple and leaves room for some of the funniest skits ever seen in a Murphy movie.It's almost as is Sandler has broken onto the set with characters like Randy Watson and his band sexual chocolate, and the scene at My T Kutz where they are discussing how old Joe Leis is.Murphy is flawless, and has great support from Jones, Amos, Hall, and the rest of the supporting cast.It's almost spoof like the way Landis has made it, but thanks to clever narration, it sticks to the story, rather than becoming a series of sketches. There is a wonderful reference to trading places, and the film will not only have you laughing, but leave you with a big smile on your face.One of Murphys best movies, and one of the most influential comedies of the eighties. "},{"Title":"the best movie ever","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" the movie  coming to America is my favorite movie for several reasons. first of all that movie's sequencing, and also the wonderful actors that are playing in it such as Eddie Murphy make it really exceptional. i have watched that movie more than 20 times, and it is a good interpretation of some people in the United states, who are big personalities in their countries, but they are like everybody else in the US. I am not a prince back home in my country, but was having a better life and did not have to worry about so many things like i do now. Another interesting part of this movie is the African's accent imitation by these American's actors, and as African i have really enjoyed that part, and discovered how talented they are. "},{"Title":"Coming to America","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A good example of the black comedic (sometimes) loud-mouthed comedic actor's early roles, heading towards The Nutty Professor, from director John Landis (An American Werewolf in London). Basically on his 21st birthday, Prince Akeem (Eddie Murphy) of Zamunda, after wanting independence and a near marriage to an unknown woman, he rebels against his father, King Jaffe Joffer (James Earl Jones) and takes his sidekick Semmi (Arsenio Hall) with him to New York to find a wife. He does not understand the American culture, but when he eventually sees the woman he is interested in meeting, he goes to work at McDonald's rival restaurant McDowell's for her father, Cleo McDowell (John Amos), owner of McDonald's rival McDowell's. He has many dates with Lisa McDowell (Shari Headley), and Semmi meanwhile gets with Patrice (Allison Dean), but neither girls know of their true identities. It is pretty much when Akeem has fallen for Lisa that, after a telegram, the King and Queen Aoleon (Madge Sinclair) come looking for him. It has a great happy ending though, when after finding out he is a Prince, she marries him, and accepts the lifestyle. Murphy also plays Clarence, Randy Watson and Saul, and Hall also plays Extremely Ugly Girl, Morris and Reverend Brown. Also starring Paul Bates as Oha, Eriq La Salle as Darryl Jenks, Frankie Faison as Landlord, Vanessa Bell Calloway as Imani Izzi, Louie Anderson as Maurice, and cameos by (then unknown) Samuel L. Jackson as Hold-Up Man, Homeward Bound's Don Ameche as Mortimer Duke, (then unknown) Cuba Gooding Jr. as Boy Getting Haircut and Jim Abrahams as Face on Cutting Room Floor. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Costume Design and Best Makeup. Good! "}{"Title":"A true great. It never gets old","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" this is my favourite film and i have watched an endless amount of times. it is probably eddie murphy's best ever. it is such a great and creative story line, the thought of believing a prince of a country would think he would meet someone in an area like Queens. however he does in the end, and finding her and getting friendly with her going through all these different events is great comedy. i like it where he lets his friend decorate there apartment but when he brings his bride to be back he gets really angry and ends up swapping apartment to another dirty poor one. eddie Murphy's comic creativeness is really shown in this super film. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's best movie and one of the best comedies in film","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There is so much about this movie to love. Eddie's characters and the support of Arsenio Hall were magic. James Earl Jones was a perfect fit. I think I love this movie as much for it's reflection of the eighties as the seemingly innocent nature of Akeem.It's all so memorable that i find myself talking along with the movie. Eric Le Salle is his usual charming self, in character of course, and John Amos is just great. Overall it's a classic movie and fun for everybody and if you grew up in the time period, especially in the tri-state area, you will get flashbacks like crazy. "},{"Title":"eddie you did it again!","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  eddie murphy portrays a prince of a country that comes to america in search of romantic love, rather than be forced into a loveless arranged marriage that his parents want him to do.  he brings along his noble servant to accompany him to the USA.  eddie does meet a girl, but the only problem is that eddie wants her to fall in love with him for him, rather than his prince status and riches.  he gets the brilliant idea to live in the slums of new york city and both him and the servant to work at the local mcdonalds. (**SPOILER**) so why does that pretty boy that she is with before not do a darned thing about the robbery at mcdonalds?  i never expected the prince to perform a number on him, since princes are mostly spoiled and hardly do much for themselves.  but this prince wants a different image, so i guess that helps him conquer that idea.  Coming to america is full of humor, and foreshadows eddie murphys ideas to be more than one person in a movie.  congratulations, on making a successful comedy that keeps me laughing. (A A-) "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  No one noticing an early cuba gooding jr. in the barberchair when Eddie & Arseno arrives at new york?Fine film, very funny.   Recommended to eddie murphy fans & those looking for a good time, a quick comic fix. "},{"Title":"Geat","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this movie is the funniest movie eddie murphy ever made!!!!!!!!!!my favorite part was when the singer wanted applause but he didnt get any so he got mad.plus,i like the dog who always turned his head when something dramatic happensand how Akeem Laughs and when he went out to the balcony and he said hello my fellow americans and a guy responded Hey, F*** YOU then akeem saids Yes yes F*** you too "},{"Title":"Eddie's the man!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie has always been a strong favourite of mine since it was released back in 1988.  Eddie Murphy's comedic talents really shine through in this lighthearted comedy.  Arsenio Hall does a great job too in this movie that will keep you smiling.  I remember there was some controversy to this movie due to the restaurant that Prince Akeem and Semmi worked in when they got to the US.  It was called McDowall's, and that it represented African-American businessmen as not being innovators but copiers.  Obviously these people didn't understand that it was just a parody of McDonald's, and that's it.  There is no social commentary in this movie, it's just a straight up comedy through and through.  I must have nearly every movie that Eddie Murphy has starred in because he is someone that can't help but change your mood after you watch one of his movie gems.  Coming To America is a much valued addition to my DVD library. "},{"Title":"Occasionally funny, but a bit silly","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Age 13Akeem, played by Eddie Murphy, is the Prince of Zamunga, in Africa.  He is waited on hand and foot all the time.  People tie his shoes for him, brush his teeth for him and even bathe him.  It is his 21st birthday, and the day that he must marry someone that he has never met.  This woman will have absolutely no opinions of her own, except that her husband is always right.  Akeem doesn't want this, he wants an intelligent woman who can think for herself as a wife, so he takes a trip to America to find her.  Travelling with him is his devoted servant, Semmi, played by Arsenio Hall. Coming to America has what I think is a silly premise but the movie it is made into is not too bad.  Eddie Murphy is good in his role, and there are quite a few laughs in it.  The romance in it isn't too bad either and most of the characters are well-conceived and enjoyable.  I think the plot and some silly parts bring it down, but it is not a bad film.Australian Classification M 15+Rating 60 out of 100 "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's Best R-rated Movie","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is by far my favorite Eddie Murphy movie, and in my top five movie of all time. I have not seen as many of his 90's kiddie movies, so I can't pass judgment on those works.Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall with the many characters that they play steal the movie. The various alternate character skits, such as the barbershop, the black awareness rally, and the nightclub are comedic genius. Who has never heard of Sexual Chocolate? Another scene that comes to mind is the one with Hall playing a transvestite in the nightclub and making an advance on Hall's coy African character.I have often wondered why Arsenio Hall didn't show up in more comedies considering how funny this movie turned out. I would have figured that he and Murphy could have made several multiple character comedies, not necessarily Coming to America sequels, and have been very successful. For one reason or another, Eddie Murphy decided to clean it up for the nineties.The star cast, including James Earl Jones, Eric La Salle (letting his soul glow), John Amos, and Louie Anderson are great as well. There is a cool cameo of a very young looking Samuel L. Jackson who plays a foul mouthed would-be robber who eventually gets thrashed by Murphy and Hall.The ending ends up in bit of a cliché, but the viewer really doesn't expect anything but. The movie is more about the comedic situations, not a complex love story.This is a movie, similar to Dumb and Dumber, in that if it is on TBS or another cable channel, it makes for an easy watch. This is despite the editing that is done for cable TV. The jokes do not get old (at least for me).And finally....Your royal penis is clean, your highness. "},{"Title":"Just faultless","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of my all time fav films, everything about this is spot on.Murphy and Hall are a super double act and James Earl Jones was made for this role ! Both funny and serious (loved the scene where the royal family turn up at Queens with that superb music and timing of the music).I will never tire of watching this. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Not my favorite Eddy Murphy flick...","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I gave this movie a five, because it's half and half, or I guess, so so.Eddie Murphy is the only reason why this movie was funny at all. Had he not been in it, it probably wouldn't have even been known, let alone well-known.At the beginning of the film we are introduced to Murphy's character, a Prince of an African country in present day. It is 21st birthday, and his parents have selected him a bride, to be his Queen.He does not want to be married to someone that have picked, so he and his friend, played by Arsino Hall, go to America to find himself his own bride, who he will love, and not just be forced to marry. They decide on New York, and more specifically on Queens, in hopes that he will find his Queen there.After their luggage is stolen, and they have no luck at any of the bars they go to in finding a suitable woman, they go to a Black Awareness rally, and he sees the woman he wants to meet, and eventually falls in love with.Throughout the movie, while working for her father at a McDonald's knock-off restaurant, he tries to win her heart through his charm and sophistication, and goodness.My favorite thing in this movie is that her name is, Lisa, and so is mine, so it just makes the movie that much more enjoyable for me. ) There are some humorous scenes in the film, but if you're looking for something like Beverly Hills Cop or even a Nutty Professor, you won't find it here. It's light, and off-beat enough that it's entertaining to watch once or twice, but not the sort of movie you would necessarily want to have in your DVD collection.And now, an excerpt from the film, I have a date with Lisa! Isn't that exciting! "}{"Title":"Just ordinary","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's just one of those movies where cultural beliefs and traditions put an impact as to how people think.  Akeem (Eddie Murphy) is about to go through with his arranged marriage but he decides to go to Queens, New York to find his dream girl to be his wife.  Coming from a family where marriages were arranged, he was dissatisfied with the fact that a woman was only trained to serve the man.  He meets Lisa whom he claims satisfies his intellect. There are many inflictions of cultures but they pull it off.  I found this flick just an ordinary follow my heart thing.  I rate this film a 6.5/10 (3.5*). "},{"Title":"Possibly Murphy's best film","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sure Eddie Murphy has triumphed in The Nutty Professor and even in the underlooked Bowfinger, but I think Coming To America might just be his finest work (considering Beverly Hills Cop III).  The story has Murphy as a African prince who decided to go to America (where else would be go- Queens, NY) with another prince type guy, played by Arsenio Hall, as Murphy look's for a wife.  At times, I almost thought it would be like Arthur, but it isn't much like it though, thanks to multiple roles.  In fact, Murphy and Hall have so much fun playing there characters (the barber shop scenes include some of Murphy and Hall's best stuff) that it is worth looking at through a few flaws.  Favorite line- You should change of the name outside to the 3 putzs.  A "},{"Title":"Another slam dunk from Eddie Murphy","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a hilarious, heartwarming comedy with Eddie Murphy at his peak (and playing multiple roles for the first time). The plot is rather simple African prince leaves home to find in true love (in Queens, NY lol). However, what sets it apart from other fish-out-of-water comedies is the depth it gives the characters. The story isn't rushed, and it gives you time to spend with each character, so that you care about them, and what happens to them. I mentioned earlier that Eddie Murphy plays multiple roles (as well as Arsenio Hall, who also does a fantastic job). Here, he has four one (obviously) as the main character Akeem, a soul/funk singer Randy Watson (who looks like a combination of Rick James and Kanye West), a loudmouthed barber and an old Jewish guy (completely unrecognizable, incredible makeup job). He even gives a distinct personality to each of his other characters, and elevates every scene he's in. Another great thing about this movie is the star-studded cast, from James Earl Jones to Samuel L. Jackson in a small role early in his career. Nobody is wasted, and everyone has their opportunity to shine. But more than anything, after this Eddie Murphy would never hit the comedic heights he did here. His film career arguably peaked here, although he would have a resurgence in the late 90's with The Nutty Professor and a couple others. Overall, this is a great movie experience the whole way through, and has a satisfying (if cliché) ending. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy in a Sweet Old Fashioned Love Story !","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A real change of pace for Eddie Murphy! There are a few breasts and a lot of F words, but otherwise it is almost PG in nature, and easily cut for cable! Incredibly rich African Prince Akeem (Murphy)travels to America to Queens New York, and finds his true love, Lisa, at, of all places, an imitation McDonald's, owned by her greedy father! He is engaged to a gorgeous princess, but wants to marry for love. Lisa thinks he is a charming but poor African goat-herder and a foreign exchange student. Also stars Arsenio Hall as Akeem's man-servant and traveling companion, and James Earl Jones as his rich father, an African King (Of course!). There's a lot going on in this movie The Tribal Dance Number (choreographed by Paula Abdul) looks like it was performed on the same Paramount Soundstage as the Ethiopian dance scene from The 10 Commandments. (Note the marble floor.) Locations filmed in Queens and NYC. Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall in several cameo roles as the Barber Shop characters, including Eddie playing the Jewish Kibitzer. Arsenio plays everything from an ugly girl to a Gospel preacher! An oversexed real gorilla and Jim Belushi in a gorilla suit! (Amazing make-up, all by Rick Baker) The Duke Brothers from Trading Places make a guest appearance (Bellamy and Ameche) as Prince Akeem rescues them from living penniless on the streets! A real triumph for both Eddie Murphy and John Landis. Outstanding but obviously phoney African sets and matte paintings with wild animals running around everywhere! Very funny and clever, for the most part! (Without all the swearing, I might have given this movie a 10!) "},{"Title":"Rave review to this movie","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is about a prince of one of the African kingdom who moved to America with his servant. They disguised as poor people and worked at the hamburger restaurant to find the prince's true love who likes him just the way he is and stated to proposal to a confident black woman. I originally like romantic comedies but this movie is different from others because all of the characters in the movie except only two are black. Eddie Murphy, the main character of this movie makes me have a similar feeling with Will Smith in the movie Mr. Hitch. In addition, I was surprised at the fact that each 4 roles were acted by the prince and his servant. I thought the story was a little far-fetched but also realistic because of its concept of African prince which is unfamiliar to me. I would like to recommend you to watch this movie when you want to feel fun and impression at the same time. "},{"Title":"My all-time favorite comedy","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In Coming to America (1988) Eddie Murphy plays the likable prince of a rich African kingdom, Akeem. He comes to Queens to find his future queen accompanied by his best friend & servant, Semmi, played by Arsenio Hall. He understandably wants a wife who will love him for who he is and not for his great riches. So they get hired at McDowell's, a McDonald's knock-off, where he meets the shining daughter of the owner (Shari Headley). Is she the one? Will she find a fast-food mop boy appealing enough to marry? As noted in my title blurb, Coming to America is my all-time favorite comedy. Why? Simply because it's a laugh-riot from beginning to end. The first time I saw it was on TV in 2000 and I couldn't stop laughing; I saw it again last night (after purchasing it) and it had the same effect.Everything works here -- the characters, the jokes, the story -- to make Coming to America one of the greatest comedies ever made.GRADE A+ "},{"Title":"Great Supporting Characters - and some interesting twists along the way","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Coming to America is a 1988 movie that has become an extremely popular movie on the cable channel circuit. Much of the reason for this popularity is it marked somewhat of a turning point in star Eddie Murphy's career. The turning point was that this became a movie that would widen Eddie's appeal among different audiences. Although there still is some foul-language in this movie, it surprisingly isn't Eddie Murphy's character who is dishing it out. While I wouldn't put Coming to America in the category of Eddie's Family movies of recent years (i.e. The Nutty Professor, Dr. Dolittle, Daddy Day Care and The Haunted Mansion), there still is less foul language than in previous Murphy movies. But overall, with a good cast of supporting characters, some nice spins, and an interesting setting for the story, this might be the best all-around movie that Eddie Murphy has done. The premise of the story is as follows (this might be a spoiler) Eddie Murphy plays Prince Akeem, the sole heir to the throne of the fictitious African nation of Zamunda. The movie opens with Akeem facing an arranged marriage to a woman he has never met. Akeem immediately has doubts about marrying someone he has never met and tries to get his father, King Jaffe Joffer (played terrifically by James Earl Jones) to let him find his own bride. The King is convinced that Akeem needs to Sow his wild oats and agrees to postpone the wedding. Akeem has other ideas - he wants to travel someplace to go find a bride of his choosing. With his royal servant, Semmi (another great performance, this time by Arsenio Hall), Akeem decides to go to the United States to find a bride. In order to get someone who will care for him as a person rather than a prince, Akeem decides that he and Semmi will live as commoners (even though Semmi is a Servant, he apparently is used to the good life) as the settle into their new residence in Queens, New York. After some rough bumps, Akeem finds a woman named Lisa McDowell (played by Shari Headley) whom he feels would be his perfect bride. In an effort to pursue Lisa, Akeem decides that he and Semmi will get jobs at Lisa's father's Fast Food restaurant - McDowells (a spin on McDonalds that is spun brilliantly by the writers) in the guise of African Exchange Students. In Akeem's quest to win over Lisa, he faces many hurdles Lisa has a boyfriend named Darryl Jenks (in another brilliant performance by Eriq La Salle); Lisa's father Cleo (in yet another brilliant performance by John Amos) whom he wants to his daughter to marry Darryl; Semmi whom despite being a servant is not acclimating to life as a poor Fast Food worker in Queens; and eventually Akeem's own Father whom will eventually get wind of his son's scheme. There are also two interesting spins in this movie (and this may also be a spoiler). Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall are going to play several other minor characters throughout the film. These performances, while not central to most of the storyline are very entertaining. Even if these minor characters were not a part of the film - and even if they weren't played by Murphy and Hall, this would still be a good movie. The other spin comes from a cameo appearance by the Duke brothers from a previous Eddie Murphy film, Trading Spaces (played by Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy). There is a very interesting spin how the Duke brothers cameo is worked into the movie. You will need to have seen Trading Spaces to understand how they spin this into the movie. If you have seen Trading Spaces, you will realize how brilliantly this was done. As mentioned above, there are some terrific supporting character performances. While Eddie is still brilliant in his role of Prince Akeem, the performances of Semmi (Arsenio Hall), King Jaffe Joffer (James Earl Jones), Darryl Jenks (Eriq La Salle) and Cleo McDowell (John Amos) really stand out. In particular, I think John Amos delivers one of his best performances as Cleo. He comes across very believable as the father of Lisa - much of this due to the charm that Amos delivers to the character. The same thing can hold true for James Earl Jones - he seems perfect to play the role of the King (much due to his trademark voice). There are also two outstanding minor character performances. We see Samuel L. Jackson in one of his earliest roles do a brilliant job playing a gunman who attempts a holdup of the McDowell's restaurant. In another minor role, Louie Anderson plays one of the workers at the Fast Food restaurant. While I'm not the biggest Louie Anderson fan, every time that Louie was in a scene in Coming to America, it was funny. I kind of wish they gave Louie more dialogue and fit him into the storyline of the movie. Another note, a young Cuba Gooding Jr. plays a boy getting a haircut. Perhaps the only negative is the opening of the movie. I thought the first few minutes of the movie are drawn out. Once Akeem makes the decision to call off the wedding, that is where the action will pick up. I also enjoyed the New York City and Queens setting of the movie. I think it helped the storyline and was almost a perfect contrast to the African Country of Zamunda. Overall, this is a very good movie to see. It's the kind of movie you will definitely want to see more than once. Although this film appears on Cable television several times a year, the uncut version available on DVD is going to have so much more to offer. This is a highly recommended movie - whether this is your first time checking it out or whether you have seen it multiple times. "},{"Title":"Nice,arise the vote!!!","Date":"24 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If this movie was Spielberg would have had more. Since these strontium on the assumption that a film must be beautiful to be directed by big names like Spielberg, Lucas, Jackson, Cameron. .. All these assessments are wrong you understand the level of bad opinion of this site. Only films for intellectuals can be saved. This film was produced with many dollars and the optimal use of special effects make the place as among the best science fiction film Americans. Finitela of using double standards when judged as a movie, try to be objective because they give 3.8 a film of its kind and reward a crap how terrible sin city with 8.2 is really a 'offense. you are full of prejudices, in some ways this film is more teerminator terminator salvation. Vote 10 Eddie murphy don'be excellent... "},{"Title":"Great comedic film!","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Best Eddie Murphy film ever. No violence, drugs, sex, just great humor.I think I first saw this movie on an airplane and I was chuckling all the way through. Well, I saw the DVD in the cheap bin and I decided to buy it to watch again. It was a good decision. Now, we watch it when there's nothing else on. This movie can be appreciated over and over. I laugh at the lines and laugh at the fact that I'm laughing at them again.They say that the difference between irony and sarcasm is the presence of an audience and this movie demonstrates that. And for awhile, I thought the movie was funny because the script plays on so many stereotypes, reversing some. After repeated viewings, I think the movie works because of the play of the main actors "},{"Title":"Murphy shines in enjoyable romantic comedy","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Eddie Murphy (Trading Places) stars as ambitious Prince Akeem, a want to be romantic in a world where he gets everything he wants, apart from the perfect partner. He sets on a journey to America with his friend and Akeem hopes to find his Princess.It's an enjoyable tale about a good natured likable Prince trying to find true happiness in his life. The parallel between the norm of the rich and spoilt setting of the palace to the poor uncomfortable surroundings of a rough Queen's neighbourhood are brilliantly executed and allow audiences to see what some people go through.The differences in culture are often remarkable, given that America is the land of opportunity and is portrayed as being a difficult struggle for immigrants and other local residents. Some scenes are quite emotional which spreads audience's uses and gratifications.As a comedy genre, this worked well, especially when the pair find stuff aren't going their way in the poor world. It's a slow moving comedy filled with fantastic comedy performances as Murphy portrays a variety of characters once again and he does so brilliantly and he has to be admired. His central character Prince Akeem is simply fantastic.Likable, funny, charming and positive he is a great character for this movie and makes the story fall brilliantly into place.The narrative is slow moving, conforming beautifully to the comedy genre with physical scenes (one with luggage) and funny lines (one in the apartment) and is combined well with a somewhat conventional predictable but equally sweet and enjoyable romantic scenario. Many may argue the love story is far-fetched but it is simply enjoyable and inspirational for negative people.The ending was atrocious. Never have I seen such a good film that has had such an anticlimax at the end. It's poorly directed and has no realism to its nature, it is poor.But apart from the ending the film will make you smile and make you giggle and laugh hard on occasions.Personally I would watch it again just for Murphy's brilliance but the entire film is accepting and harmless fun "}{"Title":"One of Eddie Murphy's funniest films","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It may be very much an Eighties film but 'Coming to America' is as funny now as it was in 1988 and is probably one of Eddie Murphy's finest films.The films sees Murphy's character Prince Akeem of Zamunda turning twenty-one and now being of age where he has to marry. While his traditionalist father King Jaffe Joffer (wonderfully played by the regal James Earl Jones) is determined that his only son marries a Zamundan woman groomed to be queen, Akeen is a romantic who wishes to find true love. Defying his father, he and his servant Semmi travel to Queens, New York to find his bride and, upon arrival, take the roles of poor African students so he can be sure the girl of his dreams is marrying him for his personality rather than his title and riches.Eddie Murphy totally threw himself into the role of Akeem (as well as undertaking the roles of other characters in the film under the guise of heavy make-up), bringing to life the boyishness and genuinely kind-nature of the character. Arsenio Hall is great in the supporting role of the disgruntled Semmi, who has little interest in leaving the lap of luxury to lead what he sees as the down-trodden life of a typical New Yorker. And Eriq La Salle is just hilarious as the sleazy, self-absorbed boyfriend of Akeem's new love.There are many scenes in the film that are absolute gems, in particular the palace scenes where we see how a Zamundan prince is lavishly treated as well as the basketball game where Akeem meets a delighted Zamundan royalist and when the father of the girl Akeem loves discovers who he thinks is a goat-herder no good for his precious daughter is in fact a prince. It also gives an interesting insight into how outsiders view what makes an average New York native (I loved Akeem indulging in what he learns is a New York salutation, of course, littered with swearing!).'Coming to America' is a brilliant comedy that may be slightly dated now although that only adds to the charm of the film. Look out for cameos from Randolph and Mortimer Duke from Murphy's 1983 film 'Trading Places'. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy does it again","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Eddie Murphy proved himself that he can play so many roles and act them all well.  Same with Arsenio Hall.  He proved that he can be multiple people and do it well.  The movie follows Eddie Murphy who plays an African Prince who goes to New York with Arsenio Hall to find the woman he really loves.  James Earl Jones does good as the King and I enjoyed him.  Everybody else and I mean EVERYBODY else knew how to act and I enjoyed every character.  Don't miss a pre-famed Cuba Gooding JR. playing a boy getting a hair cut by Eddie Murphy.Overall the movie is hilarious and I will keep watching it until the day I die.  Rating 11 out of 10. (Favorite Movie) "},{"Title":"great acting, great writing, great entertainment","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Funny, good-natured comedy stars Murphy as a pampered African prince who's fed up with royalty and troubled by an arranged marriage on his twenty-first birthday. He persuades his stubborn, traditionalist father to postpone the wedding, then he, along with servant/companion Hall, travel to New York City to experience common life and find his bride. Amusing, often hilarious comedy is full of wonderful performances, clever gags, and an abundance of effective cameos. Through the magic of good make-up effects, stars Murphy and Hall also appear as several other characters in the movie. One of Murphy's most entertaining films, one audiences can easily enjoy again and again. *** "},{"Title":"My favorite Eddie Murphy film","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So many great things can be said about this movie! But I would sum it up in one word Hilarious. The laughs keep coming. My favorite characters are Sexual Chocolate (the band at the fundraiser), the preacher, and all the people in the barber shop. This is a classic!!!! lol (I sound like an eccentric movie reviewer!) "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy, Master of Comedy","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall star in one of the late 1980's finest motion pictures.  This Motion Picture star Eddie Murphy was his first film to feature many different characters.  Think Nutty Professor remake from the 90's.    Lion King fans can also see James Earl Jones as an  African King of the Fictional Country Zamunda.My entire family watch's this Motion Picture ever year.I highly recommend this film to those who have not seenwhat has to be Eddie Murphy's greatest Motion Picture Vehicle. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy, The Prince Of New York.","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Coming To America is movie that is very funny. It deals with Akeem(Eddie Murphy) going to New York with his sidekick Semmi(Arsenio Hall) to find a wife who could respect him. Eddie Murphy, Arsenio Hall, James Earl Jones, and other actors who play in this movie are awesome. If you have not seen Coming To America, go ahead and see it. It is funny and hilarious. Highly Recommended! **** out of **** stars and 10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"A Comedy to America","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An affable Prince is arranged to be married so he can succeed his father as ruler of the Kingdom. Questioning the illustrious traditions of his royalty,he decides to seek out a real world bride who will love him for who he is. Where can he find this woman? The subsequent culture shock of New York City is the obvious hook for audiences and it pays off handsomely. Instead of setting itself up for a plethora of inside jokes and obvious satire of general American values, the movie provides a sketch that allows the comedy to unfold. COMING TO AMERICA is easily Eddie Murphy's most polished effort thanks in large part to comedy auteur John Landis. After chafing out his welcome with BEVERLY HILLS COP II, Murphy endears us with a character we can both love and laugh at. The film's best asset though, is director Landis' impeccable comic timing. The movie is chock full of hilarious set pieces that aren't so self-contained that they compromise our ability to take its love story serious. Viewers will also enjoy spotting Cuba Gooding Jr. and Samuel L. Jackson in early roles.  "},{"Title":"Tiresome, Eddie Murphy not at his best","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Eddie Murphy was at the peak of his career when he made this movie. Which says a lot about it - the studio was looking for an Eddie Murphy vehicle to get him into the theaters, stat, and they threw this mess together as a result. One might question the fantastic castle the prince lived in during his years in Africa, as Africa is not known for castles. Rather, he more likely lived in a mud hut, but one larger than the other mud huts in his village. The vanity that an African prince somehow lived in the same sort of luxury enjoyed by royalty in western Europe is an insult to the intelligence of the audience, who surely must notice the lack of programs about The Great Castles of Africa on the AWE channel. Next, there is the Bruce Lee-esque fighting the prince engages in during the altercation at the restaurant. Again, Africa has no known martial arts tradition. Certainly, there is plenty of violence in Africa, but the brutality of child soldiers swinging machetes and inter-tribal limb-lopping is far from what Eddie portrayed in the fight scene.I think there's a lot of wishful thinking in this movie. Much of it centers around wishing the studio could throw a bunch of audience-pandering into a script, stick a star's name on the poster, and make a fortune. In at least the profitability sense, they succeeded, but this is not a good movie. Sad that it's one of the best Eddie managed to make. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"3 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Very intelligent way to write a silly movie. Laughing all the way through. The quotable lines in this film are never ending. The James Earl Jones character was spot on. No one else could've pulled it off. Murphy is so versatile. He must've played 10 parts in this film. The storyline was interesting and the buildup was just the proper length. The scenery was beautiful even if cgi. The chemistry between murphy and hall is evident through the entirety of the film. The chemistry between murphy and his love interest is also evident even though I don't believe they ever worked together. For a comedy, there are twists, turns, and drama that kept me interested the whole movie. This is a must see! "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphys Best","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Coming to America is One of Eddie Murphys Best Films ever. Eddie was brilliant in the Beverly Hills cop trilogy and The Nutty professor, but he was superb in this film. Eddie is one of the funniest actors Hollywood has ever seen. Fast talking and great at finishing arguments. Its great to see him and Arsenio Hall playing more then 3 different roles in this movie. Coming to America tells the story of an African Prince, who wishes to search for a bride and ends up going to America. Instead of living the Rich luxury life, he know has to live in a poor part of Queens in New York. He finally does find his love and begins to win her heart. Packed with Non stop Entertainment, this is a Brilliant movie. "}{"Title":"An original comedy with Eddie Murphy in top-form.","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Coming to America has got to be one of my personal most watched comedies. I just always loved watching this movie. It has got a great and original story and some great characters in it, played by some good comical talents.Best decade for Eddie Murphy were without doubt the '80's. He was original and fresh back then and he made some great other movies such as 48 Hrs. and Beverly Hills Cop. His comical talent shined truly the most back then. In this movie he also is in top-form, with his eternal wide smile on his face. He plays his character with lots of originality and humor. Beside the main part, Murphy also plays some other characters in the movie. Due to the Rick Baker special make-up, he is completely unrecognizable in his other roles. The supporting cast of the movie is also really solid. Arsenio Hall is really great and funny in his role and he has some excellent sense of timing. Whatever went wrong with his acting-career? James Earl Jones is also truly unforgettable as the king. Other strong roles are being portrayed by; John Amos, Madge Sinclair and Eriq La Salle. Samuel L. Jackson also shows up in one of his very first movie-roles. It might sound cliché now but his talent already really shined in the one very short scene that he is in. He really made a great strong and lasting impression. Another well known actor that shows up in his very first movie-roles in this movie is Cuba Gooding Jr..It are really the characters and the actors that portray them that make this movie a bit of a classic one. It's a great comedy with some great humorous sequences in it and with a fun Trading Places-, another John Landis and Eddie Murphy movie, reference in it as well.This is an excellent fresh original comedy to watch, mainly due to Eddie Murphy who really was in top-form. Even if you're not too fond of '80's comedies in general, this is a perfectly watchable and recommendable movie.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"both romantic and funny","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" i recently saw this movie and it was much better than i expected. with every new (old) Eddie Murphy movie i see i'm afraid it will be like 'the nutty professor', filled with toilet jokes.while romantic comedies are usually either romantic or funny, this movie accomplishes to be both. it has a few slapstick moments, but they are countered with some believable serious moments. movies that try to stock every minute of it with a joke are usually not that funny. especially if that humor only refers to toilet or sexual habits. that's usually an easy way out for comedy-writers without inspiration.the story is that of a young prince of some fictional African country. instead of marrying the woman that is chosen for him (who is trained to be a completely obedient wife) he goes to America, trying to find a woman who is willing to marry him just for himself, without his money. so he goes incognito, rents a cheap room and gets a job mopping floors in a fast food restaurant. after a while one of the daughters of the owner of said restaurant falls for him and dumps her rich boyfriend (who didn't tread her well anyway) for him. when she finds out about his title, she's at first angry with him for lying, but they talk it out and we end with a big wedding. "},{"Title":"This movie is a Classic comedy.","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In my point of view one of Eddie Murphy's best early pieces of work, I truly loved this movie. The comedic timing was perfect for me, and this is one of a few movies I can watch over and over again each time finding something new to laugh at. The cast choice was great, I never thought of Arsenio Hall as an actor but he was great in this movie, the make-up in the movie was truly ahead of their time to the point you couldn't even tell that they (Eddie and Arsenio) were in make-up. I wish there were more movies out now like this movie. If you didn't like this movie you don't know real comedy. This movie is a true comedic classic. In closing I leave you with.Just let your SOOOOOUUULLL GLLOO! Feel that oh so silky smooth. Just let it shine through. Just let your SOOOOOUUULLL GLLOO! "},{"Title":"A Great Comedy from Landis and Murphy!","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Directed by John Landis and starring Eddie Murphy, this is a cute comedy with a lot of heart and soul. And a little gag as well! ) The performances are delightful and the plot is sweet and insightful. A great comedy!4(****)out of 4(****)stars  "},{"Title":"This is sooo in my all time top ten!","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am watching Coming To America now, and i haven't seen it for ages and I am SO happy! Murphy is so charming and funny, and it is hysterical when they dress up as other people! if you are reading this you have probably already seen the film, if not i highly recommend it. it is intelligent, emotional, and one of the funniest films ever not to resort to silly gags and gross out humour. Unfortunately no video shops i have been to stock it,but you can always get it on the net. Samuel L Jackson, Eriq La Salle and Cuba Gooding Jr also appear in supporting roles from before they were famous. This film is faultless, appeals to all ages and races, and will leave you with a big dopey grin on your face! "},{"Title":"A Comedy Classic - Murphy's Best","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Eddie Murphy's career seems to have recently gone into something of a holding pattern of uneven sequels, but back in the 1980s he was the King (or should that be Prince?) of Comedy and Coming to America is the best example of his mastery.Even the harshest critic would be hard-pressed to find anything worth changing in this film. Even the bizarre Paula Abdul-choreographed dance routine kind of grows in you after a while. And like the best romantic comedies (Groundhog Day, Four Weddings and a Funeral) it doesn't lose momentum with the inevitable sappy ending.This is a good example of the most likeable, and funniest, Murphy persona, the nice guy. When he strays into nastiness for the sake of it in other films is where he seems to go wrong. Even the constantly arguing barbershop guys are witty and fast-talking, rather than merely rude. Murphy and even Arsenio Hall quickly get you onside and as a result the film is great entertainment.Like the best comedies, this film repays repeat viewing and indeed parts of it get funnier on second, third and fourth viewings. Barely a minute goes by without a joke of some kind, and the vast majority of them hit the mark. What is especially significant about the film is the range of its humour. The movie gets a lot of mileage out of the 'innocents abroad' theme, but there are also sight gags, sly comments about consumerism, dazzling wordplay in the barbershop, and one-liners. And it's good fun to see a young Samuel L. Jackson in a brief cameo which contains the elements of many of his later star turns.***** (out of 5) "},{"Title":"Wonderful Murphy Movie.","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Eddie Murphy the king of comedy stars in Coming to America, a prince from Africa searching for his bride with Aersino Hall.  This comedy made in the 80's could have been called Trading Places 2 because in a cameo role Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy are also in it. When Murphy gives them money they return. They were also in Trading Places inwhich Murphy was also in for making Bellamy and Ameche do go out of buisness. This one is sure to make fans laugh. The cast also inculdes James Earl Jones, John Amos, Madge Sinclair, Shari Headly, Louie Anderson, Jake Sinfield, Samuel L. Jackson, Don Ameche, Ralp Bellamy, Allison Dean, Vondie Curtis Hall, Clint Smith and Cuba Godding, Jr. and other cameo roles with Nick Savage (Friday the 13th Part 3) and many others. Directed by comedy masterpiece designer John Landis. Great Recommened Film not to be missed.  "},{"Title":"Too long","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The basic thing that's wrong with this movie is that it's too much of a good thing, and they don't know when to shut up.It's not so much a plot which moves ahead scene by scene, but a series of sketches plonked next to each other in the hope that a coherent storyline will emerge.Many of the sketches are very funny. There are some great pieces of observational comedy you can always get a good laugh out of having a naif confront the idiocy of modern urban life.But they milk every sketch until it's dry. If they'd cut 60 seconds off each one, the whole thing would have been a great deal tighter.It's all very well done, but if they'd done a bit less, it would have been a lot more entertaining. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy, a king of comedy","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Now how many movies that Eddie Murphy has made can you say have been REALLY bad?  For me, just Vampire in Brooklyn.  All of his other movies in my opinion have been REALLY funny, and this one is no exception.  Still mastering his unique talent of being able to take on multiple roles in film (The Nutty Professor), he shows that here and just really rocks in this movie.  I think I can call it one of his funniest ever.  Even Arsenio Hall is in this movie.  That's not necessarily a good thing, but he even does well here.  This movie is a 10 out of 10.  Just another great 80's comedy to add onto the list.    "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy in his finest hour!","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Eddie Murphy continued a string of 1980s Hollywood blockbusters with his 1988 comedy Coming To America. As far comedies go, this is a must see film with witty, timeless hilarity on full display. When Prince Akeem (Eddie Murphy), heir to the royal throne of Zumunda, reaches the age of marriage, he is introduced to the woman who has been bred from birth to be his wife. But when Prince Akeem raises objections about the marriage to his father, King Jaffe Joffer (James Earl Jones), King Joffer agrees to delay the marriage while Akeem takes a trip abroad to sow his wild oats. Desperate to avoid an arranged marriage, and find a woman who he loves and who loves him for the right reasons, Prince Akeem reveals his plan to his servant, Semmi (Arsenio Hall). Semmi agrees to travel abroad and assist Akeem in finding a wife he can respect for her intelligence and will. Spinning a globe, Akeem's finger lands on the best place in the world to find a queen - Queens, New York. Arriving in the middle of Queens, Akeem and Semmi settle into a rundown apartment complex in the ghetto and set about meeting as many women as possible. When their search is fruitless, an older man suggests they go to church to meet some good girls. While at a church gathering, Akeem's eye falls on Lisa McDowell (Shari Headley), daughter of Cleo McDowell (John Amos), founder of the Queens fast food establishment McDowell's (which bares an uncanny resemblance to the fast food restaurant McDonald's). Unfortunately, Lisa is dating Darryl Jenks, heir to his father's hair supply business and the most eligible bachelor in town according to Lisa's father and sister Patrice (Allison Dean). To get closer to Lisa, Akeem takes on a job at McDowell's where fellow employee Maurice (Louie Anderson) fills him in on the bright future beheld by a McDowell's employee. Forcing Semmi to work alongside him at McDowell's, Akeem and Semmi help foil a gunman (Samuel L. Jackson) who attempts to hold up the store. As Lisa and Akeem develop a relationship, her father disapproves - seeing Akeem as a dead-end immigrant with no future. When Semmi makes yet another request for King Joffer to send money, the King and entourage personally travel to New York to hunt for Prince Akeem. Cleo McDowell does a complete 180 when he realizes the wealth and power in the hands of his soon-to-be-son-in-law, but a union between Lisa and Akeem is bitterly opposed by King Joffer. He remains committed to bringing Akeem home where he marry the woman arranged for him at birth. But in the end, only Akeem and Lisa will decide who gets married to whom... An ingenious and utterly entertaining comedy, Coming To America ranks highly as one of Eddie Murphy's best films (if not his best). Only Beverly Hills Cop and 48 Hours come close to dethroning Prince Akeem and his search for a worthy bride. This is essential viewing for any comedy lover... The DVD Report "}{"Title":"Murphy at his peak","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Coming to America, made in 1988, is one of Eddie Murphy's best films, about a pampered African prince who decides to search for his wife in Queens, New York. Right there, the concept is great.Akeem (Murphy) decides he doesn't want the arranged marriage the King (James Earl Jones) has arranged for him. Though his intended is gorgeous, she has been raised to be his wife, has no interests of her own and no thoughts of her own - everything is predicated on what he wants. Akeem wants to experience a life without luxury and a woman with some original thoughts; his father agrees to let him travel for six weeks. He and his servant (Arsenio Hall) go to New York, where they live in a horrible apartment house in Queens. Attracted to a woman, Lisa MacDowell, (Shari Headley) whom he sees at a church meeting, Akeem takes a job as clean-up and garbage person at her father's (John Amos) restaurant, where Lisa works in the office - McDowell's. McDowell's looks exactly like McDonald's and is under investigation for trademark infringement, though there isn't any - don't like the yellow M fool you - McDonald's has a Big Mac and McDowell's has a BIG MICK.There are some hilarious parts of this film, the funniest for me being the introduction of Akeem's wife to be. There's a dance done by dozens of women - frantic and long - until they finally fall to the floor in submission and make a path for the bride to be. She's in a gold sequined gown with a train that goes out to the street. The other scene that cracked me up was James Earl Jones' appearance in New York wearing what can only be described as a lion fur, complete with the head.Old-timers will love the bums who get the big handout from Murphy.Murphy is hilarious, but his real genius is in the minor characters he plays throughout the film where he's unrecognizable. He's joined in this by Hall, who for the size of part he has, doesn't have a lot of lines.I'm not sure what happened to Murphy's career - he certainly made some wonderful movies - his role in Dreamgirls was a different turn for him, and very successful. He is a tremendous talent whose films for the most part lately haven't matched his abilities.See this one. "},{"Title":"Best comedy ever","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In my opinion this is the finest comedy of all-time. Here's why.Coming to America hit our cinemas in 1989, my first year of high school. I first got wind of it by some bus ads that focused on the fact most of the main characters were played by Eddie Murphy. To my knowledge this was the first time an actor had played so many roles in a movie, of such diversity (this was before he tried this several more times, generally all in awful films except Bowfinger). Eddie Murphy was a star and when the reviews came out I knew I had to see it. I'm not sure when I saw it, but I'm pretty sure it was a year or so later on VHS. Here's my Top 20 things about the movie.1/ Sexual Chocolate. Randy Watson's parody of The Greatest Love Of All opened my eyes to the crappiness of modern music. Hilarious scene.2/ Screen debut for Cuba Gooding Jnr and one of the first for Samuel L Jackson (and yes there was an F bomb) 3/ The song She's Your Queen To Be, most notably the line about being free from infection 4/ Arsenio Hall. Awful as Semmi, but brilliant as Morris and Rev. Brown.5/ John Amos' line I feel like break dancing.6/ Soul Glo 7/ Maurice talking about his rise through the ranks at McDowell's 8/ Frankie Faison as the landlord. Just discovered he was Chris Rock's manager in Down To Earth and was in 40+ episodes of The Wire.*Darren, this may be the clincher to getting me to watch it.9/ The barber shop scenes.10/ The girl who talks about her Hollywood ambitions.11/ Akeem courting Lisa.12/ Akeem meeting his wife.13/ The Black Awareness rally.14/ I do not use chemicals. Only fruit and berries 15/ The basketball game 16/ Scenes at their apartment 17/ The night club scene 18/ The hold-up scene 19/ The bad acting of Shari Headley 20/ Sheer rewatchability. Still holds up well after 20 years Landmark comedy. If you've never seen it, get it out. If you haven't seen it in 5 years, give it another watch. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films ever made! EVER!!!","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of those films that you just can't go wrong watching. I must have seen it 20 times or more now and I still laugh every time. The plot line concerns Eddie Murphys principle character (he plays 3 other key roles) Prince Akeem of the fictional African Kingdom Zamunda, leaving his opulent lifestyle to find a bride who loves him for who he is and not for his riches. But that's irrelevant really, as its just a fantastic showcase for the comedy acting talents of Murphy and his sidekick, Arsenio Hall, who wisecrack their way through 8 combined roles in the funniest film outside of the Monthy Python collection. The barbers shop scenes are the stuff of comedy legend and this is something that never fails to bring a smile to my face.Don't just watch this film - BUY IT!!! Laughs are guaranteed. "},{"Title":"Queens!","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This along with Trading Places is Eddie Murphy's best. Golden Child is up there too. From minute one this film is a masterpiece and WHAT a cast! James Earl Jones is unbelievable as the King and Madge Sinclair is excellent as his wife. When Prince Akeem of Zamunda decides to go to America to look for his bride with his sidekick Semmi in tow the film gets in motion. He sees Lisa and it's love at first sight! But she already has a boyfriend who isn't up to much and Akeem must work to win her heart. Surprisingly, Eddie Murphy had a big hand in writing this film.In honesty though,Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall play several roles flawlessly in this brilliantly orchestrated film which is some undertaking! The director is the brilliant John Landis. This film is a joy from the start and particularly at the end. Another timeless film. "},{"Title":"Barbershop scene","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In one of the barbershop scenes Akeem is seated to get his hair cut. The barber remarks at how soft his hair is, and Akeem says something to the effect of. I only use the extracts of fruits and berries. What is the actual line Akeem says? Thanks for the help.Why do I have to write superfluous text in order to post this comment when I have already asked my question?I mean, not every post is going to be a trenchant analysis of the movie. Sometimes people just want to know what was said and don't have the movie on hand to watch it right now. I should be able to ask the community for help without having to waste everyone's time with this verbosity. "},{"Title":"A Very funny film, possibly Eddie Murphy's best","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"                Coming to America is extremely funny about a man who flees from Zimbabwe to New York City in search of a woman he can fall in love with and bring into Zimbabwe as a princess. Just by looking at that plot, I knew it was going to be funny with Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall starring in the film. So as I was flipping through channels to find something exciting and entertaining to watch and Coming to America was on perhaps and I watched the whole movie laughing really hard. It was just what I expected into seeing the film. A very good film and highly recommend. Maybe you could spot this film watching television.9/10 "},{"Title":"pure brillence","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i first saw this film about 4 years ago but i recently rented it again because i forgot everything about it so i watched the film and i have to say this is one of the funniest comedies you will see in your life especially the sexual chocolates and randy watson.i give this film 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think this film is one of the best ive seen in a very long time, it took me forever to find the video and now that i have it, i watch it everyday.sooo... the people that dont think it is very good i think you have serious brain damage..... thank u! "},{"Title":"Brilliant choreography of the African dancers.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So often we viewers take for granted those who are not in the lead roles. As an example, take note of the 21 dancers in the early part of the film their dancing is super!One of the BEST EVER comedies!  An incredible cast with a first rate script! "},{"Title":"one of the top 10 best movies ever!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie! all the characters are good and Eddie and Arsenio are perfect together! There's only a few parts I don't like like some of the singing and dancing parts. The guys in the barber shop are very funny too, I'm really glad also they never made a sequal because it would have ruined the legacy of this movie, and of course it's by far Eddie's best movie.  "}{"Title":"Just excellent","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've probably seen this movie 20 times, I know almost every sentence by heart, but yet I never get tired of it! Without a doubt Eddie's best film till this date! It's just a shame he don't make movies like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Coming to America","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Enjoyable Eddie Murphy / John Landis collaboration with a fun idea and a great pairing of star and co-writer Murphy and Arsenio Hall. Keep an eye out for Samuel L. Jackson in this one.  "},{"Title":"Another in the Long Line of Under-Achievers From Eddie Murphy.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  African prince Eddie Murphy and his most trusted friend Arsenio Hall leave the country to find Murphy a wife. So where do they go? Queens. Another one of those sometimes funny and sometimes tedious comedies that just never does come together the way it is supposed to. A likeable cast gets lost in a screenplay that tries to do to much at times. Watchable, but nothing else. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"me","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have seen this film and i think it is very good film. It is comedy story about the prince who went to America to find the wife. The most interesting is that the prince is pretending to be a cleaner. The main part in this film cast Eddy Murfy whose acting is amazing.I recommend everyone to see this film and you will realise that not only money and power makes people happy. LOve is the god in this world.The best film with the best actors!So everyone hurry up to see this film! Want to see a good film watch come to America! You will enjoy it!Just come and see it! "},{"Title":"Murphy - still funny","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  `The royal penis is clean, your highness.'  Prince Akeem, a man who has rose petals constantly strewn at his feet whenever he moves, goes to Queens to find his queen.  Chased by his father, King Jaffe Joffer, and accompanied by his ever-harrassed sidekick, Akeem gets a job at a MacDonald's clone, meets a woman and falls in love &#150; but must keep up the pretence of poverty.  A film with many highlights, including a passing man who worships Akeem, the obligatory 80s subway scene and `you sweat from a baboon's balls.' "},{"Title":"quote correction","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  the line is misquoted...Oh, it was a most amazing game. The Giants of New York took on the Packers of Green Bay. The Giants triumphed by kicking a pigskin ball through a big H. A most ripping victory!it should beOh, it was most exhilarating. The Giants of New York took on the Packers of Green Bay. And in the end the Giants triumphed by kicking an oblong ball made of pigskin through a big H. A most gripping victory! "},{"Title":"THE #1 Comedy Movie","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the #1 comedy movie in my book.Eddie Murphy is hilarious and I never seen him take on 4 roles it's amazing.This is absolutely the funniest movie of all time.This is also a good story too.Eddie Murphy plays as Prince Akeem he just turned 21 and is now getting married by to a woman that the King who is played by James Earl Jones has chosen.Prince Akeem feels uncomfortable with this because he does not want to live with a woman who obeys his commands for the rest of his life.He rather has a woman who has an opinion.This is a great Storyline and a funny one as they go to Queens,New York to find a bride.This movie gets 10 out of 10 stars definetely! "},{"Title":"Best Comedy Ever Made","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm 19 years old now and I have seen this movies over a hundred times since i was like 5 and i laugh every time. For those of you looking to take this whole movie seriously, this is the wrong movie for you. This movie is all about making fun of preconceived notions and changing them around. It's about making fun of what you don't know. Oh yeah and if you don't get any of the jokes, well then you never will. This is not a movie for someone who doesn't know what a Jheri curl is. Or, a person who has never been to a black awareness pageant...LOLOL! Or a person who has never been to a barber shop. Or a person who has never been to New York City's other boroughs..Manhattan does not count. With all of that having been said, I would like to say this is one of Eddie Murphy's best movies (besides Boomerang LOL) and I only wish that he would make another movie like this. Here's to hoping and Happy watching!  "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies I've ever seen.","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I *love* this movie. It's one of the best comedies I've ever seen. Sure of course people will think - but I've seen better!! But I believe the best comedy you can watch, is a comedy you can watch over & over again & still can crack you up no matter HOW many times you've seen it.I grew up watching this movie, I will be twenty in less than three weeks time. This is one of Eddie Murphy's best works, & in my personal opinion, the best of all his movies.If you have not seen this movie, or you're a slight tad put off with some of the negative reviews - don't dismay.The truth is, from a person who loves & enjoys movies not getting to technical about every single detail, this movie is awesome, & you're missing something if you don't watch it.Sooo, what are you waiting for? GO SEE IT!?My vote I gave -> 10/10 because this movie definitely deserves it!!  "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy in Make Up","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In this film, Eddie takes his humour to a new level. Now that he is accepted as a comedian, he translates his humour in the guise of other personalities. In 'Coming to America', we see minstrelsy in reverse, and Eddie Murphy uses that successfully to make audiences laugh and accept him as a multi talented comedian. With this style of humour, he is able to lift himself out of his own 80's comedy profile, and into the 90's as a comedian in dsiguise. There is a guest appearance of the early Samuel L. Jackson as a bum who tries to raid the restaurant that Murphy works at, but he is uncredited as he has to wait for Quentin Tarantino to lift his career to another level. It is as though Jackson had just walked off the set of 'School Daze' as a bum and walked onto the set of 'Coming to America' as a bum. "}{"Title":"Has its moments","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"9 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow.  Looking at some other comments makes me wonder if people actually know what good comedy is.  It most definately is not Coming to America.  While it is watchable and includes such talented actors as James Earl Jones and Eriq La Salle, it goes for cheap laughs and is ultimately tedious.  The premise is cute and the movie seemed like it was going places but really goes nowhere new or exciting for that matter.  Too much spectacle and not enough substance.  A long dance sequence near the beginning seemed to last forever and had me looking at my watch.  Then all the shouting matches and lumbering dialogue make this entertaining for those with a low level of intelligence. "}]