[{"Title":"The best of all M.I.As","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" Aaron Norris can be proud to have made the best of the three films in the M.I.A-franchise. Three things in particular makes this movie stand above the others.1. Better action sequences and, above all, more hand-to-hand combat.2. Good and touching dialogue. I love how Chuck's pal talks about how they never really CAN leave 'Nam, can they?. And one part really makes me choke (a rare commodity in stupid B-movie action flicks!), when Chuck's wife excuses herself by saying I'm sorry I'm not pretty for you anymore.... Chuck answers, like a gentleman; You'll always be pretty for me or something to that extent.3. The ending, where Chuck gets severely wounded. A strong and unusual ending for these type of films! "},{"Title":"Chuck Norris serves another platefull of pain","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" First of all, this movie is a fabulous example of its genre an action movie. The action in this movie is so solid that at times it's hard to comprehend. For instance, at one point Chuck actually jumps through a window wielding a machine gun. While in midair, he holds his gun up and mows all four opponents (or victims, however you look at it) down with ease. He proceeds to run to the other side of the room, and instead of going out the front door, jumps out the opposite window. Wow Chuck..This film also boasts some touching moments on top of the action. A gunship flies over Chuck after he has just destroyed a camp with his machine gun and sprays his area with bullets, severely wounding his shooting arm. He tries to lift the gun up to shoot the chopper, but alas, his injury is too severe. A child, freshly saved by Chuck, runs to his aid from a bush and helps him lift the gun up. In this gripping moment, both pull the trigger and take the helicopter down in slow motion.All in all, a great shoot-em-up action movie with enough character to make your girlfriend shed a tear. Maybe. "},{"Title":"So what if I'm a Chuck Norris Fan!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":"  Hey, when Norris learns that she is still alive, HE GOES BACK FOR HER. That's gotta count for something in these days of throw-away relationships.The final action scene is a touching bonding moment as father and son together take down the bad guy!  I liked the intended, old-fashioned, feel good emotion!  "},{"Title":"Chuck Norris replaces Vietnam with burning crater, rescues some children","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" Rounding out my Chuck Norris Triple Feature DVD, we have Braddock Missing in Action III, undoubtedly the best in the series and probably the only 80s action movie to come anywhere near Commando in terms of awesomeness. Here Chuck discovers that his wife and son are still alive under Communist rule in Vietnam, but the CIA is wary of letting him go there, most likely because the last time they asked him to accompany them there, he almost restarted the war. Chuck of course scoffs at this and leaves anyway (Don't step on any toes, Braddock. I don't step on toes, Little John--I STEP ON NECKS.) For some reason, upon his return to Saigon, it turns out the entire Vietnamese military still wants him dead. This does make a certain degree of sense, since he caused the downfall of their government on his previous trip, but we are given the explanation that they still want him to pay for his war crimes. The same war crimes that had him imprisoned in a POW camp for 10 years! They just cannot let this go! By the series timeline, this means that the Vietnamese government has been holding a grudge against this one particular guy for almost 20 years. Either Chuck committed genocide during the war or this is the most obsessive military in all of history, but no matter, the point is that he is in danger.Once a Colonel Quoc gets wind of Chuck's presence, he ambushes Chuck, shoots his wife, and attempts to torture him and his son. Chuck of course gets away. This pisses off Quoc so much that he decides to kidnap about 40 random children out of spite. He takes the kids to a base and locks them up for God knows what purpose, and one of his soldiers attempts to rape an 8-year-old girl. Fortunately, Chuck ambushes him and implants a bomb in his stomach and his entire body explodes right in front of the girl, perhaps a bit of a hasty move on Chuck's part, but certainly way less traumatizing to her than being raped. Then he completely wipes out the base in about 5 minutes, and packs all the kids into a truck for a quick getaway while being pursued by a helicopter. Here is the movie's only true dip in logic, as the helicopter fires rockets at them and Chuck drives the truck through enormous flames multiple times and the kids inside are somehow not roasted alive. But that is a small price to pay for the levels of excitement throughout the movie. It has three times as much action as the previous installments and some convincing scenes of total chaos, as well as Chuck doing somersaults through windows even though there are doors available, all combining for a hearty 10/10. See it. "},{"Title":"KA-POW!!!","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":"  This movie was an explosive mix of drama and action. Chuck is at his finest here, as he is in almost all his flicks, and he chews up some more anti-American slime in this seasoned classic. I just wish we could all be as heroic as Chuck is. Bravo! "},{"Title":"Exciting and  stirring  Braddock  episode in which he returns  Vietnam to rescue  his family","Date":"6 September 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" Vietnam war vet ( Chuck Norris ) and previous POW goes back to Vietnam when is reported that a son was born . As Braddock returns looking for his disappeared wife and kid after downfall Saigon . When Braddock arrives is pursued by a Vietnam general ( Aki Aelong ). Then he schemes to free some children held prisoners in a far prison camp into Vietnam . As long as he's there , stubborn Braddock decides to head Thailand , being pursued by the former officer . The two-fisted Nam vet Colonel Braddock tries continuously to free the kids held captives and suffers various tortures in charge of the evil ruler . Braddock hunks his way through the jungle to save the waif children . He flees along with the kids and harassing his enemies pursuers , escaping the innumerable risks and dangers .From the beginning to the end the comic-book action-packed , transparent gore , and extreme violence is continued and it's fast movement ; for that reason the picture is pretty amusing though contains some perfunctory scenes . This is a routine actioner with Karate star Chuck Norris as the Vietnam veteran resulting to be one of the best roles he'd made to date , as he's fine as tough, cold , obstinate Colonel Braddock . It's a predictable, xenophobic , shallow and brainless film though will appeal to Chuck Norris enthusiasts because of it contains some excellent action sequences ( when Braddock shoots with his machine gun , several explosions or scenes of motorboat and helicopters ) . In the ink of ¨ Uncommon courage ¨( by Ted Kotcheff ) and ¨ RamboII ¨( George Pan Cosmatos ) with Norris attempting to imitate Silvester Stallone or Arnold Schwarnezzegger like one army man . The film is the best of the trilogy , the first entry deals with Braddock who schemes to free some American soldiers still held prisoners in a far prison camp into Vietnam . The second part ( directed by Lance Hool , the first's producer ) concerns about tortures and Braddock's suffering in prisoner camp . In the three movies there are some nasty , ominous villains well played by Asian players  James Hong , Soon Teck Oh, and Aki Aelong who bear offensive racial stereotypes . Appropriate musical score by Jay Chattaway and adequate cinematography by cameraman Joao Fernandez , both of whom worked in the trilogy . The motion picture is produced in average budget by Cannon films ( Menahem Golan and Yoram Globus ) and professionally directed by Aaron Norris , Chuck's brother . It's a movie for frantic action lovers and warlike genre buffs. Rating  Acceptable, passable and entertaining but violent . Although the movie has some aspects a little tough to take , this moving film still has its fine moments getting a bemusing atmosphere with agreeable results , furthermore grossed lot of money at the box office along with the previous entries . "},{"Title":"A little rehashed but not entirely bad","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":"  In the wake of Rambo 3 and a bunch of police action thrillers with Vietnam War veterans or references and homages to the war as well as the recent hits of Oliver Stone and Stanley Kubrick, Braddock Missing In Action 3 doesn't have a shot in accomplishing anything original since similar material has already been done way too many times before during the second half of the 1980's. However, Chuck Norris' starring role as the Vietnam War veteran who goes on another deadly mission to rescue more POW's prevents this film from being a complete downer but doesn't prevent it from becoming too routine. "},{"Title":"Decent Enough Sequel, That's Nothing Special But Fairly Entertaining If You Put Your Brain In Check","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" This is a decent enough sequel, that's nothing special but fairly entertaining, if you put your brain in check. It's got plenty of explosions and good action sequences, however it is quite brainless so be sure to be in the mood. Most of the characters were cool, and the finale was pretty good, plus Chuck Norris is simply amazing in this!. It's a bit too routine at times, however i couldn't help but fairly enjoy it, as it's well paced and Aki Aleong is very menacing as the main villain, plus it had a few shocking moments. Don't get me wrong i enjoyed it and Chuck was fantastic as usual, it's just, too routine to really work that well, plus it was somewhat unpleasant at times. There is plenty of gunfire and action to keep one entertained for the most part, and you care for the main characters,plus the ending was pretty good. This is a decent enough sequel, that's nothing special, but fairly entertaining, if you put your brain in check, worth the watch. The Direction is not bad. Aaron Norris does a decent job here with good camera work and angles, and he kept the film at a good pace. There is a tiny bit of blood. We get a burnt corpse, bloody wounds, and some very bloody gunshot wounds. The Acting is very good. Chuck Norris AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is very likable, intense, vulnerable, but seemed a little bored here at times, still he was awesome! (Norris Rules!). Aki Aleong is great as the main villain, he was sadistic and very menacing. Roland Harrah III is okay as the son, and did his job adequately. Miki Kim was good as the wife, and did good in her screen time. Yehuda Efroni is decent as the Reverend,and was fairly convincing. rest of the cast do okay. Overall Worth the watch. **1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Terrific 80's action escapism","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" Wipe away those tears and try not to blub America, Chuck Norris is back to kill all those horrible Vietnamese Communists who survived the war and this time, he's doing it for the children, those lovable little tikes that can't fight back. And who says that old beardy death legs doesn't have a heart? Braddock Missing In Action III is another spin on the Rambo 2 formula, with our titular hero travelling to the Orient to find his Asian wife, who he presumed killed when America pulled out of Vietnam. As you might expect from a Chuck Norris vehicle made in 1988, this is stereotypical 80s action through and through.Yes people, we're in the land of right wing politics, homosexual undertones and where everyone who cannot speak English is indescribably evil. Where you can make anything explode by shooting a Beretta at it a few times and where women are expendable cannon fodder only there to serve as a reminder that heterosexual intercourse can only lead to anguish and pain.Clichéd period piece it may be, but man is it fun. Sure, your scarf wearing hipster friends may think that Chuck Norris is only good for those 'hilarious' facts that have been going around, but what those guys often overlook is just how riotously entertaining these old movies are. Applaud as Chuck rampages through a Vietnamese military base blowing everything to pieces! Cheer as an Asian rapist gets blasted out the side of a building by a grenade launcher then explodes on impact! And jump to your feet and shout 'Hail Democracy' as father and son bond in an intimate machine gunning of a helicopter gunship. It's not big, it's certainly not clever, but anyone who can't enjoy this movie while drunk is in serious denial. "},{"Title":"Typical action film, but not bad","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":"  Not a bad film for a shoot-'em-up. Suffers from the usual thin plot and lack of character development, but overall an entertaining movie. I would've liked to see more interaction between Braddock and his son; it would've given the story a little more depth to have the two talk a little more than they do. I mean, the boy has just seen his mother gunned down in front of him - it's hard to believe he would come to accept his father so quickly even given the circumstances. Of course, action is what this film is all about and, in that respect, it works! "}{"Title":"Time to stand down Braddock...","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" Of the entire trilogy about Colonel James Braddock, then this third movie from 1988 was the weakest of them all and the least entertaining one. It was maybe because the story was a scrambled mess of incoherency and a story that just wanted too much but delivered too little.The story is about the end of the Vietnam War and all of Saigon is in turmoil, and as Colonel James Braddock's Vietnamese wife makes a run for the American embassy, her purse and passport is stolen. And her apartment is bombed and a charred corpse of a servant is found inside, leaving Braddock to think that his wife is dead. 12 years later Braddock is sought out in America by a reverend who works in Vietnam, telling him that his wife and son in alive and living in poor conditions in Vietnam. Colonel Braddock returns to Vietnam to find his family.There wasn't much originality to the story, and it was very anti-climatic to experience what happened to the wife. Although it was also very predictable, to be honest.And seeing Chuck Norris lead a group of mixed American and Vietnamese children around the jungle, running from a mad Vietnamese officer hellbent on killing every last one of them, was just a bit too trivial and wore thin quite fast.Part one of the Missing in Action movies was adequate, and part two was actually good, but part three is a losing battle that Braddock should never have been involved in. It is a less than mediocre movie on all accounts. "},{"Title":"Braddock Missing in Action","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" Chuck is back and he's wearing his bandanna!. This time he's found out (conveniently by some creepy reverend who just happens to be in the US from Nam for what seems like five minutes) that his wife is still alive and well (sorta) back in Nam. Old Chuck thought she had died during the fall of Saigon. To make matters worse she has had his child! omg!! now Chuck is seriously annoyed and you better bet your ass he's gonna KILL EVERYONE!!.So as you might expect this film plays out pretty much like the original and sees Chuck going back into the jungles of Nam to kick ass. Of course, as you might expect, this being the third film its bigger, louder, a bit more impressive with stunts and explosions and ever so slightly more bloody...but not much, oh and Chuck still won't swear. To add spice to this adventure old Chuck most endure the sight of his wife getting executed by the evil Vietnamese General not too soon after his initial rescue attempt. Holy wonton soup General! now you've REALLY done it! Chuck's gonna bite your nuts off whilst using polite profanity.Its probably the best of the trilogy for me because its just that bit grander yet still maintains those glorious 80's visuals and vibes that really set the stage for a retro offensive. Chuck is the epitome of the one man army, he parachutes into Nam with his own personal speed boat loaded with gear, treks through the jungle unaided and taking no malaria tablets, finds the enemy base, crashes it, saves his wife and child and then promptly gets caught. But fear not! Chuck escapes after some mild torture, gets his MASSIVE assault rifle, heads back to the enemy base, saves a whole tonne of other kids recently imprisoned and coolly dispatched all the bad guys in a super-duper array of slow motion bullet hits and explosions.Its a serious film but at the same time its also a cheesy action flick. I could mention many things such as the fact none of the kids get injured at all during the main escape despite bullets, shrapnel and debris raining down on them constantly, but I won't. Of course, as you may expect, this being a Chuck flick there must be some douche bag US officials trying to stop his mission for political reasons so he can come across all rebellious and righteous. Well that box is totally checked.In short (yes I know this hasn't been short) the film is great fun in a tame Rambo type of way...but I'm sure you all expected that. Its Chuck at his best killing the bad guys, being heroic and morally right in every way...hell its like watching 'Mary Poppins' with an assault rifle. Much more visually impressive and exciting than the first film, not as serious and bleak as the second. It starts off seriously but soon descends into that familiar hokey action packed scenario where Chuck goes around snapping necks without breaking sweat. God Bless the Stars n Stripes emblazoned across Chuck's chest.8/10 "},{"Title":"Probably the best Missing In Action entry, for whatever that's worth","Date":"27 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" By combining the topical bent that remained a constant thread throughout the Missing In Action series with increased firepower and nearly unceasing action, this final segment of the trilogy may very well be the strongest of the bunch.The story deviates slightly from the POW focus found in the first two Missing In Action entries, and Braddock's impetus this time is his learning that the wife he thought was dead and the son he didn't know he had are sequestered within hostile territory in Vietnam. After being dismissed by interloping and incompetent CIA brass, Chuck designates himself a one-man infiltration squad and returns to the war-torn land to bring his family home.The nefarious General Quoc proves to be Braddock's most sadistic nemesis yet, and when our oft-abused hero's wife is murdered, his mission turns into a quest for vengeance. Captured by Quoc, Braddock and his son are subjected to a particularly harrowing bit of combined torture before escaping the enemy stockade, soon after which Chuck's son is caught yet again, thus setting the stage for Braddock's return to free his boy and launch the explosive bloodbath implied by the MIA moniker.Though ample time is spent developing the story, this installment of the franchise packs more action into the proceedings than either of the two films before it. The body count is likewise elevated, and Chuck spends a good chunk of the movie mowing down anyone wearing a Vietnamese military uniform with a variety of weapons. By far the coolest of the lot is a tri-barrelled assault rife that houses a machine gun, a revolving grenade launcher, and a nasty-looking bayonet, all used to great effect in a scene which features a would-be rapist being knifed in the chest and having an explosive canister burrowed into his guts. MIA3 is easily the goriest of the series, and the squib-happy special effects team seems to relish the opportunity to make every bullet hit explode toward the camera.As you'd expect, there's also plenty of the requisite silliness that goes hand in hand with the like-minded genre films of the era. My favorite turn of events revolves around a group of orphaned Amer-Asian children Norris rescues, who, in the brief span of time they're in Braddock's presence, get imprisoned in a military installation, see dozens of their countrymen being violently slaughtered, are repeatedly shot at with machine guns, become involved in a precarious truck chase with missiles from a pursuing helicopter detonating all around them, and are forced to march miles through the Vietnamese jungles without food or water before Chuck finally loads the lot of them into a airplane... which he promptly crash lands.Despite some of the goofier moments (Chuck I don't step on toes... I step on necks), MIA3 carries a fairly serious tone throughout, and much as the previous films drove home the real-world plight of American soldiers abandoned by their country during the conflict in Vietnam, Braddock sheds a little light on the civilian casualties of that dreadful war. The opening sequence in particular, set during the chaos amidst the fall of Saigon, features powerful images that wouldn't be out of place in one of the Oscar-ready portrayals of the Vietnam War fallout released during this same period. It certainly helps that the production values here are the highest of the series, and in that respect Braddock has aged better than its two predecessors (although the two cloying Journey copycat tunes that bookend the film definitely have not).General Quoc's final come-uppance isn't quite as impactive as it could be, but the film's closing moments provide a fitting conclusion to the story, and the series. General Braddock has ostensibly retired (I'm guessing that if Chuck had any interest in doing a Missing In Action 4, it would have happened by now), but the character's fairly short-lived screen presence proved to be a consistently entertaining sector of the '80s B-action canon. Even if Chuck Norris hadn't done roughly 400 other low-budget action movies like Braddock Missing In Action III, I'd like to think that his legacy would be secured by the not-unsubstantial merits of this outing alone. "},{"Title":"the best and one of chucks best.","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" i'll make this short. Braddocks back in Nam to save his family and to rescue the children. along the way he dishes out a few beat downs and blows some stuff up. this is the best in the series because it has a lot of action (the other 2 were a bit light on the action) and plenty of mindless, graphic violence. this film is cheesy and not going to win awards but its fun to watch and fans of chuck Norris will love it. my only real complaint is that the song that comes on at the beginning and end is really bad, i mean terrible. in a way this adds to the b movie fun of the film. i wish action films were still like this instead of the special effects overloaded junk we got nowadays. any way, fans of 80's action should definitely pick this up along with the other 2. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Lively, action-packed Vietnam sequel","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" The final part of Chuck Norris' no-brainer Vietnam trilogy is a loud, explosive and action-packed adventure yarn to be embraced by genre fans. Yes, the usual accusations of racism, lack of characterisation and plot and gratuitous violence remain (and, in some cases, are true) this film yet those looking for mindless action and stuntwork will be well served by the fast pacing and thrill-a-minute nature of this movie. Action highlights include Chuck's sweaty escape from a Vietnamese prison; a chase between a truck and a helicopter firing rockets; and the scene in which Norris wades into the jungle prison camp and takes out the entire guard with the use of his hand-held gatling gun - great stuff.Norris remains the muscular hero despite having visibly aged by this stage in his career and he handles the action with athleticism and skill. The supporting Vietnamese cast play clichéd characters and are fairly unappealing. The plot is light and predictable, enlivened by electric shock torture and a wonderful climax in which Norris is half-blown up by shrapnel and still manages to fight the bad guys off as he nears the bridge which borders Thailand. Yes, it might be silly and unrealistic but the combination of colourful explosions, martial arts combat, heavy firepower and endless bad guys lining up to be killed make this entertainment at its most basic. Directed by Aaron Norris, Chuck's brother who shrugs off accusations of nepotism by proving himself to be capable behind the camera. "},{"Title":"The best of the Braddock movies.","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" Braddock is back once again in this triumphant end to the trilogy. This time around, Braddock (Chuck, of course) is just trying to live life one day at a time after the end of the war. He's informed by a kindly priest, Rev. Polanski (Efroni) that his wife Lin (Kim), who is Vietnamese, is still alive there. After all these years, he thought she was dead. So he travels back to 'Nam to reunite with her. He also finally sees his 12 year old son Van (Harrah). Ruining the emotional moment, there's yet another sadistic Vietnamese General, Gen. Quoc (Aleong). He hates Braddock - and also children - so Braddock has to not just get out of the country, but bring an entire orphanage along with him! Can Braddock do it? To us, this third and final installment in the Braddock trilogy is clearly the best. It's funnier, looser, weirder, and has a different vibe from the previous two films. Possibly due to the fact that it was made three years after the second movie and this time it's directed by Aaron Norris. Because it, honestly, didn't really have to be made, it has kind of an Eh, screw it kind of vibe and they just threw everything at the wall to see what sticks. Luckily, this approach is totally winning.Everything, perhaps in spite of itself, seems to work here Braddock showing his sensitive side, the especially dark Prerequisite Torture, the fact that Braddock's son calls him Braddock, the fact that Gen. Quoc is constantly screaming Braddock!!!!!, the Patton (1970)-like musical stings, Braddock's awesomely awesome Supergun, and many more excellent moments. All three movies had quality explosions, and this one doesn't disappoint in the blow-ups department either. Matching that are some top-notch neck snaps as well. The whole movie is loaded with that classic 80's violence/silliness/patriotism mix that's the hallmark of the Golden Age of video-store action movies of the day. It's incredibly addictive once you get into them (and since you're reading this site, we assume you also have got the bug, and we thank you).Besides all the on screen action, some of the dialogue is priceless too. Most outstanding, of course, is the super-quotable I don't step on toes...I step on necks line, which Braddock actually lives up to later in the movie. The music by Ron Bloom and Lenny McDonald adds a lot, and their Bruce Springsteen-meets-Warren Zevon songs add another layer of icing for the wedding cake of radness that is Braddock. Also adding to the list of Braddock firsts, this is the first of the three to be released on the Media label. You have to buy this movie on VHS for one very simple reason there is an amazing commercial on the tape for Braddock merchandise. You can get Braddock hats, T-shirts and sweatshirts. This commercial alone makes the tape worth buying.We love this movie for some very personal reasons. It's the first Braddock movie we all saw, and we rented it from our local video store back in the 90's. As a group of friends, we watched the movie, and two things of note happened we misheard the song lyrics in the beginning, and we imagined the ultra-gruff vocalist sang In the streets of Saigon, when my ass was king. So we continue to quote that (plus you can't deny it's true in Chuck's case - we just thought the singer was being a bit on the nose) to this day. And, somehow, another song was crafted. Sung to the tune of Don't Cry For Me Argentina came Don't cry for me Col. Braddock, I know that you're missing in action. (Thanks Ant). So clearly we have a strong personal connection to this fine film that you might not have. But that's the genius of Braddock. He inspires creativity. There may be a heavy metal CD in the works that's a concept album all about Braddock. It truly never ends.Nevertheless, this, the best of the Braddock movies, represents a fine end to the trilogy. It's highly rare that sequels get BETTER as they go along, yet the Braddock movies get absolutely no credit for bucking that trend. It might be the only trilogy in movie history to improve as it goes along, but do you ever hear anyone say that? No, of course not. So take a trip to the Philippines and watch Braddock work his magic, one more time. "},{"Title":"Same actor, same name, different guy","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" No point watching Missing In Action movies back to back. First two come in wrong order and last one has very little to do with first two. Similarities are Missing In Action in name, Chuck Norris, character name and movies happen in Vietnam. Whoever wrote this haven't seen first two movies.First we are hit fit fact that this is not sequel to earlier movies. Then we are hit with fact that that whoever wrote script takes pretty unbelievable way to start main story after introduction. Then Chuck hits and kicks bad guys in cool action scenes. Sound like brainless action piece. Until we get drama part and from that we get to series of boring action scenes with Chuck Norris not feeling like acting. During drama you wait action and during action you wait movie to end.Two points because there is one I didn't see that coming and couple nice action scenes at the beginning. Other than that there is not much to see. "},{"Title":"Braddock!, Braddock!","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" I don't step on toes littlejohn. I step on necks. Chuck Norris is at it again as Col. James Braddock heading into enemy territory; Communist Vietnam to rescue to his once-thought dead Vietnamese wife and his unknown son. The third entry of the series is an agreeable slice of rough and tumble action escapism (though maybe the lesser of the three), which is just as cheaply produced but for most part very well mounted. There was probably has a little more story hanging off it than say its first sequel; The Beginning. But it feels like its rehashing ideas from the first two, while adding its own angle involving American / Asian orphans. Nonetheless it's just as thick with its overwrought propaganda push and b-grade dialogues with the quick-lipped one-liners. Director Aaron Norris conventionally lays it out. Keeping a brisk pace, even with some blotchy action it's surprisingly lean, sweaty and fist-pumping. I wasn't expecting it to be as sadistic as it was, as I remembered seeing bits and pieces of it thinking it was rather toned down compared to the other films in the series. But it's just as raw and brutal. The performances fall on the static side. Chuck Norris gives a weathered acting performance, but still effectively breaks out those lethal head hugs and neck snapping. After showing glimpses throughout, he finally lets loose in the dying stages by breaking out the big guns. Aki Aleong is vivid, but gets a bit over-the-top as the merciless Vietnamese General who'll do anything to see Braddock admit to the crimes towards his country. Also you got the likes of Jack Rader, Floyd Levine and a tiny show-in by Keith David. "},{"Title":"Another Norris Retread","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" Chuck Norris made a third film in the missing in action series with each film even more preposterous than the previous one. Here, as Braddock, he returns to Vietnam yet again to search for a wife and son he didn't know were alive. Norris encounters another evil general, as he did in the previous film, who also has a penchant for torture. By the film's end, Norris saves an entire orphanage of Amerasian kids from the general and his cronies. The first half hour of the film is filled with a lot of unnecessary exposition before things get going. The middle third of the film is probably the best and most enjoyable because it's more realistic and tension-filled than the last third. The last half hour once again reduces all tension and action to a comic book level with Norris turning into a one man army yet again; he fires weapons, snaps necks, and uses enough kicks to run a martial arts class. Unlike previous films of his, Norris only yields one great line of dialog. Remember, he doesn't step on toes; he steps on necks. It's probably slightly below average for a Chuck Norris film. *1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Good Action, Imperfect Drama","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" After I saw this movie. I accepted that this is an OK movie. Great action scene which can guarantee by Chuck Norris. However, drama in this movie is still too little. For my comment to actors, Aki Aleong's General Quoc was another heinous villain in my feeling. I believe many watcher want him to die quickly due to his cruel act (even Braddock or Van). Chuck Norris still show his character, less talk, more fight but his John Braddock's role should had more feeling with his son. Even Roland Harrah III did his good job as Van Tan Chang, but the plot made Van show his love to his dad in a very short time (probably last 10 minutes which ran so quickly). The plot should made the father and son talking more. Please remember, both of them didn't face each other for 12 years!!! In my opinion, this movie has a good action but imperfect drama. This movie has similar plot to the first Missing in Action, except the people who receive help by Braddock was now the American orphan children. (also Braddock's unexpected family as well) Althrough, the movie use many cruel scenes to shake watcher's conscience and make sympathy to good guys in the movie. I accepted that General Quoc's death in this movie was the same as many Cannon Film's movie which the main villain usually dead in easily way, make me unsatisfied with it. (due to I hate the character that show ruthlessness to women or children) However, without bias or some own feeling, I can admit this movie. "}{"Title":"I don't step on toes, I step on necks.","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" Chuck finds out the Vietnamese wife he thought was dead has been alive all these years and has a 12 year-old son that is half-Chuck. So Chuck does what he does best and goes back into 'Nam to rescue his wife and son. What the hell, while he's at it, might as well rescue a bunch of other Amerasian orphans as well.Least of the MIA series but still watchable for Chuck fans. The action is solid old school Cannon stuff. I'm a fan but not everybody is. I doubt you're watching this by choice unless you are a fan, though. As with the other MIA films, and I suppose Chuck movies in general, this one generates a lot of hate for reasons that have little or nothing to do with the quality of the movie itself. Directorial debut of Aaron Norris. Look for Keith David in a cameo near the beginning. "},{"Title":"At least it's better than part 2","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" I wonder if the part 2 was successful , that they decided to make part 3 ? It's hard to believe , since it was such bad movie. On the other hand when you look at some of the movies that were successful at box office , you may wonder where this world is going.Missing in action 3 is more in the style of the first movie (which was the second actually).It's more like action movie instead of prison drama. It's cheesy as hell , but at least I did got some cheap laughs out of it .You gotta love the torture scene . I was all in tears from laughing . I don't remember when was the last time I've laughed so hard. If you look at this scene you will understand why all those jokes about Chuck Norris were invented.It's better than part 2 , but weaker than part 1 . Not that the whole franchise was worth making one movie , much less a trilogy . If you're in the mood for some laughing at the stupidity and kitsch this one is for you . If you're looking for good action movie , better watch for example Rambo 2. I give MIA 3 2/10. "},{"Title":"Best of the Missing in Action Series","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" This is the third installment of the Missing in Action series, and it doesn't disappoint.Chuck, uh, I mean Braddock goes to extricate his wife and his son that he thought were dead in Viet Nam.Golan Globus Production was like the Asylum Pictures of today, making spoofs of other hit A List movies. This movie that started out as Rambo mimic grew into its own franchise that has personality all its own. Also Golan-Globus' quality started to go up around the mid '80s, and in its wake, this turned out to be a high quality action movie.Chuck Norris never looked better as Col. Braddock, and his actions ranks up there with other A list movies. He could have done more wholesale destruction, but he did enough.There's some inequity in this movie that the Vietnamese really didn't deserve to be killed the way they did, since asides from being A holes, they were only doing their job within their own country. But we all want to see justice served Chuck Norris style.Clean to the very end, this is one gem of Chuck Norris film. "},{"Title":"A proud return to form","Date":"7 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" After the decidedly mundane sequel to the original film, this Chuck Norris outing served to re-stabilize the balance so to speak, albeit whilst seemingly contradicting the events of the previous entry. The story here concerns our unflappable all American hero, Colonel James Braddock who returns to Vietnam yet again (damn, they must be sick of him by now!) this time to rescue his wife who he previously believed to have been killed way back during the fall of Saigon. As it happens, Braddock is also somewhat surprised to find that he is additionally a father(!) But of course, matters seldom flow smoothly in these flicks and sure enough, barely have our long parted family been reunited before the Vietnamese army sour the occasion. Fear not, for not to let a pesky mere army put a damper on his plans, our man Braddock is soon running around with a handy arsenal and saving a whole mission full of children as he attempts to get them across the border into Thailand.OK, so this is far fetched beyond belief as were its predecessors in fact, but if you can manage to suspend your disbelief and go with the flow, you will likely thoroughly enjoy this feel good action acting. "},{"Title":"Really good!! (not if you are a leftwing)","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":"  I liked it. It's even better than the first ones. As with the other movies..if you hate USA and were against the vietnam war, you hate this movie.Andrew Barsby, is it shameful that the movie shows a NVA officer preparing to rape a little girl ?  Shameful to you because you don't know or don't want to know that raping was common among North Vietnamese after the fall of Saigon (not to mention all other parts of south vietnam the fell to the north)The sound and picture quality is okey. "},{"Title":"so sincere that it hurts","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" It's 1975 the fall of Saigon. Colonel James Braddock (Chuck Norris) is one of the last at the embassy. His apartment gets hit and he mistakenly assumes his wife Lin is killed. Lin arrives after her papers get stolen. Chaos ensues. Braddock gets shot and Lin is left behind. It's the present day and Rev. Polanski arrives from Vietnam with news that his wife is alive with his son. Little John from the CIA denies the story at first which only confirms it for Braddock. He goes to Bangkok but Little John tries to stop him. He manages to escape and Mik flies him away. He parachutes into Vietnam and finds an orphanage filled with American-Asian children left behind after the war. He tries to escape with his family but they are captured by Gen. Quoc.The problem is that Chuck Norris is always so sincere which doesn't fit the ridiculousness of the story. He never quite got the Rambo feel and his movies are never good enough to be realistic. This exists in the neverworld between good camp and good action. It fails as both. Norris is a horrible actor and the clunky dialog doesn't help any of the actors. The movie drags when it runs out of action. For too much of the movie, it really drags. "},{"Title":"Like the previous two Missing in Action films, average & only good for a few laughs.","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" Braddock Missing in Action III starts in 1975 in Vietnam during the fall of Saigon where Colonel James Braddock (co-writer Chuck Norris) is searching for his Vietnamese wife Lin Tan Cang (Miki Kim) who works for the US embassy there, unfortunately Lin has decided to go home to pick up some stuff & on the way back to the embassy her bag is stolen with her ID in it. Unable to prove who she is Lin is abandoned, meanwhile Braddock thinks that Lin is dead after seeing a badly burned woman's body carried out of where they live. Years later & Braddock is living back in the US after the Vietnam war finishes, while having a drink Braddock is approached by Reverend Polanski (Yehuda Efroni) who claims that his wife Lin is still alive living in poverty in Vietnam & that he also has a son. The CIA won't help so Braddock decides to go in alone & rescue his wife & son but the Vietnamese authorities discover what he's doing & set out to capture & punish him for war crimes...Originally set to be directed by Joseph Zito who apparently had 'creative' & 'personal' differences with star Chuck Norris & so his brother Aaron Norris stepped up from second unit director to the main man running the show, while not particularly bad as far as second tier action films go Braddock Missing in Action III isn't particularly good either. I have now seen all three Missing in Action films & what's more I have seen them all within the past three days, that's one Missing in Action film a day. I need a lie down just thinking about it. Now lets talk continuity, what's the point of even making a Missing in Action films out of this otherwise generic one man hero action film script if your not going to even stick to the basic continuity of the series? Missing in Action 2 The Beginning (1985) starts in 1972 as Chuck Norris is captured by the enemy & he is held as a POW for ten years, that means he was in a Vitnamese prison camp in 1975 so how can he be flying around Saigon looking for his wife? That's another thing too, Braddock was never married in the previous two films so how come he is in this & to the enemy as well, Braddock has just gone down in my opinion as he has not only married a Vietnamese but he isn't the single minded, soulless superhuman killing machine with no life that the first two films painted him as. Come on guy's did none of them even bother watching the first two films? Why did Chuck Norris himself not point out the contradictions? As for the film itself Braddock this time is waging war on evil Vietnamese General's to get his wife & son back, the script also throw's in a load of orphaned children just to turn up the false sentiment even more. Again there's some fun to be had with some unintentionally funny moments, when Braddock meets his wife again for the first time she says 'I'm sorry I am not beautiful for you anymore', well Lin don't worry about it since Chuck Norris himself is hardly an oil painting. The end as Braddock tells his son that he loves him & is proud of him is baffling since they only met each other less than a day ago & have barely spoken between Norris killing Vietnamese soldiers & blowing things up.The action scenes are pretty decent actually, from a car chase to various shoot-outs to explosions to skydiving to boat, helicopter & plane stunts to some good old fashion hand to hand combat. It shot quite nicely & I would have thought the budget would have been fairly decent. The nice bright lush Philippines jungle adds to the glossy look. During filming in the Philippines a helicopter crash killed four people & injured another five, curiously while shooting Delta Force 2 The Colombian Connection (1990) another Chuck Norris action film shot in the Philippines by Cannon Films & also directed by Aaron Norris another helicopter crashed killing five people that time. Probably a bit more violent than the previous two with some gory action including exploding people & people getting shot in the head. Although competent the action never really excites, the film just plays out & while it's not terrible it's hard to get involved in the story.Shot in the Philippines it looks nice enough, there's plenty of Vietnamese buildings & equipment for Chuck Norris to blow up & plenty of evil soldiers for him to kill. The scene at the end as the US soldiers look on from the other side of the border as Norris mows down lines of Vietnamese soldiers & cheer as he does so is really quite sickening in it's message & imagery. The acting is bad, bad, bad. Chuck Norris is bad. Everyone else is bad. The acting is just bad.Braddock Missing in Action III has some half decent action scenes & some quite funny moments as Chuck Norris tries to get emotional with the son he never knew he had but overall at over 100 minutes long I wouldn't call it anything better than a mildly entertaining time waster. "},{"Title":"This is a great comedy!","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" It's been a long time since I've laughed so hard at a movie. In the last ten minutes Chuck Norris takes on a soldier kungfu style, then survives a grenade that blows up at his feet and takes on a helicopter. All the while these retarded soldiers are watching and claiming they can't cross the border... even though they do as soon as the bady is killed.Oh yeah, and what about that soldier who keeps spouting I kill you!. Man oh man.I recommend this only to people who are entertained by the it's so bad it's good genre. "},{"Title":"When are script-writers going to have more respect for movie-goers' memories?","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" After all; it was firmly established in the first two MIA movies that Braddock was captured in 1972; officially held prisoner-of-war for 18 months; and, then (for some unknown reason), finally presumed dead by Uncle Sam. Which, in turn, let NVA Col. Yin hold Braddock and several other POW's as slave labor until circa 1981.SO, THERE'S NO WAY BRADDOCK COULD HAVE BEEN PRESENT IN SAIGON DURING THE 1975 EVACUATION!Now, I concede that the plight of the Amerasian children, depicted in this film, is based on frightening fact. And, yes; the bulk of the movie was just as action-packed as the first two. That still doesn't make the prologue, and the way it was presented, any less intolerable for the continuity-minded (such as myself).Here's how the prologue _should_ have gone.Braddock returns to the U.S. in 1981. He is greeted by Agent Littlejohn of the CIA. Littlejohn tells him about Lin Cang's apparent death, six years earlier. As proof, he shows the bracelet that was found on the right arm of the otherwise-unrecognizable dead woman. Braddock confirms it's the first-anniversary present he gave his wife, shortly before the ill-fated Cambodian mission, in 1972. Cue opening credits.They (the writers) could still have had Braddock and Lin Cang reunite as depicted in the final version of the film. But, then, there could have been some explanatory flashbacks. Insert mental visual of Lin Cang spotting sticky-fingered housemaid making off with bracelet, and giving chase. Stray NVA artillery shell strikes apartment building. Housekeeper's body too deeply buried in rubble to retrieve. And, Lin Cang has no other ID for gate guards at American embassy. Return to present (circa 1988) where she tells Braddock about having to retrieve their three-year old son from her parents' house (again; to provide some continuity with biographic details given by Col. Yin in the second film).This is one trilogy I would really like to see revised, a la the 1997 STAR WARS trilogy, for the benefit of us die-hard Chuck Norris fans. Until then; I only like this film half as much as I did its two predecessors. "},{"Title":"Nobody was looking...","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" Chuck Norris returns again as Col.James Braddock in a sequel which basically contradicted the one before it, in this one he finds out his wife and child are alive and so he goes to Vietnam and rescues a bunch of Vietnam/American orphans in this tiresome sequel. MIA III was the only one that didn't make money and the only reason it was made was due to the fact that the other two made money and Cannon was on hard times. (How do you explain this, American Ninja III and so on...) In this particularly cheap production Norris basically doesn't do much and he seems utterly lost when asked to emote. Sadly this entry lacks the energy of it's predecessors and there is a twist of sentiment which basically make this one hard to swallow. Also worst of all the action sequences are shoddily staged and this easily emerges as the worst of the series.* out of 4-(Bad) "}{"Title":"Turn Your Brain Off and Enjoy","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" Braddock Missing in Action III (1988) ** (out of 4) To say this Cannon film was just a tad bit far-fetched would be like saying Chuck Norris was overlooked for a Best Actor Oscar-nomination. Col. James Braddock (Norris) learns that the wife he thought died during the fall of Saigon is actually alive and he has a 12-year-old son that he never knew about. It turns out the Vietnamese government doesn't like their people who worked for the Americans so the two are deep in enemy territory so Braddock must sneak back in and try to rescue them but he's got the sadistic Gen. Quoc (Aki Aleong) waiting for him. Many reviews will point out that the entire storyline for this third film goes against stuff that happened in the first two movies but I'm not going to put that much thought into a film like this. This is Cannon we're talking about after all and like most of their films this one here is high on action and short on brains. Overall I thought this was a decent little action picture but I can't help but think it would have been much better had the original director (Joseph Zito) not walked from the production. Aaron Norris makes his directorial debut here and to say it's a bad one would be an understatement. He's clearly in over his head and the perfect example of this are the first few scenes in the film. The opening takes place as we see what happens to the wife yet this scene just drags on and on to the point where you get bored with everything taking place. This sequence should have happened at a much quicker pace. The next sequence has Braddock learning the secret of his wife and son, being warned not to go by the CIA and the next thing we know he's in Vietnam and all of this happens in the matter of minutes. The CIA even manages to follow him even though you have to wonder why they waited for him to get there. I mean, why not just stop him at the U.S. airport if they knew when he was going? Norris, the director, just can't handled most of the scenes and the editing isn't much better as thing really come across cheap and ugly at times. With all that said, most people are going to be coming to this thing for action and it at least delivers that. I love those silly explosions and gunfights that you find in a Cannon picture and there are plenty of them here. Bodies are constantly being shot up and the explosions are all of good quality. The eye candy is never short but then they have to ruin things by trying to be dramatic with the relationship between Norris and his son. All of this just comes off extremely silly and it doesn't help that Roland Harrah III just can't act and his scenes of being mad at his father are laughable. Norris isn't much better but at least he knows how to throw a punch and break necks. "},{"Title":"Arthritis and Asian Politics.","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":"  What is it about Chuck Norris and his films that see us forgive his celluloid transgressions over and over again ?How many flatly delivered lines, creaky high kicks and black & white villains do we have to see before we say; No Mas Senor Norris ?He has the emotional range of a corpse; indeed, in this little movie, Chuck shows the same range of emotions upon meeting his long lost son as he does when being electrocuted and yet still I forgive him 'Cause he's Chuck.His martial arts skills seem to have deserted him too, you can practically hear his arthritic joints creaking when he attempts the most basic of Karate kicks. His style looks so basic when compared to today's flashier practitioners such as Jackie Chan and Jet Li.Despite being obviously a VERY hard man, in ALL his films, he always looks and comes across as the most effeminate hero figure you can imagine, with his YMCA moustache and high pitched voice.With this particular film, the single thing above and beyond all of the above, was the Norris brand of politics expressed through the narrative. The fact that any Vietnamese man who pulls on his country's uniform is a cold blooded child-beating, wife killing, paedophillic sadist, is just plain shameful. Even Stallone's Rambo films didn't depict Asians in quite such a hateful and stupid way.And yet, sadly, still I forgive him, 'Cause he's Chuck.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst action movies I've ever seen.","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":" It is beyond my imagination how anyone with the slightest idea what a good movie is can enjoy this.Chuck returns to Vietnam to rescue his long lost wife and son. If you want to see nonstop action (extremely bad action that is) then you might enjoy this brain dead movie. Scene after scene, Chuck continues to kill, kill, kill, and not in a good way like in the Rambo movies, or other good action movies like Die Hard.I also got to point out Chuck's acting, when he sees his 12 year old son for the first time, he has no emotion, when his wife dies, he doesn't even shed a tear! Totally zombie.Avoid at all costs! 1/10 "},{"Title":"Chuck Kills More Commies","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":"  If the first two MIA movies rip off UNCOMMON VALOR then this one starts with a rip off from THE KILLING FIELDS . In many ways it`s almost effective and you can see the pain etched on Chuck`s face as if he`s stood on a nail or something . It must have been a very sharp nail because he carries the same pained expression throughout the entire movie .As for the rest of the movie it`s just like you`d expect with the only real surprises being that the movie is half way over before Chuck kills his first commie , but don`t worry he more than makes up for it by the endBTW am I alone in thinking that logically MIA 2 ( The least worst in the series ) should have been released first , this one released second and the original MIA released last ?  "},{"Title":"Chuck Norris... need I say more?","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":"  This movie is the absolute bottom of the barrel, an irresponsible vanity project that is a complete and utter waste of your time.I have no idea how Norris managed to get funding for this piece of drivel, and even less about how he managed to persuade people to let his brother direct it.To say that this film is unrealistic is to be entirely too kind.  In one pivotal scene, where Norris is busy freeing the children of American POWs in Vietnam, he is spotted by the guards in the prison.Most people would end up dead, but not Norris.  He manages to evade all enemy fire by standing in one place, firing his improbable machine gun, and sweating dramatically in several close-up shots.  Despite the fact that he is standing on open ground, and not moving, all the automatic fire directed at him somehow misses him and the children entirely.Another dramatic moment has Norris sneaking into a compound, and knocking out a guard by apparently kicking him in the leg.Finally, I point to an important rule in movie-going  The quality of a film is inversely proportional to the number of helicopters which explode in it.  A good film, such as the Matrix or Apocalypse Now, cab get away with one.This film had seven... within a span of half an hour.Avoid it at all costs. "},{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":"  Chuck Norris returns as Col. James Braddock the one man army who returns to Nam to find his long lost family in this mindless sequel that stands out little from the crowd of bodycount actioners of the 80's except for the fact that it's really bad. Terrible actionscenes and lame acting sink this sequel. "},{"Title":"The worst of the series.","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":"  The first two films were good in a brainless, sit-back-and-watch kind of way. This film isn't, it's simply an excuse to make another movie dealing with blowing up stuff. Chuck Norris is still cool, but he can't possibly sustain this film after he's done the routine so many times before. The plot concerns Braddock going back for his wife when he finds out she's still alive. He also finds his son. One good thing I can say about this series, they're good for sitting back and watching on Saturday afternoons. But beyond that, not much else. "},{"Title":"The final chapter of plotless 'MIA'","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":"  Chuck Norris returns to Vietnam to rescue his wife (presumed dead and son (he didn't know he had).  He also picks up thousands of Amer-Asian kids held captive as well and kills those who gets in his way.  Norris co-scripted and his brother served as director in this weak sequel that's only a slight improvement over 'MIA2', but nothing more.  My evaluation *1/2 out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Chuck Norris really annoys us in this same film fascinating step.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":"  Chuck Norris returns in Vietnam in search of his wife, whom he considered dead, and of his son. In front of the camera of his brother, Chuck Norris defends dearly his champion's reputation of karate. It is however difficult to take interest in a history so distressing, which aligns all the commonplaces of the kind. "},{"Title":"The Missing in Action that should not have been made","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":"  I went to this movie with my friend Randy, and we could not believe how bad this film was.  I like the first 2 Missing in Actions, but this one is awful.  Yuk, well the only good part is when it ended. I did not even rent this one to see I missed on anything.  This one will gather dust on the video shelf at Block Busters, if they even have it. "}{"Title":"The original was really the best","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsThe final part of the messily sequenced MIA films,with the sequel inadvertently being the original and the first film following on,is the biggest disappointment out the lot of them.Chuck's collaborations with brother Aaron are of mixed fate.They have made great films together,such as Sidekicks and Delta Force 2,but have also made complete crap like The Hitman,Hellbound and now this sorry junk.And sorry is the word for it.A pointless,poorly acted,poorly plotted ,unexciting,meandering,brain-dead waste of time that will have your bum aching after just half an hour.Dire.* "}]