[{"Title":"Theoretically, Flawless in its Design","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"102 out of 164 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cocktail is a lot of things. It's a classic love story about finding the right rich chick. It's a sorted tale about an aging down on his luck bartender who finds a reason to live. And it's also a feel good film. It teaches you how to respect the desire. Be careful around Elisabeth Shue. And pretty soon, days get shorter and shorter, nights longer and longer, before you know it, life is just one long night with a few comatose daylight hours. And in the end, no matter how shitty you are to people, they will always forgive you. Bryan Browns masterpiece and Cruise is electric. It's another one of those movies you could watch over and over. And in a little while, your want to watch it again. If anyone hasn't seen this movie and doesn't plan on it, than they are just retarded. Do yourself a favor, run down to the store and buy it. You'll thank me. "},{"Title":"A wonderful story and a fantastic film","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"37 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As far as entertaining storytelling goes, Cocktail is an almost perfect film. Here is an example of compelling dialogue, magnificent urban cinematography, superb acting, and thoughtful editing combining to present us with a very lucid portrayal of one man's coming to terms with the reality of dreams and ambitions in our world.Cocktail is ultimately the story of Bryan Flanagan's (Tom Cruise) reaction as he doggedly pursues his ambition of getting rich, only to learn that his dream was never really worth pursuing. A new arrival in New York City, the greatest concentration of wealth in the world, young Flanagan immediately seeks to establish himself in the business world. Without an education or practical experience, however, he suffers one humiliation after another while job-seeking. Eventually he realizes that the business world demands an education, so he enrolls in college and settles for a job as a bartender to pay the bills. But then something extraordinary happens he discovers that he actually enjoys bartending more than he enjoys college, and that he is challenged more by the mentorship of bartender Doug Coughlin (Bryan Brown) than he is by the tutelage of his bitter, sadistic college professors. Together, Coughlin and Flanagan develop the bartending equivalent of a synchronized swimming routine that delivers them both the recognition and money (in tips) they crave.At this point, Cocktail could easily have degraded into one long, hedonistic party, since the bartending action is certainly entertaining. But instead, a falling out between Flanagan and Coughlin suddenly shifts both the tone and the location of the film as Flanagan moves to the Caribbean to save money for starting his own business.In Jamaica he meets Jordan (Elizabeth Shue), a lovely, down-to-earth artist, and for the first time in the film Flanagan truly falls in love with a woman he takes to bed, and he seems genuinely surprised to realize that love has been a more worthy goal than sex all along. With the re-introduction of Coughlin's bad influence, however, Flanagan ignores what he has learned about love and pursues a wealthy benefactor, Bonnie (Lisa Banes), breaking Jordan's heart in the process.Returning to New York City with Bonnie, which should have been the break he has been waiting for, Flanagan instead suffers yet more humiliation in the power game and finally comes to realize that he'd already achieved the success that makes life worth living when he was with Jordan. So he burns his bridges with Bonnie, and the remainder of the film focuses on his new ambition, to win back the trust of the woman he loves.This is a great story, one that requires the viewer to really challenge Americans' preoccupation with money and power. Yet the beauty of Cocktail is the smooth, realistic way in which this story is presented. For example, few filmmakers today would risk losing the audience's attention by focusing at length on Jordan's silent reaction to Flanagan's betrayal, yet these few silent moments on a darkened beach say more than any amount of dialogue ever could--but only if you're listening!Cocktail is a wonderful story of love, ambition, opportunity, humiliation, frustration, sacrifice, the absurdity of business and academia, and the definitions of success and failure, sprinkled with real-world humor that is noticeably different--and funnier--than mere comedy. It is also an exciting and fun film to watch, a feel-good movie of the highest caliber. I take my hat off to everyone who worked on this fine film.  "},{"Title":"The Best!","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Essentially, `Cocktail' is nothing more than your average &#145;popcorn flick'.  However, it is a darn good one.  What was surprisingly nice about this film was that it actually had a mature amount of depth to it.  It is also overflowing with big-name stars such as Tom Cruise (Risky Business), Elizabeth Shue (Adventures in Babysitting), and Bryan Brown (The Thorn Birds).  But, the supporting characters happen to be so fascinating that at times it's hard to focus on anything else.  In addition to this, the film has glorious cinematography- especially the scenes set in the tropics.  Another thing `Cocktail' has going for it is its soundtrack great 80s music!!  At its heart, `Cocktail' is nothing more than the same romantic fluff you have seen hundreds of times before- but it is presented in such a nice package that who really cares? "},{"Title":"He poured, he reigned; at the box office at least.","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tom Cruise stars as Brian Flanagan, who is fresh out the army and finding that landing an executive job in the big city isn't as easy as he thought. Taking on a course for a business degree, he winds up working part time at a cocktail bar under the tutelage of bar tending philosopher Doug Coughlin (Bryan Brown). A new world is about to open up for both of them.Right, I have the softest of soft spots for this movie. That doesn't mean I'm not aware of its many failings, most notably the heavy weight of predictability that pounds down on the head from the very first frame. But as simple as it may be (oh this is plot line simplicity decorated in flashy booze bottle twiddling), and the obvious cash in on Cruise's box office appeal that it was (note that his next film was the considerable shift to Rain Man), it's fun (thanks to Bryan Brown's mugging) and sweetly romantic (thanks to Elisabeth Shue being sweetly romantic). Yeah it's a hard sell I know! But Cruise charms in a way that has his haters swigging the Alabama Slammers by the dozen, and guys! Kelly Lynch pops up wearing a thong. Yeah I'm pretty shallow where Cocktail is concerned, sue me...All together now, This magic moment 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Shake It To The Left, Shake It To The Right","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" God only knows in my lifetime I've dealt with a lot of bartenders, I still do now when I go in a place and only order non-alcoholic beverage. But unless it was a topless joint where the bartenders were required to do more than pour and converse and maybe toss out an occasional drunk, I never did see one do the Hippy Hippy Shake. And here Tom Cruise does it tandem with Bryan Brown.Still Cocktail is an entertaining enough film with Tom Cruise now settled into the parts he usually plays as an all American social climber. Tom's fresh out of the army and his first stop is his uncle Ron Dean's bar in Queens. He probably could get a job with his uncle, but Tom aims for higher things.The problem Tom has in looking for a job is that old adage, what kind of work are you out of? He tries in all kinds of places, but he has no experience. An exhausted Tom arrives at an upscale bar presided over by Bryan Brown and the two of them hit it off. Brown teaches Tom all the tricks of the trade in bartending and hustling.Bartending on the Upper East Side is a whole different world than the working class of Queens. In fact right around the same time Cocktail was out the tragic murder of Jennifer Levin by preppie killer Robert Chambers was introducing via the tabloids of the world of the yuppie bars of that vicinity. It was the world of Cocktail brought to a gruesome reality.The women come and go for both Cruise and Brown. Success turns out to be ephemeral. The key scene in the film for me is that where Brown after marrying East Side princess Kelly Lynch and her father's money has backed him in opening the most posh establishment on the East Side, he confesses that he doesn't know the first thing about really running a business. Running a bar/restaurant is a lot more than pouring drinks and dispensing wisdom. Turns out Brown hasn't got that much wisdom and his realization of that leads to tragedy. It's a beautifully played scene, the best I've ever seen from Bryan Brown.Elizabeth Shue as Tom's East Side princess is very appealing, but I also like Ron Dean as Cruise's uncle who really does have a lot of wisdom and he doesn't think that he has it simply because he pours drinks.Brian Flannagan in Cocktail became one of Tom Cruise's staple roles and further endeared him as our number one superstar. Still I've yet to see a real bartender do the Hippy Hippy Shake. "},{"Title":"love this movie","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tom Cruise what a performance , I think he touched all four bases with this one,, however Bryan Brown steals the show for me,, add in Gina Gershon and Elisabeth Shue, what's not to like,, a college student trying to make money has trouble finding a job,, so he finds a bar to work at part-time while he goes to school,, their he meets an older gentleman who gives him a chance to be the bartender, he learns all the tricks of the trade and things seem to be looking up for our main character, he plans on marrying his sweetheart but he has trouble managing his relationship,, the bar, and going to school,, things start going a little south for our mentor as well, when he get's involved with a woman that he really shouldn't, this movie is well packed with some action,, some lighthearted moments, a lot of serious moments,, and tons of laughter,, this is one of tom cruise's better earlier efforts I felt,, what an enjoyable movie to watch, "},{"Title":"Cocktails & Dreams","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow, a brilliant film if indeed there was one. The best film of Tom Cruise's career for the simple fact that it has everything you expect to see in a Tom Cruise film, his mentor played by Brian Brown is excellent and the many pretty girls and exotic locations and romance make this a great film to watch 100 times in one day and keep you up beat and in the mood to drink a sex on the beach and go on a vacation.This film has a surprise twist towards the end and a truly inspiring final ending which provides every young man with a dream with hope and excitement. The perfect follow up to the previous success of Top Gun. 10/10.. and I will watch it again. Cocktails & Dreams. "},{"Title":"entertaining and energetic","Date":"18 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cocktail from 1988 is one of the films that solidified Tom Cruise's superstar status. He stars in this film with Bryan Brown, Lisa Banes, and Elizabeth Shue.Cruise plays Brian Flanagan, a young man with a lot of dreams of making big bucks. After getting out of the service, he relentlessly seeks a job in New York City, finally snagging one as a bartender in a upper east side, trendy bar, where he works alongside Doug Coughlin, his boss. Before long they're an attraction in and of themselves, throwing bottles to one another, finishing off each other's drinks, all the while dancing, turning, and gyrating.Brian goes to business school as well, but given his late nights, it's exhausting and not very fulfilling.He and Doug both have dreams of owning their own bars, and the two become great friends. However, after a huge fight, Brian goes to Jamaica and runs a bar there, making good money and falling for Jordan, a pretty waitress (Shue). Then Doug shows up, having married rich, and when a very classy, upscale woman (Banes) comes to the bar, Doug bets Brian that he can't get to first base with her. He does, and Jordan sees him do it, and drops out of the picture.Back in New York, Brian finds out living with a high-powered woman is no picnic - in fact, it's pretty humiliating -- and he runs into Jordan again.Cocktail doesn't have much of a plot, but it has two very attractive leading men, sexy Bryan Brown and, of course, Cruise, handsome even with his old nose and looking quite different than he did in The Color of Money. He's very charming,likable, and exudes a lot of youthful energy. He has some emotional moments, too, which he handles well.Cocktail is a light film aimed at a younger crowd than I was even in 1988, but anyone can enjoy its swinging New York atmosphere, lazy Jamaican sun, great soundtrack, and two wild bartenders. Underneath it all, it's about the dreams of youth and the reality of being out in the world. That's a message everyone learns pretty quickly. "},{"Title":"Mindless But Still Fun","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cocktail (1988) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Blockbuster about a young man (Tom Cruise) who dreams of having money and fame but soon his bar-tending skills lead him to Jamaica where he falls in love with a woman (Elisabeth Shue). COCKTAIL was a gigantic hit when it was released and looking back on the film you can't help but see it like so many other hits of its day. While the film remains slightly entertaining there's still no question that the story itself is downright stupid and contains some pretty idiotic moments throughout. One of the most embarrassing scenes happens towards the end of the picture between Cruise and the woman's father but I won't spoil this scene for those who haven't seen the film. A lot of the movie just seems to happen for no reason other to try and jam every type of emotion down the viewer's throat. Again, I'm not going to spoil what happens to one of the major supporting characters but this little twist just doesn't work and really goes against everything else we've seen in the film. With that said, there's no question that Cruise is in fine form here as he was really finding his own. Shue is also extremely good in her role and the two stars share some really good chemistry. The same for Bryan Brown who adds a lot of fun with his supporting role and the magic between he and Cruise certainly helps the entertainment factor. Kelly Lynch and Gina Gershon can also be seen. The film's biggest highlight is the terrific soundtrack, which has everyone from The Beach Boys to John Mellencamp. COCKTAIL is an entertaining movie but at the same time it's quite shallow and really starts to slow down towards the end. Fans of Cruise will still want to check it out even with the flaws. "},{"Title":"Typical Hollywood entertainer unsurprising, empty and enjoyable","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's been years since I saw Roger Donaldson's Cocktail for the last time. I remember it well enough to say that it was almost phenomenally standard love story/drama from the producers of Hollywood. It's actually hard to name a flick that's more basic in its own genre. Usual stuff or not, there was nothing wrong with it as long as the audience doesn't expect anything profound or ingenious. One user described Cocktail as entertaining trash. I couldn't possibly agree more. This was one of Tom Cruise's first hit movies (alongside with Top gun, The Color of the money and Rain man). It was his late 80's pretty face period. Born on the fourth of July started Cruise's career as a more serious actor and look where we are now. He played the leading part in Stanley Kubrick's final masterpiece in 1999 and the man still going strong. "}{"Title":"I watch this movie every year...","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know what it is with this movie but I watch it every years and  it just feels good! I think the movie magic happens with the incredible casting. You see and feel the emotions of every character. It's an ordinary story that is believable and that is the reflection of an era.  "},{"Title":"...but if you wanna get loaded, then why don't you just order, a shot","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow this movie really has taken a beating from the IMDb reviewers. I think the several one star marks it received, is a little harsh but OK, I'll try to highlight the good things about this movie rather than the bad. I've always been of the, if you haven't got anything good to say, don't say it, school of thought.I think some people watch movies needing them to evoke a strong emotional responses. They want to be moved, they want a journey, or at the very least they want the plot line to be extremely engaging & flawless; Godfather, Shawshank, Schindler's list etc&#x85; or those of similar ilk are classic examples. If a movie does not do that, or doesn't meet a preconceived criteria, they feel short changed. These are the I just wasted 90 minutes of my life people, the short attention span people, the people that fall asleep 10 minutes in unless there's a court jester juggling in the isle. They are not people that watch all kinds of movies all the time as their primary way of unwinding. When they watch a movie they want it to knock their socks off, pure & simple. A fair point, but Cocktail like many others, is not that kind of movie.Movies are like eating, there's something for every mood. I've been to New York & like millions of others, it's one of my favourite cities (where half of the movie is shot) & I've been to the Caribbean several times (where the other half is shot), both great locations. I love the electricity of a good bar atmosphere, having a few drinks & a wiggle, the prospect of maybe getting lucky, or at least getting drunk & having a sing song, don't we all? This movie includes all the above and more. The classic rock & roll sound track is great, Everly Brothers, Big Bopper, Little Richard, Hippy Hippy Shake etc... & there's some nice mellow reggae ones thrown in as well.For the above alone, this deserves more than 1 star. It was never meant to garner dozens of Oscar Nominations, set records or change the face of cinema, It's just good fun. We can vicariously live through Toms charming, cocky & confident Brian Flanaghan as he rises to the top of New York's upper east side bar scene & from then in the Jamaican paradise of Montego bay, lazily serving cocktails on the beach. And for the ladies there's plenty of romance.No major studios got behind this & it obviously didn't have a massive budget, so like a lot of movies around this time it suffers a bit with production values. There's a section where Cruise has obviously been called back for pickups to strengthen the interview montage at the start. He goes from Cocktail hair, to Rain Man hair, to Cocktail hair again. Same thing happens to Michael J. Fox in Secret Of My Success & that's one of my favourites. I find this comical more than anything else, it's just a period thing. I guess that's because I have a happy, sunny disposition, it's the glass is half full thing again isn't it.Plonk Tom in front of a camera & he'll never disappoint & Elizabeth Shue Is adorable, plus there's great work from the supporting cast. If you are one of the less judgemental & cynical among us, who liked the 80's, a simpler time before technology dictated our every move & who can handle the odd 6 out of 10 without getting their underwear in a twist & having to take half an hour out of their lives to write a scathing review, then go for it.This is the upper east side, the saloon capitol of the world, the big time. Are you ready for the big time Mr Flanagan?! "},{"Title":"Another excellent Tom Cruise movie and classic 80's movie","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Excellent classic 80's movie, which was the best time-frame ever. I don't normally care for Tom Cruise, but this is his better of the other movies he's already been in. I absolutely LOVE Elisabeth Shue, she's an excellent actor and the chemistry between tom cruise and her is perfect!!! Will be watching this again..;) Unfortunately, I only have streaming netflix, will be upgrading to the DVD plan and renting this one first!!!I have seen several of Tom Cruise and Elizabeth Shue movies, not together but this one they did really great in. She needs to make another movie with Tom Cruise. Excellent story about a poor guy and a rich girl, which the movie industry does NOT make enough of. I know that the industry is running low on ideas, but if they did a remake and properly respected both actor's it would be an excellent edition to the classic movie, as well. "},{"Title":"A fun colorful film.","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you enjoy Tom Cruise's work of the late 80's this movie is a must watch. If young, cocky, going to prove everyone wrong, charismatic maverick of Top Gun and The Color of Money is your cup of tea, than this is a can't miss. If for some reason you find yourself being annoyed and bothered by the young Mr. Cruise, you might want to skip this one.Cocktail is a proto-typical story of young love and self-discovery. It tells the story of a young army vet who's got confidence, charisma and dreams big. Brian Flanagan, played by Tom Cruise, starts bartending in NYC and quickly achieves fame and success. After a fall-out with his bartending mentor Doug Coughlin (Bryan Brown,) Brian finds himself bartending in Jamaica. A surprise visit from his old sensei and a flourishing romance with a young artist Jordan (Elisabeth Shue,) change the calm beat of the tropics.At its core, Cocktail is about chasing the American Dream, but finding happiness in American Reality.Tom Cruise and Bryan Brown are exceptional in this film. The interaction between the two of them is what really makes this movie worth the watch. The witty back and forth banter of this captivating and entertaining duo is top notch. Even though Cruise is the headliner of this movie and gets much of the camera time, Brown is every bit his equal if not better. This bartending duet dazzles the patrons of various taverns and clubs, with their bartending showmanship skills and clever catch-phrases.The soundtrack, which so many people like to rave about, is really hit-or-miss. Going from pretty solid, mood-fitting party tracks to 80's vanilla fluff that would have even the author of the said song wonder whether it was his work or one of a thousand similar sounding creations.This movie is fun, cool and intriguing, for a good two-thirds of the movie. The bar atmosphere of New York and the beautiful and colorful images of Jamaica are very pleasing to the eye and keep the viewer engaged. The third act, if you will, really drops off in entertainment value. It seems that the writers have either run out of steam, time or ideas.The third part of the movie is dominated by Cruise's character attempting to win back his romantic interest.Cocktail manages to overwhelm and excite as well as underachieve. Watch this movie if you enjoy or at least appreciate Cruise and Brown. "},{"Title":"A good tale of romance and conflicting ideas","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cocktail is about understanding that what everybody wants might not be what you want. If you try to make it, make it your own.The good. Interesting story with a few novel ideas. Well paced-scenario. Great behind the bar juggling. Nice acting.The actors. Tom Cruise and Bryan Brown offer us solid performances, if nothing brilliant.The bad. Some easy clichés. Lots of 80s hairdos.The ugly. Nothing.The result. It's not a stupendous movie, but it will make you think and it will make for a nice evening. "},{"Title":"Cocktail Maybe Shallow But It Never Falls Short Of Entertainment","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After the box office success of Top Gun that catapulted Tom Cruise into mega-stardom,the producers and director Roger Donaldson cast him to make a film that has themes about love and materialism.And the result is Cocktail.It tells the story of Brian Flanagan,a former member of the U.S. Army who goes home to New York hoping to make a big fortune for himself.He starts looking for a job at Wall Street but nobody hires him which makes him end up in meeting Douglas Coughlin,an owner of bar.It results in him into becoming a bartender.This started to become a father-and-son relationship with Douglas mentoring Brian about the so-called essentials of bartending and life in general.Unfortunately,it ends up in a break-up after getting involved in an unlikely love triangle involving Coral.This prompts Brian to move to Jamaica wherein he meets a vacationing artist Jordan Mooney and romance between them results.The story progresses with a conflict between them,Douglas and Brian re-uniting,Brian becoming a boy-toy of a rich woman and later having Brian realize his materialistic ways and promises to change for the better and fight for love of Jordan,who unknowingly was a daughter of a Wall Street executive.No question that the movie is definitely shallow and simplistic.It wasn't meant for the audience to become better people despite the fact that the theme of materialism was brought up and making a message that money isn't everything in life.It was basically all about Tom Cruise and bartending.It was about life of the barman and bars.No question that Tom Cruise's charm and appeal was enough to bring people into the theaters.Aside from Cruise,the film also has great soundtrack.In the end,this unforgettable 80's box office guilty pleasure hit will never fall short of entertainment.An enjoyable bad movie indeed. "},{"Title":"Beer is for breakfast.","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Brian Flanagan wants a high-paying marketing job, but needs a business degree first. Working as a bartender to pay for college, Flanagan is mentored by his veteran boss, Doug Coughlin. Together, their showy tricks and charisma command large crowds and tip payments -- until Flanagan and Coughlin have a falling out. Flanagan moves to Jamaica to raise enough money to open his own bar, where he falls in love with artist Jordan Mooney.Cocktail, aka the one where no woman is susceptible to Cruises grin, is one of the most misogynistic, sexist pieces of cinema I've ever experienced, and it's eighties sheen, right in the middle of the yuppie boom, just makes it all the more ridiculous.It's morals are everywhere, the message here is keep your dreams alive, never aim to be big, or you'll end up depressed with Kelly Lynch and end your life in your huge yacht.As much as I think Cruise is a wonderful actor, a bona-fide living legend, here, the man is face-punchingly smug, so much so, that every time he smiles in the third act, it started to make me heave.But the portrayal of women here is unbelievable, even more misogynistic than a Michael Bay movie. Gershon plays the woman who destroys their friendship, then there's the middle aged woman who makes Brian realise he needs to pursue his dream, and then Shue plays the one who makes Brian realise that he needs to get a little bit self realisation.And what is that a metaphor for? Why, the films basically telling you that women will destroy you, they will suck your soul, bleed you dry, and stop you from doing what you want to do.And if you do, you'll end up miserable, and dead, just like Doug does come the end, so take heed fellas.If you watch it again, and see how happy the two are before females came into the equation, you will understand my meaning of what I read into the films subliminal message.Come to think of it, is Doug's bar really this metaphorical closet he's been dying to get out of for years, and then young buck Brian tries to ease them both off of the denial train?I know I'm reading way to much into it, but the film is just so random, so smug and full if itself, that it really makes you wonder.But I am right in saying that the film, and person who wrote this, must hate women a lot, because they are portrayed insufferably.Isn't it ironic that so many women love this film, and love the cover of the DVD, you know, the where Cruise is propped up against an obviously closed bar, denying you lovely ladies any service.Mock tail more like. "},{"Title":"Tom Cruise's worst movie!","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I almost couldn't finish this junk. Tom cruise made a POOR choice by being involved in this, and so did Elisabeth Shue. I like both of the lead actors, but in other movies. The script was very poor and bland, the acting was less than mediocre, and the movie made like no sense! It just told this boring stupid bartenders life story, with his love interest, Elisabeth Shue. Really, there's just nothing remotely entertaining at all here! This film really just came off as a gigantic mess, and a deserved flop. Very poor young Tom Cruise. 1/10. It didn't seen like anyone even cared while shooting this lazy and tired movie, Cocktail (1988) "},{"Title":"It Leaves Wincing&#x85;","Date":"4 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Finally watched the movie as a memory of someone I knew, who had a part in a scene as an extra. I didn't even recognize them.Just awful dreck. Cruise is his usual youthful Cruisesque acting, which in a venue such a this, you'll swear you've seen before somewhere.Instead of a figher jet, it's a booze bottle, and there's not that much action either.Plot's thinner than skimmed pea soup.It's so bad that it leaves you cringing at the hideous 80's style of Cruise, with his painful effort to act as a showoff. Best leave this one to the dustbin. "},{"Title":"Void of identity","Date":"21 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cocktail is like one of those easy listening radio stations. It just works as background, it's fine as long as you don't pay too much attention. There's no real story, so if you tune out for ten minutes it doesn't matter at all. It's just scene after scene of Tom Cruise making cocktails, occasionally interrupted with a redundant love interest. It's a highly repetitive movie that goes absolutely nowhere, though Cruise's performance is a real saving grace. He carries the movie even though he has nothing to carry and makes this thing better than it deserves to be. He breathes life into his underwritten character and at least makes these scenes somewhat entertaining. It's still just a movie that devotes 90% of its running time to guys standing behind a bar taking orders, the fact that Cruise somehow makes that...palatable is already an impressive feat. Not impressive enough to recommend this though. "}{"Title":"Not My Taste","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those movies that I should like but I don't. It's a film I really wanted to like/enjoy but it did not thrill me at all. I have NOTHING bad to say about this movie - it just was not my personal taste in movies.I mean, I like Tom Cruise (he's a great actor). I like Elisabeth Shue, I like music they used for this movie, I would love to go to Jamaica and it's a nice story. Why don't I like this film? I still cannot put my finger on it. I do not hate this movie but it's not a film that I enjoyed watching. This is another movie I will have to rate in the middle of the road.5/10 "},{"Title":"That's Fifty Bucks You Owe Me!","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cocktail is one of those movies you know is bad for you... like fast food, alcohol, women... and yet somehow, you can't resist. Just a look at the poster tells you what you're getting Tommy-Boy posing under neon in front of liquor bottles... in fact, staring at the poster for fifteen minutes is the same as watching the movie. But Cocktail's value lies in its honesty its trash that knows its trash, so you can sit back and enjoy the fun, unlike many of Mr. Cruise's somber and self-important pictures that were to follow.This was the 80's, and ambition was inherent in humanity, at least according to Hollywood. You couldn't be just a bartender, or even a bartender who wanted to be a bar-owner. You had to be a bartender who wanted to own the ultimate bar in existence, full of gorgeous gals and movers and shakers and enough cash to choke a goat... a place that served cocktails AND dreams. And what would you call such a corny but profitable joint? Cocktails & Dreams, of course.And so the plot is loosely based on Cruise's attempts at realizing his financial goal and opening his dream-bar. Along the way he learns the way of the bartender from zen-mentor Bryan Brown, falls in love with earnest Elizabeth Shue, and even experiences life as a (gasp!) kept man when he hooks up with a wealthy older woman. The inevitable consequences follow, in no particular order nosebleeds, the flipping of liquor bottles, unplanned pregnancy, flunking out of school, fist-fights, suicide, improvised poetry performances, the hippie-hippie shake, betrayal, more flipping of liquor bottles and the Beach Boys' classic Kokomo.Cocktail is the cinematic equivalent of a novel so trashy, so silly, that there's something in it for everyone and no one can put it down. Too bad more film aren't this honest... I could have more fun at the movies.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Mindless Entertainment","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is basically a mindless B-movie, yet every time it is on I have to watch it from start to finish. The performances are earnest and the stars are superhot (Tom Cruise is at his hotness peak and Elisabeth Shue is a goddess). All the major B movie topics are addressed here love, money, betrayal, friendship, truth, lies, alcohol, sex and multiple gestation! The scenery is beautiful.Wow, how much more can I write about one of the most clichéd movies ever made? Oh yeah, if it's on, watch it. You won't be able to look away. You'll be quoting it with anyone old enough to remember this movie. Perfect Saturday afternoon movie watching fare. "},{"Title":"Bartender get me another drink...","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The funniest thing about this movie is the fact that movie makers believe they actually have something to say about ambition in 80's America , about rat race and love. Oh boy ! All of this in a nonsense movie that is neither a comedy , drama or romantic comedy. The plot is thinner than in most bad soap operas.The characters are shallow and inconsistent . It also doesn't help that Tom Cruise and Elisabeth Shue act rather badly here. They can give good performances , but that's not the case here. Only Bryan Brown is decent, but he doesn't have that much screen time.The soundtrack to this movie is the best thing about Cocktail . It includes songs like Kokomo (The Beach Boys) , Don't worry be happy (Bobby McFerrin) , Wild again (Starship) ,  Oh, I love you so (Preston Smith) , Tutti frutti (Little Richard) and Shelter of your love (Jimmy Cliff). There's some nice background sets in the Caribbean.This is a junk movie that thinks it's got deep message about materialism. It's fairly original , sometimes amusing and never bores , but REALLY you could spend your free time much better than on this empty and forgettable movie.I give it 2/10. "},{"Title":"Overly slick version of a Balzac classic novel","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Interesting take on Balzac's novel Papa Goriot, where Goriot is Cruise's absent father and the reluctant devil Vautrin is played by Brown. The line that Brown tries to teach Cruise is how to get into high society through the right kind of woman.The slickness, including the overwritten dialogue, gets in the way, but it sure is fun to look at. Brown is good in a scene-stealing kind of way, and you can see flashes of brilliance in Cruise's performance - occasionally. The scene where Banes tells him what kind of shirt to wear, for example. It takes about three seconds, but you can see the resignation on Cruise's face and in his voice.Gershon and Shue are underused, in my opinion, having what amounts to incidental roles. "},{"Title":"Chicks, Booze, and Jamaica","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"20 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It just don't get better than that.  This is a great movie, and while it is true that the acting wasn't exactly stellar, well,  you definitely shouldn't be watching this movie for the acting in the first place.  A classic 80s flick in my estimation, Cocktail tells the story of a bartender trying to make it big.  A great movie, featuring some big movie stars before they were big movie stars.  After I watched it, I wanted to go downstairs to my wetbar and try spinning some bottles around like Tom Cruise.  Grade A.  "},{"Title":"Hell yeah number one!","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You ever seen this movie? I seen this movie, I got it on VHS, I watch washed-out actors in washed-out colors. Cocktail is broken, not my tape mind you, the movie itself, broken- Tom Cruise don't work right, the Australian guy malfunctions, why did this movie get the greenlight, poor Elizabeth Shue she smiles her way through it bless her heart, unworkable script its about a jerk who wants to run a bar then he goes on vacation. Broken. What I want you to do now is rather than think about Cocktail, think instead of the sad universe that made Cocktail happen- Who are the shadowy forces conspiring together, aligning monies, resources, crew and actors to produce this movie? What did these shadowy forces hope to gain by unleashing something like Cocktail? To say 'for money, duh', no, the creatures that conjured this movie forth from the Darkness find no value in mere mortal coin, they set this movie loose for far more sinister reasons than to make money-BEWARE this movie sucks! "},{"Title":"A Cruise Cocktail","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After service in the US Army, handsome Tom Cruise (as Brian Flanagan) is unable to find a good job on New York City. He becomes a bad bartender, but learns quickly from mentor Bryan Brown (as Douglas Doug Coughlin). Quickly, the duo is entertaining crowds by dancing and juggling bottles of alcohol. Later, Mr. Cruise meets beautiful Elisabeth Shue (as Jordan Mooney) in Jamaica. They frolic on the beach and copulate frequently. When Cruise takes home attractive older Lisa Banes (as Bonnie) for sex on a bet, he is seen by Ms. Shue. This causes Shue discomfort, so she leaves town with three secrets...This is a ridiculous film - so slick, shallow and superficial you want to dismiss it entirely. Most laughable is the glamorization of waiting tables as a job; it's so fun, many millionaires are secretly tending to rude customers at busy eateries. You also love bartenders who juggle gin and vodka bottles in your face...But Cocktail does display Tom Cruise in all his handsomeness. He was the #1 Money Making Star for 1988 according to the industry standard poll conducted by Quigley Publications. First making the Top 10 in 1984, Cruise was a huge box office star. This film certainly finds him attractive. Importantly, he has a great male buddy and they attract hot women in teeny bikinis, like Kelly Lynch (as Kerry). Also, when Cruise punches men, they often fall into and destroy Objects d'art. That's worth something.***** Cocktail (7/29/88) Roger Donaldson ~ Tom Cruise, Elisabeth Shue, Bryan Brown, Lisa Banes "},{"Title":"Cocktails, cuties and Cruise.","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Shake, shake, shake that tail feather! The ever smiling and constant conceited Tom Cruise plays Brian Flanagan, an apt business school drop out in search of that perfect hot chick with enough money to bankroll his future life of luxury. A get rich scheme is manifested with the meeting of veteran bartender Doug Couglin(Bryan Brown), who shows the young Flanagan the ins and outs of mixing drinks while dancing and juggling rum bottles. These antics will surely attract the bar babes...bar babes with money. The swaggering duo hit the skids at a swanky disco, and Flanagan decides to head to Jamaica in search of his fame and fortune. If Cruise's monkeyshines are not enough incentive to sustain your happiness...get lost in the fabulous soundtrack that features the likes of The Beach Boys, Jimmy Cliff, John Mellencamp, The Georgia Satellites and Robert Palmer.Rated PG-17 for sexual content, drug use and strong language. The cast includes Gina Gershon, Elisabeth Shue, Kelly Lynch, Lisa Barnes and Laurence Luckinbill. "},{"Title":"ignore the rating","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cocktail is a really good movie. i don't understand who would rate it 5/10. Nowadays most films that come out get a better rating than they deserve.  The Hangover for instance, which lists among the 250 top movies. I liked the Hangover but i am not sure that it should be on a list of 250 top movies on a site that lists literally all movies.When i started using this site as a movie guide, the more i kept using it the more i wanted to check the rating of a movie before watching it or renting it. I had formed an impression that movies rated 6/10 are watchable-good and the ones from 7-10 are really good , all others should be ignored. But lets face it. We , the visitors of the site, rate the movies therefore it is logical to assume that the ratings are not very trustworthy. Of course there is a factor that makes the rating more accurate and trustworthy which is the number of votes.Anyway, regarding this film, the least i can say is that it is a decent film. Personally i really enjoyed this movie. It is about life but keeps the feel good atmosphere too. the soundtrack is perfect, the acting is respectable ,and the plot is a smooth and realistic. don't know what else to say.. just ignore the rating and go watch it. "}{"Title":"Average....","Date":"1 December 2009","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Roger Donaldson directed 1988 flick 'Cocktail' is at best an average watch. A stereotypical affair.Cruise plays a talented and ambitious bartender who aspires to working in business and finds love while working at a bar in Jamaica. Though the film was a box office Super-Hit back in the day, I really didn't love the film. 21 years ago people loved it, but someone like me, who watches 'Cocktail' now that to for the first time... won't be gung-ho about the film.Cruise is fantastic throughout. He carries the film on his shoulders, and is the prime reason why this film doesn't bore. Bryan Brown's character & performance are top-notch. Elisabeth Shue is a everlasting beauty, and 'Cocktail' proves that fact once again. As far as her performance goes, she's natural to the core.'Cocktail' is average work... watch it for Cruise, Shue & Brown's note-worthy performances. "},{"Title":"Watch it twice and you'll be watching it for life !!","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not going to lie, the first time I watched this movie, I thought its OK, nothing to write home about. Then I found myself watching the film a week later, and I thought it was awesome from that moment. I find this happens a lot, don't judge films on the first watch, watch them again and then comment! Lost In Translation and Con-Air are films which also fell into the category of being OK on first watch, but awesome from there on after.From the very start of the film when the name 'Cocktail' flashes up in pink neon, then 'Starship - Wild Again' begins to play, you have an opening scene that makes you feel good and makes you wanna keep watching.I've often had day-dreams of moving to a far away place to start a fresh career, and Brian Flannagan (Cruise) does just this. Its not an path to easy-money as Brian soons finds out,there are pitfalls at every corner, and working at a cocktail bar seemed like a daunting, last job you'd want in the world. But he seems to make the role of barman very appealing, maybe its the free and easy women that seem to flock I dunno, either way, I'd give bar-tending a go after watching this movie. Having a boss like Doug (Brian Brown), who's basically a chilled out, the kind of boss you could have a laugh with every-shift kinda guy, would also make the job that bit better.He clearly didn't set out to be a full time bar-tender,thats why he enrols at the local New York College. Myself, being a student can relate to the scene where the lecturer is talking about the 'money multiplier'. I've often been sat in lectures thinking what the hell is this guy going on about? As people all around you seem to be engaged and nodding at everything he says.When he leaves New York and heads to Jamaica, I was kind of thinking the movie would go downhill, and you do kind of miss New York, in other movies they would keep linking back to New York, but with Brian having no connections with New York (having fallen out with Doug) it would of seemed inappropriate to keep going back there.The sun, sea and money of Jamaica is very appealing but there's only one thing that makes the trip worthwhile and thats when he bumps into Jordan (Shue). What a beauty! In my view Top Gun was a great film but lacked a bombshell, no offence Kelly McGillis, but she didn't really do it for me. In Elisabeth Shue, Cocktail hit the jackpot.When he returns to New York, you get the feeling its last chance saloon time, where he really can't afford anymore slip-ups. He patched things up with Doug but you get the feeling he would would rather be independent then working for his buddy again! And after messing things up with Jordan, going with a rich, but much older women, he finds himself in limbo when that falls through.Once Doug commits suicide, there is only one option he can now pursue and thats winning back Jordan. Its a typical chick flick ending, but I still think the film rocks. The soundtrack is under-rated in my view, I love the music in Jamaica 'Shelter from Your Love' and 'Oh, I Love You So' are both great songs.To conclude, this movie is a must see for any aspiring wannabee millionaire business-men, like myself. I would also like Elisabeth Shue and a friend like Doug as well, but beggars can't be choosers.! "},{"Title":"What kind of person LOVES this movie?","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Could you be the exact same people who give THE GODFATHER a 1? Now this is undoubtedly one of the worst movies ever made. There is absolutely nothing of value here, yet a handful of reviewers loved it. Likewise, THE GODFATHER is a flawless movie, yet a handful of reviewers hated it. Is it a genetic thing? A mental thing? Is it catchy?COCKTAIL is a bad SNL skit. It stars the worst actor of his generation Tom Cruise. It is about bartenders who throw around drinks. The dialogue was written by someone who obvious had several too many of those drinks. The romances have been seen in every sitcom on every TV show. Bot meets girl, boy loses girl, girl throws food at boy, boy gets girl back. Girl's father disowns her. Boy and girl go off into the sunset. I feel nauseous just thinking about it.No, the movie is not important. What's at least interesting is that there exists people who can watch such a thing and think it's great. Actually great. I suspect such people also find lite beer to be great, Taco Bell to offer a fine meal, a Yugo a fine ride, and the sports section of the newspaper great literature. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was 9 yrs.old. I am not sure why my mother let me watch Cocktail that young. But, being a young girl I was absolutely in loved with Tom Cruise. Now that I am 20 and in college, I still watch Cocktail over and over and over again. It is my favorite movie in the whole wide world.  Maybe the acting wasn't the greatest since Tom was waiting on the Rainman script, but being a 9 yr old the movie captured my heart. I watch it now and I still put it back in the box with a smile on my face. Cocktail is a movie that has unique parts in it with the bar scenes and the poems.  The waterfall was cool, and especially the where Tom said that he would never be spooked again. I was a twin and it just touchs me when Shue said that she was having twins. It has many events that every person would want in a relationship but reality is so much different than fantasy.  It is a great movie if someone is into a night of fun, fantasy and romance.  "},{"Title":"Cocktails and dreams...","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a pretty decent flick, if you don't go into it expecting it to be something it's not. This is not high art. But it doesn't pretend to be. It's like a lot of films, where the premise is better than the story. A film about showoff bartenders in Manhattan.  OK, but then you've got to build a movie around that. Their antics are photogenic, but it takes them about four minutes to make two drinks. What Midtown alcoholics are going to put up with that?  Anyway, hey, a film with both Elizabeth Shue AND Kelly Lynch, two of the cutest actresses of the late '80's. AND, Gina Gershon. What's not to like? This was an obvious star vehicle for Tom Cruise, and he did OK here, but Bryan Brown stole the show.  "},{"Title":"Strangely appealing, despite being contrived","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"17 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Brian (Tom Cruise) is not a college graduate but heads to New York City to try and make his fortune. Although he is an aspiring business man, no firm will hire him without that big piece of paper. As he enrolls in night school, he takes a job as a bar tender. In a short while, he is one of the best bartenders in town. His girlfriend lets him down, however, and he takes a job in Jamaica. Once there, his reputation grows, as a great bartender and a supreme carouser. His world is shaken when he meets Jordan (Elizabeth Shue)....he just doesn't know it. When she goes back to New York City, he follows. Will happiness ensue? This film succeeds because of the attractions of Cruise and Shue, the lovely Jamaican scenery, and the romantic plot. Bryan Brown gives a very nice performance as the unlikeable bartender who trains Cruise. The costumes are nice, too, and the inside of Shue's New York apartment is quite intriguing as an artist's digs. If you love stories of unlikely romance and realized aspirations, this one you will like. All fans of Cruise and/or Shue, must take time to watch this film as well. "},{"Title":"Bottoms up? Maybe not","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dude, this movie was so slow and boring that I am jealous of people who liked it. I wanted to appreciate the film, but the development of the story ran so slowly that I was crazy for the end. The characters weren't likable neither humble. Also, throughout the movie we don't have what to expect from Cocktail and there was no stimulus to keep on paying attention. Of course there was some feel good scenes and Cruise's acting was respectable. Also, at least its subject is pretty original (or was in 88), but I wouldn't give myself a chance to try this another time. Or maybe that's just not my kind of movie... "},{"Title":"A Star Vehicle Movie For Tom Cruise","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cocktail is a movie for the audience to enjoy. It was not meant for deep thinking nor for someone to introspect what its theme is all about. Also,it is not meant to be a classic nor critically-acclaimed one.The story was about an ambitious man who wanted to become successful in life.I enjoyed the Tom Cruise character of Brian Flanagan.It was obviously a star vehicle for his rising career after the success he had with Top Gun.And Bryan Brown as Douglas Couglin and Elisabeth Shue as Jordan Mooney were great in their supporting roles. Obviously,the plot was empty, fabricated, predictable and clichéd but a VERY ENJOYABLE B-MOVIE.There was a lot inconsistencies in Cruise's haircut in many scenes were re-shot due to reversals in the script to make the film a box office hit.Indeed,it was it was a bad movie but VERY ENTERTAINING to watch.And of course,it remains a cultural piece of the 1980's with the elements of a guilty pleasure the movie presented,the movie's soundtrack which remains memorable at present and a younger Tom Cruise. "},{"Title":"Cocktail","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tom Cruise had managed to turn fighter pilots and poll players into sex objects, and then they decided to do the same with him and cocktail mixers and bartenders, from Razzie nominated director Roger Donaldson (Species, Dante's Peak). Basically Brian Flanagan (Razzie nominated Cruise) has left the army, and is studying a business degree at college, and gets part time work as a bartender. He realises this new job isn't easy, as his Australian boss Doug Coughlin (Bryan Brown) teaches his the art of flaring, mixing and the whole bar trade. Together they soon become famous bartenders in town, and they hope one day to open a bar together called Cocktails & Dreams, so to start this journey they decide to go to Jamaica at a resort Tiki Bar, where big money can be made. There Brian meets pretty American artist Jordan Mooney (Elisabeth Shue) on vacation staying at the island resort, and spending time together they fall in love. There is a point when Doug makes a bet with Brian to sleep with an older woman, and obviously Jordan leaves when she finds out what Brian did. There are the obvious downhill stuff, including Doug killing himself, but Brian pulls through, gets Jordan back, and in the end opens the dream bar. Also starring Lisa Banes as Bonnie, Laurence Luckinbill as Mr. Mooney, Kelly Lynch as Kerry Coughlin, Gina Gershon as Coral, Ron Dean as Uncle Pat, Robert Donley as Eddie, Ellen Foley as Eleanor and Andrea Morse as Dulcy. Cruise is a bit of a pillock throughout, the cocktail mixing, or flaring (like Britain's Got Talent performers Bar Wizards) are alright, but it is all the stuff that happens besides this that is not all that interesting. It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Song for Kokomo, and it won the Razzies for Worst Picture and Worst Screenplay. Tom Cruise was number 32 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 25 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and he was number 81 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Quick Studio Project for Tom Cruise.","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  By 1988 audiences would flock to the box office to see Tom Cruise in anything and Cocktail is a prime example of a film that used a big name star to bring in some quick revenue for its studio. The film is a pure formula flick with a somewhat unexplored setting. Cruise is a talented bartender that flips bottles and romances women in New York City. He decides to go to Jamaica with bartender friend, also bad influence, Bryan Brown. There he falls in love with Elisabeth Shue, but Cruise's love of women with large bank accounts leads him to trouble. Brown has been the catalyst to Cruise's twisted views about relationships as he has done his best to pick a woman who has an ungodly amount of cash. Cocktail is one of those terrible films that somehow stays interesting. The reason is Tom Cruise as he keeps the whole project watchable, but little else. Shue is also good here, but is somewhat wasted in this film. Fair in the end. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "}{"Title":"Talented cast saves it from complete ruin.","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The late 80s were a terrible time for movies, and the fact that cocktail was so successful only amplifies that point. This film has perhaps the most flimsy plot of any I have ever seen. I guy who never went to college and can't get a job on Wall Street decides to make his fortune as a trendy bartender in Jamaica. Did I leave anything out? Oh yeah, he also gets a girl pregnant, too. You have to hand it to Tom Cruise. A film this bad would have killed the careers of many a young actor. He somehow has enough charisma to make me care enough about his character that I always watch at least 15 minutes of this film whenever it happens to be on. Cruise came back strong the following year with his portrayal of Ron Kovic in Born of the Fourth of July. I think that performance (which saved another poor film) shut up a lot of Cruise's critics and told the world he really was a serious actor.The rest of the cast are also very appealing. Bryan Brown (a poor man's Michael Caine) is perfect as Cruise's tragic mentor who teaches him how to throw bottles of booze through the air while flirting with hot women. There are plenty of hot women around every turn, too. Kelly Lynch and Gina Gershon, who are two incredibly gorgeous women, are woefully underused in the film. Elisabeth Shue is too cute for words, and it's difficult to keep in mind she was the same girl from The Karate Kid. The film is in fact terrible. The cast somehow makes it work, though. This is a hell of a lot more compelling film than Coyote Ugly, at least.One last thought How in the hell could these two guys serve a whole bar full of people while taking an extra few minutes to throw around all of those bottles for each drink they made? I'd think the novelty would wear itself out pretty quickly as the lines at the bar got longer and longer. `Would you hurry up with that f**king drink, pretty boy!' people would begin to yell. I'll give it 5 of 10 starsSo sayeth the Hound.  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie really is one of the greatest. One which i can play over and over and never get sick of it. Its up there with Grease, Ghost, dirty dancing, days of thunder and the rest. It never really got all the accolades it deserves. Made back before Tom Cruise had a major ego problem. And Elisabeth Shue, what can I say...she deserves to have the ego that Tom has now. she was a star in this role. Although Tom is great, I think its going to his head. Cocktail...one of the greatest. I recommend you all go and buy a copy now. A great addition to the movie collection. The luck is gone, the brain is shot...but the liquor we still got. Cheers to cocktail! "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I do not see how anyone can dislike this movie. Its about bar tending, its got Tom Cruise at his apex, its got Elizabeth Shue, and there are an insane amount of great quotes. People say its just a cheap 80s movie with no plot and the only point was to give Tom Cruise air time. You know what though, those late 80s Bulls teams sucked but they were still worth watching because of Michael Jordan. Frankly the 80s plot format was great for actors who could carry a movie. Any Tom Cruise movie without Tom Cruise would suck, but with him those same movies are incredibly entertaining. Movies got away from this format for far too long but thankfully its coming back. Take Anchorman for instance. It is probably one of the funniest movies to come out in a long time but without Ferrell that movie stinks. Bottom line is plots are wildly over rated when it comes to entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Cinematic inebriation","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Public intoxication is rarely advisable, except in the case of viewing this movie, that is. Being sauced to the gills is probably the only way to be able to sit through it. (The jokers responsible for this debacle obviously were.) Approaching this 190-proof concoction of ineptitude as a comedy will make it less painful, possibly even entertaining. What's most hilarious is how drunk with self-importance this movie is. Somebody was so ZUI (Z-movie-making-while-under-the-influence) that they actually believed it was exuding some artistic merit or conveying some deep message. Casting Tom Cruise was the first wrong ingredient. That should throw up an 86-cutoff warning right there. Expect the same old tired Cruise-movie story lines of women-swooning-over-him, he's a spoiled brat trying to find himself while throwing temper tantrums, etc etc ad nauseum. Also tossed in are a few additional shot-glasses-full of his co-stars' emo problems, a romance that's drier than the driest martini, an absurd bartender competition, and similar nonsense.There's some nice background sets in the Caribbean, and a superior soundtrack score. But even the sweetest mixer tastes like acid when laced with something that's as bitterly foul-tasting as this script is. Too bad they didn't toss out Tom, the other lemons, and the stale dialog. Just film some scenes of the Beach Boys performing their music on a Jamaican beach. Throwing in random shots of guys drinking beer at the concert would have achieved the brilliant booze metaphor the film makers endeavored to inspire us with.Ingest Cocktail responsibly it's perfect for several rounds of unintentional laughs. But attempting to take this fiasco's backwashed bilge seriously can be mentally incapacitating, even when chugged down kamikaze style. "},{"Title":"Worthless attraction","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"11 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has only one thing going for it. It's so bad it makes you want to watch it over and over, if for no other reason than to be reminded that most writers in Hollywood are hacks, Elizabeth Shue has made some odd career choices, and Tom Cruise is by far the worst actor on earth. A classic bit of 80s schlock, Cocktail scales the heights of painful stereotypes with Cruise attempting yet another pass at what has become his trademark role, the young turk trying to make it his own way. Witness, if you must, Bryan Browns turn as the boozy, oversexed mentor, hell bent on creating self destruction and a vortex that pulls everyone else down with him. Then see Kelly Lynch garishly swathed in an animal skin that's almost as dead as her acting. And finally Gina Gershon parades through momentarily if only to remind us that this film can't be saved by gratuitous soft porn. The saving grace is that so many of these grindhouse flops were made in the 80s that they have almost come to represent the worst of that decade. "},{"Title":"Watchable waste of time","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the perfect midnight movie, the one that comes on right before bed and you can't turn it off. It's stupid, and the melodramatic vignettes at the end are laughable to say the least, but you can't help rooting for Tom Cruise who plays an earnest and eager business school student trying to make a fast buck the honest way. Cocktail invents a world of bartending that I've never seen replicated in real life or in any other film; these bartenders, you see, are rockstars of liquor, and they have crowds coming to see them sling rum. The theatrics of working in a fast-paced bar only gain so much ground, however, when the film makes an unexpected turn. You think you're watching two superstars ride their talent to bar-tending glory, but then the script veers hilariously off course and way longer into the future than an emotional journey this small deserves. We know that Tom Cruise has to come to accept success on his own terms and not define it strictly by money, but it takes him what seems like two years to figure this out. Being into your career is one thing, but this guy flips his switch so many times you can't peg what's his real MO. Bryan Brown, borrowed from his grueling acting in FX and FX2 The Deadly Art of Illusion, lends the film it's real charm, and whenever he's off screen Cruise can barely do his acting enough to keep you interested. But try not to find out what happens at the end if you start watching this movie. You won't be able to stop. Elizabeth Shue was never hotter than in this movie, and never dowdier by the time the credits rolled. "},{"Title":"if only i could","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film left me feeling really depressed, not because it was a bad movie, but the opposite, let me explain, I felt really down most of the way through it, because the movie was about a young man who had nothing going for himself, and couldn't get the right job so decides to run away to Jamaica to make a life for himself as a bar attendant, and it all goes right, I don't wanna make to many people depressed but at that moment a thought rushed through my head to do the same thing, but then i came back to earth and realised ive got to much responsibilities to be able to do that, but it was such a beautiful film in the way, that it could be possible to just runaway and start a life in a beautiful paradise island, and i only wish it might have been me he was playing in the film. "},{"Title":"pretty poor film","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this film was downright poor. It's not that anybody in it was bad, it's just that the film had NOTHING to hold anybody's attention. Even Cruise's good looks failed to keep my wife's attention and she likes him. There's no story to speak of and basically nothing to grab you at all. Altogether, in my opinion, a waste of time. "},{"Title":"A solid 6 of 10 film, a guilty pleasure with Tom Cruise and Elisabeth Shue.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cocktail is most notable because it features a younger Tom Cruise before he hit mega-stardom.  He's in his element here, as a non-commital batchelor, a bartender, who falls for a cute rich girl (Shue), doesn't know she is rich, gets cold feet when he finds out she is going to have their child, has a romp with an older rich woman, which ends when he beats up an uppity sculptor at one of his shows. The rich dad even tries to buy him off, he tears up the check, girlfriend (Shue) goes with him, the film ends with her pregnant self observing as people crowd into his bar to watch him tend.  Trite story, nothing new here, but the young Cruise and pretty Shue are nice to watch.  "},{"Title":"Tom Cruise at his worst.","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok I'm a HUGE Tom Cruise fan and love almost all of his movies, but this one well you can't really like it.  The plot is thin.  Acting not that great. Tom does an ok job but I can recommend so many better movies.  And, really who wants to watch him sleep with 3 girls?  The drink tossing was entertaining.  And the soundtrack is awesome.  But the movie itself, not anything to drink to.  And, was it just me or did this movie seem to get really long after the first hour...  It seemed like two hours when it was only one.  This is Tom Cruise's worst.  If you want a good 1988 movie then go spend your money on the Rain Man, now theres a wonderful film.  "}{"Title":"Extremely superficial.","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cocktail is a slick, thoroughly empty comedy-drama in the corny-junky tradition of Dirty Dancing. The people are all beautiful, the locations gorgeous, and the soundtrack is packed with MTV-style songs. Dramatically, it's just a collection of old cliches and LAUGHABLY old stereotypes (Shue's typically stupid and stubborn father is very funny). The leads are certainly attractive, and Brown is so obviously superior to the rest of the picture that he somewhow never seems to fit in. Overall, an OK diversion, but only if you're prepared for how cliched and superficial it is. "},{"Title":"Great Bar Flick","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films of all time. I dont know why people hate it. Great plot,acting,writing and directing. Yes I know this is one of those cliche hollywood films but,who cares it still was magic to watch. Tom Cruise I think is a tremendous actor, acting wise and business wise. He always picks the best screenplays and he makes it work on screen. Bryan Brown was great as always and so was Elizabeth Shue. This film seems to always pick me up. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you might think","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An old friend of mine once said that Cocktail was all about showing as much of Tom Cruise as possible. He was at the peak of his popularity back then, and it didn't take much for me to believe my friend.But I saw it not long ago for the first time, and I was surprised to see that it wasn't as bad as one might think. Sure, it's a piece of trash and easily forgotten - but it's just as entertaining and reusable. It's a bit fun, a great deal naive but it works out pretty fine. I like the part in the beginning where he runs around to all those places to apply for a job, without any apparent plan. "},{"Title":"Reeks of Insincerity","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cocktail is a film from the eighties, the golden years of the yuppie, of boom-and-bust, of the greed is good mentality. It also takes us back to the days when Tom Cruise was a pretty-boy pinup, starring in a series of undemanding parts in undemanding films like Risky Business and Top Gun. Cruise's character in this film is Brian Flanagan, a young man whose main preoccupation is the pursuit of wealth; after leaving the Army he tries hard to land a job with various top financial institutions, but is repeatedly turned down because of his lack of formal qualifications. He enrols in business school and takes a part-time job as a barman in order to support himself. While doing this he makes a couple of discoveries about himself. First, that he actually enjoys bartending more than academic study. Second, that he is attractive to women, a fact that he exploits to the full. He drops out of college, gets a job as a full-time barman, befriends an Australian immigrant named Doug, and the two of them perfect a double act of singing, dancing, juggling and reciting (appalling) poetry which they put on to entertain their customers.Brian falls out with Doug, and the scene now moves from New York to Jamaica, where Brian is again working as a bartender-cum-gigolo. He still has dreams of wealth; the only difference is that his preferred means of achieving it is no longer working in one of the institutions of American capitalism but rather meeting, seducing and living off some wealthy young woman. Brian seems to have met his perfect girl in the shape of Bonnie, a thirtysomething millionaire businesswoman, but complications arise because he is also involved with a waitress named Jordan. Things seem to be going better for Doug, now reconciled with Brian, as he has not only found his rich lady but has also married her. Brian returns with Bonnie to New York, but they split up, and Brian attempts to get back together with Jordan, who he discovers is not only pregnant with his child but also the daughter of one of the city's richest families. Jordan's father does not want her to marry Brian, whom he regards as a fortune-hunter, and offers him a large sum of money to disappear from Jordan's life.The film may have been intended as a critique of eighties materialism, but I am always suspicious of anti-materialist satire emanating from Hollywood, an institution ever readier to preach the virtues of thrift, frugality and glad poverty than to practise them, especially when that satire is incorporated within an obviously commercial romantic comedy designed mostly to show off the good looks and charm of its leading man. The latter part of the film when Brian converts from a crass materialist to a sensitive, caring romantic hero reeks of insincerity, especially as Cruise's character is so unsympathetic, going straight from preening dandy to priggish paragon of virtue. Although the film's message is ostensibly Be content with who you are, I couldn't help feeling that Brian would have become less insufferably cocky if he had become a stockbroker or merchant banker rather than a bartender. Doug's life, by contrast, goes downhill and he ends up committing suicide- a grave mistake on the part of the filmmakers as Bryan Brown made him about the only tolerable character. His mordant cynicism, shining like a naughty deed in a goody-goody world, would have acted as a necessary antidote to the hypocritical sentimentality of the later scenes. None of the female characters, Jordan, Bonnie or Doug's wife Kerry, emerge as credible individuals in their own right; they are simply devices to enable the plot to revolve around the male characters.The one good thing about this film is that it ended the pretty-boy stage of Cruise's career. In his very next film, Rain Man, he emerged as a gifted actor, capable of giving intelligent performances in serious films, an impression strengthened in his next film after that, Born on the Fourth of July. In the light of those films, and later excellent ones such as A Few Good Men and Eyes Wide Shut, Cocktail must today seem like an embarrassment from his past. 4/10 "},{"Title":"It has everything!!!","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie makes you relax, makes you want to travel, to have fun. It is one of the best movies i have ever seen. Drinks, women, friendship, drama, it has everything. I recommend you watch it right before you go on a trip, preferably to the seaside, it can be a great guidebook for parties. When i have a good time, i can't help it and i think about Cocktail, the one word that can best describe what you feel when you see the movie, and after that when you think about it is If you want it, life can be fun ; OK, maybe there are more words. I bet that after you see it you'll want to go with your friends, walk on the beach, drink something, in short, have a memorable night. "},{"Title":"Glossy nonsense","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A bona-fide piece of junk. This movie is so self-indulgent if it were a person it would be 100 stone overweight of Krispy Kreme doughnuts.It takes a hack with access to too much money to throw together 100 minutes of rambling dialogue and not too closely related scenes, some pretty faces in New York to Caribbean paradise, a few token sex scenes and personal tragedies, and a schmaltzy happy ending and call that a movie.If you can switch your brain off for however long, there may be mild pleasures to be had from the dream on an exotic island. The movie seems like it is trying to make a comment on ambition in 80's America. "},{"Title":"Pointless celebration of trivia and mediocrity","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One point for the soundtrack, especially Ry Cooder's All Shook Up. Apart from that, what was the point of this film?To tell us that being a barman is a great career path in a world full of talentless yuppies waiting to be entertained by trivial talents? That even a barman can make up doggerel? That Elizabeth Shue does more acting with her boobs than her face?  That the Caribbean is a better place than New York because girls with big boobs wear fewer clothes there? All of these may be valid, but are they of value? My countryman Roger Donaldson has made some good films - Smash Palace, for instance - but this...this is an inexplicable waste of celluloid. Good album, though. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst movie I have ever seen.","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"10 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  That about says it all. The story, if you can call it that, seems simply a hodgepodge of bad Hollywood cliches. The characters are shallow and inconsistent. They don't even get the cliches right. For god's sake, don't waste 2 hours of your life on this disaster. "},{"Title":"I walked out of COCKTAIL and never bothered going to see another Tom Cruise film again.","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I saw Tom Cruise trying to flip liquor bottles around in COCKTAIL, like a skilled and experienced juggler (as though doing so was natural & easy for him and something he did a lot often) I suddenly saw right through Cruise completely. A total FAKE...FRAUD... and PHONY! Not half as good an actor as he tried to comport himself as and not half as good looking as he tried to strut himself about as. Though he TRIED to act as though flipping those bottles around was 'nothin for him, watch carefully and you can SEE they had to re-shoot those scenes over and over (and over!) due to Cruise's bumbling, plus splice the hell out of them in order to glue that pathetic flick together! And the frightening thing is that everything I just described & explained is simply a reflection of the guy's entire life and career! All these years I thought possibly I was mistaken (due to his 'fame and fortune'). Well...GUESS I WAS RIGHT!!! PS Cruise was to film what Lucile Ball was to TV...the lowest common denominator, geared to appeal to the masses but NOT to anyone with brains! If you like him, go re-watch him dancing around in his undies, PLEASE!!! "},{"Title":"Good but not Entertaining","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Following an ambitious and charming young man who returned from the war (what war it is, isn't really clear), this movie follows him as he's driven to make his first million dollars with his teacher who taught him all he knew about bar tending and life&#x85; YES, it's one of those. BUT GOOD.Tom Cruise was great per usual. He's dedicated and driven.. The love story isn't great but I just like watching a young Tom Cruise. So if you are a fan of Tom, watch. Otherwise it isn't a must.It is a movie you can live without... unless you are obsessed with Tom Cruise. "}{"Title":"Cocktail is a nice blend of Cruise and Shue","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cocktail was actually a pretty good movie. I didn't like Days of Thunder at all, so I was a little wary of another Tom Cruise movie. But then when I realized Elisabeth Shue was in it, everything seemed fine. So I watched it. And I couldn't stop watching it, even though I had to go to bed. Cruise is a young entrepreneur who can't get a job on Wall Street, so he ends up becoming a bartender. He meets Shue in Jamaica - roughly 45 minutes into the film. Over the course of 3 days, they fall in love with each other. (I never like this in movies, and this one is no exception). The plot seems like it's going to go in a romantic direction, but at least three sudden plot twists really keep you guessing where it will go next. Not one of Cruise's better acting moments (his poems are AWFUL and recited AWFULLY). Not as much Shue as you'd expect from her being the female lead. But all in all, worth your time if you're looking for a Cruise classic or a good 80s film. (Yet, if you're like me, it will leave you with mixed feelings about whether the protagonist is a morally upright Irishman or a lying, cheating illegitimate dog-child.) Recommended. "},{"Title":"Great.....to me","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've read and heard all of the gripes that people have had with this movie since the 80's.  Give Tom a break. He did Rainman and Born on the Fourth of July right after Cocktail, so he made up for it. Personally, I love this movie. Nobody was trying to make movie history or trying to win any Oscars with this movie (except for maybe the Beach Boys). Brown is loveable and hateful as Coglin.  Shue and Cruise have a realistic chemistry, not all starry eyes and smiles like most hollywood romances.  I actually found them appealing and not nauseating like most movie romances. (Titanic for one.) And, if you can't find any other reason to watch this movie, do it for the poems and the waterfall scenes. "},{"Title":"Dynamite the first half, poor the second half","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this on my on demand for free on Comcast. It was not bad but it could have been much better. Cruise goes to New York to do his dream making it big on Wall Street. He fails and decides to become a bartender. He wants to open his own place so he goes to Jamaica where he meets Elisabeth Shue's character, and they fall in love. The first half of this film is dynamite thanks to strong performances. But when Cruise goes to Jamaica all goes downhill. It should have picked up in the second half. I would recommend Top Gun, or Born on the Fourth of July, if you are looking for Cruise's best work. But don't watch this otherwise. Rated R for sexual content, nudity, profanity, violence, and vulgarity. "},{"Title":"Could be still better","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cocktail is the typical movie of the 80s a huge soundtrack, stunning landscapes, a gorgeous Elisabeth Shue, very cool bartender flicks, and a screenplay very simple and enjoyable pushed up by the interpretation of Bryan Brown, and the cool presence of Tom Cruise.However, the screen play is also it's down side. The characters are to superficial and the story is very unbelievable in some parts, specially when Bryan goes to talk to Jordan's father, and why Doug committees suicide because is bankrupt - come on he would never gain control of the entire fortune of his wife!!! so he wouldn't be without money...8 out of 10, 3 for the screenplay because of the fails that i just said, 2 for the great soundtrack, 1,5 for the interpretations, 1,5 for the photography and for the quick but erotic scene of the lagoon with Elisabeth Shue. "},{"Title":"Sex (& eye Candy) on the Beach","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" That's what'Cocktail is all about- a fluffily pseudo romanticized yet harmlessly flirtatious fling, that carries little other value but because its intention is not to flatter to deceive, works as sex & candy as its beautifully scenic settings and photogenic cast (Tom Cruise and Eli Shue at their candy-stand prime aged best). It sells color and tropical paradise in as much as it delivers it on a platter with some great rhythmically Cancun Samba styled scenes in Jamaica, or back in the halcyon New York clubs where Cruise shakes and stirs his bourbons and bon bons. Yet, it also has a story that writes in the possibility of being lovelorn as well as to face up to loneliness and rejection (epitomised very nicely by Bryan's character) in terms of balancing that age old lifelong conundrum - love and ambition. "},{"Title":"Rocky for bartenders","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rocky for bartenders, though Cocktail makes Sylvester Stallone's boxing pic look Oscar worthy by comparison (yes, I know Rocky won best picture of 1976 over Network, Taxi Driver, All the President's Men, Bound for Glory, and the non-nominated The Outlaw Josey Wales but I still can't believe it). Tom Cruise, whose range is even narrower than Stallone's (and Steve Reeves, for that matter) gives the performance that he gives in every movie, that of the little twirp striving to prove himself. He does, of course, but Cruise only proves that he can't act. He's plastic and would be perfectly cast as Ken, you know, Barbie's boyfriend. "},{"Title":"Arrrrrr! Here be spoilers!","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I wasn't actually in the army, I was proud to serve along side them for a few months (until I was told to stop following them and that Major got a court injunction taken out). So in many ways my life is parallel to that of Tom Cruise in this film. Actually I look like Tom Cruise! My friend Dave said I did!`You've got to see &#145;Vanilla Sky'!' He said. `Tom Cruise looks just like you in that one!'I also look a lot like Mel Gibson! But I've yet to see &#145;Man Without a Face'.So as Tom left the US army in the film, he tried to get into big business, like I did! Unlike me, Tom's hair kept changing in a job-interview-montage and he was refused work through lack of experience rather than not wearing trousers. Apparently going for a job interview with no pants on is illegal! Thanks for telling me that Aylesbury Job Centre!!!So Tom gets a job working in a bar and eventually gets to travel the world, being a cool, hip barman and having a string of sexy and exotic girlfriends. This is where our lives differ, but for reasons of an up-coming court case I can't go into them right now.Anyway, Tom ends up getting Elizabeth Shue pregnant, but does the decent thing and opens a bar with her. Some other things happen before that, which aren't that interesting, Mr Cruise gets angry and does that shouty gesticulating thing that he does. The more I think about it, the more I think that this film is a bit dull. So if you want to see a film about a barman then watch it, but if you want to see a film about a farmer or chiropodist then I'd give it a miss.  "},{"Title":"A Very Odd Role For Tom Cruise And That's Not A Good Thing","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tom Cruise hams it up in his rather miscast role as a bartender who's even more popular at the bar than the drinks that he serves. Extremely farfetched and boring during way more than a few occasions. Cruise fans, take heart, the excellent Cruise films Rain Man and Born On The Fourth Of July were on their way after this one. "},{"Title":"Spectacular!","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a HUGE fan of Tom Cruise, but I am not biased when it comes to Cocktail. I really don't understand why people hate it. It entertains, dazzles, the story is brilliant and believable, and Tom is to die for. All the actors pull off a great performance, and I'll never comprehend why anyone wouldn't want to watch this movie over and over and over....The writing is terrific, and it's one of those films that keeps you watching and watching, never satisfied with simply one look at it. This is a feel great movie that deals with love, friendship, and loyalty. I adore this film and why anyone does not is WAY beyond me.  "},{"Title":"Not Cruises best.","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is definitely not Tom Cruises' best movie but it is still fun. All the bar tricks are cool and of course who can forget the Beach Boys song Kokomo? As a matter of fact that's probably the only memorable thing about the movie!!! "}{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie about Romance Love. Although it was made in 1988 this movie shows us that even the most principle man with undestructable plans can be changed. By what? A woman. And my opinion is that he have ever loved her, even the time when he didn't suppose for her existing at all. And everything what he do is only for her...for her lovely smile...for her happiness.....and for their twins!Regard to all cinemans on the planet CiNEMAN (from Bulgaria) -) "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was 10,and ever since then,I loved it! I have never gotten bored with it,EVER! The actors/actresses did a wonderful job in this one. I really like the part where they're playing that song Oh,I love you so and the part where Jordan's dad says You're on your own and Bryan says Thats the only way I want it and  of course, the bar scene at the end! I give this movie a definite 10!! "},{"Title":"Well done!","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cocktail is a wonderful movie. Tom Cruise does a great job as Brian Flannagan. The whole cast is wonderful. The story is great and the movie is 100% entertainment. It does not deserve the razzies it got.  "},{"Title":"All Flash and no Substance","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Seemingly written for Mr. Cruise is this fairy tale, rags to riches story of a confident youngster who comes to New York to take a bite out of the Big Apple, but ends up getting bitten before he tastes success. Tom uses his charming good looks and 'sexy smile' to advantage both for the purposes of his character (Flanagan) and to please his adoring female fans. Cocktail came along before Tom Cruise had proved himself as an actor of any real quality, and although the movie suits him down to the ground, he has to do little to pull it all off.Bryan Brown on the other hand almost doesn't belong in this picture. Many of his other works (especially the more dramatic roles) have been far superior. The attempt at injecting a world weary, tragic character into the plot to teach young Flanagan life's lessons has not worked for ex-bartender turned screenwriter Heywood Gould. The exceptionally pretty Elisabeth Shue lifts proceedings as the romantic interest, but she hardly has a profound affect, arriving late on as she does.Roger Donaldson's film is all flash and no substance. Coglan and Flanagan's bar trick antics are hardly enough to carry the film, yet one gets the impression that this was the sole inspiration and entire foundation of the pic's script, which is dramatically clichéd though and through.Cocktail rides on the wave of popularity generated by all American Cruise, and does so with quite a degree of success. Backed up by a trendy soundtrack, it became one of the box office smashes of 1988.Aussie cinematographer Dean Semler doesn't have a great deal of scope to work with, yet he gives Cocktail a classy look.Saturday, May 20, 1995 - Video "},{"Title":"Decent movie except for Tom Cruise.","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The plot of Cocktail is fairly interesting. Young guy trying to make it in the business world, getting sidetracked as an ace bartender and learning about relationships. The acting is good, especially Bryan Browne. But what ruins this movie for me is Tom Cruise. I'm just not a fan of his acting style.In Cocktail, Cruise plays an arrogant bartender, so sure of himself that he seems to ooze smarminess. Very much like his portrayal of the arrogant pilot in Top Gun, or the arrogant pool player in the Color of Money, or the arrogant fighter in Far an Away, or the arrogant vampire in Interview with the Vampire, or the arrogant agent in Jerry Maguire.I'm sensing a pattern here. And his arrogant interview, as himself, when questioned by Matt Lauer on Today, seems to suggest that Cruise wasn't really acting in those films, he was just being himself. So I am turned off by any film that features Tom Cruise. Folks who like him will love Cocktail. Folks who are not impressed by his arrogance will hate it.One side note about Cocktail we see Cruise and Browne as bartenders in a trendy club, packed with patrons who are lined up 3 or 4 deep all around the bar as the sound system blares tunes. I can only imagine how long it would take to get your drink with only those 2 bartenders working. And that's if they were quick about it. But Cruise and Browne make the drinks while engaged in synchronized dance-type movements, tossing the glasses and the bottles in the air and to each other. I figure it would take about 3 minutes (the average length of the songs they were performing to) for each drink to be served. So quite a few of those patrons lined up around the bar would be waiting at least a half hour or more before they got their drink. I'd rather have a less entertaining bartender who could serve the drinks quickly. Also interesting is that in the scene when Cruise takes a swing at Browne behind the bar, in the midst of all those people, the entire club immediately falls so quiet you could hear a pin drop, so that there is no noise other than Cruise talking to Browne. What happened to the music? There was no band to stop playing. So why did the sound system cut out at that precise moment? Cocktail would have been a much better movie without Tom Cruise. "},{"Title":"COCKTAIL (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Forget credibility, will you? People might say what they want about the eighties but it has been a decade that people lived and so did I, my youth was full of society dramas (Breakfast Club, About last night...) and Cocktail was just one of these. The story itself is simple, a young talented guy (Tom Cruise) seeks fortune in New York City but he soon realises his talent can only be used in a bar (where did I hear that before?) and meets Bryan Brown, a sort of almost-alcoholic who saw everything in life. You get your usual lovestory, you get your 80's soundtrack (included with the terrible Beach Boys' Kokomo-theme) and the film flashes in front of your eyes, knowing that after 90 minutes you didn't miss a thing. But hey this is entertainment in its most primal form and it can't get wrong with an actor like Tom Cruise (you just don't get what he sees in Elisabeth Shue).  Yeah I like it a lot, it's a mediocre film I saw plenty of times and still I rate it seven out of ten. A sign of the times as Prince would sing that year. Sure it is, but Cocktail works and a decade later it would have been repeated in Coyote Ugly and you know what, the eighties certainly weren't that bad at all... "},{"Title":"Almost better than top gun. SPOILERS!!!!","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fairly good movie by one of the best in the bis, Tom Cruise always acts with so much passion, I am amazed that he has not won an academy award yet. Bryan Brown (Doug Coughlin) plays a big ass in this movie in which tom cruise(Brian Flanagan) becomes friends with but soon gets stabbed in the back. Flanagan then goes to jaimaca to get away from his so-called friend, there he meets a girl name Jordan Mooney (Elisabeth Sue) and falls in love. Doug soon comes to jaimaca and bets brian he cannot hook up with this women, so brian being the macho man that he is takes him up on the offer. He scores with her and Jordan see's him leave the bar with her. She dumps him, leaves and goes back to the states where he has to go back face her father and try to win her back and prove his true love.I give everyone complete credit for doing a super job acting, Kelly Lynch and Tina Gershon are two hotties. You really get the jamaican feel in this movie also, Les Bloom and Hilton Rosemarin done a wonderful job as the set designers, Charles Miller also done a great job at picking the locations to film. Roger Donaldson done a awesome job directing and the plot by HeywoodGould was pretty well written. Overall I give this movie a 8/10 rating. "},{"Title":"A decent entertainment","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cocktail is an interesting movie, not because of what happens on screen, but what happens and happened off of it. This is essentially a Tom Cruise 'look cool' vehicle. Any other lead actor would have pushed the movie further into the forgotten movie vault. It has received mostly bad reviews over time, simply because it starts well, but ends in a typical fashion. However, the movie does have the ability to entertain, if one is able to sit through the movie, which could well be classified as a yuppie movie that won't prevail through time. Yet it will probably sell well in the home theater medium, due to the headline star and parents who would like to remember the 80's. Time can only help the movie. It can't hurt it any further.Take Pete Maverick Mitchell, and place him into New York City, and you have a main idea of the protagonist. Cruise's character is a little more wide eyed than Mav, who is fresh out of the army and is in NYC looking for a job. After failing to land a white collar job due to his lack of credentials, Cruise finds Bryan Brown working in a TGI Friday's. Brown is a bartender, looking for another bartender. This introduces the best character in the movie, Coughlin (Brown), whose character is a redeeming factor of the film. Brown has one love money. That is the only aspect of his character. Everything he does is pretty much for money. Coughlin seems to have started his own school of philosophy, helping Cruise learn the ways of a money-loving city dweller, through the sage like advice he gives under the pretense, Coughlin's Law.The film had started out with two lungs full of air, and deflated consistently with each passing minute. It was at about this point where the deflation was nearly complete, hence a new turn in the story. However, the movie never does inhale again. The main plot revolving around Shue and Cruise becomes uninteresting. Shue's father is rich, and thinks that Cruise is only after money in life. Cruise's intentions seem more genuine than that, although it is never really explored because of Shue's 'shocking' news. A short intake gasp happens when Brown re-emerges, for the second time. However, the movie started downhill from the beginning and never recovers.Keep in mind that the Brown's comebacks only help the film. He is the only character worth remembering from the movie, so it's good that he shows up in every act. Without him, the movie would run out of steam half way through, and a waste of time would seem certain. See the movie if you're feeling nostalgic about times when... well, OK, see it if you feel like a mediocre but semi-entertaining movie, with a smart-alec co-star. See it with friends, it'll be better. Maybe.You can thank the internet's n99nyrwg for getting this movie released to DVD. The studio had no plans of spending the money on a release until he started a campaign. He wrote enough letters and organized a movement to convince Paramount to get this thing onto digital discs. "},{"Title":"Actually not as bad as they say!","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a nice movie with great acting and nice music to go with it. I must say I really liked this film.The highlight in the movie is the waterfall-sequence.Tom Cruise is always good,Elisabeth Shue is very good and Bryan Brown is great as Douglas. Many well-known faces like Gina Gershon and Kelly Lynch have small parts.It´s like The Color of Money but cocktails instead of Poole. Rating6.5 of 10  "},{"Title":"Light-mood popcorn film.","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a movie just after Cruise reached his peak of popularity. So it exploits him in every manner possible. And he shows occasional flashes of his good acting capability apart from his trademark smile and style. But Brown is the one who steals the show in his every screen presence. And his role, Doug, is the only character that leaves the viewers something to think about. Elisabeth Shue shines bright as Cruise's love interest Jordan. It was indeed a treat to watch her in this film.The movie features excellent Jamaican locations like the beaches and the waterfalls. The original music is also excellent especially featuring the Beach Boys. In all, it is a perfect popcorn film to watch in a relaxed mood. "}{"Title":"Airheaded Fun","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has a poorly developed plot with weak dialog.  The quality actors save the film and make it memorable.  They do what they can, but the film still falls short.  Tom Cruises's character turns from womanizer to mush ball seemingly too quick in my opinion.  I don't see how he can be immature one second and then Mr. Responsibility the next.  I think it would have been much more realistic if Jenny gets pregnant early in the film and then Cruise runs away boozing it up and failing to perform with any other woman because deep down he really loves Elisabeth Shue's character.  Again, the actors aren't to blame for the uneven pace of the film and the parts left out.  Why aren't we shown during the film that Bryan Brown is a gambler?  Foreshadowing is poorly used, if at all.  The characters are shallow and undeveloped and it's a shame.  Why watch this film?  The film is a documentary of eighties music, eighties excess, Tom Cruise, and beautiful New York City vistas including Twin Towers. "},{"Title":"After all the bitching, COCKTAIL will doubtless start to find a higher water-level!","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Critically scorned, derided, insulted, and left for dead in '88 it was still one of the most popular films that year.  Why? because it is a totally uncomplicated, feel-good, fun movie. It asks nothing of its audience but to go along with it - and for any level-headed artistically unaffected and romantically inclined viewer, it has heaps to offer. Brian Brown as NY Bar owner Doug Couglin, mixes not only a hot cocktail but some likeable if not accurate assessments of the human condition. Easily one of his best roles and one which gives the film solidarity and meaning. He and Cruise have a real chemistry going here which with the passage of time appears far more entrenched now than it did 14 years ago.COCKTAIL was a film that any self-respecting critic would feel he or she was OBLIGED to snigger at, even (I suspect) if deep down inside they rather liked it. Odd really that its demographic audience then were Cruise-loving teens and yet the sentiments of the story are as old as time itself and  expectantly more likely to have appealed to the older viewer, who would not have been seen dead watching it!Some real nifty bar-work, LIKEABLE characters, high moral values, and a hot soundtrack, offer a cinematic experience you could do far worse than hang out with. I will be honest with you....COCKTAIL failed to move me in 1988. I found it an instantly forgettable flick, one I saw as having been manufactured to cash-in on Cruise-mania at the time. The following year I bought the film for the kids and we have watched it perhaps 20-30 times since. At the point now of being able to lip sync almost the entire script, the film has developed in both maturity and appeal (yeah, I know - shame I haven't!) Take my word for it, a review after just one screening really does not qualify one to judge this particular film accurately! ....and I always DID like Phil and Don's When Will I Be Loved? "},{"Title":"Laughable","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I started watching this one one afternoon when Our Hero punched out the artist at the exhibit.He is wating outside for his bit of fluff, here she comes. She starts talking, he says talking to sort things out is overrated.He tells her he left a can of Spam in her fridge, she slaps him.Well, she simply resorted to his level. She certainly wasn't talking now! I hope he learned something from this.I normally avoid Tom Cruise movies and this one didn't do anything to change that viewpoint.When the guy is good, such as Jerry mcGuire and Born on the Fourth, he is good (more than likely other contributing factors make the movie work) but wow, when he is bad, he is terrible.Or to be fair, no matter how bad the movie is, he sure can't save it. "},{"Title":"I'd rather have a beer, thanks - 50%","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Can you get any more Eighties than this movie? Personally, I doubt it - the minute the first blast of synthesiser music strikes you as the bright neon logos fly past should tell you everything you need to know about this rancid nostalgia trip through the very worst that decade had to offer, a time when greed was good and only the weak had feelings. And even though this is much more manly than Coyote Ugly, I prefer that predictable drivel to this.Tom Cruise, by this time able to pick and choose his roles at will, finds himself playing Brian Flanagan, a self-obsessed wannabe returning to New York with the aim of finding his millions. After being turned down by every office job going, he stumbles across a poky bar run by the enigmatic Doug Coughlin (Bryan Brown) and he starts tending bar there. Quickly picking up on his master's flair for making cocktails, Brian deserts his mentor and begins again in Jamiaca when he falls in love with the beautiful Jordan (Elizabeth Shue). Can Brian learn to overcome his desire for money in order to love Jordan and what will Doug do once he tracks Brian down? Playing the sort of role Colin Farrell would be considered for today, Cruise feels kinda miscast as the heart-breaking, swaggering, bottle-juggling Lothario although I have to give him and Brown credit for the bar-tending scenes - not only are they the most entertaining in the movie but they don't rely on those damn swooshing noises they employed in Coyote Ugly. Sadly, this film's plot is just as one-dimensional as its predecessor, offering little respite from Cruise's irritating macho-egotist (why do these women keep sleeping with him? His Bloody Mary's can't be THAT good!). Brown, spouting almost Yoda-like levels of world weary advice, might have been an interesting character and I reckon his story would be been better told instead of Flanagan's. And although the role calls for little more than to flutter her eyes at Mr Cruise, Shue does OK as the poor sap taken in by him. If only the film wasn't so predictable - the sheer inevitableness of the story, ticking every box in the redemption of bad man cliché guide, means it never makes you focus on what's being said because chances are, you can guess. At one point, I ending up cutting my toe-nails (partially through boredom) and when I'd finished, I could still follow the film as if nothing had happened!Part of me wanted to like this film, having been a barman myself many years ago. But I just can't - it's about as interesting as a glass of tap water and not nearly satisfying enough. I was praying for Cruise to get his comeuppance, to learn the error of his ways but when the story started to bend to his will then I'd simply had enough. What should have happened was for Cruise to learn from his mistakes and move on - what we got was a happy ending for all that even the characters themselves seemed to disbelieve. Even this film's soundtrack can't compete with Coyote Ugly (although music plays a bigger part in that film) and while it's just as predictable and one-dimensional as Cocktail, I prefer the female-friendly rom-com to this any day. Disappointing, to say the least. Next time, just order a beer... "},{"Title":"80's values....","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It would take a long time to review every film made in the mid to late 80's which was something memorable (albeit not very good) a mark of social commentary, or important.This film is none of those things. If you are up for something light, trite, and mildly entertaining, then this will be acceptable. Tom Cruise was at his ascendancy at this point in his career (ah, nostalgia!). Bryan Brown is very good as a gigolo whose life comes up empty.Tom Cruise was actually a good actor BEFORE he became a celebrity. While he is a bit too starry-eyed, he becomes hooked into a world of bar-tending, emulating Brown's lead, trying to find a well-to-do woman to feather his nest. There is an embarrassing role with Lisa Baines as an over the hill art dealer.Elisabeth Shue (before Leaving Las Vegas) is believable, as Cruise's sometime girlfriend who he thinks is broke, so he dumps her for an older woman (if the cliché was followed correctly the casting director may have picked a more sophisticated woman-Maybe Mimi Rogers?. No- she was Cruise's ex-wife!!) This film was made at the time when audiences were perhaps less demanding and jaded. Camera shots of Jamaica are less than enthralling, as one critic put it the give the peasants a thrill strategy complete with music on the beach no longer works in the good old USA where everyone by college has traveled to most of these places. An exotic vacation this is not.Overall though, there is a story, albeit predictable. If nothing else this film is a revelation as to the demands studios must now meet to crank out something original, since something this mediocre could never be featured on the big screen today. "},{"Title":"look out - it's a bomb","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While working at Giant Rodent Studios on another bomb called Stella, I was told that this current nightmare still being fixed and opening in mere days had nothing on this cruise missile headed your way, which was regarded very highly as something nearly impossible to top in the bomb in the making post-production offices that had to deal with it. Hushed talk filled the air as I was told just how awful a film could be for this group - and Cocktail was that winner, hands down. But I witnessed much the same with Pretty Woman too, as it changed names more than a few times, along with plot lines going going - go figure. Never underestimate the power of a hungry audience. "},{"Title":"It wasn't THAT bad (Now when I analyze it)","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen worse. But the screenplay was kind of foolish, in a sense or bar movies I've seen. The other would be Coyote Ugly (2000) in which that movie was BAD, BAD, BAD. There is eye candy when it compares to Cocktail & Coyote Ugly (Tom Cruise, Elisabeth Shue) (Tyra Banks, Piper Perabo, & all the other bartenders) (lol) What I didn't accept was the ending. The score wasn't that necessary when Brian was fighting off the bellboy & Jordan's father. Overall I thought the performances were fine, but yeah I can now understand why Cocktail won the Razzie Award for Worst Screenplay, & picture. Nice film, but not Mr. Cruise's finest. "},{"Title":"excellent, but a tad predictable","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  **********SPOILERS************SPOILERS**************SPOILERS*******ultimately, i found this movie very predictable, yet very good. it was a great movie, fairly interesting. the only problem is that as soon as Brian met Doug, i knew Doug was going to die. When Brian and Jordan were on the beach, I knew Jordan was pregnant. When Jordan (at the end) told Brian she can make him scared, i knew they were going to have twins........ due to the predictableness i give it a 7/10.... (if i hadn't predicted main parts i probably would have given it an 8,8.5)-monica (excuse de spelling please.) "},{"Title":"Maybe Tom Cruises best film yet","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the movie of Tom Cruises career (apart from Jerry Maguire). He plays young Brian Flannigan who is at first an unemployed man living in New York just after leaving the army.He then meets and befriends barman Doug who gives him his job as a barman in the evening while hes going to college in the day.Things carry on successfully for Brian but he soon has his fair shares of ups and downs. Cocktail perfectly succeeds in entertaining it's audiences and will definitely appeal to younger males about the style of youth andgrowing up.Not just that but the outline of the whole plot will give younger males over fifteen pointers in life. The film is now dated but still contains it's elements and remains a classic of today and it was one of Tom Cruises breakthrough roles. It is a movie you either love or you hate.The film is ld but still contains style and substance.The movie is yet again inspiring and will has the power to entertain audiences to males over the age of fifteen.  "},{"Title":"Bandit's Law, Never pay any attention to people who are wrong","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie a lot; I shouldn't because it promotes all 3 major sins, Alcoholism, Promiscuity and Gambling.  Though asides from that it does show the struggles of the young workingman. Essentially all Flanagan wants to do is conquer the world with some kind of million-dollar idea but finds the road to success long, hard and with many hurdles.It's not the greatest movie ever made, (by far) but it is a nice film to watch every now and then, it does have a cool sound track, and contrary to popular belief this is not cruise at his worst. Cruise at his worst was in either young guns or young guns 2, where he walks out of a bar and gets shot, the young guns film are good films, I'm saying that was Cruise at HIS worst,And incase you still don't get what I'm saying. Tom Cruise is a great actor despite his good looks, and his worst acting performance was when he walked on said or did nothing and gets shot, he is in the film for about 2 seconds, if that.6/10  "}{"Title":"Slides down as easy as a chilled drink on a hot summers day...","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is exactly why the general masses watch travel shows - or movies, for that matter. Escapism. They want to be taken vicariously to places they haven't the resources to go to, themselves. We shouldn't criticise if all they want to do is look at the pretty pictures, not everybody has to be an active participant in life. Sometimes I'm in the mood for a more rigorous mental workout, but if all I want to do is let shallowness wash over me like a wave, then I just switch on Cocktail for a pleasant and undemanding bit of fun. Works every time and almost makes me forget that I'm in a gloomy country where everything is usually grey.The daily itinerary of a jet-setting bartender is packed full of glamour, glitz, but precious little substance - and sometimes that's exactly what I'm looking for! For a good while it even makes alcoholism into an attractive and sexy prospect, thanks to the laconic wit of one Mr. Bryan Brown (Take a bow!) I know this is irresponsible in reality, but at least it will teach you not to believe everything you see on a screen... Even death and childbirth can only momentarily intrude on the whole relentlessly sunny atmosphere, and the soundtrack contains lots of feel-good tunes to complement the action nicely. All of this makes you believe that if you only looked like Tom Cruise or Elizabeth Shue, then you'd have the rest of your life sorted.So grab a glass of whatever takes your fancy, add the obligatory umbrella on a stick, plop down on the couch and let yourself be whisked away. For one or two hours you can fantasise and pretend that you really are living the good life... "},{"Title":"Not exactly sure why I liked it, but I did","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cocktail is about a cocky and talented New York bartender who takes a job at a bar in Jamaica and falls in love. I'm not so sure why I really enjoyed this movie, maybe because it was just so hokey that I forgot about the qualities of a great film and just enjoyed it. A young Tom Cruise plays the cocky bartender, but I didn't think that he was that bad in this film, concerning his character was a little goofy. The soundtrack was really good and the atmosphere in Jamaica made the film a lot better. Elisabeth Shue is sizzling in the film and I thought her performance was the best of any actors, even though Bryan Brown did really well. Overall, this is a pretty good 80's flick which Tom Cruise later went on to starring in the Oscar winner, Rain Man. I recommend Cocktail.Hedeen's Outlook 8/10 *** B "},{"Title":"If you love the bar you'll love this film.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is great, the director set a pace in this film, which reflects the bar perfectly.  People complain about this because Tom Cruse is too self centered, sexually lose, or poney, and I differ on these issues.  The bar scene has all these attributes and Cruse plays the bar wolf perfectly.  Of course there is a Romance and he learns about growing up.  In the end I find this film truthful and honest. "},{"Title":"A tale of co#k","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the most amusing and memorable pieces of professional criticisms for a film I have read was for Cocktail and you have to agree with whoever it was, because this film really is a `tale of co#k!' On paper it must have sounded like a perfect Cruise popcorn vehicle, but really! Turning fighter pilots into sex symbols, as in Top Gun is one thing, but to perform the same service for barmen is simply ridiculous. However if you disengage your brain for the running length, then it provides a reasonable, junk food night infront of the telly. It's funny in places and never bores but should have remained true to its (bad) soap opera roots. All Cruise's pearly white smiles and sexy looks could not save it from (deservedly) bombing at the box office and only his most loyal of fans could ever find it more than just mildly diverting. "},{"Title":"Take A Sip of this Cocktail, You Will Enjoy It","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cocktail is an entertaining film centering around Brian Flanagan (Tom Cruise) who is just getting out of a stint in the military and is ambitious at becoming professionally successful. His character is soon disillusioned by community college and focuses on what he knows best -- the bar scene. As a bartender, he is following the path of his family and his new mentor/friend Doug (Brian Brown).The chemistry between Cruise and Brown is an absolute joy to watch. Both decide that they will try to land a rich chick. This goal ultimately helps each character learn who they really are and also ultimately decides their fate.Elizabeth Shue is beautiful as Cruise's love interest. They meet while Cruise is bartending in Jamaica. In fact, one of my personal favorite aspects of this film is the exotic location of Jamaica. To date, it is one of only two films to have featured Jamaica's beautiful Dunn's River Falls (a place I have visited and found extremely fun and beautiful).This film is a great character sketch of a young man who thinks he knows what he wants in life, but ends up finding out what he really desires by simply living. It gives the audience a great look at what working in the bar industry is like, specifically in the 1980s. It has a true 80s feel and the soundtrack is put together nicely.This is not a thinking person's film or award-winning film by any stretch of the imagination, but is highly entertaining. If you enjoy romances with strong character development and exotic filming locations, then you will enjoy this movie. If you don't like Tom Cruise or romances, then stay away. Rating 8 of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Top Gun in a Bar","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bad bad bad.Bog-standard flick, nothing less expected from the Cruiser in this period.Take the same formula perfected in Top Gun, and apply it here, but with drinks. See also my Days of Thunder review.Tom is really not good here, taking liberties with the plot is fine, but making it ridiculous is not. The setting is wonderful, and some scenery is great, but the actors still don't look like they're having a good time. No wonder, the script contains atrocious line after atrocious line, there are plenty of better buddy/romantic movies out there, don't bother with this trash. "},{"Title":"A lot better then many critics would have you believe.","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While Cocktail isn't anything approaching greatness, it is a fun, energetic, surprisingly touching movie about one man's struggle to find meaning in life as he juggles life as a bartender.This movie is one that more seem to hate then like and I'll never know why. The only negatives I could see are 1)There is a formula feel throughout the movie and haters of predictability will no doubt despise Cocktail. 2)The movie is a bit dated now(check out some of the hairstyles!)but it wasn't dated when it came out and it STILL got bad reviews and 3)there are parts that disintegrate into dulls ville-the plot doesn't so much move slowly, as it does, run out of steam from time to time.(And some of the singing on the bar scenes ARE a bit corny). Those are the negatives. Still, I liked this movie for the sheer entertainment factor-it's pleasant movie viewing-also anyone who's ever been a bar fly themselves, as I've been, will be delighted at some of the fun bar scenes. Great scenery as well. Great array of nightlife from homey little bars to dazzling a list nightclub.Is the movie the best, deepest thing that came out of the 80's? Heck no. But movies don't always have to be seething in analytical depth to be fun. And cocktail, or at least most of Cocktail, is fun.The movie has more depth then one might initially think. It deals with the typical theme of coming of age and realizing what you want in life-it's all done in a rather formula way as mentioned but it's still enjoyable and the movie for the most part retains that fun feeling-this movie was obviously made to appeal to a twenty something crowd but I think anybody who's ever sat pensively in a bar contemplating where their life is taking them will be able to relate. Not a terrific movie but a good fun one that doesn't deserve such bad reviews. "},{"Title":"right... move on now","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tom Cruise plays Brian Flanagan. He's looking for a job. Coughlin (played by an excellent Bryan Brown) hires him in his bar as a bartender. He'll show him all the ropes of the business. Together they team up and become the city's most sought-after bartenders until Coughlin betrays Flanagan. Flanagan then leaves for Jamaica to work as a bartender on a beach in order to save up enough and start his own business. Coughlin joins later on with a surprise.I don't have much to say about the movie but this is what I remember thinking- Cruise is the obvious star because of his good looks and irresistible smile but Brown is the one actor worth watching in the movie. Listening to him supply Tom with bartender 'advice' is a pure delight. - Some interesting scenes involve Brown and Cruise shaking 'n' singing 'n' dancing 'n' pouring before a packed place. I couldn't help but wonder how many customers are actually served in an one hour time. In real life, they probably wouldn't last long in the business.All in all, a mindless movie that tries to believe it has a 'message' on materialism but that's up to you to decide. "},{"Title":"A cock tale","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Cocktail' has more value than one might think, albeit a value that was not originally intended. A bad movie, yes, it certainly is, but on a purely visceral level, it's never without points of interest. I may even go so far as to assert that it's thoroughly enjoyable. It's also a movie that merits study, as it's quite revealing of the values and preoccupations of America in the 1980s. This is one of the token Hollywood movies of that decade, and were I to, say, teach a course on or curate a retrospective of films depicting the cultural climate of 1980s America, this film, along with De Palma's 'Scarface,' would be among the selected.Let's first consider Tom Cruise. 'Cocktail' is one of the three or four movies most vital to the establishment of Cruise as the foremost male Hollywood sex symbol of the last two decades. Yet, on screen, he is curiously blank, even sort of dumb. His charisma lies in the fact that he is innately uncharismatic and charming only because he's an innocuous naïf whose cock is his compass, able to mimic the walk and the talk, bemused by his own ability to stand out in a situation by trying so hard to adapt. There's a vast, shall we say, rift between the charm of suave screen idols of the fifties and sixties, like Cary Grant, and the looks-sexy-in-a-business-suit boyish charm of latter-day capital-h Hunks like Cruise and Kevin Bacon. In 'Cocktail,' he is able to dominate women simply because the domination is effortless and incidental. Most of the one-night-stands Cruise's character scores are achieved because of a bet or a dare. The conquests appear to be of little consequence.'Cocktail' is a movie that seems to be written and made by people who have spent a lot of time drinking at bars, but not serving at them. The movie's two main characters have real redblooded bartender's names Brian Flanagan, played by Cruise, and Douglas Coughlin. It could only have been science that led to these names. Flanagan, fresh out of the military, establishes his sense of masculine privilege in the very opening scene, when he and his army buddies pull over a Greyhound bus with a red strobe light (the kind they have in undercover squadcars). He boards the bus and heads off to Manhattan with books on and naïve ideas of entrepreneurship, expecting to hit it rich as an executive but simultaneously harboring a working class man's resentment of the rich. He doesn't have a college degree, though, so he gets some advice from his uncle, a bar owner, and enrolls at a university after taking a gig at T.G.I. Friday's, where Coughlin (Bryan Brown) mentors him and turns him into the Hollywood version of a great bartender. That, of course, entails a cross between a circus performer and a Busby Berkeley one-man chorus line, as Flanagan can't shake the habit of tossing bottles, shakers and glasses into the air and practically juggling them. It's bartending as stuntwork.Coughlin, who likes to spout off-the-cuff platitudes under the heading of Coughlin's law (be prepared to roll your eyes), and Flanagan become buddies and form a deep masculine bond that is so cloying it fails to actually cloy. They have a falling out and Flanagan, having given up academics, heads to Jamaica to tend bar on the beach. There, he meets and has a torrid Harlequin Romance Novel-cover affair with Jordan Mooney, played by Elisabeth Shue who's the best thing in this movie. Shue is beautiful here and very convincingly projects intelligence and vulnerability. The two lovers milk the photogenic landscape of Jamaica, making love under Dunn's River Falls in broad daylight as though they were posing for a blue postcard for exhibitionist tourists. The Jamaica shown here, by the way, wouldn't even qualify for the adjective postcard. It's a department store Jamaica, ripe for the windows of a travel agency.Flangan is reunited with Coughlin, and his penchant for conquest drives Shue's good girl away, silently returning by night to New York. Other circumstances trigger Flanagan's return to New York, and this is where the movie begins to seriously misstep. Prior to this point, it's somewhat level in its depiction of masculine conquest and capitalist fantasy.In New York, Flangan has been shacking up with a rich elitist with whom he has nothing in common aside from their shared awe of his penis. Meanwhile, Coughlin is a newly married and newly wealthy man, whose riches make his fundamental shortcomings all the more apparent to him. Flanagan dumps the rich witch and locates Shue. Cruise's scenes with Shue from this point forward hit all the wrong notes, and even worse are the scenes between Flanagan and Jordan's father. These scenes miss a very open opportunity for honesty and simply reinforce expected stereotypes.'Cocktail' is one of those movies that just feels meticulously constructed and laboratory-tweaked to rake gold at the box office. It is, in its depictions, completely naïve, and as an entertainment product, full of thoroughly deliberated contrivances. Even the reparteé reeks of being engineered, and it's enjoyable on that level rather than as banter. This is a good times movie that resembles the music you hear in chain restaurants like Chili's and this feature's very own T.G.I. Fridays. It's like a magazine without content, with full-page ads from cover-to-cover. Of course, from an anthropological perspective, you can glean a lot of info from magazine advertisements from the distance of a decade or more. In this magazine, there are only two types of women Madonnas (Shue) and whores (the rest). The female viewer, though, will likely be too distracted by Cruise to notice, as this is a housewife's movie, designed and successful at inspiring masturbatory fantasies in women and wish-fulfillment in men. The movie is iconic, though. In its way, 'Cocktail' is the 'Casablanca' of the '80s, and that's not necessarily praise. "}]