[{"Title":"What will I do without a best friend? - Cecelia Carol Bloom","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"42 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Beaches is a movie about two people who have family, acquaintances, spouses, careers, etc. but they only had each other when they really needed a friend. That's what makes the ending so hard to take. I think we all can relate to that one or two special people (if you're lucky) in our lives who never actually go away even if they don't physically live close to you anymore. Months or even years can go by, but you always pick up where you left off, with ease, when you see or speak to them. You may annoy each other at times, but you will always love each other. They're always with you because you've shared so much. Some of us may never find our romantic long-lasting soul mate, but this movie makes the excellent point of showing that if you find a true friend in life you are truly blessed. "},{"Title":"Simply great!","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" There are good movies and there are those you'll never forget that you can see many many times. Beaches definitely goes into the latter category Actually I didn't get to see it until a few years ago, maybe because I'm a guy and this kind of movies aren't what guys usually rent but as one grows up, so does the appreciations for sensitive movies like Beaches.The book is even better and I wish they had made the movie even longer with more stories from the novel.I recommend Beaches to both women and men, if you think you couldn't cry from a movie - watch this and see if you're wrong - I was... "},{"Title":"UNDERRATED","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Garry Marshall's Beaches is another examination of friendship and how it can be affected over time. This theme was expertly handled by Arthur Penn in his 1981 masterpiece Four Friends. Beaches is just as powerful, but it's predictable ending  prevents it from truly reaching greatness and all sorts of odds and ends stick out.But maybe it's meant to be that way. It is based on a novel, unread by me, and for all I know it could be truly faithful to the source material. But I can only judge from the film itself. And for one, I am tired of the syrupy ending that was popularized by 1970's excellent Love Story.But despite that, Marshall has directed a very good movie here. He may be coasting lately, but Beaches proves he's a natural at the type of genre I like best the serious comedy. We laugh so we may not cry. That may sound corny, but it's true and many of my favorite films are that kind of film 10 (Blake Edwards, 1979), The Man Who Loved Women (Edwards, 1983), Skin Deep (Edwards, 1989), The Apartment (Billy Wilder, 1960), The Fortune Cookie (Wilder, 1966), Harry and Tonto (Paul Mazursky, 1974) and An Unmarried Woman (Mazursky, 1978) to name a few.The performances are first rate, especially Bette Midler, whom I'm only used to in comedies. With this film and Stella. she proves what a truly great actress she really is. She deserved an Oscar nod for this performance. Barbara Hershey is fine as always in the kind of role she can play in her sleep.One thing that really irritates me is the term chick flick, which implies that it's only a women's movie and men are not only discouraged to see one, but not allowed to even enjoy it. And people I know say that if a man enjoys a so-called chick flick, he must be gay.Well, I am definitely heterosexual and am affirmed enough in my manhood to see and enjoy these films. Isn't it about time we just stop the bull and admit that we like these films too? Action is O.K., gore is fine for those who like that kind of thing, but I'd take an intelligent and moving comedy/drama anyday over T&A. And if other guys can't accept that, they're missing out on some good films.***1/2 out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"A Classic Beautiful Movie!","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Beaches is a wonderful movie, about two young girls, CC and Hillary who meet each-other whilst they're both on holiday at the same resort. Both of them are quite different from each other, CC being a New York performer and Hillary being a rich kid from San Francisco. The friendship they make though is one that will live on forever and in the movie we seem from the young girls they were when they met each-other to the successful women they are now. Even though they are both now apart from each-other, they keep in touch through letters, until Hillary who's now lawyer moves to New York to stay CC, who's a singer. Once they meet up again, the movie them shows you everything from there romances to the jobs, they're doing now.  The cast in the movie, including Bette Midler, Barbara Hershey and Mayim Bialik, who plays the younger version of Bette Midlers character all give wonderful performances here as usual.Beaches is simply a classic amazing movie. I love it for many reasons, one being I'm a fan of Bette Midler and Mayim Bialik, who are both absolutely brilliant, the music in the movie is amazing and I absolutely love, Wind Beneath My Wings. I recommend the soundtrack too and of course main reason for liking this movie is, it's just really nice, sweet and of course beautiful. You have to love it! "},{"Title":"sad and funny at the same time.","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  a very moving movie, about a friendship with barbara hershey and bette midler.. very sad from brooklyn,, and bette midler is great, and john hurt is also fantastic. see it one time for it is a very sad and heart wrenching movie. taxes the soul with strong emotion, especially for the feeling of lost ones and lost friends. "},{"Title":"Chick flick for guys too","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A chick flick that appeals to all. The sunset/hearse cut was the most poignant death scene I've ever seen in film. Have to admit I was teary on that one. This is the kind of film that tugs at the heartstrings..guy or gal "},{"Title":"I like American movies now!","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was in another country once where the only American films they showed in the cinema were either the ultra-violent (Jean-Claude Van Damme / Steven Segal movies) or the ultra-steamy (e.g. Basic Instinct, Pretty Woman). Many parents would refuse to let their children watch these, allowing them only to watch Indian movies. I tried frantically to convince some of the locals that there were many other kinds of American films that they would love. They didn't believe me. So, I rented a video - Beaches. After watching it, the people around me were shocked and said, I like American movies now!Two unlikely friends meet by chance in childhood and keep up their friendship over the years through ups and downs, crises and victories, and reversing economic positions more than once. They inspire each other and fight over the same men. Hershey plays a girl raised in a rich conservative family while Midler plays an eccentric and poor show-biz wannabe. Midler becomes rich and famous and Hershey rejects her pompous upbringing becoming a poor lawyer working for the A.C.L.U.. But Midler cannot handle the new fame and fortune and Hershey cannot deal with her new lifestyle devoid of pampering. This rare tale of female friendship is a brilliantly-acted tearjerker. (10 out of 10) "},{"Title":"Entertaining and sentimental all at the same time","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Among the movies that get to us emotionally, Beaches is on the top of my list. Bette Midler and Barbara Hershey convey the story and portray their roles to perfection. Midler also shines with her musical talent much of the time, especially with the theme song Wind Beneath My Wings. All things considered, the movie is great.Midler is Ceceila Carol C.C. Bloom, a New York aspiring entertainer with attitude and a drive to be successful in show business no matter what it takes (which she does). Hershey is Hillary Whitney, a rich kid from San Francisco with little experience beyond her posh and privileged upbringing. She and C.C. meet by chance on a beach in Atlantic City when they are 11 years old. They instantly become friends, and keep in touch with each other over 25 to 30 years through thick and thin (i.e. distance, career challenges, marriage and divorce, fights, jealousy, competition for the same man, etc). Fate and choice bring them together when they need each other most. Ultimately, their bond will be tested in a way they never imagined. How they deal with this challenge is what will determine their destiny as friends.Midler and Hershey round out the film with believable character development. They have their moments (C.C. can get on your nerves with her ego, and Hillary has her ways), but they prove that friendship weathers the most difficult of circumstances. The small supporting cast is nice as well, including Lainie Kazan as Leona Bloom (C.C.'s mother), John Heard as John Pierce, C.C.'s theater director husband, James Reed as Michael Essex, Hillary's husband, Spalding Gray as Dr. Richard Milstein who Midler takes interest in while living with Hillary in San Francisco, Mayim Bialik and Marcie Leeds as young C.C. and Hillary, and Grace Johnston as Victoria, Hillary's daughter in the latter half of the film. The Wind Beneath My Wings montage toward the end will make more than a few emotional. I highly recommend Beaches because it will make you truly appreciate and strive for the meaning of friendship and those most important to you! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" It has got to be said that there are not many movies these days that will make you laugh and cry the way Beaches does...... from the hilarious 'Otto Titsling' song (which had me in creases!) to the powerful and emotional ending to the film, in which 'Wind Beneath My Wings' is immortalised.This is a film that has touched everyone I know that has seen it, and is a timeless classic that really illustrates the true meaning of friendship.A true 'Chick Flick'...... definitely well worth watching if you haven't seen it...... And If you don't cry, you certainly are not human! "},{"Title":"touching movie.one of the greatest movies","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie touched on so many emotions.I watched the movie so many times i can recite it by memory.I'll never get tired of this movie.Too bad that movies aren't made like this too often.I always cry at the same spots,over and over again.The part that makes me cry the most is when Hilary is dying and her and Cece are sitting on the beach and the look at each other and then the sunset.I start balling. Then poor little Victoria at the funeral and driving away in the limo away from her home!!! and at the end of the movie when CeCe finishes her concert and walks up the stairs with Victoria and the voices of when Cece and Hillary as children say keep in touch and we are friends,,aren't we.This movie..i love it! "}{"Title":"Midler & Hershey Were Great Together","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Was not very certain if I really wanted to view this film, some times Midler can be way out in left field. However, in this film Bette Midler, (CC Bloom),That Old Feeling,'97 plays a very self-centered person who will stop at nothing to get what she wants and if it is a career on the stage, just forget about love or a husband and children. Barbara Hershey,(Hillary),Riding the Bullet,'04, is a childhood friend of CC Bloom and in some ways they help each other, even though they are complete opposites. There is plenty of comedy, lots of fighting, and more drama than you can handle. Midler sings outstanding songs we all know by heart and it is a very entertaining film, but very very SAD! "},{"Title":"More guys should see  this","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" As a guy movie it lacks some features. For example, no car chases, unless you count the traffic stop, no explosions, only a little drinking, no sports. Still, it is a movie that more men should see. Adds perspective to your life. I don't know how true to life it is, after all; how many people still keep in touch with childhood friends. I did not see it until last year. I didn't realize it was that old, but the theme is timeless. Perhaps it appeals to me more than most folks because, as a child, I went to Atlantic City,in the days before the casinos. Yes, I have been back since, and it is never the same. Hilary's depressed attitude near the end is telling. She seems to be a sad character throughout her life. "},{"Title":"fantastic!!!!!","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The only reason i watched this movie, was because there was nothing else on TV. However, it was one of the best films i have, and probably will, ever see. It was funny when it needed to be, it was sad when it needed to be and it was excellent all the way through. The scene near the end when Wendy is dying, and her and CC are sitting next to each other at the beach, and then Bette Midler's song, Wind beneath my wings, begins to play, was just fantastic. It had tears in my eyes. Only three films have ever done that to me this, Armageddon and The Lion King lol, and that is something for a 15yr old male to admit ha-ha! This is one of the most heartwarming, and emotional films you will ever see, and the lead actors are exceptional!!!Watch it, and have a bit of a weep..... "},{"Title":"God, I hate this movie!","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Where do we start? With the overacting, the scenery-chewing? Okay, let's talk about the maudlin script first. In attempting to make us sad, we are fed forced scenes designed to make us care about these unlikable characters. One is brash, annoying, rude, selfish and mean. The other is hypocritical, deceitful, boring, and not as pretty as some think. At the end I didn't care for either of these women. Their regrets were too little, too late, and not believable. The music? Saccharine sweet-- ugh. I LOVE Bette Midler, but in a movie where she must play sympathetic and dramatic at some point, she comes across as if she's in a comedy. Is it fair to mention Barbara Hershey's lips? Uh, yes, she made a choice (a bad one) and has to live with it. Poor her. My guess is my girlfriend loves this film. I'll ask her. But if this film were a bit more over-the-top, it would rank up there with 'Mommie Dearest' and 'Showgirls' for unintentional comedy. I could go on, but it would be all bad... "},{"Title":"Let's get this out of the way first. I'm a guy...","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" ...and I think the movie is a treat. Yes, it has schmaltzy moments and it has catty moments, but what melodrama doesn't? It's been a tried-and-true film genre since the 1940's, and shows no signs of fading away yet. But I get sick and tired of society turning a cynical eye on sentiment or love or sensitivity in a film, and dismissing it as a chick flick. (40 years ago, the same type of film was dismissed as a 'woman's picture.' Obviously we haven't come a long way, baby.) What's the point of this tirade? The centerpiece of 'Beaches' is a friendship. Between two women. But it could be between a man and a woman; it could even be between two men, though they probably wouldn't have fought over the same things. But we all possess the same emotions insecurity, ambition, bitterness when things are bad, joy when things are great. This isn't just reserved for the fairer sex. Bette Midler essays what is close to an autobiographical role a singer bordering on the multiple-talent bandwagon. We already know Bette can be funny, but when she gets to emote she often sounds raw and untrained- something which makes her acting style seem all the more natural. Barbara Hershey compliments her perfectly as a beautiful socialite-turned-civil-rights-attorney whose face appears to be her fortune, but is smart, humble, and not at all self-absorbed. The film soars highest when the two friends are brought together by life circumstances celebrating holidays in a cold apartment; playing cards while doing the laundry; conversations thru letters; a beautiful pregnancy montage framed around the song Baby Mine; a tragedy in the film's 11th hour featuring Midler cooing a very melancholy I Think It's Gonna Rain Today. Guaranteed tears in your eyes. And this is all BEFORE the musical finale of Wind Beneath My Wings. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever...","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Although I'm Only 14yrs Old This Movie Is My Favourite...I Don't Know Why But Since I First Watched I Was 7yrs Old...And It Still Remains My Personal Favourite...Especially...The Part When They Are At The Summer House The Last Time And She Dies Facing The Sunset...And Then Wind Beneath My Wings Starts Playing And Then U See C.C And Victoria At The Funeral...I Start Crying..Thats My Favourite..Part.....Even The Soundtrack..The Music In It Is Very Good...!!!...I'm Even Trying To Find The Special Edition Of This Movie But I Cant Find It Anywhere...I Only Found The Original Version....((....Beaches The Best Movie Ever.... "},{"Title":"Friendship is Precious","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I can remember the first time I saw this movie. Me and my best friend wanted a chick flick to watch and my brothers friend recommended it. We did a bit of grumbling saying 'oh this is going to be rubbish etc.' But after the first 10 minutes we were glued to the screen and by the end we were both in tears and hugging each other! That made us realise how valuable our friendship is and how we couldn't cope without each other. The songs are brilliant and get stuck in your head you find yourself singing them in the most random places. It is superbly acted (espescially Bette Midler as CC) and pulls on your heart-strings. If you don't cry at this movie you must have a heart of stone! Brilliant. 9/10 "},{"Title":"The most touching movie ever","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Jesus, I don't know, how often I watched this movie 'til now, and I will see it a dozen more times, and every time I watch it I can't stop from crying. This sensual relationship, it's more than a friendship, between C.C. Bloom and Hilary is photographed so perfect, without any schmaltz. Bette Midler is just perfect for this role, because she can show nearly everything she can comedy, singing and drama and I adore her every single second. Also Barbara Hershey as the woman in the shadow is so touching. This movie shows, what friendship really means. You can have fights, you can get married and get divorced, but true friendship lasts forever. "},{"Title":"Exceptional movie!","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" A truly amazing film!!! It is worth pointing out that I cry at a lot of films, but Beaches really knows how to pull the hearts strings in all the right ways! From side splitting laughter to bawling your eyes out, this film has it all. Bette Midler and Barbara Hershey really convinced me that their friendship was real, and believe me that is no easy thing to do!! The highlight of the film for me is the ending, with the two best friends at each others sides, even in the face of death. Bette Midler does a truly remarkable job as an actress but her singing is even better. 'Wind Beneath My Wings' is the perfect song for a perfect movie, yet is so under-rated. The lyrics are so suited to the film, Bette's vocals really make the hairs on your neck stand on end and even watching the song video reduces me to tears now! Beaches is not your usual tear-jerking chick flick, it is so much more and will leave you with the message of the true meaning of friendship . . . forever. "},{"Title":"Im obsessed","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" i'm so obsessed with this movie. i love watching it over and over. its really a great piece of work. bette midler is a personal favorite of mine and its just amazing to see how she puts her heart into this movie. with so much diversity among her movies its just been great to see her so lively in this one. its a wonderful piece of work portraying a friendship lasting through almost everything something like that could go through and still leaning on each other. amazing movie, i can't say much more than that. i would highly recommend it to anyone who is a fan of chick flicks, bette midler, or mushy movies in general, this one brings tears and love to every eye "}{"Title":"Best Movie Ever!","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies! I have been watching this movie sense I was three years old. I have seen it a billion times over, and I still cry during the movie. This movie has funny parts, dramatic parts, and sad parts. I love the songs in the movie, but I was surprised to find out that some of the voices were indeed fake (such as C.C.,when she was little, in her 'Glory Of Love' number). If you like this movie I suggest you watch the beaches bloopers (under the Special Features). So I suggest you grab your best friend and a box of Kleenexes, for this film is a very successful one in make you cry, and laugh.When the irrepressible C.C. Bloom (Bette Midler) and the shy and proper Hillary Whitney (Barbara Hershey) first meet under the boardwalk at the beach, all the 11-year-olds have in common is the need for a best friend. World apart in lifestyle and location, their friendship ebbs and flows through a lifetime of highs and lows, career changes, marriages, jealousy and more. From the boardwalk in Atlantic City to the beach house on the pacific, 'Beaches' will remind you of what being a true friend means. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie for friends everywhere","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is one of my favorite movies of all time. I could sent down and watch the movie over and over again because it is just that great. The soundtrack is also awesome. I think I like the movie so much because I have a best friend like that and I know that no matter what I can always turn to that person in a time of need and that person knows that she can always turn to me. Barbra Hershey and Bette Midler have great chemistry together and make me truly believe that they have been friends forever. They each put so much into their characters that we truly love them and feel the story is true. This movie is just great and I would recommend it to anyone to watch. Beaches has got to be one of the best movies ever filmed. The cast truly shines and Bette Midler's voice just adds to making the movie that much better. I think that no matter how old I get I will always find my way back to watching this movie when I am thinking of my best friend and when I am in a time of need. Anyone who has seen this movie will see that how much these two women have put into their characters to make us feel and see that real lifelong friends go through good and bad times but no matter what happens they are always there for each other. In my opinion, I really feel that they have done this. Even with everything they went through in their lives they so us that no matter what happens your true friends will be there for you when ever you need. This two characters show us what it really means to be a true friend. A true friend is someone who will drop whatever it is that she is doing to run to their friend in a time of need. This movie really shows that true friends are there forever! "},{"Title":"A beautifully acted, heart warming film that everyone can relate to.","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is without a doubt an amazingly well directed and well cast film. It takes you through the lives of two childhood friends,one with a wealthy family and well behaved manner and the other,a crazy dreamer with a dazzling talent and a slightly less well behaved manner.'Beaches' shows the highs and lows of both womens lives,how different they were, and how similar they have become. You may find that it can seen to drag on slightly in places but there is something in it that everyone can relate to and the soundtrack is simply brilliant. A total tear jerker at times but a beautifully made film that is definitely well worth seeing and I would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Not my sort of movie!","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" No, definitely not my usual sort of movie (being a bloke) but I loved this. The kids are great (and I usually hate child actors in lead roles) and Midler & Hearshey are on top form. Sure it's predictable and plays on the heartstrings but not in the vomit inducing way so many of these type of films seem to do. Brassy chick meets demure kid, chalk meets cheese, they become great mates, fall out, fall in, fall out again, fall in again, fall out, tragedy strikes and by the end the world becomes a warmer place and you'd have to have a hard heart not to have at least a lump in your throat by the end. Great theme song too. You should be able to get the DVD of this for about £2 to £3 in your local store nowadays, a bargain! "},{"Title":"Great movie, sad, but also inspiring!!!","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Beaches is a truly wonderful movie. Starring Bette Midler and Barbara Hershey, this movie is about two women who first meet on the beach in Atlantic City when they were kids; one is from a rich family and the other is into show business. They become instant friends, and keep in touch with each other over the years through the mail, keeping each other informed about their current situations. I'm truly a big fan of Bette Midler and thought she was truly marvelous in her role as CC Bloom. The same thing applies to Barbara Hershey in her role as Hillary. I don't know in general if any other two actresses could have played these characters as beautifully as Bette and Barbara did. They were great!! During the course of the movie, you are informed about their goings on in life; CC is struggling to keep busy with her acting and Hillary becomes a lawyer, and after a while, meets a guy who is also one and they get married. I thought it was so wonderful to see the scene where CC and Hillary were reunited in New York, and become roommates in CC's apartment. There are also some tense moments in the friendship as well (yes, every friendship can have its rare bad moments), such as the scene where they get into a heated argument in the department store, CC writes to Hillary to try to bury the hatchet, but her letters are sent back to her, and they see each other again in some nightclub (you would almost think at first that their friendship was not worth saving). There, they patch things up through tears and CC learns that Hill is pregnant (by her husband whom she caught with another woman--wearing her robe!!). Lainie Kazan (I also regard her as a great actress) was wonderful in the movie as CC's mother, even though she was in no more than two scenes. The one scene I thought was the saddest was when Hillary got sick due to viral cardiomyopathy (a viral disease that causes damage to heart tissue) and her daughter became so scared and nervous. Hill died at the end of the movie. Bette's singing in the movie was wonderful (check out that Otto Titsling segment; a real riot). The one song from the movie and the soundtrack album that I and a lot of other people know is the most memorable is Wind Beneath My Wings. I LOVE that song so much, and think it is a real inspiring and kind of a sad song as well (Come on, who hasn't heard this song and/or doesn't like it?). People who have seen this movie automatically mention this song and their liking of it very much, no question about it. I learned that the song won a Grammy for Best Song of the Year in 1989--that is excellent!! I also love the other songs on the album. Any person who watches that ending scene (where Hillary and CC are sitting on the beach to Hill's funeral) with that song playing or even hearing that song on the soundtrack album would obviously be reaching for a Kleenex, if they have emotions that are so fragile. This is a truly unforgettable movie to watch and will make you realize for sure that you should always have friends to stick with you through thick and thin, good times and bad. I also have the soundtrack album of this movie as well on LP, cassette tape and CD. Bette's acting is as equally wonderful as her singing. Kudos to Bette and Barbara for their roles. Great job, ladies!! "},{"Title":". . . The Story of Love","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"    I rented the dvd and loved it. I knew what the ending entaled,but watched anyway. The ending was sad. The acting was great. But 2 main factors threw me off  the parts of the 70's-early 80's weren't defined. Maybe if they would have added a 1976,or 1978 at the openings of those scenes. Oh well. The other thing as Barbara Hershey looks younger when she died,then when she was in her 20's. Over all it was a great movie. "},{"Title":"What a sad'un","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of the tear jerking films i have ever seen. I first saw it about 10 years ago, and ever since then, every time i have watched it i cried a little.The great soundtrack makes the movie even more dramatic and it will stay in my heart as one of my favourite films of all time.  "},{"Title":"a real heart tugger in a friendship movie","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I had recently lost a girlfriend and now believe that relationships should be treasured. I felt that through the ups and downs of their relationship, C.C. and Hilary were true to each other and shared life, hope and laughter. I believe true relationships stand the test of time, and this movie proves it. "},{"Title":"A TOTAL tear-jerker!","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Okay.....this movie rocked.....bottom line! I cried and still cry when I watch this. Loved the storyline, acting, writing.....EVERYTHING! Reminds me of my best friend that I met when I was in the 5th grade. Now, almost 25 years later, we are STILL best friends. Saw a lot of myself and her in this as well......her child is my godchild.....so many similarities to our own friendship! Nothing in common, very different people except for one thing, a lifetime of friendship! The only difference We would NEVER THINK of going after the same man, NO WAY! Exceptional movie! "},{"Title":"A touching movie with a great soundtrack.","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A truly touching movie about two friends who meet as children and keep in touch into adulthood.  Bette Midler is great as CC Bloom and sings a great soundtrack including the now classic hit Wind Beneath My Wings.  I really liked this movie and have purchased it both on VHS and DVD and often share it with friends.  (I saw it twice in the theater.)  Everyone should see this movie. "}{"Title":"you gotta give a little, take a little, and let your poor heart break a little...","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Man, I will LOVE this movie for-ev-ar!It is right up there on my top five favorite movies of all time. I have watched this movie ever since I was a little girl along with my sisters and mom. Never a dry face in the house.  I always find myself quoting this film or singing the songs from the soundtrack which of course I own...So if your not a girl, or you are a girl but you hate sappy movies that revolve around deep personal relationships-  you might not like this movie. But suck it up and watch. mmmkay? "},{"Title":"Strange adaptation of a very good book","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Iris Ranier Dart's novel was obviously written with Bette Midler in mind (there's even a mention of a movie called Jilted which is the Midler character, Cee Cee Bloom's version of Midler's own fiasco, Jinxed.)  So, she's wonderful in the role, and Mayim Bialik is perfect as the 11 year old Cee Cee.  But Barbara Hershey (as Hillary, a character called Bertie in the book) is cold instead of cool.  Besides the odd name changes (Bertie/Hillary's daughter's name is changed from Nina to Victoria) the movie left out a key scene (it takes place in Hawaii) which explains one of the turns that their friendship takes.  The movie replaces this scene with more of Hershey being cold and Midler being angry.Midler gives some terrific musical numbers, but they don't work within the structure of the movie (its understandable that they couldn't realistically flashback to her being a 19 year old in summer stock, but The Factory and Otto Titzling, respectively fascinating and funny, belong in another film.)I understand when books are changed a bit in order to fit into a two-hour-movie.  I DON'T understand changing plots --why buy the rights if you're not going to keep the story?  Write your own!  "},{"Title":"Whoa...","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok...I just finished watching this movie. Was on national TV. And I CRIED! I really cried. The last movie I saw that I really cried was last year. This is a great, humourous(a bit) and every bit of emotional as it is, movie. I just love it. "},{"Title":"MY FAVORITE MOVIE OF ALL TIME","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I don't care how many times I see this movie. I will love it just as much every time. It will make you laugh and shed (quite) a few tears.I know each scene , play-by-play, word-for-word.And deep down ....****SPOILER********SPOILER****I always hope during the film that Hillary doesn't die.Though inevitably she does. This film will always be my favorite. WATCH IT!  OVER AND OVER AGAIN! "},{"Title":"A MOVIE TO CRY FOR.","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  'Beaches' has been one of my favourite films since the first time I saw it in 1988.I have seen it many times since and it has never failed to move me. It is a rollercoaster ride of emotions.It is hugely entertaining,humerous and heart-wrenching at the end.The music is a plus for Bette Midler fans and the brilliantly sung 'Wind Beneath my Wings' is the perfect accompanyment for this film. "},{"Title":"tear-jerker","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have watched this movie a million times.  Each time I cry.  This reminds me of my two best friends (one that died of cancer). I love Bette Midler and think she is perfect in this movie.  I can't wait to find it on DVD. "},{"Title":"a beautiful film, emotional yet never mushy","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I first watched Beaches with my childhood best friend - she said it was her favourite film, and it swiftly became mine.  The characters were a hotch potch combo of each of us, i could never say definately i was one and she was the other, because we each had traits of both. We'd been friends forever but even as we watched this we were driving each other crazy.  we soon drifted apart.  one of us went on to be seriously ill, the other to develop an amazing singing voice (guess which one!)  At the time watching the film always made me really sad (must have know inside how it would turn out) but now it makes me smile slightly, in the way an old musical, or a cartoon i watched when i was a baby does. theres something comforting about watching human relationships, seeing what people mean to each other, and how their lives interact.  its soothing. I suspect everybody can identify with this film.  It shows how two people from very different worlds can mean the world to each other - and even when they cant stand each other, you know they still care a lot. The storyline sounds sentimental and cliched, but it isnt, beaches is never over-emotional or excessively tear-jerking. Its realistic and perfect to curl upto on a rainy day. And its the perfect tribute to those friendships where you know each other so well you drive each other crazy. Wind Beneath my Wings btw, is one of the most beautiful songs ever written. and if this review sounds stuffy its becoz its 2am and im tired, lol just watch it. "},{"Title":"The most amazing story of purest friendship!","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I first saw this film when I was 12 years old, now I am 18 and it still makes me cry everytime I see it.  I think its an amazing story of true friendship and of how there is always that one special person you will find and count on all you life - no matter what you go through.  It shows you that yes, friends do hurt each other but it's all part of making that friendship bond even tighter.  So much so that when you have a situation like their's, you know that no matter what happens in their hearts they will each live on.  It's a beautiful film that everyone should see. "},{"Title":"great tearjearker","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Beaches is definitely one of those movies you watch when you're in the mood to just have a good cry, and nothing else. Critics have hammered this movie because of its predictablility and overtly melodramatic flow, but in a strange way it is what I like about this movie. For some reason, this movie sits well with me, and I am usually a very thorough critic of films. Perhaps it is because I happened to catch the movie when I was just hanging out at home with nothing to do. Bette Midler and Barbara Hershey were pretty good as chums, and I actually began to care about the characters. Impressive cast also helps to make Beaches a pleasant watch, and although the script isn't neccessarily impeccable, it is still worth seeing. Also the soundtrack to the movie is worth the effort.My overall rating is a 6.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Lot Of Mixed Feelings","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I can see that from reading peoples summarys there's a lot of mixed feelings about either liking the film or hating it.  First of all I must say I liked the film, but yet I can see how you might hate it.  Yes it is a chick flick, but so what?  And first of all I DON'T THINK BETTE MIDLER is annoying at all!!!!!!!  She's Great.  Although I'm not that crazy about Barbara Hershey. But this was a great film.  If you did'nt see that and you're one of those guys who only likes macho movies, well You type of people really really annoy me!  Go see it and see what you think. "}{"Title":"The Best of Bette - Good for a Laugh and a Cry","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I love Bette Midler.  I just do.  But I feel some of her films haven't been up to the calibre she is capable of.  Beaches is NOT one of these films.A beautifully sappy film about two friends from opposite sides of the tracks - as children, they befriend each other on the beaches of Atlantic City where a young Cee-Cee (Midler) is a hopeful child-star-wannabe.  We see their lives as they grow up and apart from each other, only to see that the true friendship has never gone from their lives, no matter how burdensome their relationship has become.Barbara Hershey is wonderful as the friend from the right side of the tracks, and Mayim Bialik is eerily yet perfectly cast as a young Midler. Lainie Kazan is fantastic (as always) as Midler's stage-mother Leona.Get your tissues out, but also get ready to laugh through this beautifully written, comical and tragic story about true friendships. "},{"Title":"THIS IS A MOVIE YOU WANNA SEE WITH YOUR GIRL FRIENDS","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was so beautiful. it made me cry and nothing ever makes me cry....see it with your best friend .this movie will definitely get to you. it made me cry and the songs are great.this movie shows the importance of friendship. "},{"Title":"You'll cry - guaranteed!","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I've seen this film time and time again and it gets me every time. There's one particular line right near the end and, if I'm not already crying by then, I'm gone!!Any friends will see parallels to some aspect of their own friendships in this film - it's straight from the heart.And the soundtrack....buy it now!! "},{"Title":"A great tear-jerker for two pals","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"    This is the perfect movie for a couple of best girlfriends to get together and watch. Bette Midler was (and has) never been better, Barbara Hershey was robbed of an Oscar nomination and Lainie Kazan is an ideal stage mom. John Heard as Bette's husband (in the film) is good too and James Reid is a good-looking but low-life husband for Hershey. The story moves at a fast pace but there may be one or two moments (at least the first couple of times you see the film) where you may have to backtrack and go over something you may have missed.    The theme song (the unforgettable) Wind Beneath My Wings is a brilliant commemoration to the power of real friendship. There undoubtedly will be several tears in more than one place but it is well worth the time spent. See it if only for the mind-boggling resemblance of Mayam Bialik to the Divine Miss M.!   "},{"Title":"If you have the ability to make tears, it'll make you cry . . .","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have seen this movie sooooo many times and I cry every single time. This movie is great because it explores a friendship from the literal beginning to the literal end.A lot of friendships break up because people grow and change but this friendship stood the test of time.  The music score was exceptional.  I loved this movie and would recommend it to anyone who thinks friendships are important and should last forever. "},{"Title":"THE FIRST MOVIE TO EVER MAKE ME CRY","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is such a phenomenal one.  Bette Midler and Nicole Hersey do great jobs portraying C.C. Bloom and Hillary Whitney. This movie was the first movie to ever make me cry.  It is such an intense story of friendship and love and heartbreak.  It shows that two people can be friends for over thirty years.  Through all of their trials and tribulations that they had over that time span they stayed together right to the end.  Unfortunately, to one of their ends.  The music in this movie is also spectacular.  Bette Midler does a wonderful job on this compilation of her songs.  My favorite, like many others, was Wind Beneath My Wings.  This movie really affected me and I know it has because I may have seen it over 20 times but I still cry at the ending and I also start to get teary eyed whenever I hear Wind Beneath My Wings.  If you haven't seen this movie, you should go to the video store, rent it, go home, and curl up with your loved one or share it with a friend.  This movie will definitely give you a different aspect on you friendships with different people.  It has for me.  "},{"Title":"One of the saddest movies i've seen","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Beaches has to be one of the saddest movies i've seen.  It's a very touching movie about friendship.  Very fine performances by Bette Midler and Barbara Hershey.This movie is a cute little story, that I love watching.  It's very enjoyable, but don't forget the tissues.If you haven't yet seen this, you should.  Especially if you like Bette Midler and her music.  I loved Beaches.  Watch it today if you feel like watching a cute and moving drama. "},{"Title":"Weepier than Madame X and Imitation of Life on a double bill.","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I still can't hear Wind beneath my wings without a tear coming to my eye.Last year when this was played in my favourite restaurant my eyes filled and to explain this to my six year old I had to give a quick synopsis - I was sobbing before I got to the end!The first time I saw the movie I was so broken-hearted at the end that my husband thought he was going to have to call a doctor to sedate me.  Thank god we were watching it on video!  My best friend thoroughly embarrassed herself at the cinema on a date and couldn't bear to go out with the guy again!!I don't care how crass or badly acted the men of this world think this film is - any film which arouses this much emotion is more than worth it. "},{"Title":"My Favorite movie of all time!","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Even though I've seen this movie more than 20 times, I still find myself getting teary- eyed at the end. It's a beautiful story of two women who are completely different from each other in every way, but who remain best friends through Thick and Thin. Masterful performances by Bette Midler, who thoroughly deserved the Grammy for her song Wind Beneath my Wings, and Barbara Hershey. All in all, a great movie! "},{"Title":"The best girls night in film ever!","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If you are planning a night in or are just in the mood to have a cry for the sake of it this is the best film to watch. Not only does it make you consider your own mortality but it makes you appreciate your nearest and dearest all the more.The film tugs at the heart strings and will have you singing its wonderful songs for days after.Rent the video now. Even better buy it as you WILL want to see it again.  "}{"Title":"The best movie ever made","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  For anyone who has not seen this movie, I believe you need to see it.  I think it's the best movie ever made.  The story is wonderful, the music is wonderful, and everything put together is wonderful.  I've watched this movie many times, and I could watch it again and again.  It's the only movie I've seen that's ever made me cry.  My favorite song from the movie is The Wind Beneath My Wings.  This movie is a great story of friendship. "},{"Title":"realistic touching movie","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I must say, that this movie is incredible. it is only the fifth time i watched it that i didn't cry in the end. for me, bette midler is nothing else but CC blum. the movie shows us one of the biggest enemies of true friendships jealousy. and it also shows that once you are honest and talk about things, you can make it through. it is an amazing touching movie, that is so sad from so many aspects. i think the cardiological disease is symbolic to a broken heart. I really recommend everyone to see this movie and bawl their eyes out. i really don't know how anyone can rate this movie 0. TAKE IT !!! "},{"Title":"Very emotional but slightly boring at times.","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is successful in its dramatic presentation. It actually made me feel something all the way through. It may get slightly boring at times and the film is certainly not worth watching too many times in a short period of time, but it made my emotions going and not many movies can do that. The ending's sadness is greatly amplified by the beautiful song Wind Beneath My Wings, and I had tears in my eyes at the end. I think it deserves 7/10. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST MOVIES EVER MADE !!","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is definitely one of the best I've ever seen.It's a beautiful story about true friendship that lasts forever.The music is so beautiful !  I specially like the song The wind beneath my wings, magistrally performed by Bette Middler.If you haven't seen this movie, don't wait any longer. You're missing one of the best of all times.Enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Melodrama mixed with comedy","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Bette Midler and Barbara Hershey star as long time friends who sacrifice their personal lives for their careers, but remain loyal to each other through the years.Midler shows off her singing and dancing talents as CC Bloom, and it is a role that's perfect for her. Hershey plays the elegantly beautiful and Waspy Hillary Whitney to the hilt. The chemistry between them is terrific, but at time the story lags and becomes predictable. John Heard and James Read as CC and Hillary's husbands turn in good performances as well, but they take a back seat to the women.The film is entertaining, and the friendship as it unwinds is both interesting and engaging to watch. But overall, the movie is so-so. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was just a tyke, my mom had taped it off of the television when it played as a special. I've quoted from it and memorized lines, music, dances, everything ever since. Now that I'm older and can understand the movies story and meaning, its even better! The fact that a kid like I was can appreciate it for its comedy and music, then learn to appreciate the moral of the movie later in life, is just the best! ) I now own the movie on DVD (which I'm so glad I found it) and have shared it with the unfortunate souls that haven't seen it yet! Like my best friend of 11 years. We very much can relate to many of the situations in the movie, and we both agree we hope our story ends with the bond but maybe happier. (of course). If we had to assign roles, I would be Hillary Whitney and my bf would be CC...all the way, almost to a T. LOVE LOVE LOVE this movie! "},{"Title":"Artificial sentiment and brash, theatrical humor...","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Despite the usual pep from Bette Midler, Beaches is a wan variation on those female-buddy pictures from the 1940s (Dark Victory in particular). It strives to create a tearjerking scenario, yet the earnest last act is hard to take seriously since the film hasn't an honest bone in its body. The infrequent songs (including the hit The Wind Beneath My Wings) are an unbroken string of oldies (one song is lifted from 1941's Dumbo!). I didn't for one second believe Midler and puffy-lipped Barbara Hershey were old friends/rivals, and the whole musty enterprise is a little cockeyed (check out Midler's musical number The Factory with all those grotesque masks!). The camera-work is continually uncertain, the verbal fights are awkward or creaky, the static relationships half-realized at best. It isn't even a good-looking movie, and it jumps around in fits and starts. Beaches is dry-docked. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Well, I saw it at last....","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The ambitious singer CC and the rich, but shy Hillary meet as 11-year olds, and embark on a life-long friendship, throughout relationships and splits, career ups and downs, romantic rivalries, financial rollercoasters and, ultimately, a dose of Glamorous Hollywood Fatal Disease.This film is a tearjerker chickflick of some renown, and I have never seen it until now (2016) despite in being released 28 years ago. This has not been deliberate I may not be part of the target demographic for tearjerker chickflicks, but I am not closed to their appeal. In fact, I was quite looking forward to shedding a tear or two, and the old bottom lip quivered from time to time in anticipation as the rather soapy events of the story unfolded.And then it got to the point where the inevitable took place, and I sat there, resolutely unmoved. Given that the whole point of the movie was, well, you know what the point was, I felt that it was delivered with such tasteful lack of obviousness that it carried little emotional weight. I know that this is not the case for others, but I was quite disappointed not to feel more.Bette Midler and Barbara Hershey are both fine. "},{"Title":"OK, but not great","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" OK, but not great, drama. A story that follows the lives of two women, from their meeting as 11- year olds, their resulting friendship, and then the ups and downs of their relationship, careers and personal lives. Decent enough story and reasonably emotional. However, it feels predictable and unoriginal. While emotionally manipulative, it doesn't really offer anything new on the subject of friendship.Also, thanks to Bette Midler's performance, it often veers into comedy space, and over-the-top comedy at that. While Midler is great in these scenes, it does lighten the mood too much. "},{"Title":"But Bette's got to have friends.....","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Under the Boardwalk, Down by the Sea....With one of the most magical musical moments to open a film, Bette Midler immediately shows what she has in star quality after a series of fun comedies which made her one of the biggest box office queens of the late 1980's. Beaches, like The Rose years before, proved she could do drama, and here she mixes in a spiky personality for great comic effect. Who else could sing a song like Otto Titsling and get away with it, lyrics like Do you buy a titsling or do you buy a brazieere?, one of the most delightfully campy songs in film history. She also gets to sing the Cole Porter standard I've Still Got My Health (a song originated by Ethel Merman in Panama Hattie) and of course her huge hit, Wind Beneath My Wings, the ode to her character's friendship with the dying Barbara Hershey, a divorced wife and mother who she's known since she was little.C.C. Bloom is her name and tight red curls are her game. She goes from singing telegram girl to Broadway star all the while remaining close to sweet Hilary, the rich girl she met under the boardwalk. The film isn't about the men in their life, rather the devotion these two have to each other that undergoes many obstacles but endures in spite of everything and gives C.C. the opportunity to show what a true friend is really all about. Mayim Bialik plays the young C.C. as if she was Bette shrunken down to a tot and lead her to the lead role in T.V.'s Blossom. Lainie Kazan makes the most of her role as Bette's overly loving mother who realizes she didn't have enough to give for the attention-starved C.C. John Heard is the man who only briefly comes between the two friends, but when you've got a friendship as deep as these two, it will take more than just a man to break that up. Keep your Kleenex handy; The conclusion is the ultimate tearjerker in the shade of Terms of Endearment, The Color Purple and Steel Magnolias. "}{"Title":"The most saddest live action movies of all time.","Date":"2 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" My mom told me about this film ages ago and I seen it on TV twice before and let me tell yeah that this movie was so so sad to watch I literally cried every time I watch and hear that song Wind Beneath My Wings(yeah that is hands down the saddest songs of ALL time for me as it moves me and i always cry at it).The movie tells the tale of two best friends who meet up in Atlantic Beach and knew each other since they were kids. Now as adults one of them is a singer while the other isn't but she is hiding something from her best friend,she has this condition that the doctors can't help her with and she has a few months to live.Bottom line if you are like me a big softie who gets easily upset over movies involving dad's dying,animals dying or if you lost a loved one. Then check out Beaches. "},{"Title":"Girlfriends","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Years ago, on the beach at Atlantic City, two 11-year-old girls strike up a friendship. One is a poor Jewish performer from the Bronx and the other is a rich WASP tyke from San Francisco. Although they are very different, the youngsters immediately bond. They keep in touch by writing letters. For some unexplained reason, the girls do not see each other in person until they are all grown up. Still struggling to make in on the stage, obviously Broadway-bound Bette Midler (as Cecilia Carol CC Bloom) welcomes beautiful attorney Barbara Hershey (as Hillary Hill Whitney) as her New York City roommate...Trying to separate herself from her father's millions, Ms. Hershey wants to help poor people with her lawyer skills. Things take an expected turn when Ms. Midler's handsome director John Heard (as John Pierce) notices Hershey's beauty. The event foreshadowed in the opening and throughout becomes a reality. Near the end, Midler sings her #1 Grammy-award winning hit Wind Beneath My Wings. This is a formula-type movie which doesn't add anything interesting to the genre. One improvement could have been to show more form Hershey's perspective; nonetheless, she makes an equal or superior impression...During the pregnancy portions, Midler and Hershey are shown in a few clips - just having fun together. This elevates their friendship for the viewer and should have been done earlier, when they met as adults. Instead, we almost immediately see them in conflict over the silly (Christmas carols) and the serious (men). For half the film, the chemistry is missing. Still, it's a good story for Midler and her hit single is used to great effect (and it's about a friend, not a lover). Young performers Grace Johnston (as Victoria), Mayim Bialik (as little CC), and Marcie Leeds (as little Hill) benefit beautifully from Garry Marshall's direction.****** Beaches (12/21/88) Garry Marshall ~ Bette Midler, Barbara Hershey, John Heard, Grace Johnston "},{"Title":"Shannon Apperson Summary","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" this movie is my all time favorite movie of all time. From the beginning to the end it is almost like real life events and I can relate to the movie because i myself have been through similar issues. I cry each and every time i watch it. I love the realness of the movie and wish there would have been a part two. We look at life in different ways as humans, but in all reality each of us has personally or even know somebody with a life threatening illness. How does one cope? How do we deal with illness and death? This movie is a great example of real life and how people grow closes and come together even though life has its downs. this movie will always be dear to my heart and i would recommend it to anyone even if it is over 20 years old "},{"Title":"In my top 5","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I'm surprised to see this only has a 6.3/10 so far... it's in my top 5 favorite movies of all time. Some guys say it's a chick flick but that's silly; this is a tale of friendship, life struggles, love, sorry, and pain. I love the friendship the two little girls had in the movie. Simply outstanding...The soundtrack, of course, is awesome. The acting is superb... The lady that played Hilary was outstanding.It also had some really funny parts, like the part with the dog.The ending is so painful...Definitely a must-see! "},{"Title":"Hillary dies of cardiomyopathy","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I love the movie Beaches so much I bought it on Amazon. Hillary dies of cardiomyopathy in the movie and that's what I have. I watch her sitting outside her beach house or sitting in her pajamas and I think about myself. Also, her last scene in the hospital gasping for air reminds me of myself when I was in the hospital. In the movie, Hillary says you know I can't walk that far when C.C. asks her to go for lobsters. Well, I have the same problem. Whoever made this movie knew what they were talking about when they show Hillary's cardiomyopathy. I just love this movie so much because it shows an accurate description of Hillary's illness. I felt bad for her daughter, Victoria also. "},{"Title":"Forever Friends.","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Two young girls meet whilst on holiday in Atlantic city. Tho both of them are from vastly different backgrounds they strike up a friendship that will literally last a lifetime.Directed by Gary Marshall, Beaches is adapted by Mary Agnes Donoghue from Iris Rainer Dart's novel, and stars Bette Midler & Barbara Hershey as the two female protagonists taking on the trials and tribulations of life and friendship. Unashamedly a hankie dampener first and foremost, Beaches is ever watchable in spite of its over sentimental structure and reliance on clichés at every turn. Tho it at times feels like an excuse for Midler to flex her lungs, her character thankfully calls for her to show some range. Which she duly delivers thru a number of emotional crises' and a battle against her own innate selfishness. Hershey is perfect foil, a touch classy, fashionable and truly heartfelt as the finale draws in like some dark party pooper. The guys in the girls loves come an go, and by and large they are stereotypically drawn. Each one serving only to bring the girls closer together. While the ending itself, backed up by the wonderful Midler rendition of Wind Beneath My Wings, is nicely handled and has an air of dignity about it.It's another film in the long line of film's made to tug the heartstrings. Specifically in this case, those belonging to the ladies. So with that, as a guy myself, I felt a touch alienated by the movies approach work. But be that as it may, there's no denying the impact the piece can have if one is prepared to commit emotionally to it. At times funny, and even breezy for a large portion of its running time, Beaches lives or dies by its final quarter. With that, it's a winner that ultimately has achieved all it set out to do. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"The glory of love;its evolution through Beaches.","Date":"25 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Cecilia Bloom,aspiring Shirley Temple,sings The glory of love at an audition right at the beginning of Beaches,minutes after she has met her new friend Hilary.Its a innocent and simple song and she sings it innocently and simply.Cecilia herself is innocent,if a tad precocious. Next time she sings it she has knocked about a bit,the song has altered its tempo,the accompaniment pushier.By the time we have reached the end of the movie it gets the full Gordon Jenkins - type treatment,altered chords,brilliant string and brass arrangement,C.C. Bloom,moulded by the sad events that have led her to where she is,has become a grown - up person with responsibilities,no longer a maverick. The movie could be summed up as A star is born.Her best friend dies. Cue music for Big Numberif I were cynical,but mostly I went along with it because I enjoy Ms Midler with her Barbra Streisand without the restraint schtick. Miss Barbara Hershey is appropriately milquetoast as her WASP friend. Dominated by her father,controlled by her husband,a person less likely to retain the friendship of such a hugely talented but eccentric star would be harder to imagine.And I guess that's the point. At the end of the day there's only room for one big ego in Beaches,and Ms Midler goes full tilt at everything. She sings beautifully and overacts madly.And it just about balances out. "},{"Title":"Best Friends Forever","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" In this life, we are fortunate to meet the people that change our lives. Most of the friends that we find seem to fade away over time, but there will always be the ones that would never leave our side. And through all the trials that we face, the dark moments that come, they stay with us, taking us by the hand, and holding us tight, and these are the people that we would never forget. They are our heroes, and the bonds between us would never break but strain under the weight of this world. But they would stay with us until we reach our journey's end, and friendships such as this echo strongly in a beautifully written masterpiece called Beaches. "},{"Title":"Best Friends For Life","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a decent enough exploration of the lifelong friendship between two very different women, CC (Bette Midler) and Hillary (Barbara Hershey.) Meeting as children on a beach in Atlantic City, CC and Hillary are about as different as they can possibly be, but they establish a bond which for many years is basically a pen-pal relationship until they reconnect. By then, CC is a struggling actress, and Hillary has given up her rich lifestyle to become a lawyer for the ACLU. Both change over the years, CC becoming a mega star and Hillary, returning to the rich lifestyle, a frustrated housewife to an adulterous husband. Their connection remains, though, although it goes through many ups and downs over the course of the years.For the first two thirds of the movie I was a bit frustrated with this. There seemed to be little point to it except to portray the friendship, which wasn't all that exciting, the differences between CC and Hillary notwithstanding. The last third of the movie, though, finally demonstrates what the value of their friendship is, and director Garry Marshall manages to use that last third of the movie to lift it out of mediocrity and turn this into a pretty decent, tug at the heartstrings type of film.Others may well disagree on this point, but I found the biggest weakness here was the chemistry between Midler and Hershey. They are both fine actresses, but I just didn't feel the connection between them that I would have expected, given the nature of the friendship they were portraying. They came across to me as actresses playing friends, but somehow the authenticity of the relationship was missing. Kudos, though, to the young Mayim Bialik. She went on to modest success, mostly in TV, but demonstrated brilliant talent here playing the young CC in the early part of the film. This takes a while to really get going, but in the end, it's a moving and sensitive film about the value of friendship. 6/10 "},{"Title":"The best movie about friendship I've ever seen","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I saw this movie 20 times and all 20 times I cried. It's the best movie about friendship I've ever seen. From their childhood to the adult age, the movie tells the story of two women, CC Bloom and Hillary, from the beach in Atlantic City where they are 10 years old, to the gorgeous beach in Crystal Cove,California, where they spend the last summer together. Hillary dies at the end of the movie, leaving her daughter, Victoria, to CC, as a continuation of their friendship. The story is told with tenderness and every woman who has or ever had a real friendship can recognize herself. Bette Midler is just gorgeous! And the Wind beneath my wings makes this movie unforgettable. "}{"Title":"Why Beaches?","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Yes it's a chick flick, yes it's overly sappy, yes it's predictable to the very end, but so what. Bette Midler gives a great performance, there are a couple of very brilliant and fun singing numbers, and at times it is actually touching. The young girl who played Midler as a child was amazing, she had Midler spot on. I only wish that a little more time would have been spent with her on screen. She was more fun and interesting then all the characters in the whole film put together. Despite the predictability I still stayed interested, probably because the story moves at a pretty good pace, doesn't stay stuck on any one scenario. I don't feel like the opening moments were a good idea, they take any surprise or possibility of real drama away and bring nothing at all to the film. I'm not sure why the director chose to take that direction. I have heard people say this is the saddest movie they have ever seen, I'm sorry but it's far from that. Good for what it was intended to be. "},{"Title":"Poignant and often funny","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Either this film improves with each viewing, or I'm just getting more and more sentimental as the years go by.Garry Marshall's best film to date (Pretty Woman and the depressing Frankie and Johnny followed), Beaches tells the story of a lifelong friendship, its ups and its downs, its trials and its triumphs. Bette Midler gives another solid performance as the showy C.C. Bloom, yet to her credit Barbara Hershey is not overawed by Midler's strong presence and gives an equally fine performance as Hillary. The two share a bond which lasts through all their good and bad years.This is a nicely balanced picture which always stays true to life, never becoming melodramatic nor manipulative. A poignant and often funny film which benefits from Ms. Midler's fine voice and music.Monday, October 4, 1993 - VideoBeaches is a strong drama which tells the tale of two lifelong friends whose bond survives both thick and thin.Director Garry Marshall's stable control keeps the film well balanced while he shows a good understanding of the genre, as it were. The two lead performances, both world's apart, cap off a most enjoyable film.Sunday, March 13, 1994 - T.V. "},{"Title":"It doesn't get any better than this","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" There are so many good parts in this movie but there are a few that really stick out. It seems sad, the relationship that CC has with Leona especially as a child. The talk that Leona has with CC at the beach in Miami when she tells her that she wore her & her father out & that she couldn't pay any more attention to her seems so sad. When Hill is at the library researching her disease I LOVE THE SONG CC sings in the background (I think it's gonna rain today)it's so fitting. The look that C.C. gives Hill at the beach at the very end of Hill's life where C.C. has tears in her eyes seems so genuine. And finally the very last concert at the very end of the movie where C.C. sings the song that song & sings it slow instead of fast and her and Victoria walk away talking about the past is just heart wrenching. I love this movie, the dialect and the music. Bravo to all involved. "},{"Title":"Reach for those Tissues!","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The reason i wanted to see this movie is because i heard the amazing and powerful song by Bette - Wind Beneath My Wings and the video to it had scenes from the film from it. I bought the film today and when it finished i cried for ages. It is one of the most beautiful films i've ever seen with such a great storyline played by wonderful characters. Bette Middler not only adds the lovable character of C.C, but adds her good old comedy every so often. Im my opinion, this is one of the greatest films ever made, it makes you think about that one best friend that you had when you were little, and wonder, if you still don't talk to them, what life would be like. A+ film, Would recommend a buy or rental of it! "},{"Title":"The Treasure Within the Melodrama","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Garry Marshall is something of an anomaly in the film business his movies tend to eschew the extreme, quien-es-mas-macho bravado found in the works of many of his peers (Martin Scorsese and David Mamet, to name a few), and in turn they embrace the type of sentimental maudlin that sums up the term chick-flick with pride. And he's clearly getting away with it -- the only other high-profile directors to sculpt their entire careers on the plight of the female sex have been Pedro Almodovar, Douglas Sirk, and George Cukor, all in their distinctive directing styles. All the rest have occasionally dabbed in high-powered drama, but never as soapy and drenched in Lifetime television glitter as Garry Marshall has.BEACHES came right after the success of OVERBOARD and continues his exploration of the dynamics between disparate people. Where OVERBOARD focused on the relationship between a man and a woman of completely different worlds -- she was a heiress to a fortune with a nasty temper; he was a carpenter from the boonies; they met through chance, expressed severe dislike of each other (while establishing some necessary physical attraction both felt for each other for their later, deeper attraction to be plausible) -- BEACHES sought to describe the complex, sometimes questionable friendship between two women in the span of about 30 years from the moment they met as little girls on a beach (hence, the movie's title) to adulthood.BEACHES is -- even as a balls-out tear-jerker -- a movie that is much more than its initial reputation as a chick-flick would give it. It's easy to dismiss it as such because yes, all of what happens is part of this genre, but then again, melodrama when well-made is good melodrama; it pulls you into its story, allows you to soak in the lives of the main players, and it reveals its secrets, twists, and turns as it takes you on its journey. It's part of the reason the genre as a whole continues to exist quite successfully (despite its detractors) because it works. People can relate to these two women (played to perfection by Bette Midler and Barbara Hershey who foil each other neatly, Midler her usual loud but sensitive self, Hershey underplaying her already repressed role). However, even when the story threatens to gloss them over into the land of caricature -- and it comes extremely close to doing on more than one occasion -- the essence of the story remains intact. It's why, once the darker part of the story comes into play at the film's final act, anyone can identify with the despair that settles in. We all know a Hillary. We all can relate to C. C. BEACHES conveys its message beautifully, and once the end scene comes along, it's like having come through a long, long road of growth, pain, laughter, and heartache and seeing Memory Lane stretching before you. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" In my personal opinion Beaches is one of the best movies made. It makes you laugh and cry in one scene and want to sing and dance in another. It reminds you of your childhood friends wondering where they may be now, and why you parted company to begin with, while making you want to hold fast to the friendships you have now and not let go because life is just to short.The acting is wonderful, you feel everything that the characters themselves are going through. For instance when Hilary is in the hospital not able to take deep breaths; you feel yourself doing it for her. Another example is at the funeral- Victoria is just sitting there shaking her head - you know she's feeling it can't be my mom in the casket.The overall writing and directing is fantastic, the musical numbers are funny, and joyful as well as some being sad. Again you feel what they are feeling. Overall, awesome movie! Bette and Barbara hit this one out of the park! "},{"Title":"Un-generic.","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Before I saw Beaches (1988), I assumed it would be one of those formulaic B-grade movies that I'd get tired of halfway through. Not that I don't appreciate sentimental flicks, it's frustrating when the same themes are constantly explored. Fortunately, Beaches offered more than just a simple tale of friendship. It's a moving depiction of the good and the not-so-good, and as cliché as it may sound, it offers a degree of satisfaction in showing how truly blessed people are to have a lifelong friend.Superstar entertainer, CC Bloom, is a rags-to-riches example drawn along the lines of Bette Midler's own career, which may be one of the reasons why she was able to play the part so convincingly. Opposite CC is her best friend Hillary Essex (Barbara Hershey), a wealthy socialite whose left-wing idealism drives her in becoming a lawyer. Obviously both leads - Hillary in particular - are characterised to deliver strong messages of female empowerment. Although their background and personalities differ, the innocence of childhood allows them to develop a friendship that will last a lifetime.As per formula, the storyline is simple, but the genius of the movie is in the intricate details. It offers an insightful account of how the transition into adulthood comes with challenges that tests relationships. It doesn't pretend there are no obstacles and anything possible that threatens the friendship is explored. Yet by overcoming these obstacles, Beaches demonstrates that no matter the situation, there will always remain the possibility for problems to be resolved. Most stories need a hero or two and the sheer willingness of CC and Hillary to make their friendship work - rather than take things for granted - qualifies both for the title.To maximise the movie's experience, I suggest thorough preparations done beforehand. Make sure your chores are completed and the night's a winter's one. Set up a fireplace, grab a blanket, have some choc-chip cookies and a glass of milk ready on the table, and - most importantly - have a box of tissues nearby. Sounds like a lot of work? Trust me, Beaches is worth every minute of it. "},{"Title":"Like a Photo Album","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is like a Photo Album of my relationship with my very close friend Jessica Uppal. We have known each other our whole lives and though we've had our ups and downs I will always love her. We've cried together and laughed together just like these characters. I can remember us as little girls watching this movie and knowing we were going to grow up and be like C.C. (me) and Hilary (Jessica). Coincedently, Jessica went off to Law school and I wanted to be a singer/writer, so it was really a case of art imitating life.So I hope you all will cherish those few people in your life who really stand the test of time and Don't ever let them slip away. NO MATTER WHAT. Lovers come and go, but one thing I know is when I take my last breath I want to hold Jessica's hand and tell her See you Soon "},{"Title":"Wonderful touching movie","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a beautiful movie about two close friends who are like sisters to each other. Bette Midler, the Divine Miss M, has never been better! How she did not win Best Actress for this performance will always be a mystery to me. One of the things I most enjoyed about this movie was not only Bette's wonderful performance, but also the interplay between her character and the other main character, played by Barbara Hershey. Their scenes together contain some of the best dialog I have ever seen on the big screen.Another unexpected bonus was seeing one of the first performances by another favorite of mine, Tracy Reiner (I am pretty sure she is the daughter of Rob Reiner, who is a well-known director). She has gone on to star in such classic films as The New Women, Riding in Cars With Boys, and The Princess Diaries.All in all, this is a touching, sweet, wonderful movie - if you watch it, it will live in your heart forever. "},{"Title":"even entertained little 4 year old me! -I'm much older now-","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I saw this movie when I was 4 or 3. Me and my mom loved it and watched it together all the 3 times it was on. I saw it again for the first time in about 7 or 8 years, a couple of weeks ago. Of course I recognized it! -sadly I missed about a half an hour of it because I was sleeping (-no matter how long ago it is I will not forget that movie. I cried because I missed that movie bad. I was sitting on my grandma's couch crying my eyes out at some of the parts. This is a movie 2 see at least once in your life.bring a box of tissues bring some friends ) "}{"Title":"Nostalgia","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a movie about looking back nostalgically over a 30 year stretch of life. Bette Midler plays a Divine Miss M type character, grating, scattered, nervous, self-absorbed, incessantly chattering.The music is for the most part disappointing except for the astounding Wind Beneath My Wings which overpowers the end of the film. It is not that Bette can't sing, it was just that most of the material was too lame for her.The film is centered around an unlikely female-female rocky friendship, that nevertheless endures over the years. It is a movie that celebrates friendship, not just at the end, but all through the film.The child actors who play the young version of the adults not only looked like the adults, but they had their mannerisms. They were completely believable as the same people.The film is a bit on the boring side since is it too much like life -- more and more of the same old. "},{"Title":"..the musical version of Thema and Louise ..","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Beaches is the perfect movie to judge friends by, and also YOUR commitment to the friendship. If you haven't had fights and bitchery -with your best friend - even you guys - and then began over again just like it was yesterday, then you only have acquaintances. Far or near, friendship is limitless. It's not unusual for jealousy to be an ingredient - you love that person so much, you can't help but be envious, wondering if the emotion is returned. Don't be surprised if disagreements pop-up just when your buddy needs understanding most. If you're any kind of person at all, you walk away and wait till they come around again. The reunion makes the friendship stronger.The beginning of Beaches is the proving-grounds of friendship - C.C. is rehearsing at the famed Hollywood Bowl and is in ecstasy that she is playing AT LAST in it. Yet, there wasn't the least hesitation nor regrets - not even a thought - when friendship called - so determined to get where she was needed; not fogged-in airports nor a driving rain keeps her from going in that direction. Have you ever made such a drive? There is nothing like it to put a clear movie in your mind, as the flash-backs did for C.C., to show you exactly the kind of buddy you've been.I agree, some of the musical numbers could have been left-out - but, if you think about them closely, you'll realize all that cattering to a wacky C.C. Midler is necessary to show how the quieter friend (Barbara Hershey) wanted so much to be that outrageous - and how C.C. NEEDED to find that part of herself she saw in her buddy. Life can't be more real than that, just as C.C. absolutely knew that the man she loved (John Heard) could not have endlessly denied his own yearnings to be other than a partner to an insatiable woman. One of the best scenes in the movie was when Leona (the fabulous Lainie Kazan) told C.C. that she was a killer. Another telling scene for that type of person is when C.C. pleaded so softly for Hillary to fess-up to the doc for her - I can't face him. Unapproving, Hillary saw for a brief, far-and-few-between moment the exact truth, how desperate her friend really was.....perhaps intuitively the moment would be reversed.We all know/knew the ending - the competition between a young daughter (Grace Johnson) and the best friend to be the one to provide mommy with however much love was needed, every moment. The touching moments of this film, to me, came with the total surrender of caring on Bette Midler's face to find the picture and to sweetly smile when death came. To the daughter, I'll understand if you don't want to come with me; I'm terribly selfish and awful things go through my head, a plea for this bond to continue beyond death, that she can release the ego that has been her constant companion. Those were the acting episodes for Midler - all that other stuff was repetition of her life. Wind Beneath My Wings provided the perfect confession between one who was dying and one who was just learning to live.I have a friend I feel that way about. Yes, I am a performer, which was my entire life - yet, I wasn't an egotist, as I've been accused of being. I felt my friends' hurting - still do - and want to make it go away. Yes, I've driven long distances because I was the one who needed to hear that love in sister, I'm so glad you're here! Mayim Bialik was phenomenal as the Young C.C. I don't know anything about Blossom, nor do I need to. Garry Marshall and Donaghue put it all together to give us a touching lesson. Families and spouses do not have that special magic that lives between two real friends. Don't look for it - you won't find it, if you have to look. we're friends, aren't we? is as natural as breathing. Jesus gave his disciples a new commandment Love one another as I have loved you, that a man can lay-down his life for a friend. True friendship doesn't have to be professed - it is felt in the heart. How fortunate we are that movies such as Beaches can help us find renewal. A re-release is due for this faabulous film - and IT DESERVES TO BE IN THE BEST 100 MOVIES......with a 20....... "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites!","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is excellent and definitely worthy of 10 out of 10 stars. I love the fact that it is a Comedy-Drama about friendship through the good times and through the bad times, in another words, for all times. I love Bette Midler and Barbara Hershey. They displayed great performances in this movie.I also love the great music. Wind Beneath My Wings is my favorite song in this movie. I had to buy the soundtrack because I love it so much.The bond that these two women share in this movie is unbelievable and it shows you how being a great friend really matters and makes a difference. Excellent Movie! Kudos to the cast, crew and filmmakers. Two Thumbs Way Up! "},{"Title":"Not bad for Inspiration!","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I'll admit 'Beaches' isn't the best movie iv'e seen, alt ought i thought the movie had positive and negative points about trying to make it in Broadway or Hollywood. Bette Midler has a amazing voice which she uses for the hopeful individual of CC Bloom.At the age of 11, one day CC (Midler) meets a high-class delightful girl aged 11 classy Hilery (Barbara Hershey),they soon discover that they will be instant friend forever. Although as every friendships foundation grows stronger problems occur their success and jealousy pulls apart and pulls them closer. CC and Hilery both get married CC gets her big break and Hilery is a housewife CC and Hilery become filthy rich but their is a big bad surprise which will fiscally pull them apart, but emotionally bring them closer together.They met on a beach when they were both very young, brassy C.C. Bloom (Bette Midler) and classy Hilery (Barbara Hershey).Through good times and bad times, through broken marriages and budding careers, they still had each other. And together they would face their greatest challenge...as only best friends could. Hershey is splendid, and Midler will astound you all over again with her comedic and musical talents in in this critically acclaimed box office smash. Beaches glows with warmth, humour and tenderness...This is one friendship you'll enjoy every minute of.Not a bad film for Inspiration, although if your heart strings are relatively strong this isn't the film for you.6/10. not bad "},{"Title":"great movie!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I really like this movie for so many reasons. I love the friendship that lasted so long between Hilary and CC. It's so strong and powerful. But you have to admit that Hilary became quite a bitch after CC became a big star and all. But as we all know, she was just a little jealous. I also love it for the humor and the talent. I love how they both have big dreams in life that they want to achieve. I hate that Hilary had to die when she had a daughter and a best friend she had to leave behind. This is a very moving film for ages. This movie has been out for at least eighteen years and is still a great movie for everyone. Great laughs. Great cries. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I only recently saw this movie but i had to comment on it. It is a very unique and sweet film. It is a defiant tear jerker so make sure you have your tissues ready. Bette Midler gives an amazing performance as a wannabe singer who finally makes it and Barbara Hershey is also amazing in her role.The music in the film is also very good so i would recommend the sound track too.The film is all about how Bette Midler meets Barbara Hershey and they strike up a firm friendship as they are such opposites. They keep in touch for years until Hilary (Barbra) leaves her rich family and job to move to New York and live with struggling singer and actress C.C (Bette). There are many twists and turns along the way and i'm sure you will enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"The best movie about friendship","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I loved this movie, because it shows what friendship is all about.  The ups, the downs, it's not always easy.  The movie takes you through the full range of emotions.  Definitely better than the book.  It's a shame that, in real life, friends don't always last like they do in the movie. "},{"Title":"Oprah isn't always right!","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I had to give this one star, because there are no minus scores on IMDb, but it is worthy of a minus 5. This movie is such a painful thing to watch even though Oprah herself lauded director Garry Marshall for this thick, syrupy drek of a soaper. I love to look at Barbara Hershey and listen to Bette Midler in top form, particularly when she sings, but this picture is embarrassingly bad. I wanted to see a male version of this with the Spalding Gray doctor character just to have a movie titled Sons of Beaches, but the only things in this waste of celluloid are the performance of Mayim Bialik as a young Bette Midler and the song Wind Beneath my Wings. So save yourself some pain and get the song, and if you absolutely must rent this movie on some video format, fast forward only to the Bialik scene and see a better Garry Marshall film (which means pretty much all the others he did) like the underrated Flamingo Kid. I rented this thing once because Oprah went on and on about it gushing like a teenage girl, and had to stop the video several times because it was just too damned painful to see without constant bathroom breaks.A far better Chick Flick is Fried Green Tomatoes. At least the writing didn't embarrass the talent within it.And I want my two bucks back for the waste of rental....and that's a wrap! "},{"Title":"Who ever knew Blossom would grow up to be Bette Midler?","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm a Bette Midler fan, but I wasn't too impressed with her singing in this movie. It was OK, but not as great as I'd remembered. The real treasure was Mayim Bialik, who would later star in Blossom, and did a terrific Bette impersonation, complete with excellent singing (at least, I think it was her).The plot was kind of hard to follow in parts, but basically ended up being like a lesbian version of Love Story, without any actual lesbianism. I thought Love Story was cheesy, and so was this. But it did manage to evoke tears at the sad parts, even though I found most of the characters annoying. (Bette was annoying but lovable, the rest were just annoying.)If this movie had been made today, there probably would have been a lesbian romance, and it would have made a better story. As it is, it's a harmless sideshow, if you're a fan of Bette or Blossom, or if you're just dying to find out the original context of the song Beneath My Wings. Otherwise, skip it.  "},{"Title":"I expected to want to rip my eyeballs out","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I like everything about Bette Midler except her singing, musical arrangements, personality and appearance.  I would never have willingly have seen a movie which included the song which assails my senses every single solitary time I take a hapless turn into a bar with a karaoke machine, Wind Beneath My Wings, a horrid, sappy, single-octave pile of dung that anyone can sing, but no one could possibly make enjoyable.Naturally, my fiancee's movie collection includes this movie, which I understand is obligatory in hominids lacking a Y chromosome.  She started watching it before I could complain (wise move on her part).I'm quite surprised to be writing that it is better than the six out of ten it's garnered here.  For a chick flick, it's really not that bad.  Usually chick flicks are extremely tidy and formulaic-- if someone is going to take someone else's mate, for example, the person who is being jilted ALWAYS deserves what's coming to them... there are never ragged moral edges in a true chick flick, and the denouement of the movie can be counted on to have all possible loose ends tied up in the sappiest and tritest way imaginable.Not so this one.  I started liking the movie after the first several times I tried to predict the next turn and was surprised that it didn't take the cheap out.  The characters were intelligent, and the dialog was cringe-free.  Bette Midler's stardom would have been a hysterically funny insult to the intelligence if it weren't for the fact that Bette Midler is in fact a successful vocalist.  It WAS funny, however, that the kid who played her as a little girl was a better singer at 10 than Bette Midler ever has been.Needless to say the fiancee was bawling by the end.  I wasn't, but I wasn't nauseated either.  Chances are even if you're a chick flick hater you can survive this one if you like drama in general. "}{"Title":"This movie was good","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really liked this movie, especially the ending, it was kind of sad, and the music is cool, I hope everybody will see this movie. I like Barbara Hershey's performance in this movie as well as in the portrait of a lady "},{"Title":"Good, but sometimes boring (SPOILERS!!! READ AT YOUR OWN RISK)","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was incredibly acted, but doomed from beginning to end.  I knew from the time that they first met that one of them would die, but I wish it could have been the mean bch Bette Midler.  Oh Well, you win some you lose some.  The ending still made me cry. "},{"Title":"Beaches","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Tender comedy-drama about a friendship between two different ladies that lasts for 30 years. Midler and Hershey carry the film, but the story lacks polish and a cohesive structure.  "},{"Title":"A somewhat good movie","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Beaches is one of those films that you enjoy watching possibly talk about, if you are very emotional you might even weep, however it does not stand out as one of the great movies as it is a bit tacky.It follows the trials of a lifelong friendship between two girls on holiday and later two women, with their ups and downs.A nice story not badly portrayed with a cheesy soundtrack, I think the best part was the idea that with life's ups and downs you can get through anything if you have a true friend.No matter what!!! "},{"Title":"Not for me but many may like it.","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Usually, I love stories about friendships. Since one's friends are one of the most important things in life, any movie that makes this the subject matter ought to be appreciated.Unfortunately, I don't like Beaches. I have read some wonderful reviews of the movie on this site and can appreciate the film maybe right for some people but for me it fell short.Someone on this site mentioned in their review it seemed promising and then disintegrated into just another chick flick. I agree with that, they nailed it on the head. The movie just tried to hard.I had to comment on this one because so many people love this film and I almost wanted to love it to just because of it's poignancy. That's just the problem.The audience was supposed to love it. Supposed to cry at certain points. Supposed to do a lot of things.I don't like contrived movies or movies that are almost DIRECTING your emotions. (Oh, let's put a really emotional scene in here, so everyone will cry etc etc etc etc).I felt this was way to contrived and (as with another thing I hate) was much to long. Honestly, the movie seemed about 6 hours long, it just didn't end. And I did indeed agree with this other poster that this could have been a lot more but DID just morph into another predictable chick flick.I consider Thelma and Louise my favorite movie (some may not agree with me, that's OK.) That to me is a story about friendship. It is very different from beaches and much more my type of movie. But to each their own, and if you have not seen this and like a good tear jerker chick flick that DOES(I'll give it that) show a very beautiful relationship between the 2 stars, rent it. "},{"Title":"Chick Flick","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"   Beaches is a decent film that unfortunately regresses into another emotionally controlling, predictable, cheesy chick flick from the beginning. Bette Midler does well, Barbara Hershey is okay, and the supporting cast is nothing special.Is it a surprise that Garry Marshall, director of Pretty Woman and Runaway Bride directed this? I think not. Most women will probably like it, but guys will most likely shrug it off.2/5 stars --John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Inferior drama","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bette Midler's early film acting years were not especially good as I can't find anything worth recommending in such films as Down And Out In Beverly Hills, Ruthless People and Outrageous Fortune. Beaches is the worst one of all. It tries to be a genuine tearjerker about the life threatening events that disrupt a lifelong friendship between two women (Midler, Barbara Hershey) but it winds up just being laughable instead. Fortunately, Midler's film career would gradually begin to improve after this one. "},{"Title":"May induce vomiting","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  As I cleared the larger chunks of regurgitant from my throat yet again, I sat back, a lump of hard mucus in my throat, and took another long drink from the 72 oz. soda I'd purchased earlier in the lobby.  My then girlfriend had been sobbing since the previews, through the credits, and incessantly throughout the film.  I had my arm around her, frequently drifting into daydream where we could be alone, away from the movie, and I could be working her over with a ballbat.  I'd give you something to cry about, I muttered, as the bile rose again to my throat.  Choking, I lurched forward, popcorn and soda firing into the seat ahead.  I patted my pouting puella who clearly was forcing every possible ounce of moisture out of her body through her tearducts in mock deaththroes, and forced myself to glance briefly at the screen.   Insipid, redundant, utter tripe melodrama filled the screen.  I begun to laugh but then the rush came again, as my throat filled once more... Not recommend for those fond of human dignity or nutritional retention. "},{"Title":"Women's film","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of those typical women's films. If you changed the lead characters into man it would be unbelievable. Therefore, I think every other male viewer of the film will agree with me that it was quite irritating to hear all that screaming and shreeking and crying. The frame - two women having a long friendship with lots of ups and downs - is not original at all; neither is the story at any point. I believe the film was made only in order to give Barbara Hershey a leading role.After all, there are some positive things to mention The young actresses playing CC and Hillary at the beginning are really sweet and amazingly similar to their older equivalents. The songs CC sings are amusing as are the sets of her musicals.That's not a bad movie - it's just not particularly new. Housewives will like it. "},{"Title":"I'm a sucker for these types of sugary melodramas, but 'Beaches' is more sugar substitute than anything...","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Beaches After receiving some disturbing news, CC Bloom (Bette Midler) abandons her upcoming music concert and travels across the country. As she drives her car, she recalls when she, then an aspiring starlet, first met a lost girl, Hillary Essex (Barbara Hershey), on a beach thirty years ago. Instantly developing a friendship, the two girls would not see each other in person again for several years, but stayed in contact through letters. Hillary, now a college student, decides to put her law studies on hold and move to New York City to find CC, who is working as a lounge singer and struggling actress, and who instantly takes Hillary under her wing.Okay, I have to admit that I'm a sucker for these sugary melodramas (as long as they are done well, like 'Steel Magnolias'), but 'Beaches' is more sugar substitute than anything. Every moment of the film is designed for maximum emotional effect, and you can literally feel Garry Marshall stuffing the onions up to your eyes during the final act. It's just so manipulative and trite. 'Beaches' is lost in a sea of marriages, divorces, babies, terminal illnesses, and everything else that you're likely to find in your average television movie of the week. Bette Midler and Barbara Hershey are alright, but they're mismatched, and the child actresses that play their characters at the beginning of the film are a lot better. There's one mildly moving moment, where Midler's song Wind Beneath My Wings is used, but that moment was never earned. I really thought I'd like this movie, but it ends up that it may be the second most annoyingly corny movie ever after 'My Girl'.~ 4/10 ~ "}{"Title":"Beaches","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" From director Garry Marshall (Pretty Woman, Runaway Bride), this is a nice soppy film about a lifelong friendship. Basically Cecilia 'CC' Carol Bloom (Mayim Bialik) and Hillary Whitney Essex (Marcie Leeds) met each other on a beach both aged 11. CC was an aspiring singer hoping to make the big time, and Hillary enjoyed her friend's talent, and they both made a promise to stay in touch through letters. Years later, CC (a great Bette Midler) is a selfish, quite lippy and almost lazy woman still trying to earn a living, and Hillary (Barbara Hershey) is a successful lawyer, and they are both delighted to see each other again, almost by chance. They stick by each other for a long time as they try to sort their individual lives out. CC does get to become a successful singer, but with her selfishness she does cause a breakup for a while. When they do forgive each other, and Hillary has her daughter, they stick to each other till the end. As years pass, daughter Victoria Cecilia Essex (Grace Johnston) and CC have to face the terrible revelation of Hillary's fatal virus, and CC knows she has to stay till her death, and then look after Victoria. Also starring John Heard as John Pierce, Spalding Gray as Dr. Richard Milstein, Lainie Kazan as Leona Bloom and James Read as Michael Essex. Bette Midler steals the show, not just with her acting, but also for her good singing. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration. Bette Midler's Wind Beneath My Wings was number 44 on 100 Years, 100 Songs, and it was number 75 on The 100 Worst Pop Records (probably cos' you hear it mentioned so much), and the film was number 12 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers for Hillary's death. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"ridiculous","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What a joke of a movie.  The writing was especially bad...the acting wasn't much better.  I like tearjerkers, but this one had me laughing due to the inane dialogue.  What a joke! "},{"Title":"No amount of beer can make this movie better.","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Beaches is one of those easily placed movies into the category of chic flick. It's a great date movie because no girl can resist tears throughout. WOMEN LOVE THIS MOVIE. And because they love it so much it's not wise to bash it in front of them. I'll probably receive tons of angry e-mails for my description of this movie. As noted before Women LOVE THIS MOVIE. If youre a guy it the torturous equal of Ned Beatty's southern surprise in Deliverence. It's so bad you'd rather have your older brother beat you with a hot wheels race track. Preparing to watch it is like driving to the proctologists's office. The whole movie is about two women and their life long friendship (That's original) Bette Midler couldn't be more annoying. There is a way to survive this though. Take four valium, chug one huge bottle of NyQuil original green death flavor, close your eyes and imagine watching The Dirty Dozen. Hopefully you'll sleep long enough to miss Beaches, Steel Magnolias, and the worst of the worst The Joy Luck Club. "},{"Title":"Just horrid","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Film follows the friendship of two very different women over the course of their lives--loud, tacky, driven CC (Bette Midler) and quiet, demure Hilary (Barbara Hershey). CC will do everything to become an actress and singer--Hilary isn't sure what she wants.This is commonly referred to as a chick flick. Now I LIKE those types of movies and I think Midler and Hershey are great actresses (and singer in Midler's case) but I REALLY hated this film. It starts off OK but slowly falls to pieces. At the halfway point I started to truly despise this movie. There's HORRIBLE dialogue and such clichéd situations and characters that I was literally rolling my eyes a few times. I began to hate it more and more and by the end I was fed up completely. The movie is so completely obvious I was truly shocked. When a character is diagnosed with a fatal disease I came close to throwing something at my TV screen. And it takes her FOREVER to die! The movie has at least three different endings--all bad--and the REAL ending is so horribly manipulative I was stunned! Many people said they cried at the end--I did too--tears of JOY that this dreck was finally OVER!!! It's really astounding that people think this is a great movie. It WAS a huge hit in 1988--that's kind of sad.I'm giving it a 3 instead of a 1 for a few reasons--It was great to see Lainine Kazan and John Heard (although they're given nothing to do); Wind Beneath My Wings is a great song; and Hershey and Midler were good despite the material. Midler especially made the most of her few good lines.But this is a morbid, sick, depressing and insulting movie. Avoid it like the plague! "}]