[{"Title":"Excellent teen love story","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"48 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's refreshing to have a movie about teens in love that doesn't rely upon sex to gain the viewer's interest. I love this movie, have probably seen it a a few dozen times, especially in the original, unedited version (that wasn't shortened to fit into a two-hour TV time-slot). It's a classic story, but told from a timeless perspective---the movie first ran in 1987, yet there's extremely little in it that would make it seem dated.Mary Stuart Masterson is, as always, superb in her performance. While this is one of her early films, it shows her enormous ability and potential. She plays a playful, feisty, street-smart character that also has a sensitive, shy, and deeply loving side. Mary Stuart's kissing scene is one of the most wonderfully romantic and intense kissing scenes on film that I've seen, yet it has an innocent quality that makes it all the more special.Eric Stoltz and Lea Thompson give excellent performances as well, with good acting and both are able to highlight dialogue with subtle nuances. However, I feel that Mary Stuart's character is the most interesting and emotionally sensitive, enough that she'll bring tears to your eyes. This is an excellent film. It came out at a time when there were a lot of teen movies (Pretty in Pink, The Breakfast Club, etc.), but this is a story that never grows old and is a pleasure to watch again. "},{"Title":"Stop calling me Clifford","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"33 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some Kind Of Wonderful tanked at the box office when it came out, but the truth is this sleeper hit was actually good. And I will even go far saying that this reverse Pretty In Pink is better than Pretty In Pink itself. Why? Good, honest performaces. Hughes decides to leave his Brat Packers behind and went with great choices in Eric Stoltz (who could've gave John Cusack a run for his money in the Teen Angst movie department), Lea Thompson and Mary Stewart Masterson, who steals the show as Watts. Sure the story is run of the mill, but it is the acting that pulls it through. Another good thing is that Thompson's character of Amanda Jones doesn't come off as being a snooty brat (for use of a better word). She is from the same part of town like Keith and tries to fit in with the 'cool' clique. Another good supporting performance is Duncan, the headbanger who is a regular in detention. I love how they forge a friendship through their art. And who can forget how Duncan and the lifers help Keith make his date with Amanda a success? One other thing I like is the soundtrack. It doesn't sound commerical like in other Hughes films. The music really suits every scenes it shows up in (especially the end credits that feature Lick The Tins take on 'Can't Help Falling In Love'). Molly Ringwald reportedly turned down a role in this film, but it's good that she did because I couldn't picture her in this classic. Great film.  "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I seen this film when it first came out and I was 15 years old... it always stuck with me. I guess because the story was a lot like my own life and I could really relate to Mary Stuart Masterson's character SO much. I was best friends with a boy in my class, we were both into music, theater and art and did'nt fit in with the popular-preppy kids in school and really did'nt fit in with the pot-head-troublemakers either. We just did'nt fit in anywhere.. but we always had one another and hung out all the time. I was totally in love with him (still am to this very day, he will always be a part of my life and in my heart)... well, he just did'nt have a clue that I cared about him in that way and all I ever heard was how much he loved one of the cheerleaders. She never gave him the time of day and he still had this thing for her... Our story was'nt as happy though, he never found out how I felt for him.. I got married to someone else later on and so did he and we have since lost touch and I have been looking for him. Guess the first time I seen this movie, I liked it just because it was SUCH a good movie but a few years later seeing it, it really hit me in the face and to this day I always watch it whenever I get the chance and remember my friend... "},{"Title":"One of the best of John Hughes films.","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"32 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know it's not as well known, but this film came together so well that it can't be denied. A great mix of comedy and teen melodrama, this film perfectly combined all the best elements of a John Hughes film. By switching the sexes- Eric Stoltz as Molly Ringwald, and Mary Stuart Masterson as Jon Cryer- of Pretty in Pink, the film delves deeper than The Breakfast Club- almost accidentally. The chemistry between Stolz and Masterson is powerful and real, something missing in almost all John Hughes films, and it pays off. This one has stayed with me since it came out, and I've watched it since and it holds up really well. Great supporting actors like John Ashton and Elias Koteaus provide fun comedy breaks, and little Candace Cameron as the little sister is terrific too- she went on to great TV fame. But the strength of the film is the fine acting. Stoltz has the harder more thankless role, and gives it a depth and charm that are a relief to see, and Masterson all but steals the movie. Together they are John Hughes best couple, even though he didn't direct this film.   "},{"Title":"Role models, social conscience, and a fab soundtrack","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a twelve year old girl, I had a hard time finding role models.  I lived on the outskirts of what was basically a country club neighborhood, but was not that kind of gal.  So I found it wonderfully refreshing to find a role model in the pre-Girl-Power girl power of Watts.  I fell in love along side her (and to this day, harbor a special place in my heart for Eric Stoltz), begged my parents to let me learn the drums, and knew every line by heart.  She was tough, witty, and (according to my older brother) incredibly sexy.  Eric Stoltz is dreamy in a working class kind of way and puts in a performance of true depth and character.  This movie has heart without being sickly sweet.  It delves into family relationships, friendships, and romance.  Most notably, it tackles something that the current teen fair seems to lack, social consciousness.  It's not afraid to break stereotypes or point out social injustice.  Not to mention, it has one of the best soundtracks of the '80s.  I give it an A++!!! "},{"Title":"Best of its kind","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the best of the eighties 'US High School/Teen Angst' movies.  There were loads, but none to match this one. There's a character in here for each of you to associate with, be it the nerdy Keith, with the bossy younger sister and the unattainable crush, or Duncan, the kind-hearted skinhead. If you only  ever watch two of these movies again, make them 'The Breakfast Club' and this one. "},{"Title":"some kind of movie","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie makes my top 10 list.  This movie tells the basic story things aren't always as they seem.  This movie shows just how hard it is to open up yourself an let someone know how much you care and also stresses how sometimes one can be blind and not see love in front of their eyes.  This is simply a great movie. "},{"Title":"Set the VCR","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those films which creeps up on you.On the surface, it is a romantic cliche, but it is extremely well done. The main characters, especially Watts (a very young Mary Stuart Masterson), turn in superb performances, and lift this way above the ordinary.Good comic-relief from the support cast - watch especially for the scenes with Keith's sister Laura, and the one between Watts and her admirer - which is a real hoot!For sheer romantic escapism, this film is close enough to perfect.  And can be seen over and over.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of all time.","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some Kind of Wonderful is by far the best movie I have ever seen in my whole life! John Hughes has written yet another excellent story about a classical tale of teen romance. The first time I saw this movie was on t.v. at 200 in the morning. And I stayed up for every last minute of it. First of all, the cast is great. Howard Deutch pulled together some really remarkable actors and actresses for the roles of this movie.Lets start with Lea Thompson playing the popular girl, Amanda Jones. She did a fine job playing the poor girl who hangs out with all the rich kids. This role must of been really hard for her because she didn't look like a poor girl at all. I mean its Lea Thompson for christ sake! And in my opinion we have to give her alot of credit for having the guts to do this role. She came through with it and that is all that matters!Next is Craig Sheffer acting as the antagonist, Hardy Jenns. This guy did a pretty good job of acting as the rich, handsome, popular school boy who went out with Amanda Jones. In fact he did such a good job at acting his part that I wanted to punch the t.v. when I saw his face pop up on the screen. Hardy was a real a**hole!The shy kid Keith Nelson acted by Eric Stolz, definintley reminds me of myself. That is one of the reasons why this movie really inflicted a lot of trauma on me from the beginning. We are both shy, independent, nice guys. I also look alot like him too! Except I have green eyes! Kinda scary if you dont mind me saying. Anyway, Eric does a marvelous performance as the protagonist of this film. Good job man!Last but not least we have the beautifull,breathtaking,astonishing, Mary Stuart Masterson! This movie was the first time I saw her. And she took my breathe away!!!!! Playing the short blonde haired tomboy Watts, she has got some real talent. After I saw her in this movie,I knew I must see the rest of her movies she has been in. And I must say, she looks the best in this movie without a dout. Its just the fact that you can see that face of her's and see her smile. She definitley has the best smile I have ever seen in my entire life! And that is saying a lot for someone I don't even really know that well. Maybe sometime later in life I can meet her in person. I think we would do well together. No offense Damon. LOL!But in all the movies I have seen, Some Kind of Wonderful touches me from the heart and reminds me about life and all the hard times that come with it. This is a landmark movie that will never leave my shelf.Rating10/10 stars "},{"Title":"an intelligent teen comedy/romance","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mary stuart Masterson plays a girl who has a crush on Eric Stoltz who has been friends with her for a long time but she never has told her feelings. When Stoltz starts hanging around with the rich crowd and falls for the snobby beauty queen Lea Thomson Masterson fears she may lose him. A well scripted comedy romance drama slice of life that John Hughes does right every now and then. on a scale of one to ten..8 "}{"Title":"For anyone who has ever fallen in love with their best friend.","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What's great about this offbeat little teen gem from the 80's is the whole falling in love with your friend thing. The friendship between Keith and Drummer Girl is refreshing and fun and the whole character development of these two plus Amanda, the ultimate it girl-who may not be quite as content as one thinks-is great. I loved this book back in the day and the movie is great too. Anyone who's been young, crazy and had a close friendship that became a bit more will relate. In addition this movie takes on the whole identity, conformity thing as well-and it does it with style.Mary Stuart Masterson plays the tough girl with a heart of gold Drummer Girl and I am not exaggerating when I say she creates one of the sassiest, most lovable and completely unforgettable females I've ever seen on the big screen. Academy award worthy, I'm not kidding.In fact, all these characters shine brightly and kudos to the performers and creators for a great teen comedy-one of the best, and one that I still watch years later, as I now have added the movie to my collection . Some kind of wonderful is truly so under rated. This flick is sort of a teenage when harry met sally(bohemien style) meets revenge of the nerds-bohemien syle meets a bit of pretty in pinkand The Breakfast club. At the same time it's got it's own unique quality and style to it as well. I would give this an 8.5 or 9. I liked this sassy little flick tremendously and would wholeheartedly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a movie collector, but still this is my first time posting a recommendation. For some strange reasons i watched this movie for my first time today, but i don't regret it. This movie came out one year after i was born (1987), but to be honest the quality of this movie was over the limit.The best romantic\comedy i've seen. Why? While I was watching this movie I kept hoping it never would end. It is dragging you into the story, great acting and beautiful girls with a big B. Favorite scene is where Keith kissed Watts because he was going out with Amanda and needed practice. It was so beautiful, so innocent and in a same time very hot.A movie I can watch more than one time, even if I know the story. Because it has really good scenes and a great plot. The director couldn't done it better! I really hope you watch this movie, it's worth your time and does give you a good feeling after watching it. "},{"Title":"surprisingly satisfying","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't normally enjoy 80's movies, but Some Kind Of Wonderful is a startling exception. Written by John Hughs, the story-line is far from original, greatly resembling Pretty in Pink, but it still has an endearing charm that makes it a classic. The story line follows as such the lead male, a sensitive loner named Keith(Eric Stolz) is considered an outsider because he would rather focus on his art work than to be a jock, a nerd, or a trouble maker. He doesn't fit into any preexisting group. His only friend is a tomboyish drummer named Watts(Mary Stuart Masterson) who is in love with him, but he doesn't know. Keith wants to date the popular Amanda Jones(Lea Thompson), but she is dating a possessive, controlling, overtly rich Hardy Jenns(Craig Sheffer). Amanda breaks up with him, and to make it final she agrees to go out on a date with Keith. To Keith this is dream come true. He uses his newly formed connections with the out crowd to orchestrate an amazing date. Even going so far as spend all his college savings on a pair of diamond earrings for Amanda. Watts, ever faithful to Keith, volunteers to be their chauffeur for the evening. Hardy has invited both Keith and Amanda to a party he is throwing that night, but the real reason is so that he and his friends can jump Keith and beat him up. Keith hears about this and makes sure that his new-found friends keep the fight even. Just Keith and Hardy, but Hardy chickens out and is exposed as the spineless sleaze-ball we all knew he was. Amanda gives Keith back the diamond earrings and opts instead to be alone and learn who she is when she isn't defining herself by the boy she is dating. Watts has left the party and is walking away when Keith begins to run after her, he kisses her and gives her the earrings. Love wins out in the end and Keith utters the paramount quote, You look good wearing my future.This movie has my respect because it accurately portrays the social themes of the 80's without making them look cheesy; themes such as trying to figure out who you were, who your real friends were, the joy and pain of falling in love, and rebelling against your parents. Durring the 80's people felt liberated by the release of tensions with the ending of the Cold War. Stolz gave a great performance as a misunderstood, out of place teen trying to find his way. And Thompson was very believable as the poor girl from the working class neighborhood who tried to fit into the popular crowd; surprisingly enough, she didn't come off as pretentious, quite the opposite in fact, appearing deep and amiable. In America during the 80's social status was much more defined; people began to focus more on the individual and the individual's accomplishments.But Mary Stuart Masterson stole the show with her amazing portrayal of Watts. Not only was she witty, but she carried you along her emotional journey. Even when Keith had chosen Amanda, Watts still stood by him as long as she could. Her tough facade clearly hid an emotionally vulnerable woman who's lifelike predicament spoke to so many.Though this movie was not an initial box office smash, it is a perfect example of the 80's genre. Once you have seen this film it will inevitably become one of your all time favorites. "},{"Title":"Touching reminder of what you have","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a great just excellent. The worker, the princess, and the tomboy scenario makes quite a cast lineup. By the end, you are presented with a reminder that what one thinks they want, may not be close to as good as what you could have if you just look a TINY bit closer and that appearances are never exactly what they seem to be. This has got to be a _MUST SEE_ movie for everyone. "},{"Title":"My all time favorite, and for good reason","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so involving, that when I merely caught bits and pieces of roughly the last half of the movie on cable, it immediately got me looking at the program guide for the next time it would come on so I could tape it. I have watched it well over a dozen times. Even if you hate romances, it's hard not to get wrapped up in this one. "},{"Title":"We're just going to crank this party up to a respectable level","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The best John Hughes film ever. I know that's damning with faint praise - let's face it the man's not going to win an Oscar any time soon - but he is the master of his chosen field. That field may be a sub genre of a sub genre (1980s wrong-side-of-the tracks high school teen-flick with stonking but slightly left-field sound track). But that doesn't mean they're not great movies of their kind.Eric Stoltz is kinda cool as Keith but Mary Stuart Masterson steals the show as tomboy Watts. Keith must be nuts not to see she's the girl for him. But as a slave to the male sex drive it's the more obvious charms of Lea Thompson's Amanda Jones that float his boat.Watts patiently goes along with Keith's crazy, touching, scheme to woo Amanda, all the while keeping up the witty one-liners as a defence against her infatuation with him. The script really crackles during these exchanges.Watch out for Elias Koteas as Duncan, a shaven-headed punk with a heart of gold. The soundtrack is stunning and well worth getting on CD even if you've got the video/DVD "},{"Title":"Mostly fun high-school film starring 26-year-olds.","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keith (Eric Stoltz, 26) is a nice kid, good at art, blue-collar family, works at a gas station, has this tomboy friend Watts (Mary Stuart Masterson, 20), but he has his eye on beautiful and popular Amanda (Lea Thompson, 26).  We, the audience, see very early on that Watts wishes Keith were her boyfriend instead of just a boy friend.  But Keith doesn't notice her that way.  Until perhaps when Watts offers him to practice kissing before his big date.Typical teen clique and rivalry issues, rich boy in town wants to own Amanda, but also goes after every other cute girl. The showdown is at rich boy's house, where he, being basically chicken tries to have his friends take Keith out and mess him up.  About that time Keith's friends, the rough guys in school, show up and quash the dirty deed.Amanda realizes the lie she has been living, and presumably is a better person for the future, and leaves her silly friends behind. As Watts, who was the chauffer for the night, walks away, Keith catches up with her, they kiss, he gives her the diamond earrings that he cashed in his college fund for, and we are to assume Keith and Watts live happily ever after.The three principals are very good in this mostly predictable film, especially Masterson as Watts. She is such a good actress that I find myself wondering why we don't see her in high-profile roles more often.Though not totally sure, I think Some Kind of Wonderful gets its title from the realization, at the end, what Watts is.  "},{"Title":"The 20th anniversary DVD","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Love this movie. Love it so much that I had to join IMDb simply to register my great disappointment in the 20th anniversary DVD.Yes, it's a beautiful new print. The movie still stands (alone) and it's great to revisit it.But the EXTRA's are SOOOOO disappointing. They interview the cast- briefly- Eric Stoltz and Mary Stuart Masterson are insightful and kind and interesting. So is the girl who plays the little sister. Mostly it's fun to see everyone older. Some have aged very well- Eric Stoltz and the girl who played his sister. Others have not.Then they have the 'commentary' (and I use that word lightly) as you watch the movie. They foolishly only had the director and Leah Thompson commenting, and it's the most shallow silly commentary I've ever heard. That shot is lovely, Howie Thanks dear. Look how pretty you are in this scene! I'm not kidding. I could have tolerated this nonsense, if they hadn't gone further.Eric was tough in this scene. He had his own way of working that made me uncomfortable. I know, he wanted to be called by his character name. Mary Stuart had a tough day that day, look at her. I know, she took it so seriously THEY WERE THE BEST THINGS IN THE MOVIE, YOU DOPES!!! And I only wish they'd been allowed to comment on the movie, because their interviews were the only insightful and articulate and smart interviews on the whole DVD.And we true SKOW fans know what happened on this movie- they fired the first director Martha Coolidge and half the cast- does this DVD talk about that? Of course not. They allude to the tension on the set, but must'Nat allow any true emotions on a DVD extra. It's obvious they cut out a LOT of interesting stuff, tried to make it a puff piece. They include an interview with John Hughes from about 30 years ago, not even about this movie. Paramount really let us down with this one.On the whole, rent it, don't buy it. And if you want some interesting commentary, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Best Film of its genre","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some Kind of Wonderful is, without doubt, the finest movie of its genre of the 80's.  If the original script had been followed where Keith turns to Watts and says 'You look wonderful wearing my future' it would have been the best movie in its genre, hands down, no matter the decade. Mary Stuart Matterson should have been nominated for an Academy Award for her performance. By the way Amanda was only supposed to slap Hardy once in the face at the party but added a second one - much to his surprise - for good measure. "},{"Title":"Great teen fun","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie, it's shown on cable TV quite often and one of the lesser known teen films. It's funny, it's true, good music and pure 1980's which I love. The basic plot is that Keith (Stolz) has a huge crush on Amanda (Lea Thompson). However, he overlooks his best friend, Watts (Masterson) who has a crush on him. Please rent it if you haven't seen it. "}{"Title":"i am so in love with Mary Stuart Masterson","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i remember when i first saw the teaser for this movie, like a year before it came out, just a clip of Mary Stuart Masterson playing the drums, but it just showed the drum kit and her hands with i'm sure some great music playing.  John Hughes sure knew how to manipulate the feelings of teenagers; it's too bad i can't think of many movies like these that are made now.  this movie may seem quite cheesy now, but i can assure you that at the time it felt very real, and that after seeing this movie i would very much have liked to see Mary Stuart Masterson wearing my future.  her part in this movie is what gives this movie any of the feeling that it has.  i just wish that i could have even been the skater punk boy in this movie just pushing her car.  oh well.  maybe this movie made me have and follow dreams that like Eric Stolz's love for Amanda Jones weren't founded enough in reality.  anyway, thank you MSM! "},{"Title":"the sweetest thing","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" the first time i watched this movie on HBO i knew nothing about it. when i saw drummer girl i was hooked because she had so much attitude and being a tomboy is something i can still totally relate to. but then i watched the practice kiss and that stayed with me for all these five years till i again watched it last month. all i had remembered along with drummer girl,practice kiss was the name of the film(thank God!). and then a year or two ago, samaire armstrong's character on the oc mentioned it and i noticed some of the similarities. this movie is by far one of the most special experiences of my life. a world of innocence and honesty. this is the sweetest thing ever! i recommend this to anyone who wants to remember the tender,supposedly stupid stirrings of teenage love. now that i watch other films of john Hughes, i absolutely love the breakfast club, but compared to this, pretty in pink is just not good enough. while the only thing good about pip was the guy who plays duckie, skow is raw,solid,real and charming. "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think that this was a great movie!!! I love the end when he gives watts the ea rings and he tells her you new you going to get them and she says I hoped but I did not know!!!! I loved it and watch it all the time about two or three times a month and I would watch it more but my family gets tired of hearing me repeat the movies lines!!!! I think that the movie was inspiring to young people and that you can be in love with your best friend and I know from expressions that you should always tell your friend that you like him/her!!!!! I am in love with my best friend and have been for a long time and I told him!!!! I believe that this movie helped me to do that and that is why I think that it was a wonderful movie and I think every one should watch it at least once in there life time!! "},{"Title":"love this movie and can relate to it!!!!!","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely love this movie-it is my all time favorite!! I can totally relate to the character of Watts and have feelings for my best friend whom we watched the movie together and he detected.We are now kind of taking it one day at a time and seeing if our ending turns out like Watts and Keith-keep your fingers crossed for SomeKind of Wonderful for us!! If you have not yet seen this movie go rent it-no buy it-you wont be disappointed!!! Enjoy-the ending is the best!!!Of all John Hughes films this is the most enjoyable, as I'm sure everyone can relate to the characters and having feelings for your best guy friend.The whole movie is just like the story of our friendship we've known each other since high school and now into our adult hood (not giving up the age-lol) but I'm glad to have him in my life as a friend or more and hope our ending turns out as good as Watts and Kieth's!Now go see this wonderful movie! "},{"Title":"A beautiful rendering of a timeless theme","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of John Hughes' best.  The idea isn't new -- boy knows girl, boy doesn't know how desperately in love girl is with him, boy lusts after other girl, boy gets other girl, boy realizes what he really wants was in front of him all along.  But the story is undeniably captivating and heart-warming due to Hughes' incredible talent for writing believable dialogue for young people.  One cannot help but be drawn in by Keith, the young and talented misfit hero, who amazes us with his cool demeanor and confidence in the face of adversity.  Hughes creates a true soul mate for him in the character of Watts, whose strength of character and biting wit blend perfectly with her sensitivity and (not too well hidden) beauty.  It is a film that reminds us of the earlier Pretty in Pink, but finally gives us the satisfaction we were deprived of when Andie chose Blaine over Duckie. This is a film that goes a long way toward making people into hopeful rather than hopeless romantics.  A must-have for children of the 80s, and a must-see for young people in love. "},{"Title":"Fitting in shouldn't be this hard.","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Hughes is remarkable. This is a story on how difficult it is for young adults to find their place among their peers. The scene where Kieth tells his dad that going to college was never in his plans, and that his life belongs to him is something every father should see. When you're older you always think how life was so simple in your teen years. Watching this movie reminds you how difficult it really was.   "},{"Title":"Best 80's Movie!!! (ever)","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the best from the whole John Hughes 80's film collection...It was among Breakfast Club, Pretty in Pink, etc..but this far exceeds...Mary Stuart Masterson is awesome in this film...Not only is she the most beautiful TomBoy i have ever seen, but she was a drummer to top it off...Characters like Duncan and Watts showed us the 80's anarchy side of life to some of us who don't remember that side of the 80's. Great Film, got the 80's genre to the T. Good story of the boy who wanted the popular girl...but as you will see in the end, True Love always wins.. "},{"Title":"John Hughes falls short of character, but still creates a gem","Date":"20 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Some Kind of Wonderful was written and produced by John Hughes, the man who most people call the 80s king. His teen based movies did very well with audiences of all ages and are still hailed as some of the best movies of that decade. But then you get this movie, which by all accounts should be excellent, but when you look at the trite storyline and shallow characters you think John Hughes wrote this?Don't get me wrong, I give this movie 7/10 because, for some reason or other, this movie, with all of its unoriginality and basically second rate story, captures your attention and you find yourself watching it over and over again. The character Watts was perhaps the only refreshing thing in the film. Her blatant disdain for her friend Keith's interest in a preppy girl isn't subtle and isn't annoying. She lets him know that she doesn't approve with her snide comments and concerns for him. I like to think it's her way of alerting her somewhat oblivious friends to her feelings for him. Mary Stuart Masterson did an impeccable job as the sexy tomboy best friend.Keith's character, although cute in his naive and unsure manner, isn't as likable as Watts; But this is masterfully done because you feel that his character shouldn't be as cool as Watts. You see in him purity of mind and heart and you know that without his best friend he wouldn't get very far in life before someone or something rocks his world, (and not in a good way.) All of these characters at first seem shallow and underdeveloped, but as you watch you realize that that is part of the movie's charm. You don't know everything about these characters because you are only glimpsing a week in the life of these kids, and they aren't spilling their guts and innermost feelings to you like in The Breakfast Club and they don't pine and long for someone they know they cannot have such as the characters in Pretty in Pink and Sixteen Candles. They try to attain what their hearts want the most, but the two go about it differently. By the end of this movie you're smiling (Not at the abrupt ending where Keith realizes who he really loves) but at the fact that you know that this here is another classic and you think, Yes, this is John Hughes. "},{"Title":"Don't You Forget About Me","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Howard Deutch and writer John Hughes team up again for Some Kind of Wonderful, a film which rehashes the plot of their earlier collaboration, Pretty in Pink, and simply reverses the gender roles.And so instead of a Cinderella story about a girl with class anxieties shrugging off her lowly best friend and living happily ever after with a rich and handsome prince charming, we have a Cinderella story about a guy with class anxieties who pushes aside his dreams of living happily ever after with a wealthy princess and falling in love instead with his scruffy best friend.The film is better written than most of these teen movies, sports some nice dramatic moments, and features an excellent performance by Mary Masterson, but Hughes has done better and his notion that high school cliques form due to wealth differences, is way off base.7.9/10 &#x96; This is a lightweight teen movie which nevertheless has that auteurial John Hughes stamp. Several sequences here are variations of scenes from Ferris Bueller's Day Off, released the year before. Post 1987, all of Hughes' movies would become increasingly worthless (though stuff like Home Alone and Beethoven have merit as children's flicks), the director's brand of teen angst being replaced by the foul mouthed shenanigans of Kevin Smith, the View Askew maverick stealing the plots of Hughes' films and spicing them up with sex jokes and swearing.Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"A complicated road to love","Date":"11 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" You can recognize at once why this film has such a great appeal to teenagers. Who hasn't shared such experiences while searching for a special friend? That special feeling of calling some one your own takes over your life completely.Clifford (John Ashton ) has put away for his son Keith (Eric Stoltz) a goodly sum for his College studies, but Keith is blinded by his crush on Amanda who seems to be available to all the boys particularly the well-to-do.One of the best and liveliest scenes in the film is the argument between Keith and his father who has discovered that his son has withdrawn the whole sum from the bank account to buy a pair of diamond earrings to impress Amanda and outdo his rivals.Not all the scenes are so impressive and the story line lacks originality except for the chauffeur scene near the end which was a pretty stupid and unbelievable arrangement.Watts played by Mary Stuart Masterson (and well done too) dotes on Keith but he is too blind to understand her feelings for him. All the mixed and misunderstood feelings require a good deal of sorting out by the characters and this is where the interest lies in the film. Will Keith wake up to himself and realize that true love is knocking at his door?It's a pleasant little story of teenage problems which many of us will recall as a part of our own lives. That we can align with so many of the frustrations is a key to the popularity of the film. "}{"Title":"Has charm and is fun but the speed and depth of the material is more than the film can really bear &#x96; still like it a lot but am not blind to the problems (SPOILERS)","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It was an unfortunate coincidence but I had actually lined up this film to watch for quite a few days whenever I heard that John Hughes had died at age 59. Anyway I had already planned to watch this film because recent trips to the films of the 80's had reminded me of this film and how much I used to love it. I was curious to watch it again and indeed when I did nostalgia did play a part in my enjoyment as I realised that I used to have the soundtrack on tape, watched several scenes again and again on VHS and genuinely loved the tomboy Watts. This all helped but I am not able to be blind to the fact that, as a film, it is quite good but has one or two pretty big problems that sadly do take away from the total film.The most obvious is in the material. In terms of the basics, all the Hughes standards are in place here and we know where we are going with this from the start. That is not an issue, what is an issue is the intensity and the depth that the film tries to operate on. The relationship between Watts and Keith goes too quickly from appearing to be nothing but friends to being tense, with his own realisation happening too quickly (even if it does make for a nice ending). Likewise things move too quickly with Amanda and Keith &#x96; the promise of a first date being the same as dating and the emotional events that follow being far too intense, the love professed too deep and the lessons learnt too important and big to be sustained by the rather basic development that underpins them. At one point my girlfriend said have I missed lots of this or something because the shift in the character dynamics did not seem to come from anywhere other than a rush to get there by the film itself. This same problem manifests itself in the final third as well, as it does feel like Keith has gone all in in a way that makes no sense, whereas the same could have been done with lower stakes and feel more convincing for it.Of course I did still go along with it despite this and there is a lot that still works within the context of this being a genre movie. It is hard not to feel for Watts, while other characters add much needed comedy to take the edge off the rather overly done angst. The basic relationship did feel right as well, although perhaps that is more down to one's experience and feelings &#x96; certainly the awkward friendship thing works for me since I do have a lot more female than male friends and always have. It also helps that I love the cast, or at least loved Mary Stuart Masterson as Watts. OK so her material rushes her but she does really well at letting her awkwardness show and also still being attractive in those clothes. Unfortunately Stoltz does not manage it so easily. He overplays his weirdness to the point where he is hard to stay with as a viewer &#x96; practically creepy at some points. He isn't helped by the places his material forces him to go in his feelings but he does lack the charm and easy charisma that Masterson manages. Thompson has similar problems with her material giving her character massive jumps but she is pretty good as Amanda Jones. Sheffer easily nails the rich bully/creep character while Koteas is great fun as Duncan. Ashton maybe has to feed the angst more than he gets to just be a character but he is solid while Bure and Corman are very funny as Keith's sisters.Some Kind of Wonderful is not as great as many say and it is not the brilliant film that I remember it has (who'd have thunk it?) however it does still have plenty of charm and much to enjoy. Such a shame that it is damaged quite badly by how fast and deep the material has it moving &#x96; making it less engaging and convincing as it goes along, although some nice performances and good comedy help it hold together despite this. "},{"Title":"Hughes Lets Deutch Direct Pretty In Pink Retread","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, Some Kind Of Wonderful is the title of a Grand Funk Railroad song, and its lyrics do sort of drum up the theme from the film the idea that the best one for you doesn't necessarily require all kinds of unnecessary effort and fancy gimmicks. John Hughes wrote and produced the film about teenagers who are probably closer to real life than in most other films. Eric Stoltz is Kevin, a guy who thinks the ultimate girl is the most popular and best looking. Well isn't it? I guess boobs like me need movies like this to tell us we're wrong. Lea Thompson, everyone's it girl in the mid 1980's, is Amanda, the ideal girl. She plays it perfectly with a sense of vulnerability not often seen in her role. Mary Stuart Masterson is Watts, a drummer who can't convince Kevin what a dope he is for going after Amanda. Craig Sheffer is the obnoxious boyfriend of Amanda's who turns the audience off long before Amanda. The supporting cast is terrific, as in most of Hughes-penned films.However, there are a few elements in the film that are disappointing. The first is Kevin blowing his college money on the big night. Kevin may not be that socially astute, but guys like him are not completely foolish when it comes to their own interests. Second, Masterson is not really that appealing, although she's a very good actress in this film. Short hair, like hers, was not attractive in 1987, even though she was a tomboy. Third, I don't buy the ending, but undoubtedly the ending is exactly why many people, especially women, will fondly recall the film as so romantic. Fourth, guys never seem to make their own choices when appearing in films like this. Destiny plays too much of a role for my taste maybe.The Grand Funk Railroad song does not appear in the film, which makes one wonder why the reference to begin with? Amanda Jones, of course, is a Rolling Stones' song, Watts is the last name of the drummer in the Rolling Stones, and Keith is, well you know, Keith. No Mick in here though. The soundtrack is filled with plentiful songs that go well with many scenes, as is the case in John Hughes' films. The film starts out OK, gets better as it goes along, peaks on the big night with Kevin and Amanda, and comes crashing to a disappointing halt at the end. It just doesn't ring true, and most viewers will figure out exactly how this will end. **1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"THIS  is bout how blind males can be when there to close to a subject","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought the story line was good . This movie brought back nostalgia about my own high school experience . My kids see bits a pieces of themselves even though its 19 years old. My daughter though she doesn't like to admit wants to be Watts. She wears bicycle gloves and sings the title music to it while drumming with batons. Annastacia and Rafe know this movie line for line.This movie was brilliantly acted the character lea Thompson plays you wanna hate but cant finding that she is sensitive, vulnerable .As much a victim of circumstance as most teens.Watts has almost masochistic qualities and a self sacrificing love that we all can appreciate it.Today Keith actions might invoke stalker laws, even if harmless.The drinking laws of old 19 parties that don't happen quite as much id venture.Anyways this movie should be a classic and most that lived in that era will appreciate the verbiage, feelings and music that goes long with it. A PHOTO of a bygone era bringing back 1s own whimsical dreams that once filled us when we was teens. "},{"Title":"Who can resist this movie??","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As an 80s movie buff, I stumbled across this movie...read the back cover and it seemed worth the watch. It was.The movie tracks a high school student, Keith (Eric Stoltz) during his most difficult experience in his life thus far falling for popular girl, Amanda Jones (Lea Thompson).Stoltz, who was well into his mid-20s at the time of the movie, displayed the teenage emotions and their intensities so well that the viewer is shocked to hear of his actual age. Similiarly, Mary Stuart Masterson, who plays Keith's best friend Watts, gives the best performance out of all the actors. The viewer feels for her character, who seems to have a lot of suppressed emotions brewing inside of her with no outlet. Though the other actors also play their parts with a great deal of talent, these two surpass the viewer's expectations. Truly worth the watch, Some Kind of Wonderful will touch your heart. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really really liked this movie, as i do most John Hughes movies. Not a lot of people have seen it though. Almost all of my friends have never even heard of it. It's a shame. It's one of my favourite movies. I highly recommend seeing it.the storyline is good, and the subplots are good too. An all around good movie. Mary Stuart Masterson is really good in it, and its kind of funny to see her on Law and OrderSVU now, because shes A LOT different. In Fried Green Tomatoes, she was older, and the setting was a lot different, but she was still a tomboy, and funny and kind of tough. The only thing that i didn't really like was Eric Stoltz. He's a good actor and everything,and he does really well in this movie, and I don't necessarily dislike him, he just was not the best part of the movie. "},{"Title":"Great great movie","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The thing i remember most about this movie other than the practice kiss (always wanted to deliver a kiss like that to a girl), was when Kieth and Amanda are leaving Hardy's house after Duncan and his boys showed up and Amanda is taking the earrings out to give them back to Kieth, she says It's better to be alone for the right reasons than to be together for the wrong ones. That single sentence is so very true. It helped me realize how to stand on my own as a young adult, (I was 23 when this movie came out). I found that one sentence very profound and I have remembered it to this day.If we couldn't laugh, we'd all go insaneJimmy Buffett "},{"Title":"My least favorite Hughes piece.","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was very disappointed with this movie, for lack of originality.  This is exactly like Pretty in Pink which only came out one year sooner.  Instead of the guy friend liking the lead female, it's reversed, where the girl (friend of the lead guy), likes the lead guy. Although I won't discredit the acting in this.  There is some realistic acting, and very good scenes that take place at school and after school.  Mary Stewart Masterson, is the gem in the piece.  One of her first real breaks, she plays the tom-boyish friend of Eric Stoltz, which she has a crush on, however, he has a crush on the most popular girl in school, played by Lea Thompson(sounds oddly familiar to another Hughes film...Sixteen Candles ring any bells?). So, as I said before it was more the story outline that I was disappointed with especially coming from Hughes, but again, the acting was very well surpassed from most of his films.   I liked it, and it was very entertaining, and because of this reason I'm giving it a 6.5 out of 10 (10 being the highest), the acting is what really helps the score out! )That's the end of this review. "},{"Title":"The performance of Mary Stuart Masterson makes this movie a must-see.","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  To start with, the title of this movie is misleading.  A better title would be Some Kind of Wonderful Performance by Mary Stuart Masterson.  When this film was first released in 1987 I considered it a pleasant but unremarkable low-budget film with a relatively  unknown cast.  About a year ago, however, I saw it again on TV and was blown away by the MSM character Watts.  Since then I have watched this film at least 25 times on the new DVD and DVD player I purchased for this purpose.  Yes folks, it is that good.  I must warn you, however, that the plot is rather predictable and some of the dialogue may leave you scratching your head.  But these shortcomings must be over-looked because this film gives MSM the opportunity to give the best performance of her career.Now, I must admit that if the watts character had been a guy, my reaction would have been a lot less enthusiastic.  There is something about her tomboy character that is very appealing to men, or at least to some men, or at least to me.  Of course having a gorgeous face doesn't hurt either.  I think part of Watts' appeal is her fierce loyalty to Keith.  They have been best friends since the third grade and you are somehow convinced that she will always be there for him no matter what. At one emotional moment Watts says to Keith The only things I care about in this bleep life are me, my drums and you. Even when she get angry and calls him a moron and stupid (she actually calls him stupid twice), you know she doesn't mean it, and in fact, the way she says it is rather endearing. Another part of her appeal is the knowledge that beneath the tough tomboy exterior is a sympathetic, vulnerable young woman.  She is an outcast at school and, except for Keith, has no friends.  She shares a parent-less house with her brothers who apparently have little involvement in her life.  So, not only is Keith her best friend but he is also her family.  Us guys, through Keith, want to be there to take care of her.  I guess, we just can't help wanting to be the hero. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!!","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some Kind of Wonderful is a great movie! It is one of those movies that you can watch over and over again and never get tired of it. Watts(Mary Stuart Masterson) is so funny in this movie! Everything thing she sayes becomes an instant great quote!It is just one of those great 80's movies that is fun to watch and make fun of their hair and clothes. I have seen this movie so many times i can recite it by heart. It is kind of corny in some parts, but what movie isn't?If you have the chance to see this movie i don't think you will regret it! "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wish I looked just like Mary Stuart Masterson.This movie is my favorite movie of all time.Keith and Watts were really made for eachother.Amanda Jones is a self-centered,stuck up teenage girl who thinks she is better than other people.I think the music in this movie sucked.They could have used better songs.But the movie itself was awesome!!!On a scale from 1-10 I would give this movie a 9.The reason I would give it a 9 is because the music sucked big time.I even own the soundtrack for some odd reason.It is a must see movie.I don't think this movie was very popular to people because u would hear about it more. "}{"Title":"one of the world's perfect kisses","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie contains one of the best kissing scenes i've yet seen. watch it, if for no other reason. all i have to say mary stuart masterson (watts) and eric stoltz (keith) in an auto shop amid old cars and oil drums and he is supposedly in love with another girl-- the camera work is amazing on this scene- giving the impression that if watts hadn't stopped the both of them, they would have been on the floor right then and there. mmmm. this is a movie worth watching. "},{"Title":"An eighties classic!","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some kind of wonderful is a film that'll fill you with yearning for the pleasure and pain of romantic teenage love.  I must have seen this film a dozen times and it never fails to cheer me up. Eric Stoltz makes a cute (if ginger) hero and Mary Stuart Masterson is a tomboy with a girlie heart.Watch this on a Sunday afternoon with a bucket-ful of popcorn and nostalgia ! "},{"Title":"It's about all of us","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Hughes writes about high school kids in the 80's. What is different about what he writes, is that it is socially accurate, as well as being seriously entertaining.There's no denying his past successes with this genre Breakfast Club, Pretty in Pink. Here, however, he moves away from the poignant stereotypes Keith (Stoltz), is not a geek. He's not a jock, and he isn't a criminal. He's an artist, and because of this, he doesn't fit in; Watts (Masterson) is his tomboy friend. She isn't a basketcase, although at times she undoubtedly feels like one vying for Keith's attention; and Amanda Jones (Thompson) is not a princess, even though her social appearance and demeanour might suggest this. They are all troubled, but in subtler, more hidden ways than the Saturday morning detention group in Breakfast Club.The movie begins by setting the goal Keith wants to date Amanda because he finds her attractive and perhaps a little beyond his reach. As the scenes progress, we discover a more complex triangle developing between the three main characters Keith fancies Amanda; Watts fancies Keith; and Amanda uses Keith to escape from her lecherous, manipulative boyfriend. The vehicle for this to unfold is the evening of the date and the ex-boyfriend's party.Character portrayal is delightfully strong. You believe in Keith and want him to succeed. You feel emotionally for Watts and share in her invisibility. You want to hate Amanda but cannot. In addition, supporting characters are superb and scene-stealing in their own right. Duncan (Koteas) shakes off the expected mantle of bully to become the saviour, while ex-boyfriend Hardy Jenns (Sheffer) evokes hatred and loathing from his callous, self-gratifying, but nonetheless cowardly existence.The movie ambles at a steady pace. This is no rollercoaster ride of laughs or drama. Instead, we are given a chance to explore each of the main character's psychological make-up, and ultimately, we are rewarded with an ending sequence to infuse us with hope and joy.This is a film which did not light up the box office, but which justifiably should be held up as the strongest example of its genre, and which entertains in the most wonderful way. "},{"Title":"Definite kind of Wonderful!","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I LOVE this film, along with the majority of John Hughes' late 80s films. Stoltz is lovely, Masterson is SO believable as the hard-done-by friend, and Thompson is great as the girl you feel you should hate, but just can't.The plot is similar to that of many of Hughes' work, you know, boy from wrong side of tracks in love with beautiful girl he 'could never score in a million years', but guess what - he does!!Many times I have wanted to have the friendship that Watts and Keith have, (with the inevitable ending of course), yet unfortunately, so far, these things seem to be confined to the screen!!   Duncan is great as the lovable rebel, and the whole film gives you an amazing feeling, when the normal people combat the rich preppie types of the popular clique that we all know about through personal experiences.I advise everyone to see this film, and then, I assure you, you will love it as much as I do! "},{"Title":"Some Kind of Ride!!","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As many people, when I bought this video, I didn't know if I would like it or not.  I had been a John Hughes fan for awhile and I had kind of grown out of that genre.  But this movie was fun to see.  Every character was what you would expect to see in a typical high school.  The misfits, Keith and Watts, the cool kids, Hardy and Amanda, The instigators, Duncan and his crew. This film offered a lot to its audience.  My favorite scene is where Watts gets Keith to kiss her. That was too cool!!. This movie is the sit-at-home-in-bunnyslippers-eating-popcorn -kind-of movie!!  "},{"Title":"Peer pressure gone nuts (but in a fun kind of way)!","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am TOTALLY biased when it comes to this film, and especially Mary Stuart Masterson (Watts). I first saw this movie when I was 22 yrs old and I thought I had out-grown the teen-troubles type of film that I thought this was. Was I wrong! I took one look at Watts and fell in love with the actress and the character was so easy for me to relate to. The film's plot was something I could relate to as I had the same type of trouble when I was at school, I loved Elias as the caring psychopath Duncan he was completely cool. It is refreshing to see the real under-dog get the under-dog and to see the school bullies & misfits get one over on the Beverly hills 90210 types as well as the audience.I loved the film and could rant all day, but I won't, all I will say is go see it, buy the video, rent it, whatever, JUST SEE IT!!!    "},{"Title":"Underrated gem","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While many film-goers of the 80s generation fondly remember The Breakfast Club and Ferris Bueller's Day Off (and for good reasons), my favorite film from the pen of John Hughes is Some Kind of Wonderful. The story felt just like high school felt, with all the painful doubts and growth of one's teenage years, and the film's credibility is greatly enhanced by the excellent performances of all the principle cast members (Masterson, Stoltz, Thompson, Sheffer, and Koteas). The class tensions of the 1980s crop up as real obstacles for the characters to deal with (especially Thompson -- buying in, or selling out?). And how can you beat that great opening theme by the late, lamented Propaganda? Best of all, unlike that humiliating scene in The Breakfast Club in which Ally Sheedy's outsider character conforms to stifling beauty norms (she was so cool until then!), none of the characters in Some Kind of Wonderful betray their integrity. And that makes those characters ones you WANT to identify with, I think. All in all, an underrated gem of a film. "},{"Title":"Another great production by John Hughes","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" John Hughes has once again produced a fantastic film. Some Kind of Wonderful can be placed next to John Hughes' other successful films that have wowed the general public, such as The Breakfast Club, Pretty in Pink etc. Some Kind of Wonderful was a classic 80's film. A teen flick that you can easily watch over and over again. I watched this film a few weeks ago and loved it so much that I bought it the very next day. I also bought the soundtrack. The music in the film is amazing, a great match to the film. I would recommend this film to anyone that loves 80's films and that like drama and romance.Great!!! "},{"Title":"Coolest characters in movies","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am of the generation that grew up with all the characters in the vintage John Hughes films, and sadly, shared more in common with Anthony Michael Hall's characters (especially Brian Johnson in The Breakfast Club)than I cared to admit at the time. The main point of this post though is to react to something I came across through another link on IMDb.com - the coolest film characters of all time. This is a debate I have had many times when drunk with fellow film nuts and I can honestly say, hand on heart, that I do not think anyone has ever created a better character than that of Duncan, so wonderfully played by Elias Koteas.The scene where he etches a carving into the desktop then proclaims to Keith this is what my girlfriend would look like without skin still kills me, even after nearly 20 years of knowing that line is coming.Just wondered what you lot think? I think none so cool as Elias!!!! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good...","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My elder sister lent this on video to my girlfriend when she was off sick from work. Of course she made me sit through it one night and I was thinking, here we go, another girly pile of ....I have to say I was quite surprised. I mean sure it was sentimental and had the obvious plot twist (I use that term loosely) but it was quite good. The film was on the whole well acted and the comic relief, much more prevalent than in other 80's flicks of the same nature, was quite fast paced and genuinely funny. I wouldn't buy it but I did actually enjoy it and thats enough. It's not like I'm the intended target audience anyway... "}{"Title":"Awesome!!","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time back when I was 17.  That was fifteen years ago and it's still just as good now as it was back then.  You can totally relate to the characters and they are played extremely well by Eric Stoltz, Mary Stuart Masterson and Lea Thompson.  Elias Koteas is great as well!! If you haven't seen this, you must go rent it now!!  It is a WONDERFUL experience! "},{"Title":"The title says it all","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Besides Pretty in Pink, SKOW would have to be my favourite John Hughes movie. Eric Stolz was great as Keith and Elias Koteas was equally good as Duncan (a very underrated actor) but this movie belonged to Mary Stuart Masterson.It was refreshing to see that the character of Amanda was a nice person - you wanted to hate her because she wanted to be like her rich snobby friends but you couldn't because she had genuine feelings for Keith (even though in the beginning it was used as a way to make Hardy jealous)and in the lead up to the end scenes the audience were shown what exactly Amanda really felt about her life and her friends that you couldn't help but feel sorry for her.I didn't like the way Keith's sister Laura was portrayed. In the beginning she made no hesitation in putting Keith down by reminding him of his status in school but by the end she become concerned for him.The best part about this movie was the use of unknowns. Instead of casting Molly or the other brat pack members it was refreshing to see Eric and Lea (the only two well known young actors) and people like Mary and Elias (who I think is one of the best actors today - has anyone see Fallen??)I definitely recommend this movie - no matter how many times you see it you always enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"I Blew My College Tuition For Love And Revenge","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Now I'm not totally against these teen angst brat pack films that were so popular in the Eighties and John Hughes was associated with some good ones. But the notion that Eric Stoltz could trash his whole college education tuition fund on an act of revenge against some rich kid is really a bit bizarre. Not a great message to be sending out there John.But that's what you have in Some Kind Of Wonderful. Eric Stoltz is this misfit kid, probably born a generation too late, he'd have fit right into the Sixties. What he did would be something kids did back then. They also were a lot less focused, like he is, heck like I was and wished now I wasn't. Young Eric wants to be an artist, his parents have saved and scrimped for college tuition. My God he could take art in school for that matter. But now he's made because a rich young punk played very nicely by Craig Sheffer puts him down on general principles and because Stoltz is crushing out on one of his girl friends, Lea Thompson. In the meantime, tomboy girl Mary Stuart Masterson thinks Stoltz is just the greatest thing around, but he can't see for the rich princess Masterson just dazzles him.Sheffer even encourages Thompson to play up to Stoltz to get him to a preppy party that he's throwing so he and some friends can beat up Stoltz. How Eric deals with this situation makes up the remainder of the film.I think the parents were right on about Stoltz and this expensive gesture he was making. But I'm sure the attractiveness and capability of the players in this film were what the audience was watching instead of the stupid message that Some Kind Of Wonderful was giving out. "},{"Title":"Pure entertainment","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A pat formula teenage romance.  But is this ever a terrific film.  Now I'm an old guy (in years only) but the dynamics were believable and more importantly- fun to watch.  The final scene, and I can not divulge it here, was absolutely precious.  Rent, or better yet, buy the video and share it with your friends and family.  "},{"Title":"Average Hughes Movie","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was a little disappointed by Some Kind of Wonderful. In fact, I am in the minority here judging by all the positive reviews that I felt I had to write a review to the contrary. SKOW has been compared as a reverse Pretty In Pink, of which it definitely is. Eric Stoltz plays Keith, a working-class guy who has a crush on a popular girl in school, Amanda Jones, played by Lea Thompson. His best friend Watts is a drummer/tomboy, played Mary Stuart Masterson, who secretly falls in love with Keith.The acting was good and there were some cute scenes. It was funny that Keith had made friends with the tough guys from the detention hall, a nod to The Breakfast Club. Thompson was sexy as Amanda, on the surface she seemed like the typical, shallow, popular high school princess, but toward the end she added a lot of depth to her character. Masterson was cute, sweet, and pretty. She had a wise intelligence that seemed to fit the personality of Watts. Stoltz was also good as the sensitive young artist Keith who longs for the unattainable Jones while seemingly not able or willing to see the true person who truly cares for him.I felt the ending was contrived. I have mixed feelings about SKOW. It recycles a lot of Hughes's previous storylines/characters working-class guy, best friend in love, antagonizing parents/teachers/siblings, high school hierarchy, smarmy rich boyfriend, rich vs. poor, etc., but of course, this was the Hughes style and he was the premier teen movie director of the 80s. Probably the scene between Thompson and Stoltz at the Hollywood Bowl was my favorite in the whole movie. It's funny, but I thought Watts and Keith were better off as friends, but that's just my opinion.While I definitely enjoyed Pretty In Pink more, despite being disappointed by that film as well, SKOW is worth watching if you are a John Hughes fan, but it wasn't one of my favorites.        "},{"Title":"high school fable","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Keith Nelson (Eric Stoltz), Watts (Mary Stuart Masterson) and Amanda Jones (Lea Thompson) are all from the wrong side of the tracks. Keith is secretly in love with Amanda. His tomboy drummer best friend Watts is secretly in love with him. Amanda is going out with possessive rich kid Hardy Jenns (Craig Sheffer). Amanda gets detention. Keith deliberately gets detention but she gets out. He befriends school ruffian Duncan (Elias Koteas) while in detention. Amanda has enough of Hardy and accepts a date from Keith. Keith's father Cliff Nelson (John Ashton) just wants him to concentrate on getting into college.Directed by Howard Deutch and written by John Hughes, this duo delivers another 80s classic teen movie. The actors are a little older in this one compared to the earlier John Hughes teen movies. That holds it back a little. The humor is less silly. The story is more romance oriented. I love all three leads. It's a great teen romance fable. "},{"Title":"On the whole, a solid teen movie","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Even though he didn't sit in the director's chair, Some Kind of Wonderful has John Hughes' fingerprints all over it. Which is a good thing. And while everyone says this is a carbon copy of Pretty in Pink (it is), it hits the target. This movie handles issues of class division and status pretty well. True love's been under Eric Stoltz's nose the entire time, he just had to get over his infatuation with the popular girl first. And we've all been there; we've all wanted someone who was beyond our reach (especially in high school). That empathy is key here. Age is really the only catch (these actors are too old to play teenagers), but it's also a cast that features John Ashton and Elias Koteas. That's a win in my book.7/10 "},{"Title":"Second-Rate Hughes Film","Date":"10 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A young tomboy, Watts (Mary Stuart Masterson), finds her feelings for her best friend, Keith (Eric Stoltz), run deeper than just friendship when he gets a date with the most popular girl in school. Unfortunately, the girl's old boyfriend, who is from the rich section of town, is unable to let go of her, and plans to get back at Keith.When you ask people to list the John Hughes films, chances are they will get three or four almost immediately, maybe struggle with one or two, and then forget about a handful. This is definitely part of that handful. Despite some good casting (Lea Thompson!), this is nothing more than a second-rate Hughes film. No Molly Ringwald, and sort of a rehash of the friend-who-likes-a-friend theme he had already done.Worth seeing? Of course. But this should not be on anyone's top five Hughes movie lists. (No doubt it is, but those people are wrong.) "},{"Title":"An Excellent,Underrated Teen Classic From John Hughes.","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Some Kind Of Wonderful is an excellent,underrated Teen classic that combines great direction,a wonderful cast,a fantastic script and a memorable score and soundtrack. All of those elements make Some Kind Of Wonderful a great film that is John Hughes at his best.Some Kind Of Wonderful tells the story of Keith(Eric Stolz),a High School teenager who is a gas station employee and painter and has romantic feelings for Amanda Jones(Lea Thompson),a popular girl who goes out with her rich boyfriend Hardy Jenns(Craig Sheffer). With courage by his side Keith asks Amanda out on a date which doesn't sit well with Keith's tomboy best friend Watts(Mary Stuart Masterson)who starts to have feelings for Keith. Now,Keith has to deal with his friendship with Watts and his attraction to Amanda.Released in 1987,Some Kind Of Wonderful is a terrific and memorable Teen movie that was writer John Hughes' final film in the Teen/High School/Coming Of Age genre and maybe his most overlooked of the Teen movies he did from 1984 to 87 and is a movie that came out towards the end of the teen movie boom of the 1980s because by 1987 the Teen genre by 1987 and John Hughes' association with the genre had hit it's creative peak. Often seen as a gender reversed remake of earlier Teen classic Pretty In Pink(1986)and some will admit there is similarities between the two films(the same director and writer,love triangle,soundtracks and even the movie posters). At the same time there are minor differences between the two movies. And while Pretty In Pink is a great movie and a more iconic and well-known film I always preferred Some Kind Of Wonderful a movie that may not be very original but is one of the best Teen films of the 80s. Some Kind Of Wonderful is in my opinion not only a John Hughes classic but a Teen classic as well but unfortunately is often underrated and overlooked in comparison to The Breakfast Club,Ferris Bueller's Day Off,Sixteen Candles,Pretty In Pink and Weird Science which is a shame because SKOW has all of the trademarks of those other filmsmemorable characters,great soundtrack and good dialog where everything just works. While none of the John Hughes regulars such as Molly Ringwald or Anthony Michael Hall appear in SKOW the Hughes style is still in effect with this movie. In SKOW we get some romance,drama and a little humor in the way Hughes did so well and the movie keeps your attention. The whole movie is basically a build-up to the last half hour of the film when Keith and Amanda go out on their date and what happens before that examining the relationships of the three main characters Keith,Watts and Amanda who in true John Hughes fashion are three dimensional characters and have depth. With Keith,Watts and Amanda we as a viewer have a connection with all of them as the three of them have to deal with love,relationships and dealing with their peers and classmates. As Hughes did with The Breakfast Club and Pretty In Pink SKOW deals with timeless themes and issues such as identity,different social groups as well as class struggle with rich vs poor among teenagers. The screenplay by John Hughes is terrific with memorable dialog that is strong,amazing and just makes the characters real and unforgettable. The ending of Some Kind Of Wonderful is amazing and classic John Hughes and is a truly effective and romantic and will viewers cheering at the screen. A fantastic ending.The cast is great. Eric Stolz is excellent as Keith,with Stolz bringing an emotional weight and depth to the role. Mary Stuart Masterson is brilliant,beautiful and gives the film's best performance as Watts,with Masterson being powerful and stealing every scene she's in. Lea Thompson is terrific and beautiful as Amanda,with Thompson being dramatic in the right places. Craig Sheffer is great as Hardy Jenns,Amanda's rich jerk boyfriend. John Ashton is wonderful as Cliff Nelson,Keith's Father. Elias Koteas is fantastic and funny as Duncan,a teenage punk. Maddie Corman(Laura Nelson),Molly Hagan(Shayne),Scott Coffey(Ray)and Lee Garlington(Gym Instructor)give good performances as well.The direction by Howard Deutch is simple,but great and effective,with Deutch sometimes moving the camera and bringing a nice pace and style to the film. Fine direction,Deutch.The score by Stephen Hague and John Musser is impressive,great and fits with the tone of the movie. Good score,Hague and Musser. There is also a soundtrack with some fantastic Pop/Rock songs that add to the film. A great soundtrack.In final word,if you love John Hughes or Teen Films,I highly suggest you see Some Kind Of Wonderful,an excellent,underrated Teen classic that is John Hughes at his best. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Highly Enjoyable, Great Music, Awesome Actors","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was a sleeper from the 80s that didn't get enough recognition. What makes this film so great is the combination of non-glossy actors, perfectly timed non-mainstream rock/pop music, and a grittiness that wasn't often seen in 80s romance teen films. Eric Stoltz portrays an A-typical male lead role, Keith, who was more cerebral than heartthrob. Mary Stuart Masterson stole the entire film with her brilliant portrayal of the tough, Tomboy best friend, Watts, who is actually very vulnerable and loving. Elias Koteas is particularly great as the juvenile delinquent who makes the end of the movie absolutely epic! I have to say that the music is just brilliantly done in this film, enhancing and complementing every single scene and eliciting the appropriate mood. Lastly, this film boasts what I believe to be the VERY BEST ON-SCREEN KISS EVER! Never before have I seen a more complex kiss; it manages to be awkward, romantic, and arousing all at the same time. "}{"Title":"Wonderful Love","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The funny think about love is that it's never entirely a matter of our choice but that it chooses us.This is an under the radar gem that wasn't entirely overlooked but it's been kinda forgotten. This was the last teen film John Hughes wrote and believe it or not this is my second favorite in that sub category from John Hughes, and it's one of my favorite romance stories. The story isn't really anything new but it's really more in it's execution in which I personally feel they got everything right. The dialog as with most of Hughes films is great, there are a lot of memorable lines but most importantly it doesn't feel melodramatic like in most bad TV teen dramas that make me gag, but really feels like the kind of things a regular teen might say. Soundtrack is great, I love the song Always I want to be with you.Supporting character Amanda Jones played well by Lea Thompson this is probably my favorite role from her. I like that she doesn't play some stereotypical popular rich girl, in fact the interesting thing about her is that she's really in the same working class boat as Keith, Watts, and Duncan she just dresses up and makes herself seem like a upper class person just to get in with the in crowd.What I like is that you really feel for her character deep down she's really a lost person, we see her become disillusioned with the lifestyle from how her rich ex boyfriend Hardy mistreats her whom is a character I just want to punch. As well as how some others in that upper class treat others. These things I feel just show how just because your in the upper class doesn't mean everything is going to be wonderful or that your going to get everything.One moment that really sticks out for me was when she sees the portrait of herself that Keith painted and she then has a slight look of guilt because this portrait represents how he perceives her as a really beautiful wonderful person but she knows that she's not that person the Keith sees.Another supporting character Duccan played by Elias Koteas; his character along with his group of friends are awesome. I love the fact that he's a metal head I myself am into Heavy Metal music, a rebel, tough, rough around the edges but has a good heart all the same. Both Keith and him have a good back and forth. One scene for me that was a highlight was seeing Duncan and his friends save Keith in the party which is something real friends do.But of course the film is really driven by both the characters Keith (Eric Stolz) and Watts (Mary Stuart Matherson). Keith is great because his character is in a way kinda like myself in real life. He's a person that speaks softly, I'm not the talkative type myself; and when we talk it's because we have something significant to say. He's a artist, he loves to paint just as I love to write.Watts is just awesome and I'll admit kinda hot. She's feisty and fiery which are total turn ons for me. She a person that just likes to do her own thing and doesn't care about what other people think, from what she wears which is sort of a rocker/rebel outfit and how she acts is her way of saying, this is who I am whether you like it or not. She's also an artist as she plays the drums and likes to make her own music.I like that both really are the same in different ways, both of them are rebels. With Keith he's a silent rebel, on the passive aggressive side, he doesn't look to fight he really tries to solve conflict though reason but he will resort to physical resistance if he has to. Even like the moment in the party despite the situation getting bad where Hardy and his scum friends gang up on Keith about to give a beat down he doesn't bend. Watts is an aggressive rebel that puts it out there. I love that she's not afraid to admit to what she is. From how she dresses and the way she acts. I also love that she doesn't take crap from anyone or let Keith take crap. The chemistry between them is great, the thing about this story is that you already know the answer, the question is when. It makes perfect sense as both have more history together and are kinda the same.Watts you really feel pathos for because most of what she goes though is some of the stuff I've been though. See how she's aware that her feelings for Keith are more that just friendship alone which is perfectly natural because sometimes as times goes on if our feelings grow we begin to see our friend a lot differently. And how she's having trouble risking it all despite being a risk taker, they do say that the greatest risk is expressing your feelings. This just all the more makes us want her to do what she has to do and possibly win because it's the only way, not saying anything is even more painful.I really like how Keith is slowly discovering it, in his mind he thinks that Amanda could be the one; but we see slowly he's changing his mind a little and is starting to look at Watts differently.It has some great themes which are common in most of Hughes films like the importance of opening up to someone about how you feel, becoming more, our perception on people and how their not always what they seem, and believing in yourself.Sometimes the one we truly love is closer then we think.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"John Hughes Does It Again!","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What does it seem that all teen comedies from the 80's have in common? Well, they were influenced in some way or the other by the legendary John Hughes. For this film, Some Kind of Wonderful, he penned the script. He wrote such a touching, heartfelt script and thankfully, that carried over to the final product. The film is heartfelt and earnest and is also a realistic take on high school romance. The film seems a little outdated, but if you strip away the layers, everything is the same no matter the year.Howard Deutch directed a romance film that takes a look of the high school's social hierarchy that one comes to assume. This is about some working-class kid named Keith who falls for the pretty Amanda Jones, despite her influences with the rich and popular. Meanwhile, his best friend is the tomboyish Watts who finds out she has feelings for Keith after he asks Amanda out.The acting is very good and believable. Lea Thompson is most likely the biggest star here and she does extremely well as Amanda, who tries to be with the rich and popular despite being poor. Eric Stoltz impressed me as Keith who is nice and laidback. Mary Stuart Masterson does a solid job as Watts and this is probably her best role.Overall, Some Kind of Wonderful is an 80's teen film that will keep you engaged. Despite several clichs, the film works because it has an emotional core with a strong script by Hughes and fantastic acting which makes the audience care strongly about what is going on. This is one of those films that makes me realize how great the 1980's were for film, especially with all these teen comedies. This is another great teen romance/comedy that we have all come to love. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Good 80's Romance Flick!","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Eric Stoltz, Lea Thompson, Mary Stuart Masterson, Craig Sheffer, Elias Koteas and John Ashton star in this 1987 romantic comedy-drama. Stoltz (Mask) plays artistic teen, Keith Nelson who has a crush on popular girl, Amanda Jones (Thompson). He asks her out after she breaks up with her cheating boyfriend, Hardy Jenns (Sheffer). She accepts in order to get back at Hardy and Keith goes out of his way to impress her. Soon, Keith learns why Amanda accepted and that Hardy plans to teach him a lesson by inviting them to his party. Keith decides to stand up for himself and Amanda by confronting Hardy. Masterson (Chances Are) plays Keith's Tomboyish friend, Watts who wants to be more than that, Koteas (Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles) plays Keith's new pal, Duncan who is also artistic and Ashton (Beverly Hills Cop) plays Keith's father, Cliff. I've always enjoyed this film and the cast is great. I recommend this good 80's romance flick. "},{"Title":"This is a great film","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a film written by the late John Hughes. He has always had a talent for writing realistic and engaging characters as shown in many of his other films including The Breakfast Club, Pretty in Pink, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Home Alone, & Uncle Buck. All great films and with this one he pulls it off again.The story follows Keith (Eric Stoltz) as he tries to discover his place in the world dealing with his overbearing father who is desperate for him to go to college. Keith is infatuated by popular girl Amanda Jones (Lea Thompson) and he invites her on a date, she accepts and Keith along with help from his best friend, a tomboy called Watts (Mary Stuart Masterson), plan the most amazing date.The cast including Eric Stoltz, Mary Stuart Masterson, Lea Thompson, Craig Sheffer, John Ashton & Elias Koteas is great and all bring something great to each character. The story is basic but it draws you in and doesn't let go. The scenes are beautifully shot and the soundtrack brings the film come to life.This is a really fun film with some great twists and fun characters. The standout character is the skinhead Duncan played by Elias Koteas who steals every scene he is in.John Hughes has created another under rated masterpiece. It is not as well known as Ferris Bueller's Day Off & Home Alone, but due to the more serious tone of the film, this is better.This is a great film, perfectly made and flawless. It's one I can watch time and time again. "},{"Title":"Perfect Title for this Film!","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was shocked to find out &#x96; don't ask me when, but I did realize it (possibly again) this viewing &#x96; that John Hughes did NOT direct Some Kind of Wonderful, a movie I've always labeled as my favorite John Hughes movie.Well, it still can be, thankfully. He did write it and produced it. So he did have his hands in some of the most important parts of the filmmaking process.Now, I do go up against many a Hughes fan of the 80s teen gen films because everyone's favorites always seem to be either Pretty in Pink or The Breakfast Club &#x96; both good, notwithstanding &#x96; and sometimes they even mention the excellent Ferris Bueller's Day Off. But, Some Kind of Wonderful, was just that WONDERFUL, in every aspect. Music, acting, heart, dialogue, cast, comedy and romance. I viewed Pretty in Pink as a funny movie with a good heart &#x96; but not great. Breakfast Club was more about social commentary in the school. And Ferris&#x85;strictly comedy with a dash of drama.It was my sister who introduced me to this movie (and Dirty Dancing) in the 1980s and I simply can't thank her enough. It made me a lifelong fan of both Eric Stolz and Mary Stuart Masterson, though it's hard to see either in many more movies. I love the soundtrack from beginning to end, and it's one of the most listened to soundtracks in my life. And the dialogue (thank you, Mr. Hughes) is so good, I've used a lot of the lines multiple times in my life. Such as (paraphrasing) You can't judge a book by its cover&#x85;but you can tell how much it's gonna cost and I'm driving you crazy, and you're driving me crazy. And I'd rather not see you, and have you say good things about me, than see you and have you hate me. Cuz, I can't afford to have you hate me&#x85;Also, the romance was beautiful. Yeah, I understand the concepts in this movie are not entirely original, i.e. love triangle whereas one is completely blind to the one that loves him. But when the so-called secret is revealed, it's breathtaking. (Spoiler coming, sorry) And it doesn't hurt that the two who do get together all but walk off into the sunset (or is that moonlight?) leaving you believing this is forever. And that's my favorite type of ending where reality isn't at play. I really don't want to know what happens next. It's just enough for me to believe they'll make it after all.The opposite also works here in this movie; I LOVED the beginning. What I refer to as Watts at Play is a great intro She's playing the drums while the opening credits role and all the main characters are introduced. So well are both the drum solo by Watts (Masterson) and the first shots of the leads, that you really get a feeling of who's who and what status they play in both the high school they attend and in the movie as a hole. Brilliant.I'd like to believe the high school scenes hold up today, but its doubtful I would get others to agree with me, especially any young folk who would watch this for the first time in today's time. That's okay for several reasons it is, in fact, based in 1987 as Watts directly points out in one scene. So, if the movie were based in a one-room school in 1865, it's a poor argument to say it doesn't hold true today. Also, I feel the themes &#x96; rebels, outcast, shy, popular, stuck up, money, disobedience, nagging parents, gossip, detention, talking back&#x85;all still apply.Kids today. Whoa, let me continue&#x85;Kids today might be turned off by the dated nature of this film and I surely hope that doesn't happen. As I pointed out, I believe this to be as relevant today as it was 24 years ago.This is a simple movie of a boy, Keith (Stoltz) who is infatuated with taken Miss Amanda Jones (Lea Thompson) and is blind to the true love that's right in front of him. Also, it helps Keith's plight that Amanda's boyfriend, Hardy Jenns (Craig Sheffer &#x96; in a role I will forever and ONLY remember him in) is a cheatin' jerk. The story gets complicated with who's using who, who's loving who and who's supposed to be saving up for college. And there's a lot of room left over for extremely funny lines, comic tensions and deep insights into real people.I do like the script and the acting is pitch-perfect, even from the secondary roles &#x96; namely from Elias Koteas as, uh, Skinhead. Another role I will define him as in my mind &#x96; even though I've seen him elsewhere, such as the original Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film.But from all the things I loved about this film, such as the aforementioned great tunes, Watts (or Mary Stuart Masterson) is on my list of all-time favorite characters. She's tough yet insecure, hard though soft, smart but slacks, devoted however distant and both funny and sincere at the same time. She might have been overlooked for the Oscars or the casual viewer of this movie, but she steals every scene and shows the most depth of an already established fantastic cast. For someone 21 at the time, she acted her heart out and made an impact on me. Oh, and did I mention she plays a mean set of drums? I would love her in real life&#x85;and it helps, she does kinda look like a guy.I'm going to sum up the above with SEE IT. Don't miss one of the smaller Hughes (involved) films because everyone and their mother&#x85;wait, probably mostly their mothers&#x85;like Pretty in Pink more or think The Breakfast Club is superior. This 1980s relatively unknown film is a CLASSIC. "},{"Title":"Another great John Hughes treat.","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ahh, 80's Lea Thompson. That'll do it for me, but I'll tell you more reasons to watch this love story. It might be perceived as more of a chick flick but it's not a typical one thanks to the acting and the master of teen angst John Hughes who wrote the screenplay. Stoltz isn't sappy and Thompson brings a lot of depth to a character usually played 2-dimensionally in movies. Masterson plays a tomboy to perfection but is sexy and emotional at the same time. Keith (Stoltz) has a chance to go out on a date with Amanda Jones (Thompson), the most popular girl in school, but the problem is that her ex-boyfriend is also the most popular guy in school and he happens to be a jealous jock. Sounds clich? Not the way Craig Sheffer plays the jock. He's menacing and intimidating but Keith's way of taking it lightly and without caring is rarely seen in that type of situation. Oh yeah, and his best friend Watts (Masterson) is secretly in love with him. The acting is great in this movie and to be honest, I'm not sure why a lot of people haven't seen or heard of it. To me it's along the lines of Say Anything in terms of a good story and great and engaging acting. Elias Koteas' small part as the problematic high school student is a great one, too. Also, if you're a Back to the Future fan, it's fun to see Thompson and Stoltz together again after he got fired from BTTF. There's so much chemistry between them two that it makes you think how BTTF would have ended up looking. "},{"Title":"We are indebted to John Hughes","Date":"27 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" With every movie John Hughes kept surprising me. I wondered how this guy was so well at connecting with teenage related personal issues. And this one is no different. Some Kind of Wonderful is a kind of movie which will be special to me forever. This is well executed film in every aspect from acting, screenplay, story, message, entertainment, sound track, and direction. You can watch it from different angles either for simply entertainment or going deep into the content. The costumes of 80s were awesome. The slightly dysfunctional family of Keith was fun to watch. The tomboyish charm of Watts will inspire all the tomboys for generations.We cinema lovers are indebted to John Hughes for offering such decent and special films. "},{"Title":"It must be a drag to be a slave to the male sex drive.","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Keith Nelson, much to everyone else's surprise, lands a date with Amanda Jones, the most popular girl in school. But with Amanda comes trouble in the form of the ex-boyfriend, Hardy Jenns. A rich spoilt egotistical bully, Jenns plans to get back at Keith violently. While things are further complicated by the fact that Keith's best friend Watts is hopelessly in love with him, something that Keith is oblivious too. All roads, rocky or otherwise, are leading to one house party where lives are about to be changed.Released a year after Pretty In Pink, writer John Hughes further cemented his status as the king of teenage angst with this funny, charming and entertaining picture. Following a similar formula to that used in Pretty In Pink, Some Kind Of Wonderful deals not only in young love thematics, but also in opposites breaking down barriers, bullies and the spectre of parental pressure. Keith Eric Stoltz is from humble working class stock, the idea of dating the more affluent Amanda Lea Thompson would seem idiotic at best. The characters may move in different circles, but Hughes, as is his want, thrusts the issue to the front whilst dangling little strands in the background. Time is given to the father an impressive John Ashton and son axis, where career pressure is raised. And the delightful old chestnut of fitting in at school, or not as the case may be as regards Watts a tremendous and sensual Mary Stuart Masterton is also putting in an appearance.It's often forgotten in Hughes angsty films, that they aren't merely love stories for the young and restless. They are all encompassing pieces that hold up better than ever on revisits today. Yes there is pandering to certain expectations, and yes the endings never veer away from a tried and trusted method. But Hughes knew what worked for him and his audience. That he never attempted to insult us them with sledgehammer tactics, or trick of the twist dallying, is really rather refreshing when viewing them today. Some Kind Of Wonderful is quite simply a wonderful film, with great comedy check out the fabulous Elias Koteas and a banging soundtrack, it ranks as one of the finest efforts crafted from the pen of a very fine writer. 9/10 "},{"Title":"This is definitely Some Kind Of Wonderful movie!","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was pure genius! Even though this movie had pretty much the same plot as just a normal love triangle movie, this movie is definitely one of my favorite love triangle movies. I just adore this. Maybe it's because of the script. Maybe it's because of the cast. Maybe it's because of the humor. Or maybe it's because of everything this movie has to offer. I don't know. But this movie was without a doubt a masterpiece.I think that pretty much everyone would love this movie. Except for maybe like jocks and people in gangs... But hey, anything's possible! = "},{"Title":"Deserves more attention - an adorable love triangle","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had never even heard of this movie until last night when I was looking through my girlfriend's DVD collection. When I first flipped it over, I though to myself, What is THIS? The L Word or something? A chicks only type of movie??? At first glance, I thought it was 3 manly looking women, until I gave it a minute to sink in, and saw that Eric Stoltz was a man, a pretty good looking one at the time, and that this was a John Hughes movie! Then my girlfriend added, That's my favorite movie of all time!. I was interested...Movie kicks off to a great start immediately with a sweet new wave song over Mary Mastersen rocking out on her drums with a big heart on her snare head! You can already tell this movie is going to be pretty serious, and some sort of a period piece. And it is! Eric Stoltz character introduction is amazing...walking right up to a train, playing chicken on his own, and you can tell he is 100% not scared or threatened. He casually walks to the side of it just before it hits him, what a daring soul! Lea Thompson does her job, accurately, as the popular girl who wants to give this random nobody kid a chance because her last boyfriend was terrible to her. And by the way, Lea Thompson's super 80's suave ken doll of a boyfriend is one of the best characters in the movie! He is a d-bag to the extreme! The only other character who matches him in awesomeness is DUNCAN, the rebel punk rocker of the school, spending every day in detention, played by whoever that dude is that plays CASEY JONES in the Ninja Turtles movie! I'm sorry I'm talking about the characters so much but this movie is ALL in the characters. Mary Stuart as WATTS is the most adorable character in the movie! I haven't seen many people pull off the teen angsty, super-critical, talk crap about everyone personality like she does! It's so believable but it's so cute! And when she's sad you'll want to cry with her like a puppy.Solid direction and soundtrack. Plenty of interesting plot twists and turns to keep you intensely excited. And like i said, AMAZING characters! You even get to see Candace Cameron at about age 6 as the bookworm little sister! She's so smart. Definitely check this out if you like John Hughes, love stories, teen dramas, 80's era stuff, or if you just like straight up good movies! "}{"Title":"One of John Hughes' more underrated teen films","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Some Kind of Wonderful is one of John Hughes' lesser known teen films. Made in 1987, it turned out to be his last association with the teen genre before moving on to other areas of interest. Its a film that's never achieved the classic status of Hughes' other films of the time like Ferris Bueller's Day Off or The Breakfast Club. Even though I found it to be just as entertaining, and even rewarding.If you've ever seen Pretty in Pink, made the year previously, then you will notice some astonishing similarities. They both focus on a teenage love triangle. A high school misfit falls for a popular Senior while off to the side, a rebel who's friends with the misfit pines for them from afar. The only thing that differs is the ending. In PIP, misfit and popular Senior end up together. In SKOW, misfit ends up with rebel.Both films were written by John Hughes, and I think with SKOW, he got to make the film he originally envisioned. Hughes was allegedly unhappy with the way PIP ended. It was an ending that was forced upon him by the studio. I must admit I never really cared all that much for Pretty in Pink. The characters just weren't that interesting. Some Kind of Wonderful on the other hand is everything that film wasn't.The difference I think is all in the casting. Eric Stoltz offers a quiet but solid assessment of the part of Keith, the struggling artist who doesn't quite fit in at school. Lea Thompson plays with strength and depth as Amanda, the Prom Princess with issues of her own. And best of all is Mary Stewart Masterson as Watts, the non-conformist who longs for Keith in silence.Nobody quite makes a teen film like John Hughes. He has this ability to take generic material and infuse it with surprising depth and intelligence. And humour value too. When he moved on to adult films, he seemed quite out of his element. Probably because he seems a little awkward when trying to write them as anything other than stereotypes. The one exception was Planes, Trains & Automobiles, but that was down to the superbly nuanced acting of Steve Martin and especially John Candy.The adults in Hughes' teen films usually come off as alien, distant and uncomprehending of their children. Some Kind of Wonderful may be the one time where he gets that area right.Keith's father Cliff (John Ashton) wants his son to go off to college. I like the way he puts his point acrossYou could go on to a job where you don't have to wash your hands after a hard day's work.Keith would rather become an artist than have his life mapped out for him by his father. And when I saw SKOW the first time, I was expecting Hughes to fumble it, and turn Cliff into an indifferent monster. But I was surprised by Keith and Cliff's confrontation. Their heart-to-heart is quite well written on Hughes' part, and he allows both characters ample room to breathe. Cliff may be the closest thing to a sympathetic adult in a Hughes teen film.But its the young cast that make all the right moves. The central love triangle could be viewed as predictable, but the acting goes some way towards making Some Kind of Wonderful more entertaining than it has a right to be.Amanda could be regarded as a popular Ms Chic right at the top of the high school tree. And granted she only gets involved with Keith as a spur of the moment thing to spite her ex, but there are some depths to her character. She admits she makes bad decisions from time to time. But she would rather be with a gaggle of popular schoolgirls instead of feeling lonely all the time.But Watts is the one character to tune into. Mary Stewart Masterson does a great job fleshing out what's already a well written character. Her silent love for Keith is touching, and she's a walking voice of wisdom. Her curse is to see everything as it really is. She's so astute that its no wonder she's so alienated from everyone else around her at high school. Hughes may have trouble writing adult characters, but as for teenagers he's got them nailed.And there's a nice line of supporting characters too. I especially liked Laura, Keith's younger sister, played by Maddie Corman. Like Watts, she's astute and attuned to the world around her in ways most pre-teens only dream of. And I also liked Duncan, played by Elias Koteas. At first glance he seems a punk from detention, but becomes a surprisingly valued ally to Keith. Its all the more satisfying because I never saw it coming.Keith and Amanda's relationship hits a few bumps along the road. Too many as it turns out. Something that gets pointed out to them frequently. The ending is not all that unexpected, and it does come a little too abruptly, but I really enjoyed Some Kind of Wonderful. Its got a great cast of young actors and hits a lot of the right notes. It doesn't deserve obscurity. Its just as good as any of John Hughes' other teen films.A fine piece of work from a man who turned out some of the best teen movies the world had ever seen. "},{"Title":"Spellbound","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  How did I miss this flick in the past? While hospitalized recently I flipped past the intro credits rolling by on the WE network (not one I usually watch). I realized that there was a John Hughes screenplay that I had missed. Believe it or not, I credit Mary Stuart Masterson with uplifting my heart and spirits enough to shorten my time in ICU! I just hope one day I can Justify to my wife the purchase of the DVD! Only the soundtrack precludes me from giving it a 10. Thank God Molly Ringwald passed on this one. I think she peaked in 16 Candles anyway. This was not just another teen movie. This was Mary Stuart Masterson's breakout role, bar none.What a beautiful person. WOW!  "},{"Title":"Underrated in the John Hughs teen movie collection.","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was a teenager in the 80's. The whole John Hughes collection of teen comedies are classics of the time. They all were funny, insightful, but never false or preachy. I think that is what made them so appealing. This film had the misfortune of coming after Pretty in Pink, and yes has virtually the same plot. Rich snobby kids vs. average income kids. An outsider played by Eric Stotlz plays an outsider that Falls for a girl that is part of the Rich kid click, and of course she has a snob, rich obnoxious boyfriend that wants to beat him up.... Hughes movies were never great on plot, he took basic somewhat clichd stories and made them fresh with good dialog and engaging actors. Stoltz gives a subtle intelligent performance, and Lea Thompson plays the snobby girl, but she is given the chance to be 3 dimensional, her performance is good. The movie truly belongs to Mary Stuart Masterson, she plays Stolz's best friend and confidant, and yes like Jon Cryer's character (duckie) in Pretty in Pink, she is in love with her best friend.She plays the character with the right mix of attitude and sensibility. The Duckie character in the other movie, was used more as comic relief. Masterson's character is more part of the story, and she makes the movie better because of it. This movie is entertaining because the characters are thoughtful and intelligent. It may not be a masterpiece, but it is an entertaining teen movie, and the soundtrack is great!!!Grade B "},{"Title":"a classic on music from the eighties","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although the history gave me paths while a teenager, the truth is that music on this film really changed the way I pictured myself.  Watching it during such period of my life, was encouraging for me.  Leah Thomson seemed so ideal but, nowadays, my perception has become a little different.  Poor, lonely, slave of a name, Amanda Jones had to keep herself like a star.  On the contrary, Watts has nothing to lose, so she loves.  The outstanding thing on this film, let me write it again, is music. "},{"Title":"Yet another killer 80's teen movie soundtrack","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ahhhh, the 80's teen movie, when killer soundtracks were known for their ability to introduce you to new music.  A young, hot post-Mask Stoltz, a perky butch pre-Fried Green Tomatoes Mary Stuart Masterson and a VERY 80's Leah Thompson...  The best scene is the kiss in the garage, of course.  I won't spoil the ending, it's joyous yet it is sad to see it end, as I wish we could all witness more of the young relationship blossom.  A SKoW 2 would be fabulous, even now.  It's 15 years later, have the pair married? Did they experience first love and then part amicably?  Have they lost touch?  This is a couple you can actually care about.  They're so damn likable! "},{"Title":"The Teen Angst Movies of the '80s","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, maybe the movie was over the top, but most '80s movies were.  Take it from someone who grew up in the '80s, the topics were very accurate trying to figure out who you are, who your friends are, the feelings you have, the joy/pain of falling in love, dealing with bratty siblings, and going against your parents.  And the confrontations of kids in school remind people of how major a fight seemed (and this was before guns started showing up in schools on a regular basis).  It's a movie that takes you back to the good ole days. "},{"Title":"another pretty good hughes written teen movie","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie is not as fun as most other john hughes'  teen movies,but still fun. it's predictable,but still is >worthwhile. this movie is like pretty in pink except a >little better. i give some kind of wonderful **1/2 out of >****  "},{"Title":"GREAT SONG TIED TO A GREAT SCENE...","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An enjoyable enough movie for it's particular genre.  Teen-age themes were very rampant when WONDERFUL was made.  In my (humble) opinion, the thing that makes this movie most memorable is, not just the last few minutes, but the closing song.  After hearing it, I fell in love with the song and the scene.  It gave those last few minutes the oomph to put that smile on yer face and tear in yer eye.  It is a very fast, very Irish version of Can't Help Falling in Love With You by (not Elvis) but and Irish folk group called Lick the Tins(with the singer sounding very much like Melanie).  While in the UK, I picked up a copy of their CD and was disappointed that the rest of their didn't live up to my expectations.  Some one, working on the movie, had a good ear for picking out this gem and it is used to perfection.One odd note, mostly everyone I introduced to this song, loved it, especially kids.  Most of my Irish friends didn't see it as special, they said it sounded like every other Irish band.  (That must make Irish bands a great resource.)  Maybe I should get out more, but I consider it their loss.....One point of view I hadn't seen represented in other comments were those a gay friend mentioned to me.  It seems when he watches the movie, he assumes Watts' boyish character to be a male, not a female.  He watches it as a coming out film and said it was a common interpretation, by gays he knew, in a world where pop films didn't represent them adequately.... "},{"Title":"Different, but really enjoyable","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is like a reversed Pretty in Pink, and it works really well.  All three leads were excellent, especially Masterson as the Tomboy who falls in love with Stoltz.  The storyline is different from many other films of the genre as it attempts to be more realistic in its depiction of not only teenage life, but the problems that face the families and the teenagers in regards to future ambitions and social standings.  Where the other Hughes films before this tended to skim the surface of these issues, this film takes a deep plunge right into these issues, and works immensely well because of it.  The only problem is the leads were probably getting a little old to play teenagers completely convincingly. "},{"Title":"This film introduced me to the wonderful Mary Stuart Masterson, and I have been a fan ever since.","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought the film had a well constructed story-line, with a set of first-rate young actors, notably Mary Stuart Masterson, Lea Thompson, Molly Hagan and Elias Koteas. Maybe the struggle to find one's identity was a bit simplistic, never-the-less a good movie. "}{"Title":"review","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I challenge anyone to find an American woman born between the years 1971 and 1976 who does not love this film.  Furthermore who does not love Eric Stoltz in this film. "},{"Title":"One of the best teen movies ever made, you say?","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw one site giving this movie a high recommendation as one of the best high school movies that were ever made. I decided to research the movie here on IMDb and saw mostly good praise. The rating was average, but I was bored, so I thought, Oh, what the hell. Might as well give it a try! Plus the summary seemed interesting and invited me in.'A young tomboy, Watts, finds her feelings for her best friend, Keith, run deeper than just friendship when he gets a date with the most popular girl in school.' The summary makes it seem like the movie would be from Watts' point of view, but it wasn't. We only see glimpses of her 'agonizing' face every now and then when Keith's with Amanda. I was disappointed, since I was looking forward to see the whole movie from the tomboy's perspective. Instead, the movie focuses on Keith, which I wasn't very fond of. I think that I would have liked this movie more if it was focusing more on Watts.I didn't like the ending. (SPOILERS) I mean, when did Keith even realize that he liked Watts? It was too rushed! There wasn't enough development! Except for the hot little practice kiss they shared and that bar moment. Mhm. (/SPOILERS)I also didn't like the whole message that this movie gave. (SPOILERS) Keith used all the money that he and his father saved up for his future- his college!- for a pair of earrings for some girl. I mean, I found that pretty stupid. I'm not a love hater or anything, but seriously, I know the limits. (/SPOILERS)I'm aware that this is a pretty old film and many people find it popular, but this just wasn't my type. If you're like me, who is kind of cynical and doesn't necessarily believe that you MUST give up everything for love, then maybe you won't enjoy it that much either. But if you feel like giving it a try, then go on. The practice kiss that Watts and Keith shared was well worth the watch, anyway. "},{"Title":"Some Kind of Average","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I hadn't watched this film for many years but following writer John Hughes untimely death decided to watch one of his less well known films again. Unlike his better known films like The Breakfast Club and Ferris Bueller's Day Off this seems far more dated, it also doesn't help that the main character's behaviour towards the girl of his dreams is bordering on stalking.Eric Stoltz plays Keith, a high school student who is besotted by the beautiful Amanda Jones, played by Lea Thompson. She is already in a relationship though, with rich boy Hardy who treats her like his property. Early on Keith admires her from afar, sketching her during class and hanging around places she was likely to be, even deliberately getting himself in to detention after he overhears her being given detention. When Amanda finally has had enough of her boy friend Keith plucks up courage to ask her out. All the while Keith's closest friend, tomboy Watts played by Mary Stuart Masterson, is cautioning him that any involvement with Amanda will only lead to him getting hurt. This advice isn't entirely selfless as she has an obvious crush on him although he is oblivious to this.Claiming to want to show that there are no hard feelings Hardy invites Keith and Amanda to a party he is throwing. Even though Keith knows it is a trick he decides to go, but only after he has taking Amanda on a date where Watts acts as their driver. Of course the film ends with Keith successfully standing up to Hardy and ending up with the girl he is meant to be with.The acting is good enough although in common with most high school films the cast are a bit too old with most of them being closer to thirty than twenty let alone school age. Mary Stuart Masterson did well as Watts, my favourite character, although it is hard to believe that Keith didn't notice her as more than a friend; it is as if the creators thought a short hair cut and grungy clothes can make an obviously beautiful girl look plain and unattractive.While I think this film had a lot of faults I wouldn't advise everybody to avoid it, if you like high school romances and don't mind a bit of cheesiness you might really enjoy it. "},{"Title":"This movie is definitely 'some kind of wonderful'.","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Back in the 90's when I first saw Some Kind of Wonderful, I was about eight and loved the movie so much that I literally wore the VHS tape out, I watched it so frequently. Back then, even though I really loved the movie, I don't think that I completely understood the whole thing about the girl being in love with her best friend; At least, back then I hadn't been through the situation. About 3 months ago I was at the movie store and saw the Some Kind of Wonderful DVD on the shelf and immediately bought it. This movie has quickly become my absolute favorite movie again, and now that I'm a teenager and have actually been in love with my best guy friend, and have personally gone through all of the emotional experiences that Watts was going through in the movie, I have a new respect for it. In my opinion, Some Kind of Wonderful is John Hughes' best 80's teen movie by far. The storyline is terrific, and the acting is superb. I highly recommend it and it is a very worthwhile movie viewing experience. "},{"Title":"This is one of the best movies from that period","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not a comment but a question I've been looking since the first time I've seen the movie the version from I can't help falling in love. Up to date and after almost 18 years I've noticed my self that this song wasmade first by Elvis and then for U2, UB40, Abba Teens, Bruce The Bose andmany others but I wasn't able to find that version from the final scene, which in MHO is the best of all that I've ever heard (my be due to the emotional feelling provocated by that final scene). Any one knowing the name of the band, that would be greatly appreciated. Regs.  "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated films of the 80's.  ****","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those films that come along, don't generate alot of media hype, and then get buried under a mountain of rubble. It's only when it is unearthed by us the viewers, either at the video store or on T.V that we truly get a glimpse of this very entertaining and charming movie. Not a flop (by 80's teen angst film standards), but not an overwhelming success like it's predecessor, 'Pretty in pink', this film managed to generate a cult following.     Like 'Pretty in Pink' it is the story of a misunderstood youth (in this case Eric Stoltz, instead of Molly Ringwald) from the wrong side of the tracks who falls for someone who is, by their standards, unattainable. Both films star a disaffected friend who steals the show. In Pretty in Pink it was Jon Cryer's performance as Molly Ringwalds hopelessly infatuated friend Duckie, in Some Kind of Wonderful it is Mary Stuart Masterson's portrayal of Watt's, the tough, tomboy best-friend and secret admirer of our main character Keith.   As in Pretty In Pink, Keith manages to steal a date with his unattainable heroine, Amanda Jones. Asking her at the perfect time, when she is most vulnerable after a fight with her boyfriend, an egotistical rich-boy jerk played by Craig Scheffer. Whether it be shock, or a deep-seeded need to get revenge on her boyfriend, Amanda accepts, sending shockwaves through the ranks of their California high school.  By the last 15 minutes of the film we come to realize a few things, Keith is desperately trying to be his own person in lieu of his over bearing father, Amanda isn't sure of herself regardless of her popularity, and finally that Keith's best friend, who he see's only as a pal, is hopelessly in love with him but can't reveal her true feelings in fear of being rejected by the only person she can relate to.  In the end of our film Keith comes to a crossroads, stay with Amanda, the girl he has pawned after for his entire high school career, or be with Watt's, his best friend since grade school? Unlike Pretty in Pink Keith chooses the latter, and I believe this film to be superior to 'Pretty in Pink' because of that. In the original ending of Pretty in Pink Ringwald ends up with Cryer, but because of test audience reaction John Hughes decided to rewrite the ending to have Ringwald's character stay with Blaine, Andrew McCarthy's character. Much to my dismay as I really believed that she would end up with Duckie. 'Some Kind of Wonderful' fixes this problem without sacrificing anything emotionally from the story. You truly feel for this teenagers and identify with them in some way.    The ending was a breath of fresh air and was a great way to tie up an excellent film. I truly believe that this film, (along with 1989's 'Say Anything...', and 1986's 'At Close Range') is incredibly underrated and deserving of high praise. A great overall film. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SKOW might just be the most underrated (and among the best) of this genre of '80s movies.  It's one of those movies that, if I come across it while flipping channels, forget it - I'm hooked for the rest of the movie.As for the parallels some folks have drawn between SKOW and Pretty in Pink, please - SKOW is not only better than PIP, but significantly so.  It's funnier, more heart-warming, deeper, and just plain more entertaining.  The most significant difference, however, are the three leads.  Stoltz, Masterson, and Thompson clearly trump the trio of Ringwald, McCarthy, and Cryer (Cryer is excellent, though, and essentially steals every scene he's in).  In the battle of the red-heads, Stoltz is so much more likeable than Ringwald.  Thompson has more depth than McCarthy.  Masterson and Cryer are such different characters from each other that it's tough to draw any comparison.  Both good, but if I had to give it to one, it would have to be Masterson because she is so complex and her acting is terrific - portraying less of a caricature than Cryer's character.  Other than Cryer, PIP's only other strong point is James Spader as the unlikeable rich friend (although Annie Potts is not bad and the soundtrack is pretty good - gotta love Psychedelic Furs).  Craig Sheffer, however, gives him a run for his money as the same type of a-hole.  To top things off, SKOW has better peripheral characters.  Duncan just steals each scene he is in.  Watts' obsessed friend is equally hilarious in his limited role.  Keith's sister is perfect - both annoying and endearing.  Even Amanda's friends are sufficiently plastic and unlikeable to make thing work (I love the expression one of them gives at the end when one of Duncan's friends checks her out).Bottom line - SKOW stands high above PIP.In fact, without really thinking too hard - I would have to say that SKOW is among my top 5 movies in this genre.  The others?  Probably (in no particular order) Breakfast Club, Say Anything, Better Off Dead, St. Elmo's Fire.  I'm probably forgetting some other deserving, notable flicks, but SKOW compares favorably with any of these. "},{"Title":"The superior version of Pretty In Pink","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Howard Deutch and John Hughes reunited one year after their previous joint venture Pretty In Pink to make Some Kind Of Wonderful, which is essentially the same movie as the Molly Ringwald vehicle. The only difference is that this time it's a boy who's torn between two girls, one of which is his best friend and the other being the popular high school queen. Although this is still a fairy tale in which characters act like they never would in real life, Some Kind Of Wonderful is the more successful of the two movies. The pacing is tighter, the characters are less sappy, the acting is far superior and most importantly, the ending is more satisfying (if not exactly believable). Besides, it's nice to see Lea Thompson and Eric Stoltz interact, since they had already both been cast in Back To The Future before Stoltz was thrown out for creative differences with director Robert Zemeckis. They're working real well as a couple in this movie. All in all Some Kind Of Wonderful is the bettered version of Pretty In Pink. "},{"Title":"MSM makes this movie the best teen flick ever","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say the first time I saw this movie I was amazed. Not only was it the first movie that actually made me cry, but it was also the first time I saw the most beautiful woman on earth, Mary Stuart Masterson. She made this film a classic and the best of the 80's teen flicks. My thanks goes to her. "},{"Title":"Some kind of retread of PRETTY IN PINK","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Hughes deserves alot of credit. During the eighties, he gave us one of the best teen films of the last twenty-five years(THE BREAKFAST CLUB), as well as some lesser offerings. SOME KIND OF WONDERFUL is one of them. Not a bad offering, but owes a little too much to a previous movie, PRETTY IN PINK, and some one-dimensional characters. The thing that made THE BREAKFAST CLUB work was the way the characters were portrayed as people with complex feelings rather than just the stereotypes projected on them by their peers. The cruelty perpetrated by the spoiled rich kids rings true, but we don't get any insight into why they do what they do; they remain reprehensible bullies rather than fragile people masking their insecurities through money or persecutions. Mary Stuart Masterson's character is fascinating, but one character does not a movie make. And the ending was utterly predictable. Watch PRETTY IN PINK, it's better. "}{"Title":"Standard but enjoyable.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Leonard Maltin was correct in his analysis, stating that writer John Hughes pretty much did a sex switch of his earlier hit PRETTY IN PINK.  This time around is more entertaining than before, with some good dialogue and above-par performances from a string of up and comers.Still just an ordinary 80s teen pic, but enjoyable.** out of **** "},{"Title":"Some Kind of Entertainment","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" John Hughes, the undisputed king of teen drama and comedy, brings us yet another typical high school piece about a young man who attempts to win the affections of a popular and wealthy girl whilst his best friend, a tom-boy who is in love with him, does her utmost to dissuade him of his intentions.Writer Hughes teams with director Deutch (the two are no strangers - The Great Outdoors being another project they both worked on) for a film which once again shows the insight that Hughes has into the psyche of the young adult. Unfortunately he fails to turn Some Kind of Wonderful into the accurately reflective movie that his very successful 1984 smash The Breakfast Club was.A narrow and predictable plot certainly does not help, as the audience is never in doubt about the outcome. Couple this with shallow characters who fail to give the show any depth, and you have a slightly disappointing teen flick. Acting performances aren't really high grade either, with Eric Stoltz having been much better in Mask, Mary Stuart Masterson since rising to greater heights (Fried Green Tomatoes) and even Lea Thompson, you feel, could improve.Overall Deutch Hughes and co. do manage some kind of entertainment, but even if you can become interested in the people involved, you could hardly call it Some Kind of Wonderful.Saturday, June 11, 1994 - Video "},{"Title":"You look good wearing my future.....","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's someone and something for everyone in this movie.  Geeky misfit guy, annoying sisters (preppy wannabe and know-it-all eight year old) well meaning, but bumbling father (very Homer-esque) gorgeously unattainable babe, equally beautiful misfit tomboy (why are the viewers the only ones who can see how good she looks), slimy rich kids, wonderful anti-hero skinhead, clique-ridden high school, love, betrayal, love again, all woven together masterfully by the #1 in the genre, John Hughes.  This is just my all time favourite, way, way up there with The Breakfast Club and Ferris Bueller's Day Off.  Don't argue with me, watch it!!!  "},{"Title":"The Least Offensive of the Brat Pack","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" On the surface, SKoW is just another teen angst movie of the 80s. Lots of parents who are squares and teenagers who are misunderstood and, my personal favorite, brooding. Where would the 80s be without the brooding, I ask ya? But what saves this movie from spiraling into a heap of self-loathing is the trio of truly likable leads. What sunk films like Breakfast Club or St Elmo's was entire ensembles of unsympathetic characters that offered no foothold to build kinship with. Mary Sue Masterson as Watts was the undeniable show-stopper. She fit her character to a tee- lovely, but covered with rough edges and a tough demeanor. Even her rival, Lea Thompson as Amanda, garnered sympathy without coming off as whiny and poor little popular girl. The weak link may have been Keith, played by Eric Stolz, who was borderline emo at times. Plus it annoyed me that as soon as he got the girl he spent an entire movie chasing, he no longer wanted her. But maybe that's just my own frustration at high school boys. Styupid boyz >_<Overall, a very sweet film with enjoyable characters you want to see succeed, not just get a punch in the kisser. Speaking of kissers, the last scene is worth the whole film, truly some kind of wonderful. "},{"Title":"Sensitive Teens For A Change--Despite The Miami Vice Fashions","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What, Mary Stuart Masterson's throbbing, stomping, drumming montage in the beginning doesn't count as Action or Adventure in this sensitive portrayal of sensitive youths in 1987 high school? At least the accompanying synth-track Masterson drums to sounds eerily familiar to Wang Chung's equally masterful Wang Chung soundtrack, To Live And Die In LA. Other than that, no, there's no action, unless you count kissing. It's a reasonably intelligent relationship comedy/drama about loner-artist Eric Stoltz longing for pseudo-rich fantasy girl Lea Thompson--though, aside from her body, Thompson comes across as kind of creepy with her pre-adolescent boy's face; she certainly doesn't hold a candle to Masterson's sexy tomboy. Elias Koteas provides some humor as a punk criminal, there's tons of 80s music, and the characters all wear Miami Vice fashions to high school. On a realism level, it's a little weird when Stoltz's friends wish him as well as he's lured to the big rich-kid party where he's openly going to get stomped by a bunch of guys. Doesn't anybody care he's going to end up in a hospital? Masterson is the best actor of the movie's trio, and though her mannerisms often bring to mind a twitchy Sandy Dennis, nothing compares to the girl's close-ups. HOT! Personally, I think the flick would be brilliant if Stoltz appeared as Rocky Dennis, thus upping the emotional stakes in a sort of sequel to Mask. "},{"Title":"A John Hughes Unknown 80's Classic!","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie when it was released in theaters back in 1987. I had just turned 19 and had finished high school only six or so months before. God this movie made an impact on me! I loved it! It is so total 80's. What does every U.S. kid in high school seem to want? He/She wants to fit in. To be accepted. Yet others in high school can be so cruel. John Hughes certainly knew how to get into the heart of an 80's American teenager.I could relate so much with Eric Stoltz's character (Keith Nelson) and with Mary Stuart Masterson's character (Watts). In high school, I had a female friend who hung around with me a lot and I had a huge crush on her. I never let her know of the crush for fear of losing her altogether. Also, I didn't live in the city where I went to school. That was basically like living on the other side of the tracks. To top it off, I even had my dad pushing me hard to go to college (which I did).One thing about seeing this movie on cable, DVD or VHS&#x85;it is not the same as seeing it in a movie theater with an audience. Elias Koteas as Duncan the skinhead steals all the scenes he is in and makes you laugh hard. That laughter was further amplified by everyone else who laughed in the movie theater. However, Mary Stuart Masterson's heart wrenching emotion transfers very well on both the big screen and on the silver screen. In my opinion, she was the true star of the movie.Over twenty years later, I still enjoy watching this movie and consider it one of my top ten favorites. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"An 80's Movie That One Must See","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The success of 1980's teen comedies was successful, thanks mostly to the success of the genius of the late great John Hughes. Hughes was in many ways the 1980's version of King Midas. Whatever teen comedy he was involved with the results was genuine gold. Every angst that was faced involving youth in the 1980's, Hughes knew the right key to give his audience full attention to what's going on and hope that the subliminal messages delivered to his films are easy to grasp at. It's sad that a man like John Hughes is no longer with us because he knew how to comprehend with teens, which others had tried, but didn't quite live up to the legacy of John Hughes.What makes Some Kind of Wonderful a special movie is that from the beginning of the story, we get a full satisfying glimpse of the characters without wasting a single moment at grabbing our attention. From Watts' (Mary Stuart Masterson) opening scene with her drumming, to Amanda (Lea Thompson) in a smooch fest with Hardy Jenns (Craig Shaffer), to introverted Keith Nelson (Eric Stoltz)dropping oil into a car. Those simple scenes are symbolic in a way to explain what faction each of these students belong to.Watts hangs out with Keith quite frequently. When Watts is not on her drum kit and when Keith's off work at the car shop, they're seen spending quality time talking casually. Keith and Watts join together in the loner's club. They're not from the upper realms of the crop. In fact if school was built like a layer cake, they would be at the bottom of the surface. Watts is a tomboy who's often condemned by her peers most to her boyish apparel. And Keith gets condemned mostly because of is job as an artist. In one of Keith and Watts' casual chats, Keith reveals that he is smitten over a classmate, Amanda. Watts has a total dislike for Amanda. Like Keith and Watts, Amanda is also from a poor family, but unlike Watts and Keith, she's the whipped topping among her classmates. Mostly because she's dating the rich, suave and smooth-talking teen Hardy. One day, after a bitter spat between Amanda and Hardy, Amanda breaks up with Hardy and was quick to respond to Keith when he asked her to go out. While Keith excitedly dresses up for his dream date, Amanda is at a crossroads; she can't seem to find the right way to tell Keith that she's not really interested in dating him because she doesn't want to bring herself down to the same layer as them.If school's not a problem for Keith, home is also quite trivial as well. His father has no other cares in the world except for his son continuing his education and keeping track of his college tuition. But Keith just wants to continue his studies in art which doesn't sit well with his father. This is the second film, Hughes and director Howard Deutch collaborated on (The first was Pretty in Pink). Many have claimed that there both very similar to each other. Though, they're mostly right with the exception of the ending to Pretty in Pink, it would have been the exact same movie. I always liked how John Hughes utilized music to connect the feelings of each of his characters. It's still in the traditional 1980's style flare, and who can forget the song Miss Amanda Jones by the March Violets.Eric Stoltz was simply amazing here as poor boy Keith Nelson, by making his role very real without being too preachy. The chemistry between him and the other two female stars will grab your attention at a tight focus. The one-liners by these characters will leave you in stitches in laughter. Even though you've left us too soon Mr. Hughes, your films, stories and humour will live on forever and for that reason alone we salute you John Hughes. There will never be another person like you. "},{"Title":"All kinds of wonderful","Date":"27 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Is this John Hughes' best production? Well it has to come pretty close to the amazing The Breakfast Club, anyway. The film is pretty much Pretty In Pink in reverse, but so much better. For one thing, we don't have Andrew McCarthy. And the ones we want to end up together, the ones who should end up together, do! Mary Stuart Masterson is wonderful as tomboy Watts, and she and Eric Stolz have great chemistry. And Samantha Jones, the goddess Samantha Jones (played by Lea Thompson) is actually a likable gal too. Not the one for our hero Keith, but Hughes doesn't paint her as a bitch. The bratpacker movie without the bratpack, this is a keeper. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie about teens!","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The 80s had so many teen comedies, and I say Some Kind of Wonderful was among one of the best along with Fast Time at Ridgemont High, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, and Say Anything... Not that it was a great comedy, per se, but it was a very in depth look of teenager trying to understand themselves.Eric Stolze played an ordinary teenager, Keith of a middle class family who wanted to go after one of the most beautiful girl, played by Lea Thompson, in school. The problem was that she has an abusive boyfriend who was not happy about his pursuit, so the boyfriend was setting up a situation to humiliate him. Through the experience, the teenagers learned about themselves.Kudos to the writing of John Hughes. Great performance by Eric Stolze. Also especially great is the performance of Mary Stuart Masterson who played Keith's Tomboy sidekick who is helping him getting the girl while at the same time we know her crush on Keith without him knowing it. "},{"Title":"Thank goodness Molly Ringwald turned this one down...","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Because it's so much better without her. I just read in imdb that John Hughes was furious when Ringwald turned down the role that Lea Thompson took on, but it was her loss and our gain. Lea definitely had a sexy edge that the homely Ringwald could never have pulled off. I've wondered what sort of sick fascination Hughes must have had with Ringwald to elevate a B-actress to star in three of his pictures, but fortunately I didn't have to see her in a fourth.SKOW would rank as my second favorite of the 80's teen angst films, behind Better Off Dead, which is probably more farce than dramedy, but masterful nonetheless. It noses out Can't Buy Me Love which was a similarly enjoyable film. This film was just beautifully acted. It worked for me, unlike Pretty in Pink, because Eric Stolz's character and his troubles seemed more real than Ringwald's. He actually seemed to hate school, instead of being the stereotypical poor kid who makes exceptional grades. Although many parallels can be drawn to Pretty in Pink, I felt it was more enjoyable that Stolz and Lea Thompson were both from lower/middle class families. It endeared me to Lea Thompson's character, because her struggles were not those of a petty rich girl. I also think the soundtrack was on the weak side, and they certainly should have promoted it better (I discovered it on VHS and don't remember it ever hitting the theatres). Maybe the trend of naming movies after popular songs plagued this one - the title seems like an afterthought that was slapped on when nothing else could be decided on.Bottomline watch this for the wonderful dynamics between Stolz and Masterson.  "}{"Title":"You're stupid. I always knew you were stupid...","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some Kind Of Wonderful is a radical teen romance with ravishing performances from all three frontline actors. Eric Stoltz is the absolute divinest choice for seamless Keith and Lea Thompson is simply awesome as Amanda. I don't think they could've chose better actors than them. Mary Stuart Masterson is just silhouetted with brilliant excellence in this flick, however. The scene where she's watching Keith and Amanda kiss on the stage is just heartwrenching. I really felt for her...it was incredible.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Once again, John Hughes has succedded in making a succesful teen flick. The acting by Eric Stoltz reminds me a lot of myself and Criag Sheffer plays his asshole role very well. It's been said that basically this film is Pretty In Pink in reverse but I think it has a bit more heart. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Once again, John Hughes has succedded in making a succesful teen flick. The acting by Eric Stoltz reminds me a lot of myself and Criag Sheffer plays his a**hole role very well. It's been said that basically this film is Pretty In Pink in reverse but I think it has a bit more heart. "},{"Title":"A FINE MID-EIGHTIES TEEN MOVIE...","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ... to watch on a sunday afternoon, as one of the critics wrote before me. And I certainly agree. The plot is already seen, but here's a nice acting by all three leading actors (especially by Lea Thompson a.k.a. Amanda). And although you could guess the ending, it's an enjoyable watch all the way. It's one of these movies, who takes you back to the eighties, when the search for identity was as same as today. Maybe it's just my nostalgia, but i decided to rate this movie a solid6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Bad hair, bad characters, okay movie.","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The sensitive artist guy from the wrong side of the tracks is too busy swooning after the high-school hottie Amanda Jones to notice that his tomboy best friend Watts is in love with him. Naturally, Amanda doesn't notice him either because she is busy dating the wealthy-jerk (improbably named) Hardy Jenns.     It is all one big soap-opera from the John Hughes factory(though he only wrote this one) but somehow it doesn't work as well as most of the others as the characters are so very one-dimensional and the plot is so utterly predictable.  Though it is still sweet and funny at times making it worthwhile viewing for fans of big-bad hair and the 1980s in general.  "},{"Title":"one of the best 80's flicks","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"       This goes right up there with <Lucas>, <Real Genius>( and possibly othes) as being one of the best teen movies of the cheesy 80's era.     Perhaps this movie is a bit more for us ladies, but it never goes too far into mushiness, because it has a great actress playing a tomboy..who else but Mary Stuart Masterson. She is so-o-o cute, funny, and so believable as being frustrated over her secret heart! Noone can tell me they didn't feel anything from that garage kiss between Stolz and Masterson, you know, when she told him he should practice on her??!! That was so romantic.     This is a movie to watch.-Sep  "},{"Title":"The haves and have-nots among high schoolers (again)","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Eric Stoltz seems to be a happy misfit teenager until he falls for the class beauty (Lea Thompson), a popular girl in a precarious situation (she's not the privileged teen she appears to be). John Hughes-scripted confection is light and inoffensive until the final act, wherein Stoltz fights with his dad about the future and says, I know what I'm doing! (it's clear that he doesn't, but neither the characters nor writer Hughes realizes this). Hughes creates bright, appealing outcast kids (and he loves them), yet he situates them in the same old social position envious of the popular clique, they're always on the verge of crossing over...until they realize that being on the outside is just where they belong! It's the standard high school fantasy without an ounce of believability--and an ending that astounds one with its silliness. The happily-ever-after clich lives on, with money wasted on earrings. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Best friends can be more than just....","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Being in something is an issue for many teens. Cliques, clubs, and other organizations are the thing. In Some Kind of Wonderful, the words make sense. Eric Stoltz plays Keith, an average student with a extraordinary talent for art. His father wants him to do more with his life. Jennifer Jason Lee plays Watts, a tomboy who has one thing, strong feelings for Keith. Those two are very good friends, but Keith is clueless about his friend, Watts. In school he meets Amanda(Lea Thompson), a high class student who gets thrown around by her obnoxious boyfriend. In school, he meets a Skinhead(Elias Koteas) who later on becomes a friend when the boyfriend tried to do him serious harm. When Keith tried to woo Amanda with some very expensive earrings. he finds out who deserved them better, Watts. His true love. Love comes in strange ways. I may not have such luck in high school, but later on in years I realized some are made to be lovers while others are just friend material. Very good movie, I enjoyed it very well! 3 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Not typical Hughes fare","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie deviates from Hughes other movies in the 80's in that is heavily dramatic with very few fun points to lighten the movie up.  Here Molly Ringwald has been replaced with Eric Stoltz and Lea Thompson in a somewhat contrived plot.  The movie stays very formulatic and follows a very similar path to Pretty in Pink.   "},{"Title":"Why it's better than Pretty in Pink","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although it isn't on the level of John Hughes' Cinderella stories, this movie rocks because they didn't sell out the plot to test audiences.  They changed the ending to Pretty in Pink so as not to imply rich kids and poor kids couldn't get along.  Some Kind of Wonderful is a classic cheesy 80's movie that actually didn't sell out the ending.  "}{"Title":"Good, but not quite memorable.","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Eric Stoltz looks a little younger, then his 25 years in this movie. A teen movie that's very badly pased. Some of the scenes look to long, that could have made someone in the audience to start dozing off. Eric Stoltz gives a somewhat good performance, so does Mary Stuart Masterson. But Lea Thompson does not do so well has a spoiled rich girl with somewhat of a heart. But Craig Sheffer is more memorable then anybody in the movie, he was a perfect villian. This was movie was allright, but not great. For viewers if you are looking for teenage classic movies, then look for The Breakfast Club, Sixteen Candals, Bring it On, and Clueless. "},{"Title":"80's style, reasonably enjoyable teen flick.","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Given that the style of teenagers, 15 or so years ago has deeply contrasted. This film probably wouldn't appeal to the hormone driven American Pie generation of today. It's been outdated, but Some Kind Of Wonderful is still a highly enjoyable (if not predictable) teen flick.Good performances all across the board. Eric Stoltz who was 27 at the time play's a 17 year old. It's a bit of a long shot but still very convincing.If you want to wallow in nostalgia then you should watch this film. Otherwise, watch it anyway. It isn't cinematically beautiful and doesn't have any artistic merits as such but it's still quite enjoyable. 6.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":" I'd rather have you like me not being around you than me seeing you and have you hate me","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Eric Stoltz is astonishing as Keith in this fabulous teen angst movie. The supporting cast is amazing. The costumes are preppy. One of the good films in the genre, Some Kind Of Wonderful will teach the viewer that love might be right under them. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not a good movie.","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Eric Stoltz is a wonderful actor, but this movie should make him ashamed. I couldn't relate to any of the characters, and the movie seemed to be one step behind itself.  It couldn't keep up.  Watts was cute though. 4 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Planes, Trains and Automobiles Is Much Better...","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Hughes wrote this film, but did not direct it. Perhaps that is why it is not great, and seems to be a rip-off of earlier Hughes films. If you like teen films, you will probably like Some Kind of Wonderful because it is pretty good for a teen flick. I am not a huge fan of teen movies, though, and I say stick to Planes, Trains and Automobiles. 3/5 stars -- "},{"Title":"This was the worst movie made","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This show flat out sucked. It was about a geekish guy with no clue he was a goober. I don't know what it was supposed to represent? He buys his set up date a stupid, expensive present? To look important??? THe show made no sense and I've watched it several times because of a tough guy character Eric Stolz meets in detention hall This tough guy is great and saved me from capping myself!! His tomboy, skank, smoking Joe girl that secretly loves him is a freaky one too. The characters all look like they are in their 30's. The ending is average and predictable. I wont spoil the ending, the movie is spoiled enough I have seen a lot of movies from this genre, and outside of St. Elmos Fire this is by far the worst. Don't waste your time on this!! "}]