[{"Title":"Dumb, but great fun","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  OK! Lets get one thing straight right now. If you're looking for a serious movie about cops v robbers a la Robert de Niro, Al Pacino or something similar this is not the place to come.If on the other hand you want an action packed, leave your brain in the lobby, tongue in cheek zombie flick, with a side order of buddy-cops take on dastardly criminals thrown in then you aren't going to get much better than this.Cops Mortis (Treat Williams) and Bigelow (Joe Piscopo) are on the trail of nutty old Vincent Price (unfortunately not given much screen time) bringing dead criminals back to life so they can carry out jewellery store robberies. Of course being dead already makes it a tad difficult for the police to kill them.Mortis comes a cropper fairly early on, but worry not as he is soon resurrected with the regeneration machine found at the dodgy research company that they think might be connected with the crimes.The only problem is Mortis now has only twelve hours to solve the case before he decomposes, so things move on at a fair old pace after this as the lads do battle with various zombies, and a Chinese butchers shop full of meat that comes back to life!Great fun for fans of 'Braindead' or 'The Evil Dead' style horrors, and anyone else who wants a film that they don't have to take to seriously. Also stands up well to repeated viewing.8/10 I say, but judging by some of the other IMBD reviews others wouldn't (boring gits!)    "},{"Title":"Better than you would think.","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie back in 1988 when it came out, and recently we bought the DVD on a whim.   Neither Chandra or I remembered much about it, but we both enjoyed it more than we  expected.  The FX hold up well, even 16 years later, and it's just an enjoyable film.  There are some gross bits (which makes it better!), but there were some good scenes deleted  - make sure you check the DVD for the extra scenes,  The death day dream really ties in  some of the disjointed bits in the movie.True, some of the film is very dated 80's, but it still makes me grin.  Take a chance and you  might enjoy it too. "},{"Title":"Fast-paced, Fun Horror-Action Film","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Perhaps the only time zombies, cops, and a generous dose of humour have been infused together on film. Dead Heat is a fun, drive-in type feature with Treat William and Joe Piscapo starring as two cops in the style of something seen in Lethal Weapon. These cops have not done everything by the book and are in the middle of a crime wave where a different pair of armed thugs have been robbing jewelry stores and banks in broad daylight with no fear of being shot down(or having the weakness of being killed with any ease at all). Well, through some investigation, our two protagonists discover that a machine exists that can bring back the dead for twelve hours - and one of the cops gets his and is placed on the machine. Now, we have zombie cop against zombie criminals and one silly, fun, action-packed film on hand. Director Mark Goldblatt never tries to make this film anything more than what it is supposed to be. The actors don't try either, which is good when you have a script that only has so much elasticity. Williams is good in his role, and Piscapo definitely has limited range, but I really thought he did a much better job than his lack of acting gigs since would suggest. One major plus is the core of veteran screen actors with Darren Mcgavin, venerable Keye Luke, and the elder statesman of horror Vincent Price in attendance. Price has a small role but is still able to keep your attention. This was one of his last films. The same for Luke who I always felt was very underrated. Lindsay Frost is aboard as major eye candy. The special effects are interesting to say the least. The make-up used on the criminal zombies has a fake feel like big puppets at some points and at others is pretty good. The scene in a Chinese restaurant is a hoot - a very ridiculous hoot. Dead Heat again is nothing grand or thought-provoking or even scary, but it is a very fun film and should illicit a few laughs. "},{"Title":"What a goofy action / comedy should be","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  One of Joe Piscopo better movies, Dead Heat is a fun ride that is filled with action and wild comedy. Treat Williams stars in this interesting story about the walking dead. Not a horror movie about zombies, but the living dead committing crimes. Williams and Piscopo do justice to this low budget movie. The story itself holds its own as the limited special effects can only take the audience too far. The comic relief of Piscopo fills in the gaps where the gun fights and walking dead miss. Treat Williams shows his leading man qualities in Dead Heat while he has failed to do so in other movies. In the end, the movie produces an enjoyable ride for action fans. One of Vincent Prices' last movies, he is the icing on the cake of the b-movie that Dead Heat is.  "},{"Title":"Two cops needs to crack this case before the rot sets in.","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Ahhhhhhhhh, the mighty Treat Williams. He never really hit the big time but he's always someone I have just enjoyed seeing in movies and when he gets a starring role (as he does here) that usually means I'm going to enjoy it. Okay, he may never get anything better than the daft entertainment of Deep Rising but he always seems to pick projects that have at least some fun factor in them.And so it remains the case with Dead Heat, a movie that takes the buddy-cop flick and mixes in some zombie action, resulting in an amusing, bullet-riddled romp with a few people battling decay just as much as battling criminals.Treat Williams is Detective Roger Mortis (see what they did there? See?) and Joe Piscopo plays his partner, Detective Doug Bigelow. The two are mavericks who leave destruction and massive repair bills in their wake but who also get results. The biggest puzzle, however, is a series of recent crimes featuring criminals who seem a lot harder to kill than your usual flesh and blood baddies. What's going on? Can our two detectives find out before they end up in body bags themselves?Dead Heat is lacking in a lot of ways but in oh so many other ways it's just completely awesome, which is why I even things out to rate the thing at 7/10. Treat Williams is good, though he's no De Niro, and he looks better in every scene that he shares with Joe Piscopo (a man so unfunny that hyenas turn mute whenever he's nearby), but the real treat for horror fans is the limited screen time given to the great Vincent Price. Robert Picardo has a small role too and Darren McGavin has a lot of fun with his character. Lindsay Frost and Clare Kirkconnell play two women caught up in events and do well enough with what they have to work with.Mark Goldblatt's direction is okay and Terry (brother of Shane) Black's script is so-so when not having to give dialogue to Piscopo but this is one of those movies that overcomes the different pieces to become so much better as one whole experience. Because Dead Heat is about crazy shoot outs between people who can't be easily killed, it's about a sequence of sustained insanity in a Chinese butcher shop that has to be seen to be believed and it's about a finale full of so much fun that it makes up for every witticism that we've had to endure from Piscopo.I have to also say how impressed I was by the movie's attitude towards it's characters, nobody is too safe and deaths are quite sudden and without any fanfare. It's very 80s and it's never going to be the leader of the pack in any subgenre it can be classed in but it's also a hugely entertaining riot and one that I've finally seen after 20+ years of wanting to get my hands on it without ending up hugely disappointed. "},{"Title":"Remember The Good Old Days When Bullets Actually Killed People","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Treat Williams and Joe Piscopo are two, now get his, mismatched cops. Joe Piscopo is Bigelow, a macho, insensitive lug who only cares about himself...maybe. Treat Williams is Mortis, a kind, intuitive detective with a promising career ahead of him...until his latest case lands him on a slab. Fortunately, the case provides them with a means to bring Mortis back. Now, Bigelow and an undead Mortis race to find Mortis' killer before it's too late...(or perhaps it already is) The film tries hard to be funny, and it is, in certain moments. The two lead actors have a kind of chemistry and the cast of character actors are dynamite (including Darren McGavin, Vincent Price, Robert Picardo, and Key Luke) but it is the genre-mixing which steals the show. The butcher shop scene is hilarious and sick, a good indication of where the movie would have went if more freedom had been extended toward the filmmakers. But it remains a neat little flick for the horror lovers and the action buffs everywhere.Hopefully more and more people will discover this title, but until then, it has a small cult audience. Don't let that stop ya, seek it out. It won't change your life, but it ought to give you a diverting way to spend an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"Best Zombie/Cop movie EVER!","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Dead Heat is one of my favourite movies. I remember seeing it opening weekend way back in 1988! I was only 12, but me & my younger brother dragged my dad to the Granville multiplex after seeing an ad on t.v. We were just expecting a good action movie with some yucks(both kinds).Now, keep in mind, this was 1988. The whole concept of a horror movie also being funny wasn't as commonplace(or as stale) as it is now. I remember everyone in the nearly filled theater having a surprisingly fun time with this movie. We knew it was not on the same playing field as most of the major Hollywood action movies(Lethal Weapon, Die Hard)but Dead Heat managed to win over its audience with its combo of cheesy one-liners, insane(for 1988) action sequences, & truly remarkable f/x work by Steve Johnson.A lot of people would watch Dead Heat & just shrug it off as a low-budget time waster(hey, that's part of it's charm for me) but I don't think I'm going too far to say that it deserves a 10/10 rating.So why does it deserve a 10 out of 10 rating? Quite simply it's the only Zombie/Cop movie that I've ever seen & that means it's the best of it's kind...I think. Plus it has a kind of weird cinematic irony going for it because screenwriter Terry Black is the brother of Lethal Weapon scribe Shane Black(who also makes a cameo as a cop). This film is very much a tongue-in-cheek counterpart that huge hit of a film.I think this was one of Vincent Price's last films too, so that right there gives it a little more allure as well(even if he's only in it for about 15 minutes). I'm really surprised no one's tried to remake this material, because with today's f/x & a committed cast/crew, this is the kind of oddity that could really make a lot of money(ie,Shaun of the Dead or Freddy vs. Jason). But who wants to remake a movie that bombed at the box office first time out? IF that EVER happens I'll be first in line with my popcorn.If you've never seen it and decide to check it out there's a chance you'll just shake your head in disbelief at how bad it is, but that's the whole point. It's the very definition of the term so bad, it's good, which is a fine line to walk for any film. So don't say you weren't warned...but I mean, come on, when was the last time you saw a GOOD Zombie/Cop movie? "},{"Title":"The greatest zombie cop, buddy movie ever!","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I'll warn you, this is a very cheesy film.  It's full of bad jokes and bad acting, but it's a guilty pleasure of mine.  It's hailed, primarily by me, as the single greatest zombie-cop, buddy movie ever made.  It is hailed by a fair number of those I have subjected to it as the worst movie they've ever seen.  I can admit it, it's not Shakespeare, but if you like cheesy 80's horror and watered down pseudo-Lovecraft or even, *shudder* Joe Piscopo, then I encourage you to give it a try. "},{"Title":"A Fun, Original 80's Zombie/Comedy/Horror/Crime-Drama...","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" It seems like only in the 80's did they make such seriously strange hybrid films. Films like DEAD HEAT or perhaps BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA just don't get made anymore, and if they are out there, hopefully someone will turn me on to them. This one is a fun and original film with some truly great moments. Piscopo and Williams (neither of whom I'm all that fond of normally...) play this one up perfectly - but understand that this is basically a turn your brain off and be entertained kinda film...Treat Williams and Joe Piscopo are LAPD cops trying' to bust a ring of jewel thieves - problem is, is that the thieves were dead BEFORE they committed the robberies. Turns out, some shady chemical company is bringin' the dead back to life to do their dirty-work. When Williams is killed while investigating the chemical company, Piscopo (with the help of their Medical Examiner friend...) bring Williams back to life using the same machine that the chemical company used to re-animate the dead...catch is - Williams only has 12 hours to find out the truth behind the chemical company and their plans...DEAD HEAT is a great way to blow some time. Some decent violence, a bit of gore, and some really good make-up and special FX for the time. Piscopo and Williams play really well off of each other, doin' the buddy cop thing - with Piscopo as the joker and Williams as the straight arrow. Definitely one of the more enjoyable and well pulled-off of these types of hybrid films...give it a look...8/10 "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Buddy Movie?","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Takes the buddy movie to new heights, at any rate.  Other than one of the  cops is dead, it pretty much plays out like a standard cop/buddy movie.  So  much so that it's unintentionally funny.  That, and the script taking the  logic of resurrection to logic conclusions (like in the Chinatown butcher  shop), makes for a hilarious pic.  We also have horror veterans like  Vincent Price, Darren McGavin (Kolchak/Night Stalker) and Keye Luke along  for the ride.  Check it out if you get a chance. "}{"Title":"I had a pretty good time watching the cheezy Dead Heat","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" After 25 years of hearing of this, I finally got to see Dead Heat on Netflix disc just now. Treat Williams and Joe Piscopo are cops investigating a jewel robbery. I'll stop there and just say that the plot gets weirder when it involves zombies. But Piscopo has some good funny lines, there are a couple of fine-looking women in Lindsay Frost and Clare Kirkconnell, and some nice villains portrayed by Keye Luke, Darren McGavin, and the legendary Vincent Price. Much of the makeups and special effects are a bit on the cheezy side but since none of it is meant to be taken too seriously, it's actually quite a hoot to watch. So on that note, I recommend Dead Heat. P.S. I also recommend listening to the commentary track involving the director, writer, and the two producers as well as watch the deleted scenes on the disc especially one that has Roger Corman/Joe Dante player Dick Miller as a guard who mentions a famous comedian once associated with one of the players! "},{"Title":"A cinematic experience you don't see every day&#x85;","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" From the editor of The Terminator and the brother of the creator of Lethal Weapon comes a cinematic experience you don't see every day&#x85;a buddy cop action comedy, but with mutated zombies. Whether you think a film that mashes two completely different genres couldn't be ridiculous, then you're guess is as good as mine.Vicious crooks that can't die are murdering innocent Los Angelinos, and wisecracking, trigger-happy LAPD detectives Mortis and Bigelow are the only pair qualified for the case. After Mortis is unexpectedly killed, Bigelow soon learns about a pharmaceutical company's 'resurrection machine' that turns his partner into the living dead. Now that the plot description is taking care of, let's talk about the eclectic cast that made Dead Heat watchable to begin with.Already established as a serious actor, Treat Williams is certainly a treat (sorry for the pun) as the undead cop Roger Mortis. Delivering his dialog with such deadpan wittiness, Treat becomes cooler even when he survives multiple gunshot wounds and a deadly ambulance crash. Playing Mortis' muscle-bound partner Doug Bigelow is not a stretch for current MIA Joe Piscopo. Whenever his cracks succeed We have something on the monitor, Captain, others fail You ought a write fortune cookies, pal. Lindsay Frost (known for The Ring) is appealingly striking as the soon-to-be ill-fated love interest Randi James. While Darren McGavin and Keye Luke excel fine as the two villains, horror legend Vincent Price makes a stand-out appearance as the inventor. His performance was brief, but graceful just as Price was nearing the end of his long career.Only in the tubular decade known as the 80's can muster up something ridiculous, yet interesting as a film called Dead Heat. "},{"Title":"Cheesefest of the highest order","Date":"27 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" A police officer is accidentally killed while on a special case involving supposed criminals coming back to life, and when turned into one of the creatures he's tracking, discovers the real use behind the events and sets out to stop them before more become like him.Rather fun and enjoyable 80s cheese-fest, mixing in the zombie genre with some buddy-cop action movie formulas and managing to make it work, although it's entry as a normal, traditional zombie movie is obviously in question. Not that it really matters, having enough action in several great chases and shootouts to really overcome that flaw, and has enough of a sense of humor to be enjoyable without overbearing, though it does need some help from the villain who has a laughable motive and really could've done with some help here. Overall, though, it's not all that bad if you have a taste for this style.Rated R Graphic Language and Graphic Violence "},{"Title":"Watch this movie...would you?","Date":"22 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Warning if you can't stand deliberately cheesy low budget genre crossing movies completely aware of their nature and just having fun with their premise, stay clear! Dead Heat is admittedly nonsense, but who watches this sort of thing hoping for an intelligent and provocative screenplay? This viewer doesn't. Dead Heat is a high old time for those people looking for an action - comedy, a buddy cop movie, and a zombie horror film all rolled into one. Treat Williams and Joe Piscopo are an engaging odd couple as police detectives Roger Mortis (good one) and Doug Bigelow, pursuing the case of lowlife bad guys who won't stay dead and go about their ordinary business of robbing jewelry stores. Their search leads them to a pharmaceutical company named Dante that's developed a resurrection machine, meaning this thing can bring the dead back to life. This leads to the biggest spin that Dead Heat puts on the buddy cop formula, as one of the buddies is dead! During a heated battle with a many faced monster, Roger gets locked in a decompression room until he expires. Now he's hellbent on getting revenge. Williams plays all of this straight for a while until he starts decomposing, then just really letting loose, while Piscopo is genuinely funny and comes up with some priceless quips. And get a load of this supporting cast Darren Kolchak McGavin as the nefarious Dr. McNab, Keye Luke (Gremlins) as the villainous Mr. Thule, and Vincent Price in the role of Arthur P. Loudermilk. Price is a delight; it's nice to see that he was still embracing the horror genre and working steadily late in his life and career. Robert Picardo also appears as ineffectual whiner Lt. Herzog, Mel Stewart fills out the clichéd role of the yelling police captain adequately, and lovely ladies Lindsay Frost and Clare Kirkconnell provide fine scenery attractions. Keep an eye out for the cameos by screenwriter and actor Shane Black, brother of this films' screenwriter, Terry Black, wrestler Professor Toru Tanaka as a butcher, and MTV VJ Martha Quinn as a newscaster. Quotable dialogue includes stuff like You have the right to remain disgusting., and the film does have a certain energy, coming in at a very reasonable running time of 84 minutes. Steve Johnson's makeup and creature effects are just great, especially when it comes to the ruckus in the butcher shop and the final scene for Frosts' character. As long as one doesn't take this seriously for one second, they can derive some solid entertainment out of this agreeably silly film, the feature directing debut for veteran editor Mark Goldblatt. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Entertaining 80's horror comedy cop action film.","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Dead Heat is set in Los Angeles where detectives Roger Mortis (Treat Williams) & Doug Bigelow (Joe Piscopo) are investigating a spate of violent jewellery store robberies, during the latest one two suspects were eventually shot dead by the cops but they seemed almost invincible. At the LA morgue pathologist Rebecca Smythers (Clare Kirkconnell) says that the two dead thieves had already been autopsied before & she was sure that she had done them herself, Mortis & Bigelow are baffled & the only clue to the case is a large amount of a special drug in the thieves bodies. Mortis & Bigelow trace the drug to a pharmaceutical company & while there are attacked by a mutant zombie after finding a machine that can bring the dead back to life, Mortis is killed but Smythers & Bigelow use the machine to bring him back to life. The effects of the machine wear off as it cannot prevent the decay of human flesh so Mortis sets out to track those down responsible for killing him before his body decomposes...Directed by Mark Goldblatt this is a horror film that uses the basic then popular buddy buddy action cop flick scenario such as Lethal Weapon (1987) (in fact the script for Dead Heat was written by Terry Black who is the brother of Shane Black who wrote Lethal Weapon!) as it's central concept & injects various horror themes around it, like one of the cops being killed & brought back as a zombie who is then determined to solve his own murder & while Dead Heat isn't a cult classic it is an entertaining oddball mix of a film. Played mainly for laughs it's a shame that two better actor's with more on screen chemistry couldn't have been cast, Treat Williams is alright but comedian Joe Piscopo is awful & almost single handedly ruins the entire film. Every line he has he pulls faces, makes silly gestures & tries to get a laugh which kills any genuine drama between the two cops as he never once even tries to act like a normal human being. At only 80 odd minutes long Dead Heat is short & it moves along like a rocket, the script throw's in a couple of twists at the end but they aren't that great & the idea that a criminal masterminds plan is foiled by a code using telephone buttons feels lazy. The character's are alright but no-one seems that bothered whenever anyone else dies, Mortis when Smythers & his partner Bigelow die for instance seems to show no emotion at all. A few things are never explained like the rushed ending & the bad guy's aren't bad enough.There are some good effects sequences here with a scene set inside a butcher's particularly good as a bad guy uses the machine to resurrect all the dead animals & cuts of meat including dead Chicken's & an entire Cow's carcass. The film has a quite static & bland look which is a shame, it's well made with good effects work but there's not much visual style. There's a runaway ambulance which crashes & explodes to up the action a bit along with the fights & shoot-outs. Released a few weeks before big budget action film Red Heat (1988) the two titles are very similar & maybe Dead Heat would have done better business had it been released a weeks after Red Heat & cashed in on the similar sounding title & similar buddy buddy cop story.With a supposed budget of about $5,000,000 the production values are good & the effects are OK but maybe the lack of any recognisable stars in the cast hurt it. The does let Dead Heat down a bit, Williams is alright but Piscopo is awful while genre legend Vincent Price has a small role.Dead Heat is a strange mix of cop comedy thriller & zombie horror that is quite fun to watch, the choice of leads hurt the film & it's maybe not as funny, gory or scary as maybe it could have been but there's enough here to enjoy & for me to be able to recommend it. "},{"Title":"Kill this guy...would you?","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  ~Spoiler~Dead Heat is a highly underrated, buddy cop/zombie film from one of my favorite decades the 80's.  Whoever thought Treat Williams and Joe Piscopo would make a great onscreen duo?  Probably no one.  But they are.  Treat really shines in this role as Roger Mortis (get it?) and Piscopo's one liners will have you cracking up for days.  Brings out your eyes.  They create a good balance between their characters.  Treat plays it straight and Piscopo brings the comic relief.  The movie also creates a good balance between horror and comedy.  Many movies have failed in this task but this one hits the mark perfectly.  Just look at the Chinese deli scene.  Dead ducks, pigs, and even a side of beef are all re-animated and attack our heroes while Piscopo says maybe we could drown it in A-1 sauce.  That is one of the funniest and most disgusting scenes ever.  It's brilliant and highly memorable.  Mark Goldblatt (who also directed The Punisher) and Terry Black have filled the screen with some outlandish moments, while Steve Johnson's effects are just top-notch for the era.  Several Joe Dante regulars, including Keye Luke, Robert Picardo, and Dick Miller (whose scenes were cut), can be found too.  The villain corporation in the film is even called Dante pharmaceuticals.  Coincidence?  Screen icons Darren McGavin and Vincent Price co-star in this hilarious, roller coaster ride of a horror/comedy.  If you like your zombie films a bit on the unconventional side and with a lot of humor (Re-Animator, Return of the Living Dead) check out Dead Heat.Note for genre buffs Look for Shane Black (writer of The Monster Squad and brother of Terry Black) in a cameo as a motorcycle cop. "},{"Title":"Great one-liners","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Some of the greatest one-liners I've ever heard came out of this film. possible spoiler coming up Simply great entertainment to watch meat from a Chinese restaurant come to life infront of your eyes and to hear on-liners through out the whole film; all of this plus a special appearance by Vincent Price make this movie alot of fun. I think it succeeded in doing what it tried to do. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cheesy, but good... real good.","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I watched this movie some years ago, one night I couldn't sleep 'cause of a bad case of flu. It was 2 am, and nothing else was on TV, only infomercials. So, I started to watch it and caught my attention immediately. OK, there are a bunch of bad jokes, but I laughed like crazy, and for an 80's movie, it's quite good. I can't find the DVD south of the border, but if I do, of course I'll buy it. I remember great performances of Treat Williams in The Substitute saga, but this is priceless. Not the best, of course, but fun to watch. Can't deny it, it's a little guilty pleasure of mine, but I can't remember seen another movie like this one. Perfect to watch if you got nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"Ridiculously brilliant! It shouldn't work, but it does!","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Two of the best genres when it comes to making a silly movie are the cop film and the zombie flick. Dead Heat isn't content to stick with either one of those - and has opted to do both at once! Suffice to say, it's not the most intelligent film ever made...in fact, it's completely and utterly stupid throughout - but I loved every cheesy minute of it! The plot follows a pair of cops - Doug Bigelow and Roger Mortis (great name), who are baffled when a pair of bank robbers are still walking around after they pump bullet after bullet into them. It soon transpires that, for some reason, a resurrection machine has been created - and someone is using dead people to rob banks for them! Unfortunately, Roger ends up dead; but that doesn't stop him from doing his job. He takes the news of his resurrection well, and before we know it; he and Doug are back on the case! This silly plot is complimented by some ludicrous acting, a ridiculous script and a number of outlandish and illogical plot twists, all of which serve to make this the first class piece of kitsch that it is.The acting is some of the hammiest I've ever seen. Treat Williams delivers his usual brand of cheesiness in the lead role, and the only guy hammier than him is his co-star; Joe Piscopo, who puts in a continually ridiculous performance. With an endless stream of one-liners and some of the most over the top macho body language ever seen in a movie; Piscopo steals every scene he's in, and is clearly the inspiration behind Ross Kemp's 'Grant' character in British soap opera, Eastenders. The lead duo are good enough - but just when you think it cant get any better, the greatest horror actor of all time pops up! Vincent Price only appears for a few minutes in what would be his last horror film appearance, but he makes good of what he's got - and his cameo excellently tops off this camp cult movie. Dead Heat is bound to be painful for many movie-fans; but if you like your films fun and silly, you really can't get much better than this. The dialogue is so stupid it's hilarious, and the plot is fleshed out excellently by some great set pieces, including a driver-less ambulance pile-up and a great scene inside a slaughterhouse. Things such as the fact that Treat Williams doesn't seem to care one iota that he's the living dead are easily forgivable when a film is this much fun. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"It has its perks...","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I won't say this is the best movie I've ever seen but I'll tell you it has a special place in my DVD collection. Honestly I like the story...it's simple and they do a good job of keeping it that way. While they try to add some mystery to it it's much better as an action movie and something of a horror movie. Some of the scenes in it are cool and rather inventive in my opinion. While it's nothing special or even really good it's enjoyable and if you like those almost cult/action/horror movies it's a good one to watch. I'll give it a 5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Much needed 2nd opinion","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Just want to offer another opinion on this movie for fans of zombies, buddy cop movies, schlock & the like. And don't miss Vincent Price.OK, Dead Heat will never be listed alongside OscarT winners, big deal. There're plenty of award-winning movies that I don't like, but fans of cult movies are missing something here Funny kitch.The pitch meeting must've been hilarious Picture Lethal Weapon meets Return of the Living Dead meets ReAnimator. C'mon, the genre mix alone is worth the look.It may not be saying much, but this is Piscopo's best movie. I've been waiting for the DVD release to add it to my cult favorites. "},{"Title":"A non-stop moron-a-thon of fun starring Treat Williams","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Face it...any movie with two resurrected zombies shooting uzis at each other for five minutes straight is a one-of-a-kind, ground-breaking movie.  From the opening credits, to the closing theme song, this movie is a barrage of bad taste mixed with the witty one-liners only Treat Williams can deliver. Of course, his Godliness is amazingly complimented by the performance of none other than Joe Piscopo of SNL fame. With these two together, and with Piscopo improvising all his lines, this movie is worthy of the Oscars. If the Oscars had a category for the all-time dumbest-and-yet-greatest movie of all time. Taking this movie seriously cannot be done, or you will miss the brilliance of it. If you see this movie in the Action section of your local video rental place, please remind them that it should be under comedy. Supporting actors, being Vincent Price and Darren McGavin, make this a star studded cast that they will probably regret for the rest of their acting careers. Taken into account all the gore and violence depicted in this film, it is hard to imagine that this is an edited version of a former cut that was rated X, not because of nudity, but because of excessive, gratuitous disgusting displays throughout the film. By the way, DO NOT miss the Chinatown scene. This is something you have never seen before and will likely never see again. Plus a stunning performance by of course Treat Williams who has THE best one-liner on the face of the planet, and it's in this film. A definite must-see.   "},{"Title":"Cops beyond life!","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is an interesting little, sometimes-overlooked film that really brings innovation to the genre. Dead Heat is really just a fun and cheesy 80's comedy horror film starring both Treat Williams and Joe Piscopo.The story follows Los Angeles cops, Detectives Mortis (Treat Williams) and Bigelow (Joe Piscopo) who have come across something very odd; Criminals who refuse to go down from just a few measly bullets. The fact that the guys were already in the morgue once make for a particularly interesting case. The lawmen end up tracking the phenomenon back to a scientific facility that is harboring a dead-resurrecting machine and before they can dig too much deeper, the guys get in a shootout (one of many in the film) and fight with security and big zombies. During the scuffle, Mortis gets locked in a decompression chamber and is killed by a mysterious stranger. Despite the huge crime scene, Bigelow and their morgue attendant friend manage to sneak off and put Mortis' body in the machine and resurrect him. Zombie cop is born! From this point on, we get to deal with the whole good cop/dead cop thing and the hilarity ensues as the two try to get to the bottom of the case. We also have a cameo from Vincent Price (I think this was one of Vincent Price's last films too) which was quite interesting. Although the script was a bit mediocre, the action scenes, comedy and great fx compensates for what was lacking not to mention that Mortis and Bigelow were both likable characters.Dead Heat is basically a typical 80's action comedy buddy cop movie, with a light horror zombie plot thrown in. It's incredibly cheesy, the acting is poor, but that doesn't make the film horrible at all. The effects range from good to awful, most of the comedy doesn't work which makes it funny. It was the type of movie that you just don't seem to get anymore, not particularly good but a really enjoyable movie.Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The 80s, hard R, low budget RIPD, that could've been just as good as RIPD (2013)","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Being dead is one of those physical limitations where it stops individuals right in their tracks. It also becomes frustrating to give explanations to how it can be reversed. This movie isn't the first one to focus on dead characters but it's intriguing to watch it. As stated in my summary, this film plays out like an early version of what R.I.P.D. (2013) could've been - its plot runs parallel to it. And if you account for the other elements such as the deformed dead villains reeking havoc and it's up to two cops to take them down. It's hard not to see the similarities. The sad thing is, this movie could've been just as good as R.I.P.D. (2013) if they had developed the writing more. It was mighty close though because it has an abundance of good points.Again the story focuses on two smart-aleck cops, Roger (Treat Williams) & Doug (Joe Piscopo) who end up fighting the weird side of crime. The problems are ushered in by thugs that just don't seem to die. Even worse is that every time they come back, they look more grotesque than before. Here, Treat Williams and Joe Piscopo demonstrate comical chemistry and how to have fun with such a ridiculous concept. Although Piscopo essentially is the definition of the 1980s with his sense of style and the way he spouts out cheesy comments, he's still a strong highlight. Meanwhile, Treat Williams plays opposite of that; cool, calm and collected. That is until later on in the film where he goes rather bonkers, which is also comical. The background to their characters' history isn't gone into with depth but it's a change to see two wisecracking cops getting along even with their odd differences from the beginning. Instead of going the usual route of having them bash heads before they come to a resolution.To most, the rest of the cast isn't much worth to remember but there are some attractive and recognizable faces. Actresses Lindsay Frost and Clare Kirkconnell play cute women, both of which demonstrate decent acting. Then there's a brief scene with Robert Picardo being the Lieutenant of the Police (with a mustache). The veteran actors that older viewers should recognize are Keye Luke as a Chinese restaurant owner, Darren McGavin as a head doctor and the famous late Vincent Price who plays an important plot point in the movie. All of which these actors have scenes that are enjoyable to watch. Surprisingly, all these scenes were constructed by first time writer Terry Black, who didn't do too badly of a job. Though there are some parts though that don't work.Unfortunately, even though Black's scripts for the main characters were comical, the logic behind various pieces to the film's structure are left unexplained. For example, how is that once someone dies, they were able to figure out they had 12 hours to live after reanimation? Also, some other characters' backgrounds after they were reanimated seemed longer than 12 hours. If so, how is it that they lived longer? Speaking of which, there was a subplot involving the possibility of extending the reanimation process, but is quickly shot down. Strangely enough, a character ends up extending his reanimation time and it's never explained how it would help resolve the main characters' problem. Which leads to the scripts final issue - neglect for its characters.I've never seen a script so wonderfully build up its main characters' personalities through the first two thirds of its running time and then completely neglect them by the final third. By neglect, I mean total disregard to giving a sense of resolution to the issues at hand or what has already happened. That's not to say the ending isn't comical, action packed or even ends on a good note. It just seems to forget what the whole purpose of the story was and therefore finish without a complete sense of closure. Then again, maybe it wasn't intended on having one but it felt like there could've been. The only other complaint viewers may have is with Ernest Troost's style of film music. I say this for two reasons. The first is that, it does appropriately represent the scenes that are portrayed on screen, but they sound like that of William Loose's music from Night of the Living Dead (1968). It sounds old with a tad of 80s synth but not a lot. The second reason why viewers may be disappointed with Troost's music is if you watch the trailer to this movie. The music there sounds way more fun, memorable and somewhat more appropriate to the tone of the film. I only wished he used that theme. However, there are a couple more good things that haven't been mentioned yet. The film is directed by Mark Goldblatt, also known for directing his forgotten only other film a year later, The Punisher (1989). Although his skill is more in editing, the direction is competently done. The other component that is done with expertise is by make-up effects designer/creator Steve Johnson's work. The gore and practical effects that are mixed in with these premature R.I.P.D. (2013) deado creatures looks fantastic. The look of them are not something you see everyday. In total, its still filled with cheese and plot holes but its mighty tasty.Its weak points are in its writing and music, but they aren't strong enough to overpower the whole film. Thankfully, this buddy cop horror movie has enough charm, gore and unique practical effects to be a delight anyway. "},{"Title":"Bullets used to kill people...","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" If there was ever a successful way to blend the drastically different genres of comedy and horror this film proves it. Dead Heat is an enjoyable genre hybrid that has enough scares for the horror label, enough laughs for the comedic name, and enough high speed moments to be branded an action film. It mixes these genres in hope to create not a great film, but an enjoyable zombie film with plenty of wit and fun.Treat Williams is a fantastic detective in films. No wonder he was typecast in the field of crime in many roles. Here, he plays Detective Roger Mortis (Williams) who's partner is the incompetent yet looser Doug Bigelow (Piscopo). When called to the scene of a robbery, the detectives notices that when the robbers are bombarded with blows to the legs torso they don't die. A quick trip to the lab shows that the robbers were once dead but somehow came back to life.When investigating the chemical compound plant that apparently stitched these two zombies together, Bigelow and Mortis discover that the plant is up to no good, housing odd, deformed creatures of an indescribable nature. After a run in with one of those mutants, Mortis is locked in the asphyxiation room and is supposedly dead on sight. However, he is revived with a beam and...I give up. Have I lost you? I feel I've lost myself trying to write such madness. This is truly a mindless zombie flick, not meant for heavy criticism of plausibility. With zombie films, you must suspend disbelief. With Dead Heat, you must completely escape reality. Normally, I criticize horror films for lack of plausibility. Hell, I criticize movies in general for that flaw. But sometimes, you really have to forego the idea of believability. Here, it's almost vital.Piscopo and Williams are excellent, and it's so rare for horror films to allow their actors to form good chemistry. Usually, they're just running around screaming and swearing at each other. The talent here, from all actors, is true to their names and above average for any prior expectations.The effects are also of high quality. All practical, of course. All in glorious bright colors. The mutations look lifelike, and the zombie makeup on Treat Williams is exquisite while remaining subtle until necessary.I'm done trying to critique a film that doesn't even want to be. Dead Heat knows what it is, which can be a battle for horror films. It doesn't need to be reminded of more successful pictures of the same genre, and doesn't need to scan the blueprint of a certain famous George Romero zombie film. It's original, quick, witty, jumpy, and fun. I thought movies weren't allowed to possess all those traits.Starring Treat Williams and Joe Piscopo. Directed by Mark Goldblatt. "},{"Title":"You are under arrest. You have the right to remain disgusting.","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I saw the first monster and I thought my TV was out of focus. He had like three noses, and a mouth that stretched all across his face. This ain't your daddy's buddy cop flick.But nothing prepared me for the butcher shop. That was a riot! And two zombies with machine guns trying to kill each other was a hoot! Treat Williams and Joe Piscopo were great as the buddy cops.The show even had Vincent Price. Darren McGavin was excellent as the bad guy who was resurrecting zombies to do his bidding.A funny zombie cop movie that was well worth the time, even though it could have used some gratuitous nudity. "},{"Title":"Deadly entertainment","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie on the late show on a local TV station. Nothing else looked interesting, so I stayed with it. Only a character played by Vincent Price could conceive such a device and process! Despite some truly disgusting sequences (the butcher shop fight, the zombification of several characters and the heartbreaking ending), this was a pretty good movie. Not perfect, but a great way to spend two hours in the wee hours of the night. A good cast (the always solid Treat Williams, Joe Piscopo of Saturday Night Live for comic relief, Lindsay Frost in a tragic role, Keye Luke, and, of course, Vincent Price). This movie earns its R rating for some truly graphic violence and gross out scenes. Again, an interesting concept that could (should) possibly see its way to a sequel...??!! "},{"Title":"Buddy cop movie with the undead.","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" For a movie that is not really serious and more comedy than anything else it still has a way to surprise you here and there as well. There are a couple of instances where I was like what just happened?. However, at its heart I would have to say this is more of a buddy cop movie than anything else, just one that happens to feature zombies and places where the lead guys are pretty much killed. Both Treat Williams and Joe Piscapo do rather good jobs here, you also get to see Vincent Price in one of his last roles, I do believe Edward Scissorhands was the actual last movie of his very prestigious career. The plot is also rather good as it does take a few crazy twists and turns here and there especially if you do not read the plot summary and stuff. I saw this movie as a kid and it really worked because I only knew this movie had zombies in it, I did not know what else was going to happen within the film itself. There is a point in the movie where one of the surprises was a bit of a downer as some of the comedy left the movie for a bit, but all in all this film was very good, had action and some decent comedy and zombies. "},{"Title":"Dead Heat","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is a mostly interesting and entertaining mix of a horror flick with an 80's buddy cop movie. The acting by the two leads (Treat Williams and Joe Piscopo) is good, they manage to keep their partnership fun and enjoyable throughout, and the script is actually very funny at times. Darren McGavin, Key Luke and Vincent Price are welcome additions to a good ensemble cast. The special effects and make-up aren't bad either. Some of the set pieces (especially the Chinese restaurant) are done in a way that could only be done in the 80's and work. Overall, the film held my attention throughout, but I don't really think that it warrants any repeat views. It is one of those movies that you watch and enjoy, but forget about. "},{"Title":"Forever Vincent Price? I'd wish ...","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Okay, this one certainly won't ever go down in history as one of the greatest film classics in any of its genres (pick one! We have horror, comedy and action), but Dead Heat is a light-headed and fairly engaging spitfire of gags and grotesque action sequences, and I have yet to meet someone who regrets watching it. The idea of blending a buddy-cop movie with a gooey zombie flick is more obvious than you'd think, as both concepts easily lend themselves to fast & witty dialogs and ridiculously over the top spectacle. Writer Terry Black and director Mark Goldblatt grab the opportunity with both hands and they cheerfully combine all the clichéd situations and stereotypes both genres have to offer. Roger Mortis (incredibly clever choice of name) and Doug Bigelow (I really wonder if the character inspired the later Rob Schneider gigolo films) are two crime-fighting partners who're about to dig into a life-altering case &#133; literally. After a couple of encounters with criminals that just won't die no matter how many bullets are fired at them, Roger and Doug discover a link with a pharmaceutical company. Somehow they invented a machine capable to bring the dead back to life for a limited period of twelve hours, and they use them to commit crimes. There's also a much bigger scheme going on behind the walls of the conference rooms, featuring the one and only Vincent Price as the company's top guy aiming for immortality. Vincent Price living forever? It would have been awesome, but alas. Anyway, Roger is accidentally killed in action, but promptly brought back by his partner and the lovely Lindsay Frost. They have twelve hours to set things right and to make sure the dead remain dead, Roger included. Dead Heat is pretty stupid, completely lacking suspense and occasionally tedious &#133; but it sustains an irresistibly charming atmosphere from start to finish. The make-up effects (courtesy of Steve Johnson) are top notch and often outrageous, but the script should have cut back a little on Joe Piscopo's forced one-liners because they do become quite irritating after a while. Dead Heat is also a prototype product of the eighties, with crazy haircuts, colorful outfits, macho conversations held in a convertible car and awful synthesizer music. Recommended stuff to watch during a movie night among friends, when there are beers and pizzas within reach. "}{"Title":"You have the right to remain disgusting.....","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Mortis and Bigelow are cops that are chasing crooks that are turning up dead for a second time. Someone has discovered how to bring back the dead and is sending them on crime sprees. Now these decomposing criminals are in the way of officers Mortis and Bigelow. When Mortis is killed he gets Resurrected, but has only a short time to find out who is behind it all before he decomposes.......it might be that really famous star from the fifties and sixties who is in this for about five minutes....Without the high concept twist, which is admittedly funny, this would just be another generic buddy cop movie with silly one liners and not much else.The high concept is good, and it works for the most part, but like officer Mortis, it runs out of steam before the film ends. The first act is great though, and its surprising at just how violent and inventive the special effects are, theŷ really are the best part of the film.As soon as Mortis is resurrected, the film goes over the top, and not in a good way. Bigelows one liners become more desperate, and Williams resorts to wearing lipstick, and more makeup in every other scene.But its still a fun movie, not as good as I remember, and on the plus side the high concept is original.And any film that feature Vincent Price in a white suit, and a man exploding, is worth watching...isn't it? "},{"Title":"Importunate (Coffins From Hell) Case !","Date":"10 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" In a movie named (The Big Picture &#x96; 1989) a young director of photography says to a friend that he's about to work in his first movie. A little shy he says the title (Coffins From Hell). And when the friend finds it strange, the guy smiles embarrassed to repeat the same title, indicating that he's talking about a cheap horror movie. Since that remark, every single cheap horror for me is Coffins from Hell !(Dead Heat) has many original ideas that do impress. For instance it's a buddy-cop movie, the era's fashion, yet not wholly the usual type; it uses the lovely frame creating something unexpected with sci-fi horror. We have 2 different cops, one is a dead on a mission to know who killed him, limited by just 12 hours rest in this life (a D.O.A effect, with already dead lead !). Plus it's the only buddy-cop movie I know where the 2 leads are dead by the end ! There is so precious side in which we follow a dead lead that didn't succeed at having a wife, son, or love, and now the salvation he has is dying not before catching whoever killed him, and destroy his evil. I was about deeming it some reading for the contemporary age's human since he's materialistic, desperate and excessively degenerating (meeting the skeleton in the mirror was inspiring moment). The thing is all of these ideas do impress.. however separately.There is no production, or decent one at the least. The direction is shameful at times, delivering mostly a C movie. The somewhat diligent special effects were wronged between both the production and the direction. Casting (Treat Williams) was devastating, stripping the movie from its power; giving it such an emotionless mood. He looked, moved and talked like a REAL DEAD MAN. Thank god that he became less dead in his next works ! (Vincent Price) was painful, being a corpse in a suit. (Joe Piscopo) was in the wrong role; the man is a comedian, a hell of a good one, so what is he doing here in the first place ?! See how he must constantly show us his *sudden* arms' muscles even by taking his jacket off, for no reason, at the villa ! I laughed at the moment of Kill this guy, would you? at the end; (Piscopo) there performed the zombie whether unconvinced or mocking at himself ! I didn't catch exactly how this movie kills the already killed people (by electricity ?!). The script's third act was a hoax; the lead's friend, (Piscopo), disappeared suddenly, (Lindsay Frost) died hastily, the lead discovered the killer forcedly, and the killer just confessed everything easily ??? And guess what, the movie's title is terrible, it fits more a buddy-action parody ! Hence, with all of the above, this luxurious, so proud of itself, orchestrated music score represented a weird irony, deepening the movie's campiness ! The already realized seriousness fits comic strips. And compared to the story's potentials, it's woeful. Furthermore, while the movie mourns for its hero's dilemma at certain scenes (like in the library) or moments (seeing a meteor), the characterization exerted no effort to do it effectively. Think what if he was made as Mr. Do Right from the start who understood too late that he must be irrational insensitive and crazily violent to get justice done in this world, or leave it with a bang anyway?! Here's an entertaining movie that wants to be a bit serious but doesn't know the way how ! It tries to evoke some lovely points in its references; (Darren McGavin) from the TV milestone show, concerning supernaturalism, (Kolchak  The Night Stalker &#x96; 1974), and (Vincent Price) from endless B movies as an icon of horror. (Lindsay Frost)'s beauty was hot; it kept reminding me all the time of Kiss's song (Take it Off) ! I loved couple of lines like I want to be reincarnated as girlie bicycle's seat (I won't forget that one !). Though remember a scene like the Chinese restaurant's one. It has grandiose idea and atmosphere; Zombie duck heads? What a concept !. It's supposed to gather the whole movie's formula of action/comedy/horror smartly. But the final result was gross. It was the moment where I asked, pretty protesting, what the heck am I watching ??!! This is original great movie thrown in absolute cheese. Every good thing was being attacked by unstoppable Coffins from Hell I presume. So, if you wait for that great movie you'll be disappointed. But if you love odd cheese; then (Dead Heat) entertains in its own way. "},{"Title":"A very bad movie with two brilliant scenes.","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is a pretty terrible movie, but it's a must-see for two wonderful scenes.Joe Piscopo almost single-handedly ruins the film with his annoying non-acting and his unfunny comedy. It's like he never got the memo that he was in a movie, not another SNL sketch. And it's sad to see Treat Wiliiams, a talented actor, in what must be the low point of his career.However, there are two scenes in the film that make it worth your time. One, when the meat in a butcher's shop comes to life, and another when two nearly indestructible zombies square off for a shootout, only they're standing about ten feet apart and using automatic weapons. Hilarious. "},{"Title":"Joe Piscopo is the Don Mega","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This must be the finest Joe Piscopo film ever made, and thats saying a lot. he puts the lead Treat Williams to shame with his fantastic on screen presence and just his incredible hardness.When he is in a scene and he has no dialogue he just exudes charisma with his gormless looks and inane grin, not to mention his fantastic top which shows his weird muscles to the max. It is loads better than the Beverley hills cop movies in the buddy film genre, and in my esteemed opinion it must be one of, if not the greatest films ever in the whole wide world. AWESOMEEEEE EEEE EEEEEE EEEEE EEEEE EEEE EEEEEEEEE EEEEEEEE EEEEEEEEEEE EEE EEEEEE EEEEEEE EEEEEEE EEEEEEEE EEEEEEE EEE "},{"Title":"Great Film!","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This was a great film and I am happy to own the DVD. I don't care what bad comments people say about this film. Treat Williams shows that he is very versatile. The film's starts out with 2 jewel thief zombies robbing a jewelery store. Detectives Roger Mortis(Treat Williams) and Doug Bigelow(Joe Piscopo) arrive on the scene. They take out the 2 zombies and then Rebecca Smythers(Clare Kirkconnell) calls the 2 detectives down because she discovers that there's a certain chemical that's being used to bring back the dead. When the 2 detectives head to Dante Pharmaceuticals and meet the head of Public Relations, Randi James(Lindsay Frost). They find a room that decompresses animals. Doug snoops around and finds the resurrection room where he meets a 400 pound plus biker zombie. Roger hears shots and comes to Doug's aid. Unfortunately, Roger gets locked in the decompression room and dies. Doug and Rebecca bring Roger back. And now Roger has 10 to 12 hours to find his murderer. This film has a nice blend of comedy and horror. This film gets 10 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies!","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I remember that I first saw this movie back in 1989 and I loved it.This is one of those movies that,when you see it for the first time, it sticks with you years after(similar example would be They Live from John Carpenter).Especially if you were youngster back then and were amazed because of sci-fi action and horror films.The last time I saw this movie was about 9 years ago,and now I want to see it again.There are some classic scenes in this movie(If I remember it correctly) like when that ambulance vehicle is heading down the road with the main character handcuffed inside the vehicle,when the main character shoots the bad guys with uzi near the end of the movie,and also there is some cool motorcycle scene that I can't remember now.This is a classic movie.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I don't care what anyone says about this movie - it is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen..  yes, it is very 80's tacky - but the humour is undeniable!  The plot is original for it's time and Treat Williams does a pretty good job and his sidekick Joe Piscopo is also good as the man's man Doug.  If you don't mind a bit of sick humor - this one is for you! "},{"Title":"Very Fun 80's cops and zombies movie!","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" In L.A., Detective Roger Mortis (Treat Williams) and Doug Bigelow (Joe Piscopo) are solving crimes committed by zombie criminals caused by a pharmaceutical company that has a special machine that resurrects the dead. Roger unfortunately gets killed but luckily Doug brings him back to life, he has only 13 hours before he can decompose to muck as him and his partner must kill zombies, a living dead butcher shop and to find the mastermind (Vincient Price) behind it all.Co-starring Darren McGavin, Lindsay Frost and Keye Luke (The old man from Gremlins), the film is a highly entertaining and action packed Sci-fi horror action comedy spoof that combines all genres in one movie. The film's make-up effects by Steve Johnson are really good especially that memorable zombie butcher shop sequence and there some moments of black humor, it's total great fun for fans of horror comedies and zombie movies.Also recommended Re-Animator, Bride of Re-Animator, Beyond Re-Animator, Night of the Living Dead (1968 and 1978), Die Hard Quadrilogy, Fido, Shaun of the Dead, 48 Hours, From Dusk Till Dawn, L.A. Confidential, Dark Blue, The Return of the Living Dead, Pet Semetery, Dawn of the Dead (1978 and 2004), Day of the Dead, Cemetery Man, Land of the Dead, The Stuff, Night of the Comet, The Return of the Living Dead Part II, Return of the Living Dead 3, Let Sleeping Corpses Lie (a.k.a. Living Dead at The Manchester Morgue), Evil Dead II, 28 Days Later..., 28 Weeks Later, Lethal Weapon Quadrilogy, Robocop, Deadly Friend, Night of the Creeps, Bio-Zombie, Nightmare City (a.k.a. City of the Walking Dead), Burial Ground The Nights of Terror, Hell of the Living Dead (a.k.a. Virus, Zombie Creeping Flesh, Night of the Zombies), Return of the Killer Tomatoes, Frankenstein (1931), Bride of Frankenstein, The Monster Squad, Dead & Buried, House By The Cemetery, Resident Evil, Resident Evil Apocalypse, Resident Evil Extinction, The Serpent and The Rainbow, The Crow, Pet Semetary 2, Undead, Dead Alive (a.k.a. Braindead), Phantasm, Lifeforce, Grindhouse, Versus, Bad Taste, Bad Boys 1 and 2 and Hard Boiled. "},{"Title":"This movie is awful, but a must see","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie is really, really bad. Bad acting, bad writing, bad writing, bad exposition. But regardless, it's a lot of fun to watch. It's one of those things that come on television around 4 in the morning and you watch it cuz there is nothing else on.The dialogue and jokes are atrocious. For example, there is the line where Joe Piscapo tells a joke If you take the square miles in Rhode Island and multiply it by my ex girlfriend's weight. That's it. That's the entire joke. No punchline, no closure, no nothing. It's so bad it's hilarious.There are some pretty decent special effects though, do not miss the scene in the butcher's shop where all the meat comes to life. The scene where the chick from the chemical company decomposes in the bathroom in about 30 seconds is pretty cool. "},{"Title":"Great action packed film!","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Dead Heat is one of the most different action films that has a great cast includes Treat Williams, Joe Piscopo, Lindsay Frost, Darren McGavin, Vincent Price, Clare Kirkconnell, Robert Picardo, Professor Toru Tanaka, Shane Black, and Dick Miller! The acting by all of these actors is very good especially by Williams. Piscopo, and McGavin! I thought the action was awesome and the horror was good. The movie is filmed good. The music is great by Ernest Troost. Great directing Mark Goldblatt. The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a very good non-stop action 80s film! If you like Treat Williams, Joe Piscopo, Darren McGavin, Vincent Price, the rest of the cast in the film, Action, Science Fiction, Horror, Thrillers, Mysteries, and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "}{"Title":"Heated violence is interwoven with horror and humor in this outlandish tale.","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Roger Mortis (Treat Williams) and Doug Bigelow (Saturday Night Live alumnus Joe Piscopo) are two down-on-their-luck cops.  For, every single day these police officers must deal with pimps, drug pushers, child molesters, and criminal psychopaths.  Until one unlucky day, a seemingly routine jewelry store robbery becomes an incident of unparalleled horror.At first glance, it was a jewel heist.  The two robbers involved in the robbery have found themselves confronted by cops everywhere.  These crooks have no choice but to make an exit.  With guns blazing, the cops and crooks viciously attack each other.  By the end, everything turned into a senseless bloodbath with lots of fatalities.  It took more than a thousand bullets to take out these robbers.Mortis and Bigelow discover some peculiar experiments being conducted at Dante Laboratories.  A criminal mastermind is attempting to bring dead criminals back to life through the use of a rejuvenator.  Not only are these walking corpses trained in the usage of firearms, but they are bad to the bone!  Hell hath no fury like the undead out for vengeance!  Never before did these heroic (but bumbling) cops have to encounter the walking dead!The grisly armies of the undead are under his command.  Will our heroes be able to annihilate the walking dead?  Or will they join in their ranks?DEAD HEAT is no ordinary case of a good cop, bad cop scenario.  Rather, this is a tale of a good cop, dead cop.  DEAD HEAT has all the pandemonium and frenzy that will keep you appeased.  Zombies, bad guys, mad scientists, more zombies, and Joe Piscopo!  Do not forget that legendary exploding ambulance!  Also, with an ensemble that comprises of Darren McGavin, Keye Luke, Lindsay Frost (who disintegrates into a dry skeleton), Toru Tanaka, and Vincent Price, this is pure exploitation!  What more could you ask for?Plenty.  You know that any movie which begins with two lunatics haphazardly shooting police officers as if they were sitting targets must be an ineffectual film, ad nauseam.  DEAD HEAT is primarily moronic due to the presence of one Joe Piscopo.  It is rude how often Piscopo always intermittently improvises his one-liners right in the middle of some conversation.  Piscopo here has the personality of a dumb high school jock. Piscopo is such an irresponsible cop.and that will come back to haunt him.As well, in the second half of the movie, everything falls apart thanks to plot implausibility and impossible twists.  This film also loses its energy as well.Is DEAD HEAT a completely titanic disaster?  Of course not!  This film does have its.merits (notice that I am using an euphemism here).  The man to man alliance between the two leads is actually developed.  The chemistry between these two characters works.  The highlights are some rather wild special effects which accompany this grandiose feature.  The zombies look VERY ugly and the gunshot wounds are particularly bloodstained.  The gross special FX also depict bodies exploding like TNT.  Many stop motion effects allow for some fairly nerve-wrecking scenes.  The most notable scene definitely had to be watching the dead, butchered farm animals coming back to life!  Yeah, that will show everyone who (or what) belongs to the top of the food chain! As noted, total carnage reigns supreme!DEAD HEAT is a very inane action movie.  Still, it reminds me of how audiences once had low expectations of action films.  There is no substantial plot to speak of.  The action scenes rely more on stunts and blood rather than authentic testosterone.  This film falls short of its potentiality.  DEAD HEAT does have its fair share of defects, but at least it's endurable.  Even the action sequences offer an inventive twist or to. Therefore, expect to have an artificial good time.Critics unanimously panned this movie.  I can almost see why.RATING ** out of ****. "},{"Title":"A zombie movie that deserves to remain dead","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Who told Joe Piscopo he could act? He's not much of a comic, and he's a dreadful actor. Treat Williams has talent, but he's utterly wasted here, stumbling from one bad scene to another, with Piscopo following like a loyal dog, barking bad dialogue. As with the dreadful Forest Whitiker/Anthony Edwards cop flop Downtown, this movie suffers from exceptionally poor dialogue, and even worse direction. There are moments where you think the actors weren't even aware the camera was rolling, and other scenes where the actors are just waiting for their lines, as though the director was out to lunch or something. What could have been Lethal Weapon meets Dawn of the Dead becomes a series of predictable incidents that are more or less rehashes of previous buddy cop films. Lethal Weapon and 48hrs and Running Scared worked not because of gimmicks, but because of the characters. Dead Heat fails on every level because there was zero attention paid to script and character. "},{"Title":"Some cops just won't stay dead...","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" If you like cheesy movies from the late 1980's, then Dead Heat might be something for you. This movie is full of bad jokes, a stupid storyline and awful one-liners. But hey, there is an audience for everything out there, isn't there?When I picked up this movie, I was expecting more of a zombie comedy, but it turned out to be more of a cop story with a hint of zombies in it. Someone is using a machine to bring back the dead, and detectives Roger Mortis (played by Treat Williams) - spoof off Rigor Mortis? - and Doug Bigelow (played by Joe Piscopo) are on the case.The movie itself is not all that bad, actually, I had just expected somewhat more of a laugh-out-loud comedy. However, if you are watching this for the zombies, then you will be sorely disappointed. Not much to come here after in that department. There was a couple of minutes worth of zombie effects and hilarious effects, and that was about it.Having seen it now, I can honestly say that I will not be watching it again. This is the type of movie that you watch once (if you didn't watch it back in 1988), then bag and tag it, putting it on the shelf and letting it stand there as a DVD collection filler. "},{"Title":"a must see","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie has some history. It's a horror comedy made at the end of the eighties. A time when horror was in trouble, the slashers were out of order, SF horrors were over, nothing really happened so it was a problem to bring out horrors. Somehow they were able to bring in Vincent Price. He's in the movie a lot, that surprised me because he was on the end of his career, only appeared in 5 movies after this one. When the movie was finally made and edited another problem came along. The MPAA didn't like the effects used, to gory, so the movie was cut in his best parts. The effects were done by coming star Steve Johnson, well known for Species and Blade 2 among other ones. So the gore was cut out, so it failed at the box offices and it also meant to be the end of the New World Pictures. On to VHS it was, here it became a bigger success and even went on to became a cult classic. Due the ending of NWP the film was never again released uncut. Happy to see the release almost 15 years later made by Anchor Bay. The film is still cut but they were able to add in an extra feature the parts that were cut out, among them a lot of blah blah but also the gory stuff like the demented dream sequence involving a zombified Piscopo and the skeletal stripper popping out of a Death Day part cake. The puppet was puppeteered by Linnea Quiqley. it's in VHS quality but at least we can see now what was cut out. It's a funny movie with a lot of one liners and a lot of blood and gory scene's, like the decaying of a body. Catch the Anchor Bay version... "},{"Title":"Strange.","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Plot Synopsis L.A. Detectives Roger Mortis & Doug Bigelow are investigating a series of robberies where the criminals appear to be impervious to bullets. They discover that the robbers are zombies & locate the device used to bring them back. Mortis is then killed in a shootout. Reanimated by the machine, Mortis has 12 hours to find his killer before he decomposes into mush.This would have to be the strangest cop buddy film ever made. Designed to be a parody of Lethal Weapon, the film's concept involves a zombie police officer & his human partner. The film starts off quite well, with a shootout that amazingly resembles the real-life North Hollywood shootout that occurred ten years later (you know, the one where two bank robbers unleash hell on the cops, not to mention being almost invulnerable to police weapons. But in that case they are wearing body armour). But the film goes downhill right after, thanks to Joe Piscopo's smartass performance. He never stops cracking one-liners. Some of them are good but most are very bad. As a result, the film suffers. The end scene is nicely done though, being a parody of Casablanca. "},{"Title":"Rubbish. Yet strangely fun","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  ***Possible spoilers***Lets not beat around the bush here; this is a pretty lame film. Unfunny humour, poor script and plot holes so large you could sail an oil tanker through (for example, the rest of the cops show up at the lab yet fail to notice the dead zombie right next to Rogers body, or the resurrection machine). There are also a couple of very poor in jokes (Dante pharmaceuticals and Roger's surname being Moritiss).The only thing I could say I definitely liked were the action sequences, which are quite well done (especially the butchers shop - the one good idea in the whole film). Yet despite all this, I still enjoyed this movie.  I can't quite explain why - I wasn't even drunk. If you're prepared to put your brain in neutral for 90 minutes and there really is nothing else on, you could do worse than giving this one a go. "},{"Title":"The best of the zombie genre","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film is brilliant!  Hilarious and absolutely the best in B-grade. There is no one like Treat Williams and coupled with Joe Piscopo you can't go wrong with this film!  Something different indeed but that's why we love Treat! "},{"Title":"The death of zombie-comedy flicks (until Shaun...)","Date":"2 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Dead Heat is a boring film. There is a reason why, as a huge zombie movie fan, I didn't hear about it right away. I found myself unable to follow it closely. It starts out with a nice little rush of action followed by a chase scene, and I got the feeling I was in for a nice ride. But I was let down. Way down...With awful one-liners, the story trudges along through an absurd plot and ends with a blah, not a bang. To be honest, I had to have a coffee to stay awake. One cop turns into a zombie. The other guy gets mad. They both end up becoming zombies. Vincent Price is thrown in for good measure and it doesn't work. I can't really say much else about Dead Heat. Return of the Living Dead it ain't.3 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"Comedy? Action? Horror? Who Knows?","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Two police officers try to stop a string of jewelry thefts, only to discover they are fighting against a gang of criminal zombies resurrected by some medical mastermind.I don't know who Treat Williams is, but I guess he was famous in the 1980s. Joe Piscopo was once a comedian before everyone forgot him. And Vincent Price? Pretty much the biggest name in horror for forty years. When you combine these three, you're guaranteed a great action-comedy-horror or whatever this movie is supposed to be.So many scenes in this movie are priceless because of the utterly stupid humor (Piscopo's one-liners are really bad, but they grow on you). Most memorable is a scene where a Chinese restaurant is resurrected... causing chicken, duck and cow carcasses to attack. If you think watching Super Size Me will turn you off meat, how about getting attacked by your Moo Shoo Gai Pan? I won't reveal what happens later in the movie, but this film has some very unconventional plot lines... not the same old formula used flawlessly a million times before. After the film ends, you'll be left asking yourself or your friend, did they really do that?, and yes... they did.Outside of the zombies and animal carcasses and Vincent Price, there's really no horror here. But with zombies and such, it's not a traditional action film. Nor a traditional comedy (though comedy does branch into horror and action very easily).Okay, so this review was really poorly written. Don't worry, the film wasn't. Put it on your Christmas or Chanukah list, because you'll be left laughing your stockings off. I promise. "},{"Title":"Wild horror comedy.","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This outrageous comic-book style film crosses two genres the buddy comedy with the zombie horror film. You'll get some undemanding fun from it, but there should be more. It has a fast pace and some good special effects (the disintegration of a woman, etc), but too many repetitive puns about the dead cop's condition (OK. We get it. He's a walking corpse. Anything else?) (**) "}{"Title":"Worth watching ONLY for the Chinatown-deli sequence.","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This awful horror-comedy really grates on my nerves every-time I see it. It's not just because of the lame acting and awful script (and a really annoying and un-funny Joe Piscopo). It's because this movie had quite a few really cool ideas that could have been turned into a kick-ass movie, much in the tradition of The Toxic Avenger and Re-animator.It's really hard to pinpoint where exactly the movie went wrong since it's such a mess from start to finish. A lot has been mentioned about the fact that Joe Piscopo was given free reign to improvise all of his pathetic one-lines. There are tons of scenes where the other actors seem completely embarassed due to him acting like a complete moron.The only bright spot in the whole film, is the only scene where the movie shows some life the Chinatown-deli sequence. In fact, when I want to show this movie to people, I usually just fast-forward to that scene. Watching all of the meat in the deli come to life (and who could forget that headless/skinless cow attacking Treat) and attack the actor's is hilarious. There's also a really cool exploding ambulance scene, and another where a zombified and badly burned Treat Williams and a bad zombie shot each other with uzi's for about a minute straight!If you've never seen this monstrocity of stupidity, once you do you'll easily see why it was on numerous critic's Worst of the 80's lists.Rating 1.5 (only because of the deli scene)  "},{"Title":"Films don't get much worse than this","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Treat Williams and Joe Piscopo play two police detectives investigating a series of crimes being committed by criminals who have been resurrected from the dead in this lame-brained, thoroughly unfunny spoof.  Believe me, films don't get much worse than this one.  The premise is almost good, but the execution is terrible.  The film actually seems to suit the talents of Piscopo, but poor Treat Williams, he was once a real actor.  Mark Goldblatt is a fine editor, but a terrible director.  He should stick with the day job. "},{"Title":"Really, really dumb","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I'm surprised that nobody has yet mentioned the single stupidest thing about this incredibly stupid movie. The fact that the main character who becomes a walking corpse is named Roger Mortis. That is such an obvious and unfunny pun on 'rigor mortis' that is soils the film from the first introduction of the characters, whereupon the whole film spirals down further and further into the realm of crap. "},{"Title":"Electric Slide!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Okay folks, this is a really stupid movie. I remember watching it and thinking, I will never read Fangoria again after they raved about this pludge. But I will say this though (I just realized, I think I say 'but I will say this though' in about every other user comment I've left on IMDB). There's a scene that is so cool that it left me and my friend with our mouths open, looking at each other. We must've rewound it like twenty times afterwards. What scene was it? Treat Williams drives a motorcycle into a roadblock causing him to fly through the air and through a plate glass window. After crashing through the window, he slides across the floor on his back, pumping bullets into the guards inside the lobby. Believe me, I'm not doing it justice by describing it, you have to see it. It lasts all of like ten seconds but it's worth watching at least for that one fine moment of action cinema. The rest of the movie is blecch. Rating ** out of ***** (and the two stars are mostly for that one scene) "},{"Title":"Don't watch this while eating-I did, unfortunately!","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is the most disgusting movie I've ever seen.  I mean, I thought My Boyfriend's Back was sick humor.  This is just plain sick.  The movie's great until the reincarnation stuff begins.  After that, its all downhill. I give it a 2 1 for special effects and makeup, 1 for Treat Williams and Joe Piscopo. "},{"Title":"Dead Heat=Brain Dead","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Stupid, brainless, buddy/monster/zombie/whatever movie with a few positives and way too many negatives. On the positive side is a good cast (much better than this movie deserves), and an especially good effects scene in a restaurant where all the meat and poultry come to life. On the negative side, the main problem is Joe Piscopo. He seems more intent on upstaging everybody and everything and showing off his newly buff body than anything else. He has absolutely no chemistry whatsoever with anybody else in the cast, and tries to hog every scene he is in. Poor Treat Williams looks embarrassed, as well he should, and Lindsay Frost looks like she'd rather be somewhere else, as well she should, but Piscopo apparently thinks he's in the middle of another 48 Hours, which made a star of his SNL partner Eddie Murphy; he couldn't possibly have been more wrong. Either director Mark Goldblatt couldn't control Piscopo or he just gave up, as Piscopo appears to be completely on his own. He improvises one-liners that are not even remotely funny, constantly steps on other actors' lines, and does everything but grin directly into the camera and flex his muscles.While a good performance can make a bad film bearable, Piscopo's makes a bad one worse. Apparently Hollywood took note, too; he has made few films since, and none as good as this one--and this one isn't good at all.  "},{"Title":"An idyllic childhood memory tarnished by cold hard reality","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Piscopo and Treat Williams are two bumbling cops stumble across a scheme to bring the dead back to life. When Williams gets killed in the life of duty, he gets re-animated. Did I say that his character's name is Roger Mortis yet?? (Not laughing yet?? Yeah neither am I) Dead zombie cops, re-animated chickens I can buy. Joe Piscopo getting a paying job I'm sorry but my suspension of disbelief only stretches so far. I felt really bad for Vincent Price who has to slum in a worse film than Bloodbath at the House of Death (I know I didn't think it possible either) DVD Extras Commentary by Mark Goldblatt, David Helpern, Micheal Meltzer & Terry Black; 8 Deleted scenes; Poster and Stills gallery; storyboard gallery; MIFED promo; Electronic press kit; Theatrical Trailer DVD-ROM original screenplay in .PDF format My Grade D- "},{"Title":"Wish I had some steak sauce...","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Add one ham (Williams), one lame duck (Piscopo), two old boars (McGavin, Price), a corny script and beefy FX and what have you got?  Well, whatever it is, it's pretty tasteless.Dead Heat makes the mistake of cross-breeding too many genres - here you'll find equal parts of such movies as 48 Hrs., Re-Animator, your choice of zombie movies and a 90-minute routine by Piscopo. Usually, any movie that makes fun of multiple genres is a winner in my book, but there are so many FX of the un-dead (human and animal) running amok that you forget to laugh; there's just too much to be grossed out at.And if you're into that, there's some neat scenes, granted.  Especially the deli scene that everyone seems to remember here when reviewing, Lindsay Frost's quick dissolve, and Williams' gradual decay into deadness.  What actors there are have little to do but just over-act (McGavin) or simply phone it in (Price, in what was close to his last film role). But no one seems very interested in what's going on.  They just ease back and let the FX crew have at it.  Which they do.  Two and a half stars for Dead Heat, half a star more for Piscopo's thoughts on what he'd like to be reincarnated as.Now, that's REALLY inspirational. "},{"Title":"absolutely awful","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I attended a test screening of this film at UC San Diego. Every couple months a film would be test screened, and a bunch of marketing mooks from the studio, armed with clipboards, would hand out questionnaires after the film. Well, after most films.This was one of the worst films I'd ever seen. The gags are pathetic and unfunny. Who knows what they were smoking when they made this turkey, but it is a very, very bad movie with no redeeming qualities whatsoever. There's really no kind way to put it.About halfway through the screening somebody shouted This movie sucks! which got a huge laugh and applause. It went downhill from there. Catcalls left and right, I've never seen an audience turn on a film so harshly before. The studio guys didn't bother polling people at the end. I'm assuming it went straight to video because I don't recall seeing a theatrical run. "},{"Title":"possibly the worst movie ever made","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Dead Heat is possibly the best argument against drugs I've ever seen. Only some wigged out studio execs could have passed on this terminally stupid movie. The very fact that a studio spent a fair amount of money on this is appalling. Almost everything about Dead Heat is idiotic - the concept, the execution, a good chunk of the acting (this had to set back Treat Williams career).The contempt for the female characters in this macho exercise is abominable.This film makes the work of Ed Wood look like art. So let me repeat - stupid, stupid, stupid, stupid, stupid. All concerned should have hung their heads in shame. "}]