[{"Title":"The Apartment Zero Experience","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"143 out of 159 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a film I've seen more times than any other. I can quote the dialogue verbatim. I saw it first about eight years ago on video. I knew the theatrical version was six minutes longer but as I never saw the original I never missed anything, until two hours ago that is. I finally saw the full theatrical version and I'm literally, blown away. It was a new electrifying experience. There is a moment within the first ten minutes of the film in which we have Adrian (Colin Firth) in bed talking, mumbling rather, to himself. It jolted me. I know the film so well that a new scene I've never seen before arriving at a totally unexpected moment threw me for six and yet, it made sense, completely. Adrian is walking a tight rope from the beginning and those few seconds underlines it in the most elegant, chilling, beautiful way. There is more, of course, much more. Colin Firth's performance couldn't be improved but the extra moments he has on the screen not only adds to his perfection but completes the strange and mesmerising journey that the Apartment Zero experience is all about. Hart Bochner hits all the right notes. He teases, he invites, he offers. It is a masterclass in seduction, trying to become what Adrian wants or needs. All the other characters that populate the building are a priceless collection of Hitchcockian, Polanskian delights. I'm sure a Hollywood movie would never allow its supporting players to have so much screen time but, personally, that's one of the many things I love about this film. They all have their moment, for an instant the film is about each one them. They are all the star when the camera is on them. I'm now waiting anxiously for the DVD release. I'm taking for granted that the full theatrical version will be included. I know for a fact that the experience is not for everyone - very few films are - but I, as part of an enormous minority, would like to live the experience in its full length form. Thank you very much "},{"Title":"A film to be experienced","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"164 out of 208 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm in the middle of a Martin Donovan marathon. I've seen Apartment Zero at least once a year for the last 14 years and every time, it changes, surprises you. I can't say that about many other films, Repulsion, Odd Man Out and very few others. What makes this film unique is that it doesn't try to make it easy for you. All of the gems that it offers have to be earned. Colin Firth, is simply monumental. The faces of his performance are endless. Look at the way he smiles, as if he didn't know how to. How he walks, as if his limbs had independent life. The world the film explores is filled with trap doors if you fall into the wrong one you're going to hate the experience, like a bad trip. But if you manage to get through the right one, the pleasures are infinite. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"118 out of 138 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've never had the kind of experience that Apartment Zero provided me with. It left me in a daze. I've seen the film countless times since and every time I came out with something new. Last night, I showed the film to a group of people who had never seen it before. Their ages ranged from 17 years old to 41. The reaction was as divided as it was passionated. The point is, nobody could dismiss it. The film has a way to get into your system and question you. Not an easy thing for a film to do. But Apartment Zero does it in such an original way that you don't even know its happening. The writer/ director forces us to look into uncomfortable characters straight in the eye and find something of ourselves in there. Chilling! What it may look like a straight forward thriller is in fact a psychological, erotic, puzzle with false doors and moving walls.Over the years Apartment Zero has become a point of reference to me and one of my favourite films of all time. "},{"Title":"Colin Firth from Argentina","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"93 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Adrian LeDuc is a nut. Everyone knows that. His neighbors talk about him in a whisper. They've never been inside his apartment and their imagination takes them through the most perverse scenarios. They couldn't possibly imagine the innocence of the man or his loneliness. Colin Firth creates a character with a million different faces without ever changing his. He could be an emotional wax work. The fact that he invents an identity for himself shouldn't come as a big surprise, he doesn't have one of his own and that is abundantly clear from the first time we see him. He is in the projection booth of his movie theater looking at the screen as if he was in the peep room of a sex shop - Ironic how things are going to turn out. Apartment Zero is almost 20 years old but it feels ahead of its time, still. I was able to see it again in its theatrical version with those 6 minutes missing from the video release. Oh what a difference 6 minutes make. There are moments that underline Adrian's loneliness at the beginning, so powerful that the lecture of the entire film is based on the effect provoked by those chilling moments. Adrian/Colin talking to himself at night for instance. Hart Bochner (what an intriguing piece of casting) makes a star entrance that seems to come straight out of Adrian/Colin's cinematic mind. The star has arrived and everything is about to change. Everything will be destined to cater his comfort and well being. Laundry, breakfasts. The star is essential in the movie of Colin/Adrian's life. Hart Bochner - his character's name is Jack Carney, carne in Spanish means meat - realizes very soon the power he has over Adrian but he doesn't know how to use it. His own feelings (first he discovers to have feelings in a superlative piece of subtle, brilliant acting) get mangled and his frustration takes different forms. Hart intermingles with each one of the neighbors. Those moments in themselves are like short movies with their own kind feel. Suspenseful, erotic, farcical, romantic. - If you listen to Martin Donovan's (the director) commentary in the DVD he credits his actors for practically everything but there is a love there that I'm sure allowed him to get into the darkness with such assured step, fearlessly. The DVD also includes a great exchange between David Koepp and Steven Sodebergh - Apartment Zero is unmissable from every front. "},{"Title":"See You 2","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"95 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm the surviver of a couple of days Apartment Zero debate. I wish I had recorded the arguments. The extraordinary Colin Firth leads the way without meaning to. He himself - I mean, Adrian, Colin's character - doesn't know where he is going, in fact I suspect he doesn't even know that he is moving. The only real things in his life are the painful deterioration of his mother, financial hardship and whatever he sees on the screen of his revival theatre. I wondered how is it possible that he doesn't realises the danger. The director doesn't design a whodunit for us. He tells us, one way or another, that Jack (Hart Bochner) is too good to be true. We know it, Adrian doesn't. Until he sees it on the screen of his own theatre. He understand the danger only when it's projected on a screen. I think that's a fabulous way to tell a story. I was participating in the unveiling, unable to decide. Hoping for Adrian to open up, allowing Jack's designs to materialise even if that could mean a living hell or protecting the zeroness of his existence for ever. The face of Colin Firth when he sees the CU2 on the screen is one of the best silent screams of realisation I have ever seen. Part of the argument is that CU2 is not See you two but if you're a foreigner, try to pronounce CU2 and See You Two and you won't hear any difference. Adrian may speak like David Niven but he is not British. He has assumed an old British identity as a shield. The keys to open the doors of Apartment Zero are many and varied. You must try to find the right one, that's the thing, and you must never force the lock. Remember he CU2. "},{"Title":"The most neglected masterpiece of the 1990's!","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"87 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is the most neglected masterpiece of the 1990's! An amazing feat, both directorial (by the brilliant Martin Donovan), and with a staggering screenplay by Donovan and David Koepp (yes, that one, can you believe it?). The cast have NEVER been better. Colin Firth is utter perfection as Adrian - a truly scary, brilliant performance that he has never even come close to before or after. And, Hart Bochner, now if he had Mr. Donovan to work with again, he might be able to go beyond his devilish good looks, and delve into a character the way he does her, where he has a real director, who obviously adores him, to fall back on. Yes, the plot is complex, yet it has a clarity that makes it imminently easy to understand. Do yourself a favor - rent this, find it if you can, and intoxicate yourself in a world of mystery, intrigue and sensuality that will linger far beyond its running time, and haunt you for years to come. Thank you Mr. Donovan and all concerned for a truly mesmerizing masterpiece. And, please, do yourself and everyone else a favour, KEEP WORKING! "},{"Title":"A drama lesson","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"93 out of 112 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw the movie I already knew the plot because my video's book had the bad idea to say who the murderer was.  Anyway the film is so marvelously done that even if you know you still get the chills. I was really impressed with Hart Bochner performance, mostly because he has the kind of face which usually is cast in an afternoon soap opera and though his character is mostly physical, he never plays it at a first level. I'm very moved each time I see him cry.  It could have been so easy to over do it, to be pathetic or melodramatic but instead he is touching and true. As for the part of Adrian, Colin Firth with his dark-low voice (that gives some more weirdness to the part- mostly because of the contrast with his childish face) is just brilliant.  The irony to see him play the victim as Bochner takes over Valmont's seduction is pure amazement. Everything is in the details every look, every attempt to smile, the way he walks, the way he talks and stutters.  Adrian may seem fragile but he is a survivor. Every detail in the movie adds to the actors performances the frightening neighbors (the way they invade his life is no surprise to his disliking them so much), the music, the camera shots of the living city opposed constantly to the claustrophobic dark apartment and even the apartment itself which is almost a character per se. It has its life and its secrets.  For example we never actually have a full view of the two bedrooms, we know there is a kitchen but we never see it and we only see the bathroom through a glass window.  The only space used in the apartment is the living room which gives to this thriller a feeling of a closed-room drama. I guess that if you are not bewitched by the actors the film won't do it for you.  It's not the kind of thriller only based on action plot.  The real interest of the film remains in the relation between those two different men and not in the murders themselves.  I strongly recommend this movie to anyone who loves to see good and subtle acting.  It's a powerful 1h45 drama lesson! "},{"Title":"Before And After Zero","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"97 out of 120 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was so shaken the first time I saw Apartment Zero that in my film going experiences, everything I see is somehow related to that initial overwhelming emotion. Many thought I was a suitable case for treatment, as the film takes you where, a normal human being, wouldn't like to venture. Maybe that's it, maybe there is something of Adrian in all of us, Colin Firth's masterful performance, makes that uncomfortable assumption, pretty plausible. Someone who's not at ease around other human beings, suddenly, for practical reasons, allows one into his life and becomes an addict. He cannot do without that presence without that fear without that feeling. No film ever has been able to tell us that in such a gripping, entertaining, cinematic way. "},{"Title":"An Apartment Of My Own","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"85 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I love to meet people who love Apartment Zero not necessarily as much as I do but who love it nonetheless. In Italy that's a hard thing and I kind of understand why. The dubbed Italian version is quite another movie and the video transfer is appalling. So dark you can hardly see anything. I hope the DVD puts an end to all that. The Italians don't quite get it. They much prefer Martin Donovan's first movie State of Wonder, a movie that hardly anybody has ever seen, not even me. It is a movie impossible to find. In any case, I can't talk about Apartment Zero when I'm in Italy, even if the film won the Taormina Film Festival in its day. Italians tend to dismiss whatever puzzles them, I should know, I used to do the same. Apartment Zero presents a series of alternatives to its audience and I've had discussions about the why, where and whats of this film from people from every corner of the globe, except Italy that is. While Adrian (Colin Firth) and Jack (Hart Bochner) fight for the gun one of the two shouts Do it! Which one? I think it's Jack, I mean, it's obviously him, but some people think it's Adrian. At a lecture in Los Angeles, about two years ago, I asked Mr. Donovan about that point in question. He made a very dramatic pause, turn to me, smiled - I felt kind of dizzy - and turn the question back to me  What do you think? There I was, right were I started. Mr. Donovan explained in the most riveting way that the Do it! was the actor's idea and when in post production the sound editor suggested to bring the actor back to ADR the line. Donovan preferred to keep the production track as it was. He turned to me to say Just to have the pleasure of having you, 15 years later, asking me about it Of course, that is at the center of this fascinating film. The truth is exactly were you find it. All the different alternatives take you to one inexorable truth. Repression breathes monsters. The road you take to arrive to that conclusion is entirely yours, made of your own experiences of your own perceptions. The film treats its audience like a thinking breathing being, allowing all of us to include our vision, our colors, our shadows. That's why I consider Apartment Zero a film that taught me something about myself. I've been reminded it of all of it now, because we had a screening tonight at a friend's house and we argue for hours about the Do it! line, about Adrian and his mother about the true nature of Jack. Yes, I do love to talk to people who love Apartment Zero Tonight I found two of those in Italy of all places. "},{"Title":"Disturbing, unsettling, and you just can't get enough of it.","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"74 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" You need a well-developed taste for the bizarre to appreciate this unique movie gem. Here's a complex film that's guaranteed to get under your skin. Despite some direct references to Psycho, Repulsion, Sisters and other shockers, the film comes off as wholly original, largely due to its two vivid main characters and its smart Buenos Aires setting. The two principals represent opposite sides of one another Adrian is uptight, uncomfortable, and unable to bear human contact until Jack arrives like a beautiful Angel of Death, charming women and men alike with his seemingly easygoing, nonjudgmental demeanor. He manages to fulfill a need in each of the apartment building's dwellers. They eagerly welcome him into their lives unaware of his capacity for evil. A wolf in sheep's clothing. The Buenos Aires locale provides a similar duality, as both a familiar urban landscape and a strange, foreign, detached environment. It's a place where covert political intrigue can go unquestioned, and where any inhabitant can lead an anonymous, rootless existence. Wonderful evocative music helps set the stage. Apartment Zero is a guessing game right up to the end. "}{"Title":"This great movie gets more frightening every time I watch!","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"69 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Apartment Zero is truly one of the best films I have ever seen.  Though the film is not perfect, it does give one the opportunity to meet the complex characters Jack played by Hart Bochner and  Adrian played by Colin Firth. The level of depth to these performances is unbelievable.  Firth's character's motivations are slowly revealed and the ending gives one insight as to how far someone will go for a little attention be it for love or something else.  It is may seem a twisted tale of lust to a shallow viewer, but a repeat viewing gives the film an entirely different perspective. It is evident that all of the negative comments about this film seem to revolve around the interpretation that the film is a sort of veiled homosexual attraction gone wrong.  Again, a repeat viewing shows a lot deeper relationship occurring.  I need to be a bit vague just so you may enjoy the film for what it is trying to say.The shorter director's cut is superior to the longer version which seems to spend excess time on superfluous backgrounds of the eccentric neighbors, but either version in acceptable.  The film is directed by Martin Donovan and co-authored by the director and writer David Koepp.  What is amazing is that the only other film these two collaborated on was the comedy Death Becomes Her.   "},{"Title":"The Identity Of Zero","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"58 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have no idea the sort of effect Apartment Zero had when it first came out back in 1989, but now in 2007, the film seems not merely relevant but revolutionary. Two personalities devouring each other in entirely different ways. One out of need the other as a way of life. It's financial need that makes Adrian (Colin Firth) open the doors of his hermetic universe. What a perfect moment for Jack (Hart Bochner) to find his way in. Once Adrian has a lodger that looks like one of the movie star pictures that decorate his apartment he will develop a different kind of need. I was breathless anticipating a fatal blow and uncertain as where the blow was going to come from. Identity has been a favorite subject for ambitious filmmakers from Bergman's Persona to Fincher's Fight Club but Martin Donovan (the director) dissects the conflict here from an angle I had never, not only seen before, but imagine. The film is chilling and perverse with an under taste of humanity, the most recognizable one - longing. A longing that takes over with the throbbing intensity of an open heart. Colin Firth is astonishing. Not a single false note and he was a very young man back in 1988. The maturity and depth of his performance puts it among the most extraordinary I've ever seen. Hart Bochner is another surprise. He gives himself completely to a character that is whatever you need him to be The film was kind of dismissed in my country - Argentina, as an opportunistic device for a thriller, using and unresolved time in our confused and confusing history to tell the story. Okay, well, we've been wrong many times before and many times since. The film's theme is as universal as the struggle between good and evil itself. The top notch DVD contains an insightful interview with David Koepp (Co-writer) and a very personal and moving commentary by the director Martin Donovan. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Tenant's Tenant","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"55 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Apartment Zero is a close relative of one of my favorite films Roman Polanski's The Tenant but Apartment Zero is not one of those annoying relatives, quite the contrary. They may share the same DNA but they also belong to different worlds. We're in a psycho social, erotic thriller here, set in Buenos Aires - a dead ringer for Paris at times - every turn is a jolting experience. Martin Donovan - the director - invades the privacy of his characters just to prove a chilling point - nothing is what it appears to be, or is it? I'm not going to give anything away that may spoil your journey but I should warn you than nothing is casual and that becomes clearer and clearer with each viewing. Jack seems ( and I believe he is) the one in control and Adrian is the fly caught in his web but, is he? There is a moment (I won't tell you where, how or when) in which Jack realizes he needs Adrian as much as Adrian clearly needs him. I wonder if Jack has ever met anyone like Adrian, if he ever had a friend - I mean a friend he didn't have to lie to - The chemistry between Colin Firth (Adrian) and Jack (Hart Bochner) is so compelling that you start to be with them even if, in real terms, they are not likable characters. Just like us. Let me explain. If somebody came to look at us with a magnifying glass, how many of us would pass that test? How many of us would be considered likable or normal We're humans and therefore, imperfect. One can live with ones flaws and imperfections in private, but once they come out it would make us look freakish. I think that Adrian is so aware of his strangeness - maybe he's been told and bullied all his life - that his obsessive privacy is his shield and behind that shield he's been disappearing for years. Zero. Colin Firth is magnificent in the part and his performance is so beautifully constructed that you're bound to discover new things every time you visit Apartment Zero "},{"Title":"A Million Times Zero","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"58 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Colin Firth plays a perfect zero without frills and/or tricks. He knows everything about movies - fantasies reflected on a screen - but nothing about himself or the world around him. The slightest provocation that may force him to feel to sense or to act will make him recoil into a maternal cocoon and deny, deny, deny. Apartment Zero is savage poetry. Part Garcia Lorca part Jean Arthur Rimbaud. It's also theater, gossip, journalism, trivia and pornography. One element nurturing and destroying the other at the same time. It uses elements of other movies just like the central character does. He couldn't exist without Montgomery Clift or Roman Polansky. Charles Laughton or Alfred Hitchcock. Anna Magnani emits the scream of realization from a still photograph. A Touch Of Evil or A Touch Of Class? Both, I think both. Entertaining, wittily funny and dark, one of the darkest. Unconfortable, compelling. Zero is the oddity to end all oddities. It will never change itself or others. What a movie! "},{"Title":"Zero In DVD, finally","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"51 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" What a pleasure to be able to see Apartment Zero remastered in its original full length form. Adrian - an unrepeatable Colin Firth - takes us through his narrow path of old movies, movie stars and secret dreams into a frightening - truly frightening - landscape of desolation. The weird part is that it's such fun to go through it. I've seen the film a few times but last night I noticed for the first time that Adrian goes through his life only aware of what he fears and that movies, naturally, are his only way to feel free. It's only after the arrival of Jack - a superb Hart Bochner and where the hell is he? - that Adrian notices the thickness of his loneliness, of his isolation. He clings on to his lodger like a nagging wife, trying desperately not to scare him away but Adrian is not used to deal with people. He expects Jack to behave like the pictures on his wall. They will be exactly where he put them for ever and ever. Within his sickness Adrian is an innocent and I bet that Jack never met anyone like him. They could, in a way, become the perfect odd couple if it wasn't for the devil's determination to get what's his. A truly different, fascinating movie. "},{"Title":"Humans in the Dark","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"51 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Buenos Aires, Argentina 1988. I was there for the whole of 88, a time in which everything seem about to change. A turbulent past, a population licking their wounds and adopting denial as a way of life. Except for some people. For the people touched by the horrors of the 70's, the desaparecidos the death squads, the lies and betrayals was bound to remain and dominate their present and their future. Apartment Zero uses that confusing past in a European like Country -- Argentina is just that -- to tell a story of repression and fear. Sexual repression and self fear. I was reminded of it today because I went to look for the film everywhere and is nowhere available. How can it be? I played my used and abused VHS copy - I hadn't seen it in 5 or 6 years - and there it was. Stronger, more relevant than ever. Colin Firth, what a performance! He travels the gamut of emotions without giving away anything. He is the poster boy for repression. To see him fall into Hart Bochner's web is as frightening as it is entertaining. What are you? Adrian asks Jack An optical illusion? Yes, he is and he's as real as anything he's ever seen. He's in love and in lust but he doesn't know it or, like everything else, he'll never admit it to himself or to others. Nothing in the film is told in uncertain terms. It takes you and leaves you there, in the middle of nowhere, just like Adrian, Colin Firth's character. A stranger in his own country. This film is enormous. I don't think it ever got the recognition it deserves. "},{"Title":"Masks and other forms of loving","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"47 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Exactly. That's at the core of zero. If that is a mask, take it off now or keep it on forever. In a way is like saying I don't care who you really are as long as you're here, with me. Pretty nifty premise for a thriller. I call it a thriller because that's where you find it, under thrillers but for me is as far away from a thriller as Persona - that could be considered a thriller too - Apartment Zero is one of the most powerful love stories ever put on film. It's not unrequited love that keeps Adrian and Jack together but exactly the opposite. Their tragedy is that they've never loved, not really, never anything real. Adrian has his prematurely deteriorating mother and his movies and Jack, well Jack confesses that when he killed his first person, he really loved it and when he's saying it, in his eyes there is no hate but love and a sort of romantic melancholy. It's chilling, it's disturbing, it's superb. Superb like Colin Firth's performance. He goes to the depths of zero and comes out with something we rarely see on the screen. The truth! The hardest truth to tell, the most personal the most intimate. The truth in all its innocence in all its ugliness in all its twisted varieties. Hart Bochner is the perfect tempter falling into his own trap. What a credible devil. I'm talking about it now because I bought the DVD, I hadn't seen the theatrical version, only on tape and I had resisted the temptation of seeing it again because I have a powerful memory of the film and 9 times out of 10 the experience of seeing a loved film after many years is kind of depressing. Not with Apartment Zero. If anything, now in its original theatrical length, it has acquired something extra and whatever it is, it's very moving and very powerful. "},{"Title":"Apartment Zero 2007","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"49 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have a personal connection with Apartment Zero I'm not going to go into it now but the fact is that I've heard about this movie since I was a kid. I was about 13 when Apartment Zero came out and I wasn't into art films at the time. I tried to see it on video several times over the years but, I must confess, I could never get into it. Now on DVD, I decided to have another go, mostly curious about Martin Donovan's commentary. To say that I wasn't in any way prepared for the powerful experience the movie provoked in me, seems absurd, but it's true. It shattered me. There is an uncomfortable truth in Colin Firth's performance, no matter how out there his character seems to be. His self imposed emotional exile is so solidly embedded in his soul that the crackling provoked by Hart Bochner's arrival is as suspenseful as it is fascinating. We're way ahead of Colin's character that's why the anticipation of the unavoidable is, at times, unbearable. Highly recommended for lovers of great acting, and great cinema, "},{"Title":"A Cult Classic For The Ages","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"45 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Adrian LeDuc lives in a world of his own. The actual setting is Buenos Aires, Argentina in 1988, just after the fall of the military junta. A place of unsettling confusion. Economic instability forces Adrian to sublet part of his elegant apartment. Tough thing to do for someone who's only social moments are with himself or with images on the screen of his movie theater. But he must and he does. A series of potential tenants parade the apartment, convincing Adrian that he will never be able to share his space with another human being, until HE arrives. Jack Carney with his movie star looks, his sensuality and his mystery will fit not just in Adrian's apartment but in his fantasies. Apartment Zero is one of those rare films that you can see many times and that, according to ones mood, it will deliver something different. I hadn't seen the film in years. Now on DVD, I was able to see it again from an entirely new angle. I had forgotten the humor, lots of it, outrageous and elegant. I had forgotten how frightening it is at moments and how brilliantly conceived from a psychological perspective. Colin Firth (Adrian) creates a unique film character. So complex and so true. The wanting without knowing. An all of that, at times, in amazing close ups where nobody can really hide. He should have been nominated for an Academy Award. Hart Bochner (Jack) is superb as the mysterious tenant that becomes paramount in Adian's life. The sexual tension could be cut with a knife and the brilliant thing about it is that it's all in our minds. The supporting characters are a stroke of genius. Not an excuse but a pivotal piece of the puzzle. Dora Bryan (A Taste Of Honey) and Liz Smith (A Private Function) are two British spinsters willingly caught in Jack Carney's web. I laughed out loud without ever relaxing completely. The sense of dread permeates every moment. Fabrizio Bentivoglio (Un Eroe Borghese) a single tenant with an emotional skeleton in his closet is not only impossibly good looking but brilliant in his unnerving ambiguity. So are the rest of the neighbors the transsexual Vanessa (James Telfer) looking for the dark and craving for sex and love, the lonely wife, Mirella D'Angelo (Caligola) a Garboesque character of desperate longings. Their stories are compelling and contribute to the sense of dread. I'm sure I'll see it again some day and another layer will be discovered. Most highly recommend it to film buffs all over the world. "},{"Title":"The Me In The Mirror Or Viceversa","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"47 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A mysterious young loner has to sublet part of his apartment. He takes in a border without knowing (or caring I suspect) he's getting much more than he bargained for. That's the plot, in a nutshell. But within that premise a multitude of universes (wether real or imaginary) collide or pretend to collide, not to confuse us, but to confuse themselves. Disguised of this or that. I had a bitter argument with a close friend about certain aspects of the movie, that I don't want to divulge, but the argument was so fierce that we decided to see the movie together. And something strange happened, I started to look at Apartment Zero from my friend's point of view and realized that she was absolutely right...as the film ended and after we took time to catch our breath, she confessed to me that had seen the film with my perspective in mind and, she concluded, I was absolutely right. We were in disagreement again because we had switch, we were in each other's brain. I don't remember anything like this ever happening to me. What we do have in common, my friend and I, is that we both love Apartment Zero if for entirely different reasons. I love that Colin Firth's character can't connect with his neighbor because his neighbor doesn't know who Geraldine Page is. If you think that's an exaggeration, I know someone exactly like that. Exactly! He's seen the film 200 times but doesn't see the resemblance. Apartment Zero can be viewed collectively but it's a private experience. Hurrah for that. "}{"Title":"Creepy and Dark Gem","Date":"26 September 2010","Score":"39 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" In Buenos Aires, the lonely sociopath Adrian LeDuc (Colin Firth) owns the Cine York specialized in cult-movies but the poor box-office associated to the costs of the large apartment where he lives alone forces him to rent one room to help in the expenses. His mother is insane and interned in a mental institution, and his only employee Claudia (Francesca d'Aloja) is pressing him to rent the movie-theater for the meetings of the political organization where she is an engaged team member. When the mysterious American Jack Carney (Hart Bochner) applies to rent Adrian's room, the needy landlord feels a great attraction for the handsome tenant. Jack gets closer to the snoopy and odd neighbors and Adrian feels jealous with the relationship of his only friend with the residents of the building. Meanwhile, a serial-killer has already murdered twelve victims in Buenos Aires and he might be one of the dwellers of the apartment zero. The cult-movie Apartment Zero is a creepy and dark gem and one of the best movies of the 80's. The intriguing and suspenseful story of loneliness and insanity is very original, with top-notch performances of Colin Firth in the beginning of career and the handsome Hart Bochner. The sexual tension and mystery are present in most of the scenes with Hart Bochner and the surprising and disturbing conclusion is amazing. I have already watched at least four times this masterpiece and I include Apartment Zero among my favorite films. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Apartamento Zero (Apartment Zero) "},{"Title":"Secrets and Lies","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"35 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A political thriller, a horror film, an old fashion melodrama, an erotic fairy tale. Apartment Zero is all of that and then some. Colin Firth in an early and already magnificent performance goes through his life playing a role. An English gent. He is so expert at it that the lie becomes true, or almost, in his own mind. The entrance of Hart Bochner - and what an entrance! - will change all that because Hart has adopted a fake identity himself. It is funny and deeply disturbing to see this two characters developing a form of mutual need when they lie to each other all the time. It's not every day that one can find the light of humanity in dark characters but Apartment Zero accomplishes that in spades. The film has more characters than a Russian novel but they are all so individually drawn that nobody could ever mistake them for each other. They all have faces! Mirella D'Angelo what a beauty! She plays the lonely wife next door. My God what a face! I don't quite know why I hadn't seen this film until now but I'm glad I did. It's now one of my top favorites that I'm sure will see again many. many times. "},{"Title":"Apartment Zero - an amazing surprise!","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"37 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have just finished watching the DVD, which I bought from the US and thanks to a friend, was able to make my DVD player region free. I found the film so tense, that I had to keep stopping and taking a breather. I haven't seen a film so full of tension for a long while.I thought it was really excellent and had no idea it would be so good. The structure of the story held together well, being so multi-layered, especially with Colin Firth's character, a cinema owner, who shows films to an ever decreasing audience - until the political faction takes over and fills the cinema again. I loved his repressed character (does anyone do it better?), reminding us of Anthony Perkins in Psycho (of which the film had some other elements, i.e. shower scenes and so on). The layers of his character are shown visually, through the publicity photos of film stars, and through his emotional reaction to his dying mother.Bochner is also superb, but of course, we know as soon as he appears - and this is what adds to the tension Adrian's innocent belief in the beautiful man, and the hypnotic stares of the killer.It is a dark movie, but superb, I think. I need to think about it more, but have to wait to see it again I don't think I can stand the tension! "},{"Title":"Chilling and Thrilling","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"35 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" What a treat! But, like most great things, it's not for everyone. Some people don't get it at all, just I don't get other films that people love. The strange thing about Apartment Zero is that it seems to talk directly to the outsider looking in. The 'non participant who goes through life escaping and without noticing that he is actually participating. Colin Firth gives a performance of such maturity that I feel he was ripe for Oscar consideration even then, 23 years ago.The idea of a recluse opening his world against his will and letting the devil into his world has been explore many times in the movies but never quite like this. Sometimes is like a British play, a comedy of manners, some others is like Roman Polanski. The Tenant comes to mind. The simple opening of a door can be so frightening. Hart Bochner is also terrific as he lays, consciously or unconsciously, the trap for Colin Firth. Dora Bryan and Liz Smith are priceless pieces from a Terence Rattigan play. Fabrizio Bentivoglio, an ambiguous dream and James Telfer creates a unique transvestite. The film shook me up, disturbed me and entertained me no end. My only reservation is its length. That's why a 9 and not a 10 "},{"Title":"DVD--commentary track","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I thought the movie was wonderfully done and that the acting was disturbingly excellent. But I wanted to write more about the writer/director's commentary than about the film. The writer/director's commentary was charming he loved the actors--not superficially or automatically, but sincerely; he loved the film, even the parts that he indicated he would improve upon if he could. It was one of the best commentaries I have ever heard; the affection and wry humor of the director were so apparent throughout it. I did like the other commentary track, but that one was more about general experiences of writing and directing, although very amusing and natural--a conversation between two people in the same line of work. And I think the film deserves 10 stars. I cannot imagine other actors performing the leads. The suspense is similar to that in Night of the Hunter for me--that unreachable evil--but it goes beyond the Night of the Hunter, because there is no completely good person. Each person has his/her flaws and issues, but each person has to have flaws so that Jack can prey on them. The film is therefore less allegorical than Night of the Hunter, which I have always considered the most disturbing film I have ever seen--until Apartment Zero, that is. "},{"Title":"I Was Terrified","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"35 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Facing financial difficulties in post-military Argentina, Adrian LeDuc sees himself forced to sublet part of his elegant apartment. A premise that will open the door to the unexpected - unexpected to Adrian but not to us - we see the warning signs from the beginning but Adrian remains an spectator and the only thing he notices is the potential boarder's looks. In fact Jack looks like those portraits of movie stars that populate the walls of his apartment. The film took over my pre- conceptions and shattered me. I was taken for an emotional ride that I couldn't control. Colin Firth as Adrian is absolutely mind blowing. Every tiny little thing seems to confirm what we think of the character. In a way, I feel as if I've met him personally. I know who he is. Hart Bochner plays Jack and, although I must confess I wasn't familiar with his work, he enthralled me. The chemistry between this two actors is palpable throughout. When Colin Firth is trying to convince him to take the apartment, Hart Bochner looks at him innocently but harboring a red hot sexual note Is that what you want me to do? Perhaps, the strangest thing for me is that I was terrified. At a certain moment I had to put it in pause and check that my front door was locked. I'm not trying to put you off, I'm actually recommending Apartment Zero very highly, even if, it's not for everyone. "},{"Title":"A Rare Breed","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"46 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Apartment Zero is a rare breed of film that manages to hit all the right buttons with apparent ease.  It is highly erotic, violent, sad, hilarious, scary and fun without going to extremes.  Not a single kiss or touch is made in flirtation, not a single act of violence graphically shown.  It is these subtleties that make it all so effective, so seductive and so frightening.As Hitchcock said, There is no terror in the bang, only in the anticipation of it.  It is Donovan's superb script and direction coupled with the exemplary performances not only from the two leads but the supporting cast that makes it all come together as a highly engaging piece.Two versions of the film exist and it is Donovan's re-edit for video that is the more effective of the two with some of the more overtly Homo-erotic and violent scenes cut to add more ambiguity and mystery to the characters.  An absolutely fantastic soundtrack fits the locations and changes of pace perfectly.A frustrated housewife, bi-sexual hunk, transvestite longing for a hero, hilariously tragic alcoholic sisters and misanthropic ex-pat all think their prayers are answers when Jack (or is it?) comes to live at Apartment Zero. Little do they know what evil lurks in the hearts of men!A lot more fun could have been had with the plot giving even more suspense by playing on the theories of the apartment tenants over the identity of the murderous tenant.  But as stands, probably my all time favourite film.  "},{"Title":"CULT CLASSIC - GREAT ACTING - MUST SEE!","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"45 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Apartment Zero is one of the best psychological character studies ever put on film. Colin Firth (in an amazing performance) portrays Adrian LeDuc, a lonely movie theater owner in Buenos Aires whose mentally ill mother is in the hospital.Adrian and the other misfit tenants in his apartment building (a transvestite, two elderly British alcoholic sisters, a lonely housewife starved for attention, et al) are all smitten by Adrian's charming new roommate, Jack Carney (played by Hart Bochner, who smolders with every close-up). Adrian feels Jack has a certain James Dean je ne sais quoi, but he soon finds out that his gorgeous roommate is not all he appears to be.Great acting, suspense, lots of double-entendre and sexual innuendo, plus an over-the-top ending you'll never forget. "},{"Title":"Amazing Colin Firth in unexpected treat","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"32 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A friend chose this movie to watch and, I must confess, didn't know the first thing about it. That was 5 days ago and I can't, for the life of me, take it out of my mind. Apartment Zero has the structure of a thriller but it's not. We are told, in one way or another, who the villain is, very early on. The focus shifts to something profoundly personal. Colin Firth gives life to a character I have never seen on the screen before. Some people may think it is extreme, so gloomy, so strange, but, absolutely spot on. Financial worries force him to open up to another human being. He needs a tenant to survive the escalating living expenses. His revival movie theatre is not paying off - videos are killing me - he complains to his future tenant. Let's remember this is 1988 in Argentina. Nothing of what matters to Adrianm ( Firth) matters to anybody else. The loneliness of that, I've seen reflected on the face of an actor for the first time and, to my horror, I recognize it immediately. To find a twin soul when you're so different is nearly impossible and I have the feeling that Colin found that for himself a long time ago and accepted his loneliness as a matter of fact. Colin Firth is astonishing! As I'm writing about this, the urge to see it again is taking over my senses. The tenderness of his need is so shattering because it would be easy, very easy to making him happy and I suspect, his tenant ( a fantastic Hart Bochner) realizes that 5 seconds after he meets him. I consider myself a film buff, I've loved film since I was a child, so, how is it possible I never heard of this movie before? I've been reading that the director, an odd ball himself, is quite an extraordinary man and I intend to listen to his DVD commentary. I've ordered my own copy this morning. I'll be waiting for it and that is another first for me. "},{"Title":"A Single Man","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After seeing A Single Man a film for which Colin Firth will, most likely, get his first and richly deserved Oscar nomination, I felt the urge to see Apartment Zero again. I remembered it as a film that opened my eyes to certain aspects of my own nature and thought/felt that Colin Firth was actually playing me. I hadn't seen the film since because that kind of experience is unrepeatable and I could never imagine that the experience could live up to my memory of it. Well,it did. More than that, I discovered so much more than I didn't remember or that, possibly, I didn't get at the time. Colin Firth's performance is infinite. Strange word to describe a performance but seems very apt to me now. He moves within his closeted universe like someone who knows every inch of it and therefore we become as familiar with it as he is. Frightening, sad and, at times, hysterically funny. A masterpiece. Now years later I can actually call it that. A masterpiece. A film that has revealed other layers with the passing of time. I'll be rooting for Colin Firth at the Oscars 2010 and I'll be thinking of his Adrian LeDuc. "}{"Title":"Colin Firth Forever","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Got the DVD yesterday. I hadn't seen it in years. I lived it very much like lived it the first time round. With my heart pounding. The horror is so personal, so civilized. Adrian (Colin Firth) lives his life like a man from another era. His white or pale blue shirts, his ties. His totally anonymous suits. It's difficult to know if that was a decision of his own...I would love a prequel - A teen age Adrian and his glamorous mom gallivanting all over Europe. Suddenly Last Summer anyone? That's how I imagine them. Adrian is clearly the victim of something catastrophic - He's devoid of personality, completely. And yet you notice that perhaps, with love, with real love, with carnal love and spiritual love he could develop into a truly fascinating man. This time, Colin Firth's performance went from glorious, as I remembered, to gloriously mind blowing. If I had to list the best performances I have ever seen, his would be among my top three. It is so strangely sexy and devastatingly sad to seen him become the foil for Jack's design. Adrian's desire is much more clear to us, the audience, than to him. I wanted them to kiss. I wanted Jack (a surprising and splendid Hart Bochner) to take him in his arms, to look into his eyes and tell him I love you I bet Adrian would have become something. I don't know what but something alive. The sexual tension is overwhelming and the cat and mouse game between them is so smartly constructed that the film is one of the most uncomfortable pleasures I've ever been through. No question about it, Apartment Zero is a 10. "},{"Title":"Revisiting Apartment Zero","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw Apartment Zero seven years ago on video. It scared me so much that I always remembered it as a film that really affected me but I wasn't in a hurry to see again. Now, I bought the DVD and kept it close to the set but didn't even unwrapped it until last night. I've seen it twice since. Once the full extraordinary movie and then with Martin Donovan's commentary. I'm cooking tonight and I've invited five friends who've never seen it, so I will show it to them and and I'll see it again in the process. Colin Firth plays a man that is aware he exists only because people react to him. You can sense his wish to be invisible. Movies are the only thing in his world that make sense and seem real. For circumstances I'm not going to reveal, he sees himself forced to sublet part of his apartment. His tenant (Hart Bochner) turns out to be as real to him as one of his film fantasies. Psychologically the film is one of the best, most intelligent thrillers I have ever seen. Closer to Polanski than to Hitchcock. Erotic without ever been explicit. I felt teased as if the filmmaker knew me personally and knew exactly what buttons to push. Colin Firth should have won an Oscar. His performance is not just flawless but magic. It gets under your skin and stays there. I recommend very highly Martin Donovan's commentary. It's just as unique as his movie. "},{"Title":"Perverse but deeply human","Date":"4 January 2010","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was a big surprise. I've heard about Apartment Zero over the years but I saw it only last night for the first time. I tempted to call it a masterpiece. The film has not left my mind for a minute and I have an inexplicable urge to see it again, now! Colin Firth, that probably will get an Oscar nomination this year for A Single Man should have had that recognition back in 1988 for this creation. He is absolutely incredible! His character got inside my system and stayed there. He plays a character without shadows. In a way he doesn't exist or if he does, he exists by proxy. He sees himself as a reflection from what he sees or thinks he sees. He talks about Montgomery Clift as if he was part of his family and in fact he is. Actors on the screen are the only people he can totally relate to and trust. I found myself laughing at the elegant bursts of humour but I must say that the laughter was nervous laughter. Psychologically the film is a marvel. Not a single false move and I can imagine that for many people the behavior was somehow illogical but, it is not, in fact I thing it's one of most accurate perverse behavior from someone profoundly human I have ever seen. Adrian could become an accomplice and go against what he believes only out of love. The realization, as I was watching the movie, made my hair stand on end. I don't think I had ever seen that before on the screen. So, better late than never. I hope, the director, writer, cast, composer and director photography can hear my applause. "},{"Title":"More Than A Thriller","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Adrian Leduc, an extraordinary and very young Colin Firth plays an Argentinean pretending to be British and, his performance is impeccable, surprising and ultimately, shattering. A man without identity but with needs and longings. I felt attracted to this man who, potentially, could be whatever he wanted to be. I imagine he doesn't know that. Nobody ever told him. He never had anybody, not even his mother, I don't think, that made him look at himself with any kind of love, without fear. What a performance! Colin Firth with an Oscar nomination last year for A Single Man and probably one this year for The King's Speech deserved one in 1989 for Apartment Zero His performance is layered so completely that the character becomes real, so real. Even if Adrian is an extreme human being in his apparent smallness, we all know someone like him. I grew to love him even if he,s certainly not asking for it, I don't think he knows he can ask for it or that he is allowed and entitled to be loved. What a performance! The film is built like a thriller but it's much more than that. I could call him an existencial, erotic, horror, romantic comedy "},{"Title":"An 80's Gem","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't remember when was the last time I saw it, a decade at least and then, a couple of days ago, two kids rented it and put it on on one of those super plasma deals. Wow! It captured me immediately. Colin First already then giving a performance that I don't quite understand why he didn't get an Oscar nomination. He is extraordinary! To my surprise Hart Bochner (Die Hard) holds his own in a sensational mano a mano with Firth. The film explores the interior of a guy without a real identity, who lives his life through film. That's the only thing he connects with. His portrayal of loneliness is devastating and yet Martin Donovan, the writer/director finds a cinematic and thoroughly entertaining way to tell the story. The humor is so sophisticated that I'm a bit surprised we haven't seen more of it in other films. I'm planning to see it again soon with the director's commentary. If you haven't seen it but love film. Don't waste another minute. Rent it, buy it or steal it. "},{"Title":"Naked","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Adrian Leduc is a loner one of those that seem to be the prototype for a serial killer. He is quite the opposite. Misunderstood even by himself. He doesn't have a clue about who he is. His rules are dictated by movies. I was transfixed because, as Martin Donovan repeats in his delightful and moving commentary I'm nothing like him, I kept saying the same to myself I'm nothing like him but I felt a link and recognized myself in him even if, I repeat, I'm nothing like him. I understood his unacknowledged loneliness and his wanting something, someone, without knowing that he does. Colin Firth, in a beautifully constructed performance strips naked the heart and soul of Adrian Leduc, layer by layer. It is strange to realize how seldom we see characters so truthfully portrayed. Apartment Zero is not a film I can say I like but I do love it. 15 years after I saw it for the first time, it seems more relevant today, even more clear. For film lovers this is a collector's item. "},{"Title":"One or two hundred idiosyncrasies","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie starts in the projection booth of an almost deserted movie theater in Argentina where Touch Of Evil is showing and ends outside the same theater,with a crowd leaving, but now the movie theater is a porno house. There is a palpable, visible change in Adrian LeDuc, the theater owner as well. This astonishing study on the horrors of sexual/political repression is given the shape of a thriller and the result is one of the most entertaining, unexpected, erotic cat and mouse stories I've ever seen. I thought I had everything figured out in two or three occasions and I was wrong every time. Martin Donovan, the director, tells the real story between the lines of a thriller, The real story is so private, so intimate, that it would be impossible to put into words. Everything said means something else or, means something more. We're allowed one or two...hundred idiosyncrasies... Adrian tells Jack to justify some of his weirdness. Perfect chemistry between a sensational an unrecognizable Colin Firth and Hart Bochner an actor I've only remembered in Die Hard. Here, he gives a performance of so many layers and faces that I don't quite get why he's not a major star. (I'm Netflixing everything I can find with him in it) The film spends a great deal of time with some of the supporting players, sometimes too much but mostly is a pleasure to abandon what we had embarked on and be distracted by a new story line that seems to take the movie into another direction completely to be pull back violently into the mainstream when you least expected. There is a strange sense of dread that runs through the entire film and it's that sense that keeps the whole movie together. My only advise try not to see it alone in your own apartment. 9/10 "},{"Title":"See You Too/ See You Two/ C U 2","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Martin Donovan unlocks the doors to 'Apartment Zero'. Set in Argentina, he introduces the viewer to the bizarre world of Adrian (Colin Firth), his neighbours and his new housemate, Jack (Hart Bochner). Leading an isolated life struggling with the deterioration of his mother's mental health and financial difficulties while finding some comfort in his revival theatre, Adrian's life is about to change after the arrival of Jack. Even the neighbours, who're otherwise meeting everyday in the downstairs hallway to gossip, take a liking to Jack. Little do they realize that he's too good to be true but the audience already knows there's something fishy.While the story sounds straightforward, there's plenty of awkwardness and twists going on and it just gets more bizarre as it nears the end. Donovan really manages to involve the viewer into this familiar yet strange unsettling world. I also liked how the director displays the homoerotic undertones without pinpointing the sexual identity of the two leads.The screenplay is exceptionally well written. The dialogues are dark, funny and poetic. One that I particularly remember is the conversation between Vanessa and Jack after she's harassed at the theatre. When Jack asks her why she lowers herself, she answers him saying that she's already low and that she feels safe in the darkness that exists in this low place (or something to that effect). Another sharp dialogue I remember is one mentioned by Adrian, 'If that is a mask please take it off now, or keep it on forever'.On the technical side, 'Apartment Zero' is pretty well crafted. The cinematography captures the mystery of the beauty of Argentina and the claustrophobic building of apartment zero. The score is very good and the lighting is first rate.Hart Bochner does a fine job as Jack. Jack's charm, that he uses to seduce people, is effectively displayed but it is his smile that reveals to the viewer that there's something fishy about this guy. Of the supporting cast, James Telfer stood out to me the most as the transvestite who's confident enough with her own identity but is consequently rejected by others. The most outstanding performance comes from Colin Firth. Playing Adrian couldn't have been easy but Firth's nuanced portrayal of this complex character comes across as very natural on screen. Whether it's Adrian's gait, the changes in his facial expressions, his line delivery or his spontaneous reaction, Firth does it effortlessly.'Apartment Zero' is an underrated classic. It's definitely recommended to those looking for something dark and twisted and different from the standard Hollywood fair. I'll certainly be paying this one a revisit. "},{"Title":"Creepy, original and very intense","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"38 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Creepy, original and very intense, Apartment Zero does not fall into any neat classification but is equal parts suspense thriller, political message film, psychological character study, and black comedy. Directed by Martin Donovan (real name Carlos Enrique Valera Y Peralta-Ramos) and shot in Buenos Aires, the film is set in 1980, five years after Argentinean death squads randomly murdered dissenters and political opponents. The story centers on two roommates, each unstable in different ways. One is Adrian LeDuc (Colin Firth), a passive and socially maladroit operator of Cine York, a local movie house that shows revivals to ever dwindling audiences. He runs an apartment building full of garrulous neighbors that include two spinsters, a bisexual gigolo, a transvestite, and a lonely housewife, all studiously avoided by Adrian.His mother is a mentally ill patient in the hospital whom he visits and converses with though she doesn't seem to know who he is and Adrian's neighbors suspect that the illness runs in his family. To make ends meet, he puts an ad in the newspaper looking for someone to share his flat. The roommate to be is Jack Carney (Hart Bochner), a charming, good-looking, leather-jacketed American businessman. Carney, who looks like a cross between Sylvester Stallone, Richard Gere, and Nicholas Cage, reveals nothing about his background but is ostensibly working for a computer company. Adrian is a movie buff and has a good mind for movie history but tends to be dismissive of those who have less knowledge. His apartment is filled with posters of movie actors (mostly gay) and he engages Jack in games about movie trivia.Both Firth and Bochner are outstanding, though both play types and their characters are explored only on a surface level. Their relationship has an undercurrent of unspoken sexual attraction and we sense that there may be many secrets bubbling beneath the surface of both men's lives. To make matters even stranger, a serial killer is on the loose as we see the daily newspapers headline a climbing body count &#150; apparently victims of political assassination. Jack, however, reaches out to the other tenants in the building (in more ways than one).On one occasion, Jack climbs a long shaky ladder to rescue a black cat, hypnotizing it with his eyes. Although he shows a side of himself that is caring and sympathetic, it only makes Adrian more resentful. When he discovers a set of strange army photos in Jack's bedroom, he begins to suspect that his roommate may somehow be tied in with the report of killings by foreign mercenaries and he is pushed closer to the edge. Apartment Zero is a heady trip that will take you to the dark recesses of your mind. No violence is shown, nor any overt sexual scenes. The power of the film comes from what is implied and that is enough to keep us riveted from the beginning to its chilling conclusion. "},{"Title":"The biggest surprise of 2010","Date":"3 December 2010","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Of all the films I've seen this year (I'm writing this review in December 2010) A 20 plus year old movie has been the biggest surprise. First because I consider myself someone who's seen everything and although I had heard the title I never actually got to see it, until last night. Second because in a most unexpected way the film deals with themes that must have appeared way ahead of its time in 1988. The language of the film is consistent, never lets go. The central character Adrian, played magnificently by Colin Firth - also ahead of his time - lives his life where the only points of reference are movies. That's why some people called it derivative Well, duh...the character doesn't have anything else, that's why the tone of the movie changes according to his state of mind and his state of mind grows darker and darker. We can spot flashes of romantic comedies, thrillers, horror. From Truffaut to Bunuel to Polanski to Hitchcock. The gallery of characters also come, not just from different countries but from different schools of acting and thought. Douglas Sirk, Jean Pierre Melville and back to Polanski and Hitchcock. I was enthralled from beginning to end. "}{"Title":"Colin Firth Channeling Geraldine Page","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It has a slow start but the atmosphere drags you in and before you know it, you're in. I felt trapped I couldn't walk away. Fascinating in a way that was totally new to me and at the same time it felt disturbingly familiar. It seems that it's only financial reasons that forces Colin Firth to rent a room in his apartment but underneath there is something else, something deeply personal. He doesn't seem comfortable in his own skin. He is at ease (if you can call it that)only with the things he knows intimately but there is very little he knows intimately and what he does know, doesn't really exist. Am I confusing you? Good. That's part of the pleasure. Certain things about the film I don't know if they are part of the filmmaker's master plan or it's just me. Two opposites colliding out of need. What about that? None of the two are aware of that need, discovering it together but from entirely different angles. Colin Firth is amazing, amazing! And Hart Bochner? Who knew? Fantastic in a performance so complex and seductive that I wonder why we haven't seen more of him on the screen. There is a very funny moment in which Colin Firth confesses to Hart Bochner, that he can't talk to one of his neighbors because he doesn't know who Geraldine Page is After I stopped laughing I realized that Colin Firth's character is very similar to Geraldine Page's Alma in Summer and Smoke. Awkward, old fashioned, sexually repressed but with cravings battling inside her. Hart Bochner's character could be linked to Laurence Harvey's in the same movie. It may just be my imagination but that thought made me see and live Apartment Zero under a different light. I'm not going to say that the film is perfect. Too long at times for its own good but Apartment Zero will do things to you that very few other films have done to me. After seeing it, it stayed with me obsessively. Images came to distract me during my ordinary day. I want to see it again and I will, the only difference will be I won't see it again on my own. For some reason there is something terrifying about the film. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Who Are You?","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can't quite shake this movie out of my mind, maybe because Adrian LeDuc is a mystery not only to us but to himself, but he doesn't question it, we do. He lives a life of denial in a sort of cocoon that protects him from reality. Colin Firth plays Adrian LeDuc in a performance of such perfection that the character becomes as real as someone I've known for a long time. When reality becomes too overwhelming to ignore - financial difficulties in this case - Adrian sees himself forced to open, somehow, his hermetic universe and invite a stranger into his house. A paying guest. It is hilarious to see him interviewing his potential tenants because he knows he will never ever be able to share his space with another human being. That's why the entrance of Jack, a magnetic and unexpected Hart Bochner, is so brilliant. The scene is constructed like a movie within the movie and movies are, perhaps, the only thing Adrian trusts and understands. The moment is one my favorite film sequences of all time. For a moment we step out of the reality of the moment and step into Adrian's mind. He sees what he wants to see in the way he wants to see it and the music builds and for a split second, we're him. We understand his need much more clearly than he does. Colin Firth doesn't play his character for sympathy, Adrian is a character difficult to like but we end up loving him because his longing is the most basic of all human longings love, affection, companionship. Not once that fact is stated in the film and yet is there permeating every intention. This became crystal clear as I watched the film last night, for the first time in many years, there is an enormously human element that protects Adrian for being what he appears. He is a victim of some emotional disaster. We don't know what but it's there. If you look into Colin's eyes as he attempts a smile, you can see the child hoping to be rescued. It seems I'll keep finding new things in this 20 year old independent movie. I don't know why, it's a mystery and I for one, love mysteries. "},{"Title":"A 23 year old gem","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It was 23 years ago when I saw Apartment Zero for the first time. It terrified me then and it fascinated me. It also made me want to be an actor. That long before I discovered I didn't have any talent for it, but, it made me love movies. That intimacy that can be created between two characters is something I long for in a movie. Difficult to find now with all this loud super productions with things at its center instead of people. Last night I saw again Apartment Zero after so many years and it hasn't left my mind for a minute. What's with this movie? It gets under your skin and hints a something, something so private that it's even difficult to discuss it with people without revealing something about yourself. Colin Firth, now an Academy Award winner, was, then, already a sensational actor. His performance is so fastidiously detailed that I found new things this time. His longing is visible as well as his discomfort. Hart Bochner is terrific as a sort of chameleon becoming what his neighbor or victim needs him to be. A strange parallel because he doesn't seem to have a defined personality of his own. He's just anybody or everybody and nobody at the same time. The rest of the cast is an incredible collection of characters. Loved Fabrizio Bentivoglio as the neighbor with an emotional skeleton in his closet or the British spinsters out of an early Hitchcock film. I have never written a film review but I felt like talking about Apartment Zero and here I am, talking. Thank you for listening. "},{"Title":"Apartment Zero","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film has more layers than I can delve into. And I like that. Let's take the name. Adrian LeDuc (played by Colin Firth) lives in Apartment 10, but the 1 fell off the door and was never replaced. Adrian has lived in the apartment for years with his mother, but she's suffering from a degenerative mental disease and is now institutionalized. Is Adrian emasculated? Gay? Is the loss of the 1 meaningful? Does the 0 represent gender as well as zero?Adrian runs an art film theater. At the night we drop in, his audience consists of two elderly women. Adrian is very well-dressed in a suit, his popcorn seller is there, and so is the projectionist. So staff outnumbers audience. Adrian decides to rent out his mother's room in the apartment since it seems she's not coming home.Adrian compares himself to Felix Ungar, and he's correct. He rejects every one of the prospective tenants, and then Jack Carney (Hart Bochner) shows up in a t-shirt and black leather jacket, standing propitiously by the framed black and white photograph of James Dean. Or maybe it was Montgomery Clift. I can't be sure. Director Martin Donovan's intent is certain, even if I can't remember which androgynous, dead star it was.Adrian is quite taken by Jack, and they agree that Jack can rent the room. Adrian does Jack's laundry, cooks his breakfast, frets over his comings and goings much more than Felix ever did for Oscar Madison. With Adrian's mother in a mental institution and Jack in her room while Adrian presides, I'm reminded of Psycho more than The Odd Couple.And things spiral out of poor Adrian's control despite his best efforts. Come to think of it, I'm reminded of Polansky's The Tenant, too. I saw the DVD of the Director's Cut, which has omitted some scenes from the theatrical release. In the version I saw, the sexual tension between Adrian and Jack is electric without ever making contact. Bochner is stellar in this role. Carney is a relentless manipulator using every means at his disposal, even his sexual ambiguity. And the layers. The film is set in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and the year is 1988. Buenos Aires is seething with anger over the disappeared. The junta ruled from 1976 through 1983, ending with the failed war over the Falkland Islands or Malvinas in 1982. Although Adrian is a native born Argentinean, he lived for 16 years in England and affects a British accent and refuses to speak Spanish. His choice is both bizarre and alienating. When he hails a cab to follow Jack for some paranoid reasons, he tells the cab driver to follow that man. The cab driver asks if it is political, and Jack refuses to say, repeating his order to follow him. The driver, assuming Adrian is British, refuses and begins shouting Malvinas! Malvinas! until Adrian abandons the cab and follows on foot.Adrian hates the tenants in the building, but Jake manipulates them all, and we may get a picture of Argentina based on his manipulations. The tenant Vanessa is a transvestite. Jack saves her from a beating by a straight man she tries to pick up. Vanessa confesses to Jack that she is a night person. In the night, she has been told, she is lovely. In the night, no one can tell she is a man. She has us fooled in the dark. The scene ends before any resolution between Jack and Vanessa. Argentina, too, may be lovely in the night, when no one can tell what she is.The tenant Laura is married to a man frequently away on business. Jack meets her in the hall and follows her into her apartment where she unburdens herself to him. He tells her to tell him everything, as if he were her father. She does. The scene ends as the strap of her dress falls from her shoulder and Jack caresses her. If only Argentina had a leader she could lean on, confess to, give herself to.There is no sex and no violence on the screen, but the movie is full of both. Jack seduces women and men as the need arises. The problem for Jack is that he ends up needing Adrian as much as Adrian needs him - a problem unforeseen and never encountered before. As the relationship between Adrian and Jack plays out, I was mesmerized by the cinematography. Tight shots of Jack's face partially obscured by the closer but out of focus Adrian. Close ups of Adrian's face with butterfly lighting, overexposed just enough to wash out some of the colors of his face. Both actors' faces are whole novels in themselves.It appears finally that Jack may have been an American mercenary, running a camp where Argentines disappeared. He seems to be on the run. He understands completely how to manipulate Adrian. But Adrian's naivete and willing complicity in the game seems to win Jack over. The end of the movie contains violent deaths, all taking place before we come into the room and see the results. And at the end the final layer is to decide which is Jack and which is Adrian.This was a foreign film for purposes of the Academy Awards, and neither Firth nor Bochner was nominated for Best Actor, though both deserved the award. If you saw The English Patient, Firth played the cuckolded husband of Katharine Clifton (Kristin Scott Thomas) to Count Laszlo de Almasy (Ralph Fiennes). He's also been in the Blackadder series, the Bridget Jones movies, Shakespeare in Love, and the Pride and Prejudice series. He's remarkably good in Apartment Zero.Hart Bochner was the sleazy Harry Ellis in Die Hard (Hey babe, I negotiate million dollar deals for breakfast. I think I can handle this Eurotrash.). He's excellent in Apartment Zero. "},{"Title":"Totally engrossing","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"31 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  How can one be so charming and likeable and then be a killer. The homo erotic love that slowly developed between film buff and hired killer (never truly consummated) was real and each realized it but too late. The evil one knew he was doomed. Better death than destruction of the only person who really mattered. I thought the protagonists played their parts to perfection. The ending is disturbing. But the plot though contrived does make sense. I have seen this film twice. Now when I see a charming and smiling face, I wonder What's behind all that? Makes you think twice. We all can be fooled by manipulative satanic individuals. I give this one an 8 or a 9. "},{"Title":"squirmy psycho thriller","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"28 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this at the Seattle Film fest in '89 and thought it was quite cool. The casting of Colin Firth was a coup for the filmmakers; he projects the squirmiest sense of psychosis since Anthony Perkins. There are a series of escalating creepy scenes between Firth and his crazy mother. Yikes! The gay subtext between Colin Firth's character and Hart Bochner's is nicely played by both actors. I liked the fact that the film wasn't shot or set in the United States. This is a hard film to classify. Is it a serial killer thriller? sort of. Is it a psycho film like Repulsion or The Tenant? Sort of. It has a lot of layers to it and that is something i liked about Apartment Zero. Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A fastidious, neurotic Argentine repertory cinema owner takes in a likeable roommate who quickly becomes the friend from hell.","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Colin Firth stars in the role of a fastidious, neurotic owner of a theater for repertory cinema in Buenos Aires.  Firth is also the landlord of a small apartment building that houses a variety of eccentric characters including himself. Loner Firth -- in a move out of character -- decides to take in a carefree, amiable American roommate (Hart Bochner).  Firth and Bochner become good friends; however, Firth eventually uncovers too many discrepancies in Bochner's explanations of his whereabouts and occupation. This quirky, unusual psychodrama is full of social and sexual satire that leads to a startling conclusion.  Note the movie game that Firth plays with Bochner in which one must guess the movie title given the names of three well-known actors who had minor roles in the film at question.  Apartment Zero is a small, independent film with such quirky characters and adult situations that it could not be recommended for the whole family; however, it is a must-see for those who often yearn for a departure from the mainstream.  "},{"Title":"Highly original psycho-drama","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"27 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found myself grinning several times as I viewed Apartment Zero - not  because the movie is a feel-good romp - on the contrary.  The grin was  there because I had no idea what to expect and that ain't usual for this  movie queen.  The anti-social, anal-retentive film buff at the center of  the story has his well-ordered life thrown off-kilter by a new boarder.   This is not a movie for lovers of lighter fare like Curly Sue and  Crocodile Dundee, but it's a reward for those who like to be surprised.   "},{"Title":"A classic thriller with all the right moves","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"25 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a highly seductive fim. Its wily, insidious charms will causeyou to watch it relentlessly and may even result in a mild psychosis.Colin Firth and Hart Bochner are a great pair of opposites that mirrorother great duelling pairings - the most recent example beingPitt/Norton in Fight Club. But this film is classical - its got all thegreat thriller traits in place and some surprises as well. Its a filmabout a lonely film-obsessed enigma named Adrian who remains aloof fromthe other nosey apartment neighbours. All this changes when he takes ona flatmate who becomes a challenging and eye-opening friend but one witha dark side and secrets. If you love Hitchcock or Polanski "},{"Title":"Suspenseful and Satisfying","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I feel bad about giving this excellent film only eight stars but I have reasons that make sense at least to me.The film went on for too long with perhaps two too many plot surprises near the end. The rhythm faltered and things cleared up a little too explicitly. What made the film so enticing was its marvelous ambiguity.The acting is wonderful all around and the violin music is absolutely wonderful. Because the film layers on the suspense, things build up in a great crescendo. This is where the rhythm stumbles near the finish - it actually trips a few times. I'm ashamed I'm not familiar with many people on the crew, including the director, but now I have his name in my repertoire and look forward to more excellent entertainment from all of them.Curtis Stotlar "}{"Title":"A metaphor for civilian complicity with the Dirty War","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is an extended metaphor, and needs to be viewed a second time with this in mind.  Why did so many civilians, in different walks of life, avert their eyes to go along with the death squads and the Dirty War?  Why did they come to accept U.S. involvement to keep South American dictatorships in power?  Sexual attraction, seduction and betrayal are what sustain both the metaphor and this disturbing movie.   "},{"Title":"21St Century Schizoid Man","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" APARTMENT ZERO (dir. Martin Donovan) A superb example of Expressionist Film Noir which exemplifies the work of Roman Polanski, David Cronenberg, Alfred Hitchock, and even, Joe Orton. Colin Firth plays a repressed owner of a failing revival theater who lives in a creepy, yet stately rooming house. He rents a room to a charming American, and this man proves to be a secret government provocateur who has perversely changed into a serial killer. The shocking climax reveals a twisted tale of deceit, perversion and murder. The film is set in the faded glory of late 80's Buenos Aires, Argentina, and includes two commentary tracks. One features the writer/producer, David Koepp speaking with Steven Soderbergh. This discussion of the film, and Independent cinema in general, is not to be missed! "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film was actually set at the same time I first visited Buenos Aires. A friend of mine who grew up there actually knows where that movie theatre is. She is of Anglo-Argentine descent. Since then I have been back to B.A. several times. One time I actually tried to model Jack's seductive persona, and did rather well with the ladies that summer *ha ha*. At one point I knew the whole dialogue verbatim. I once showed it to my father, who was from Northern Germany. He got quite a kick out of the old British ladies' mannerisms. I have not seen in recent years. Perhaps it is time for a viewing... I see new things in it each time. "},{"Title":"Psychos in love","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  APARTMENT ZERO is one of those rare movies that has to be seen more than once in order to really appreciate it.Once you know what's in store for the main characters, the film suddenly looks and feels different and it basically becomes a love story of sorts between two demented men. Colin and Hart are perfectly cast in their individual roles. Colin, the neurotic, lonely and lost Brit. And Hart, the dangerous mercenary, who looks tough on the outside but is a total wreck on the inside. The scenes between the two men are priceless. One moment you're cringing in embarrassment, the other you're wondering what's really going on.The direction is good but not great. The pacing is very slow and this kind of story needed a more energetic feel to it in order for the surprise ending to have a really good punch to it. The story is unfocused and it wobbles here and there for mo apparent reason. The film clearly needed tighter direction and more time spent on the quirky relationship between Colin and Hart. The other characters are almost inconsequential.All in all, APARTMENT ZERO is worth watching for those who love dramas with a bizarre twist to it. "},{"Title":"A couple of great double acts!","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"21 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Colin Firth and Hart Bochner are both outstanding in this psychological thriller filmed in Argentina. Firth is the uptight and desperately lonely cinema buff who takes in Bochner as a flat mate mainly because of his (imagined) likeness to James Dean. Both men get a lot more than they bargained for when Firth begins to have a breakdown when he discovers that Bochner is not who he says he is. There are endless cameos in the film, some good, some bad, but Dora Bryan and Liz Smith are hugely entertaining as a pair of daffy sisters living in the same apartment block. The movie doesn't quite hang together toward the end and seems to lose it's pace somewhat as it wanders ever deeper into macabre territory. Well worth seeing though, especially for the two leads - when Firth starts twitching and Bochner starts smouldering - you'll be hooked!  "},{"Title":"excellent study in behavior","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ''Apartment Zero'' is a interesting study in how crippled a person can become and how desperate the person can become thru isolation or exposure to extreme violence .Hart Bochner is very good as Jack the mercenary/serial killer type who rents a room from Colin Firth , a man completely out of touch with his feelings and how they drive him .That these type of executioners function in third world countries may be shocking to western audiences , but dictatorships all have such squads .Firth's character may have remained a odd type forever , but his desperation allows him to accept any type of behavior and even join in , as long as he's a part of something .The ending was rather surprising , but it did fit .All in all worth seeing . "},{"Title":"Plesantly unsettling..","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When struggling Buenos Aires art house owner Adrian (Colin Firth), is forced to take in a border, yuppie business man Jack Carney (Hart Bochner) agrees to share living quarters and expenses.That Jack is more than he seems at face, and that Adrian is even wierder than one might imagine gives this psychological study in character the foundation it needs to succeed. The film has a very eerie tone, unlike films made currently in the US, and  is fraught throughout with political and sexual overtones left for the viewer's interpretation. Think La Ceremonie with male leads and an Argentinean backdrop, or better yet, Neil Simon's The Odd Couple twisted like a pretzel in this early David Koepp (Jurassic Park, Carlito's Way) script.Challenging viewing not for all tastes, a movie for repertory film, about repertory film, I like it immensely.  "},{"Title":"A Near Unknown Masterpiece","Date":"26 July 2014","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this film in the 1990s and have no recollection of the format. Given the history of the rights to this film (a story in and of itself), I'm surprised that I stumbled across it anywhere then. I never forgot it though, and whenever the subject of obscure art cinema films came up I would always say that it was 'my favorite' and ask if anyone else had ever seen it. Surprisingly, even those who were studying film in college and knew Colin Firth's canon well had not.The latest DVD release is priceless for the addition of an original 6 minutes which were cut following the Sundance 1989 and Seattle Film Festival showings and the commentaries from director Martin Donovan and writer/producer David Koepp. Koepp's commentary is especially intriguing because it's presented as a wildly informative and entertaining discussion of independent film making--then and now--with A list director Steven Soderbergh (who'd premiered Sex, Lies, and Videotapes at the same Sundance Festival). As far as I can tell, Soderbergh had nothing to do with Apartment Zero's development, production, or distribution . . . but his insights are priceless. I watched this DVD with my 19 year old film student son, and he found Koepp's and Soderbergh's discussion more informative than any class he's had to date.I won't try to reiterate the comments of other reviewers on this site-- particularly with respect to Firth's excellent performance--but I have to say something about Hart Bochner.Bochner certainly was an inspired casting choice. Every time I've watched this movie, I'm left wondering why he didn't end up somewhere in the first tier of 90's lead male role authors. I can't remember seeing him in anything else, and was surprised to find that he appeared in the first Die Hard playing that lech that is trying to move in on Bruce Willis' wife in the early corporate party scene. As far as I can tell, he did some television work and directed a couple of not exactly memorable films (PCU?). Bochner's character's introduction in the movie is at Firth's doorway, a set shot that has Bochner framed in identical clothing and pose as James Dean in a black and white immediately to his right. A challenging comparison that actually seems to favor Bochner. The camera definitely favors him throughout the film, which would seem to have made him an obvious choice for future studio productions involving male action characters. Did he turn them all down?Apparently he and Colin Firth have remained very close friends to this day. Anyone have any idea why he didn't rise to the Cruise/Pitt/Clooney level? "},{"Title":"Illogical but fascinating","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"24 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" 'Apartment Zero' caused big ripples in the U.S. film industry when it appeared in 1988 at the Sundance Festival. It's an intriguing story but seems to lose its course about halfway through. It's basically a political thriller with excellent characters who, in the end, are wasted as a result of confusing psychology. It would have made more sense for Jack, the gorgeous Hart Bochner, to have become Adrian's (Colin Firth) lover and therefore provided himself with an excellent cover for his covert operations in Buenos Aires, where the film is set. Jack goes off and sleeps with another man (perhaps several) but chooses to lead poor Adrian, who is in love with him, a merry and sad dance that eventually drives him into madness. Such as it is 'Apartment Zero' is a creepy film and succeeds in creating a dangerous atmosphere that keeps the viewer's attention riveted on what will happen next.Colin Firth is superb, one of his best performances of many on the screen. He is very likable and sympathetic and one roots for him in his attempts to get into Jack's pants. The scenes between Adrian and his insane mother are shattering. There is a particularly disturbing scene while he visits her in the asylum that remains glued to the memory banks. She obsessively applies lipstick while he tries to explain to her about his new room-mate. She is too far-gone to know what he is saying, let alone know WHO he is. It's deeply moving and upsetting for those of us who've had a parent become demented.The characters in the apartment building are vivid and funny, and also mind-bending in a Fellini-esque way. Liz Smith is monumentally off-the-wall funny as the drunken ex- patriot living with her equally bonkers sister, both lost in their past memories of the way it was.The ending is shocking and works up to a point. The role reversal implied in the last scene works, surprisingly, and I think a real master of suspense, like Hitchcock, might have also been brave enough to attempt it. Kudos for Donovon for having the courage to do it.It's a sad movie but worth looking at for the wonderful shots of Buenos Aires and the flesh and blood characters that are so easily brought to life by an excellent cast. The music is wonderful and Adrian's apartment (Zero) is a fascinating setting.Not a great film but very good none-the-less. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I rented this movie from the local library without knowing anything about it. It was in the horror section and I wanted to watch a good horror movie. Never heard of Hart Bochner --- it was Colin Firth's name that got my attention. I came home and watched it the next evening. What a treat! Since then I have watched it three times and ordered it from Amazon and now writing this review, my first-time ever, just to give this movie the 10 it so truly deserves. I understand why Apartment Zero can be mistaken as a horror movie, and I am grateful that it was in my case, but to me it is a lyrical political thriller with a very strong focus on identity, love and loss; it is also funny as hell. It is a story of two men at its core who are both spiraling out of control for different reasons. Hart Bochner plays the dizzyingly attractive professional assassin Jack operating in Argentina --- a government mercenary who turns out to be the much-feared serial killer in town. He becomes a dream and a nightmare roommate for Colin Firth's reclusive Adrian who avoids all human contact other than his demented and dying mother and a female colleague who has a passion for politics. Just the idea that Jack is real and not one of those movie stars whose pictures are hanging on his wall changes Adrian totally, it could have been all perfect if it wasn't for his collapsing mind and the violent trail of Jack's past and his real identity. There is a scene in the movie where Jack says to Adrian that he will be what Adrian wants him to be --- there is sudden shift with the camera angle and we have an amazing half close-ups of each actor, a scene which is both playful and chilling. In the end Adrian wants Jack dead, there is no stopping it. So, Jack lets him. Amazing movie. There is even a cat rescue scene! Recommended to everyone who loves cinema. Need to add I googled Hart Bochner after this movie and am depressed to see him in movies like Die Hard because he is a damn sex-god in Apartment 23, the hypnotic master of seduction. Very sad and grotesque ending because the movie is about momentum and a great potential which is all gone forever. A thriller, a love story --- it could also be totally viewed as a political metaphor from the last century, I guess. You can make your own judgement about it. "}{"Title":"Colin Firth creates a First","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've never seen a character like Colin Firth's Adrian in any movie, before or since. It reminded me however of some people I know, including me. Colin Firth gives him life without trying to win friends. He is so tightly screwed that there's no room for anything in his life other than old movies, the kind that let you escape to, sometimes, darker pastures. Touch Of Evil is playing at his deserted revival theater in Buenos Aires when the film opens. We see Colin's face watching and the voice of Marlene Dietrich He was some kind of a man. I had seen Apartment Zero many years ago and I remembered the impact, I went home and couldn't fall asleep. The faces of Colin Firth and Hart Bochner keeping me awake. I never saw the film again until last night. I remembered entire sequences, music and faces. It was strange to see it again after a lifetime of personal experiences. I laughed out loud, I wept, I was terrified. My only qualm was the length. I got impatient sometimes waiting for those moments that I knew, were about to come. Now I own it and I know I'll come back to it again and again. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Hart Bochner moves in on Colin Firth","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Set in Buenos Aires, Adrian LeDuc is a lonely sociopath, forced to rent his insane mother's room to Jack Carney. Carney appears normal at first, but as their friendship develops, Adrian suspects that Jack may be the government mercenary turned serial killer who has been terrorizing the city. The shocking climax of this tale of deceit, perversion, and murder reveals the darker side of the human psyche, according to the DVD presentation of The Original Theatrical Version (restoring trims).An influential film (to those who've seen it), Apartment Zero is well worth knocking up.Director Martin Donovan, with assistance from David Koepp, create an Odd Couple in desperate need of psychiatric care. Reclusive and closeted Colin Firth (as Adrian) is fixated on both his ailing mother, and Hollywood movie stars, like Montgomery Clift. Financially strapped, Mr. Firth decides to rent a room in his apartment to sexy and mysterious Hart Bochner (as Jack). For two hours, the tension between the two men mounts, and you're never really sure who is going to come out on top.******* Apartment Zero (9/30/88) Martin Donovan ~ Colin Firth, Hart Bochner, Fabrizio Bentivoglio, Mirella D'Angelo "},{"Title":"A satisfying, multi-layered thriller for adult film buffs.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Here's a striking black comedy featuring a couple of paranoid roommates in Argentina with ambivalent personalities and latent desires.  Peppered with some political undertones (unnecessary but not without interest), it's slick, edgy and ambiguous and features a host of comical and sleazy supporting characters to add momentum.  Co-written by David Koepp, it has the same sleazy quality that made his work on BAD INFLUENCE so good. The fine location photography, terrific (scherzo) music score (by Elia Cmiral), competent direction (by Martin Dononvan) and performances all complement this sophisticated picture very nicely.  Discriminating movie lovers should definitely check this one out!  "},{"Title":"It's better to live alone","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent film dealing with one man's obsessive loneliness. He wants to remain apart but can't seem to do so completely. Taking on a room mate worked out pretty well until his feminine side broke through and he started getting to curious about his new partner who turns out to have a very unsettling past. 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Mr. Darcy, How Could You!","Date":"10 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A claustrophobic, anxious environment that is the setting for this film. Adrian, the resident of Apartment Zero, has created within that space a controlled, sanitized existence into which the outside world cannot penetrate. He purposefully avoids intimacy of any kind, preferring to absorb himself in a celluloid reality of male screen idols (Montgomery Clift, James Dean) and classic American movies. The outside world begins to close in on Adrian after his institutionalized mother dies and the necessity of having a cash-flow forces him to rent one of the rooms in his flat. The prospect of a suitable flat mate is grim until Jack walks into the room. As Adrian puts it, Jack possesses a certain James Dean je ne sais quoi. Jack turns out to be a chameleon of a man, who is also a quick study of human weakness and insecurity. In a short time, Jack has Adrian, along with the other lonely residences in the apartment complex, dependent upon his affections.While the film itself feels a bit dated after more than twenty years, and it takes its own sweet time to explore its possibilities and eventually assume its inevitable direction, there is much to relish along the way. There's no real need for a cross-dresser in the story, for instance, but the film would be diminished without him. Since 1988, we've seen Colin Firth emerge as a kind of coolly aloof and vaguely mournful romantic hero in just about anything he does, but here he is cast as a young man with what feels like the early onset of dementia, which certainly makes for a change. Meanwhile, the weirdness of his handsome and self-absorbed apartment-mate (Hart Bochner) gives an edge to their relationship that compels a kind of helpless fascination, always defying predictability.Overall rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"In Buenos Aires, Colin Firth takes in boarder Hart Bochner","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"12 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Apartment Zero (1988) is quite a nice neo-noir. It's on the strange side because the characters are offbeat, but that's not a criticism. That gives the story a unique flavor.The plot or setup takes us into a period when there had been death squads operating who employed foreign mercenaries. Colin Firth plays an insecure momma's boy who runs a theater that shows classic Hollywood films. He lives in this film world, avoids his neighbors, and is devoted to his mentally-unstable mother who is institutionalized. He takes in an American roomer, Hart Bochner, to share his spacious apartment (apartment zero). The other tenants in the building include a frustrated young wife who longs for her father, a transvestite who wants to be accepted as beautiful, and two gossipy old ladies. Bochner ingratiates himself with everyone. Firth's latent homosexuality is reflected in how he caters to Bochner and becomes jealous of his attentions to others. Bochner's bisexuality surfaces. Firth is curious about his background and work.Without explicit sex scenes, the film carefully develops its characters, their longings and their sexual natures. This is a strong focal point of the picture. Firth and Bochner need each other, but each also needs to be who they already are, and that divides them. As each comes under pressure, the results are far from ordinary. "},{"Title":"The Tenants","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"10 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Set in Buenos Aires in 1988, Apartment Zero tells the tale of Adrian DeLuc (Colin Firth), a paranoid, alienating Englishman obsessed with movies (he even runs a lowly-attended film club), and whose mother is in the latter stages of crippling dementia. Enter Jack Carney (Hart Bochner), an ingratiating, dark, and handsome stranger whom Adrian takes in as a roommate. That Adrian is neurotic and timid (he purposely avoids his nosy neighbors) and Jack is charming and helpful (impressing said neighbors by rescuing a cat on a ledge) foments an atmosphere of unease that deliberately unravels over the course of the film. Some may find Apartment Zero comparable to the works of Hitchcock, but for my tastes, it's more in step with Roman Polanski's masterpiece, The Tenant (1976)--the character of DeLuc plays very similarly to Trelkovsky (Polanski), but the addition of a political and implied homosexual subtext very much makes this a film of the times. Director Martin Donovan and co-writer David Koepp keep Apartment Zero moving along at a rapid clip, and for the most part, adhere to the less is more mentality that lends classical thrillers their impact by avoiding explicit violence, the character-study elements at work become that much bolder. While Apartment Zero is a fine thriller, I found the requisite Nosy Neighbors an unnecessary drag on the narrative--their presence mostly serving the more mechanical turns of the plot (i.e.--Jack's mingling leads to their further distrust of Adrian) and delivering comic relief that has been done to death in other films of this type. "},{"Title":"two-thirds of a compelling film","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"12 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If Neil Simon had collaborated with David Lynch when writing 'The Odd Couple' the result might have been something very similar to this morbid satire, in which a fussy, repressed film buff living in Buenos Aires invites into his home a mysterious, handsome new roommate who possesses the uncanny ability to be all things to all people. His dirty secret isn't difficult to guess (there's a good reason why the film is set in Argentina), but director/co-writer Martin Donovan builds a claustrophobic mood of menace and paranoia before allowing the delicate balance of ambiguity to collapse in the last act, when the elusive plot devolves into just another violent psychodrama. It might be argued that the entire movie is little more than a pointless flirtation, but the initial set-up, so perverse and intriguing, is almost worth the frustration of the final reel. "},{"Title":"Cinematic Suicide","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film begins full of promise. One indeed expects a character study of obsession and the unraveling of a suppressed  personality. It brings in an unrelated political subplot which remains undeveloped, shifts focus, and ultimately leads to a grand-guignol ending. Just when the movie advances enough it goes off the wall and commits cinematic suicide. It is still worth watching for some good scenes, Colin Firth's performance, and, yes, the finale. Taken as a whole, though, it disappoints. "},{"Title":"Concentration camp means not concentration of camp","Date":"27 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Thriller? Psychological? So many layers? Great performances? Amazing film? I blink in amazement. Although I should make that list in reverse order - but actually I am a bit mad myself! and you know why? For watching this unbelievable mess of a movie, as one of the less than few sane reviewers warns.Even if taken as camp the film is a disaster ludicrous, lewd, of a badness not to be believed references to Hitchcock, Polanski, and what you will, but without any talent at all! Or purpose. At all! Bad, hyperbolic angles, a scenario probably written in two days, expression that passes, on the same face (but one cannot be terribly sure, it may be another's), from the thriller cookbook to the camp grin in less than a second, and then more bad angles.Even if the director-screenwriter wanted to play in Argento's territory, sorry but Argento has a touch that can't be assimilated, even if one is a fan, or not.I think the majority of the reviewers were practically joking, paying homage to what they saw, which is I would say excitingly laudable, to imitate what you love so much, that you begin acting like it. "}{"Title":"Zero Effect","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"10 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** Senseless film that gets more confusing as it moves along to it's ending that instead of giving the audience some clarity and logic to what it saw up to then it muddles the story even more. Apartment Zero should have aptly been named Roommates from Hell with the movie centering around two oddballs playing all kinds of crazy games with each other. The first Adrian, Colin Firth, an Englishman living with his mother in Buenos Aires and second Jack, Hart Bochner, an American working for some communication firm in the Argentine capital. Adrian and Jack are so different to each other in their interests and relationships as well as their conception of right and wrong as Mother Theresa is to Atilla the Hun.Adrian runs a movie theater and rooming house and the theater seems to be losing money but you never see him have any financial troubles running it during the entire film. You get the impression that Adrian is independently wealthy and just does that, the running of the theater at least, as a hobby. As we soon find out Adrian is a very big movie buff especially in those black & white movies of the 1930's 40's and 50's. With Adrian's dying mother sent to a nursing home he put up her apartment for rent and one of the people looking to rent it is a good-looking charming and what seems like a very nice person Jack who's from the USA working in Buenos Aires. Struck by Jack's charm and good-looks as well as wanting to have someone to take his mothers place, as someone to talk and confide to his most intimate feelings, Adrian not only takes Jack in but, to Jack's complete surprise, offers to cook breakfast for him every morning and even do his laundry for no extra charge. The movie goes on for over a half hour giving you the impression that Adrian and Jack were gay lovers with Jack using and playing around with Adrian's nerves by needling him about going out with girls and getting drunk. On one occasion Jack even leaves him, only to have Adrian beg him to come back, just to see how far he can go to break Adrian down emotionally. I think that Adrian just wanted someone to fill the void that his mother, who later died, left in his life and there was nothing sexual at all in Adrian's longing for Jack's company even though Jack seemed to mistake Adrian's feeling for him and think that he was madly in love with him.Then just when you think that you finally got what was going on in the movie the truth comes out about Jack and it's all bad news. A friend of Adrian's Claudia, Fransesca d'Aloja, asks him if she could use his theater, and Adrian lets her, for a political forum about a series of murders and kidnappings in Argentina that they, in the forum, feel is connected to the government using death squads to stamp out political opposition. Looking at a number of films and photos on the screen we see Jack involved in these atrocities and it turns out that Jack is not Jack but an American mercenary named Michael Weller who was reported killed some time ago in Argentina. Instead of concentrating in on this story the movie go back to it's confusing narrative with Jack and Adrian living and acting like the odd couple and later when it had Jack trying to leave the country his passport was found to be invalid. We then see Jack casually pick up some male hustler, at the airport, and murder him in his hotel room in order to steal his identity and leave Argentina as well as Adrian.Jack then goes back back to Adrian's apartment where he finds Claudia looking for him, that's Adrian not Jack, only to murder her even though she didn't at all recognize him at all as the very dangerous Michael Weller, paid America killer, and thus trowing more attention on himself then there already was! which was none at all since Jack was reported to be dead and no one was looking for him in the first place. The ending of the movie Apartment Zero was somewhat like the ending of the movie Psycho, with Adrian acting and looking almost unrecognizable but unlike the Hitchcock horror classic this ending made absolutely no sense at! Your left wondering when it was all over if you just saw a very bad movie or woke up from an strange but horrific drug or alcohol induced nightmare! "},{"Title":"grotesque and slow paced","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Pretentious, very boring movie, at times even grotesque. It gives you a few thrills but it is sooo slow paced! All with improbable characters and dialogues. Also the ending is disappointing. I guess it could be an excellent cure for insomnia.  "},{"Title":"Not recommended","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"8 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I deeply regret wasting an evening watching this piece of... It takes forever to get started, and when you finally find out what's going on, the movie is over, and doesn't even leave you satisfied that you managed to stay with it. The plot is virtually non-existing, and what little is there, isn't very credible. The only reason I didn't give this movie the lowest rating, is because at least some of the actors actually manage to deliver a worthwhile performance, in particular the lead and a couple of the other inhabitants in the building. Watch something else! "},{"Title":"A laughable mess of a movie","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"14 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's surprising how critically acclaimed this mess of a movie actually was. Maybe Colin Firth added some class to the proceedings, but this movie is a laughable farce. It never quite finds a focus, meandering from black comedy to psychological thriller, with less-than-subtle references to much better films, such as Polanski's The Tenant, and Hitchcock's Psycho (look for the mother character) and The Trouble with Harry. The directing is horrible, with unmotivated character blocking and camera-work (i.e. panning back and forth from one character to the other multiple times during the same take). The plot never goes anywhere, and when the characters are fully revealed to the audience, no-one really cares. The attempts at black comedy border on offensive, contrasting the film's serious moments. The performances are outright vile, with Hart Bochner playing the over-the-top homosexual villain. It's no wonder his career went nowhere. Ultimately, I put the blame on Uber-hack David Koepp, who co-wrote and co-produced this disaster. Pass over this one at the video store. I actually studied this film as an example of bad film-making in a university film course. "},{"Title":"What drugs were they on?","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" What drugs was the writer on? What drugs was the director on? What drugs were the actors on, to have accepted such pathetic roles? And most of all, what drugs were the majority of reviewers on this site on, claiming that it's a masterpiece and a must-watch? I can accept the fact that the director/writer would've wanted to make an art for art's sake movie; hundreds of such are made each year and thankfully all manage to slip unnoticed into the abyss, never to be heard of. But how could anyone say they actually enjoyed watching it, unless they're either tripping in a parallel universe or are utterly incapable of making judgements for themselves (and therefore rely on the misguidedness of others to steer their decisions)? I found this movie ridiculously tedious to watch. One-dimensional characters with no development whatsoever throughout the movie, a (very) barely existent, completely transparent (and uninteresting) plot, and an apparent aversion to depicting anything relevant (whilst spending much time documenting the utterly irrelevant).I've managed to sit through many a bad movie in my time, no matter how much I disliked it. But this movie was so utterly unbearable that I had to break it up into four partial viewings, for fear I'd stab myself in the eyes if I watched for more than half an hour in a single stint.If you ever have the misfortune to stumble across this cr*p, I'd suggest you do yourself a favour and jump immediately to the closing credits. "},{"Title":"Apt. #0-People #2","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"19 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There is an Apt. complex in Argentina, all the inhabitants are aware of   each other, and everything is calm...until HE arrives. Colin Firth is   leading this cast in predictably twisted independent film about lies   and deceit, maybe even a little romance, depending on how you look at   it. Bochner plays his Hart out as the dark stranger we all know to be   the opposite of who he says. The two strike up a friendship beyond what   we know as two normal guys hitting the town. Soon, questions arise,   things begin to happen, and secrets are revealed! Yes, this one makes a   mess in the last hour, going through all the normal kinks of a suspense   genre. Firth and Bochner have great chemistry, and some of the   story-telling isn't half bad, but the flick goes for such a raunchy   ending, you can't really digest the final moment. Strangely enough,   this little indie has a cult following about 15 years after its   release. A pre-Fight Club, Apartment Zero is an attention getter, but   nothing more beyond that... "},{"Title":"A zero rating for this piece of c**p.","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"8 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably one of the most godawful films ever made.  I mean, it's got everything bad acting, a non-sensical plot, lack of direction, etc.  At no point does this movie get any better.  Hart Bochner, whose only memorable part was in the film Supergirl, is better off doing his voiceover roles for the Batman animated series.  You'd think a bad film like this could at least have camp value! "},{"Title":"Bloody awful!!!","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"9 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Made absolutely no sense whatsoever and the acting was just abominable, particularly Hart Bochner.  I couldn't believe a movie this bad could be made.   "}]