[{"Title":"British film-making at its best.","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"101 out of 112 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Camden, 1969. Two unemployed actors, Withnail (Richard E Grant), and I (Paul McGann), are facing up to the reality of an empty wine cellar and a harsh comedown following a speed binge. Squalid living conditions and the prospect of life on the poverty line leads 'I' (otherwise known as Marwood), to suggest a rejuvenating break in the Lake District. After Withnail manages to persuade his bizarre uncle, Monty (Richard Griffiths) to part with the keys of his dilapidated cottage, the take the Jag north for a taste of country life.Adapting to such an alien environment is an initial challenge to the highly strung Withnail; his predicament is significantly worsened following an altercation with poacher Jake (Michael Elphick). Meanwhile, Marwood is forced to concentrate his attentions to fending off the advances of the lecherous Monty, who has inconveniently come to stay.Following an awkward evening, the pair hurriedly return to London and, after a run-in with the Metropolitan Police, return to find Danny (Ralph Brown) has made himself at home. Drugged rodents fill the oven while Presuming Ed fills the bath and Marwood is rescued from the mire - it seems he will crack the boards after all. Congratulations, Withnail says emptily, as he begins to contemplate life without his straight man. Bruce Robinson deserves high praise for creating a rich, debauched world of weird thumbs, phenodihydrochloride benelex, old suits, uncontaminated urine and the Camberwell carrot. WIth a the tightest of budgets, he brings the late 1960's to life. The script is incredibly witty and eminently quotable. Both Mary Selway (casting director) and Bruce Robinson succeeded in bringing dialogue to life with an impeccable choice of actors. Richard E Grant has never come close to his performance as Withnail - his drunken performances are remarkable. Richard Griffiths is as camp as a hat as the overbearing, exuberant Monty, and Ralph Brown is frequently hilarious as the dangerous but lovable Danny.This is a film that will never be tarnished by age, and neither is it limited by repeat viewings. It is a very accessible film, despite its largely English humour, and 'Withnail' remains one of the best films about friendship. Certainly a one off, 'Withnail' is a must see film that will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"A Journey back to the 60s with George Harrison","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"87 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Withnail and I is set in an old, run down student flat in London's Camden Town at the end of the 1960's. Withnail and I are a couple of unemployed actors from different ends of the social spectrum.Withnail is a Harrow educated dilettante, and rather upper crust; his flatmate Marwood is a grammar school boy with a slightly more realistic outlook on life. To escape from the squalor of their grim, unemployed, existence in Camden Town, soaked in a near lethal cocktail of alcohol and drugs, the desperate pair call upon the generosity of Withnail's uncle Montague and secure the use of his cottage in the country for a weekend.Uncle Monty is an eccentric middle-aged homosexual, who prefers vegetables to flowers. He considers that 'flowers are essentially tarts - prostitutes for the bees', and wears a radish in his buttonhole in preference to a flower. He grows vegetables in pots in his Chelsea house, and makes suggestive references to 'firm young carrots'.Withnail (excellently played by Richard E. Grant), persuades Uncle Monty (a superb Richard Griffiths) to lend Marwood (a convincing Paul McGann) and him his cottage in the country for the weekend.Their exploits at the cottage, and in Penrith where they spend their Wellington boot money on booze and try to sober up in a gentile tearoom are memorable, witty and entertaining. The incongruous uncle Monty reciting Baudelaire in the Cumbrian hills, seeking carnal knowledge of Marwood (apparently coerced by the cowardly and treacherous Withnail), are testament to the writing skills and humour of author and director, Bruce Robinson.The film's soundtrack brings us 'A Whiter Shade of Pale', played by King Curtis on the Saxophone, 'My Friend' and 'Walk hand in Hand', performed by Charlie Kunz, 'Schubert's Piano Sonata in B Flat Major' performed by Leslie Pearson, 'All Along the Watchtower' and 'Voodoo Chile', by Jimi Hendrix, 'Hang Out the Stars in Indiana', performed by Al Bowlly, and 'While My Guitar Gently Weeps', by the late lamented George Harrison, who provided much of the financial backing for this memorable film.This is a thoroughly entertaining 108 minutes of humorous entertainment, a few too many drinks, a convincing 60's atmosphere, superb performances from the excellent cast, and music to make your heart, and your guitar, gently weep. Thank you, George Harrison.  "},{"Title":"Who says a comedy can't be intelligent, sad AND laugh out loud FUNNY?","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"81 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first time I watched 'Withnail and I' in the late 80s I thought it was pretty good, but that's about it. Over the years, and a few more viewings, it really started to grow on me, and recently rewatching it on DVD for the first time I was struck at how brilliant and unique it is. It's a very subtle film really, and most comedy is admittedly a matter of taste, but if this movie clicks with you you'll most likely end up putting it in amongst your all time favourites. To me it's one of the greatest comedies ever. It's intelligent and sad and genuinely laugh out loud FUNNY, something you rarely see these days. The movie is episodic and seems to ramble on, but it's much more than a shaggy dog story, there's an underlying depth and melancholy to it that makes it something special. Richard E. Grant has never been better than this. Playing Withnail and writing his wonderful autobiography cement his place in film history as far as I'm concerned. Paul McGann is also excellent, and there are lovely performances from Richard Griffiths, Michael Elphick and Ralph Brown. EVERYONE is good in 'Withnail' but it's still Grant's movie all the way. He is just utterly brilliant! 'Withnail and I' is one of THE great British movies, and comes with my highest recommendation. "},{"Title":"Not just a cult classic...a classic - period.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"59 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have a film poster of Withnail & I that has such critical quotes as Hilarious! and Gloriously funny! and I can't say I totally agree. Don't get me wrong...I loved this film and it remains one of my favorites of all time, I just think these quotes sell the movie as some kind of Monty Python romp...and it's much more than that.  I did laugh throughout, but I was also touched and found it quite sad (in a very entertaining way.)  I would like to think that this is what Bruce Robinson intended...to make a dramedy...not just a silly romp.  Though perhaps a bit slow for some, I thought the pace was remarkable, the acting superb.  I have also heard people say that they found the plot lacking...but I argue that sometimes it's just nice to sit back and get swept away by a good character study.  Interesting and thought provoking, sometimes referred to as a cult classic, I say it's just a classic - period.  Oh...and great soundtrack.  The closing music always gives me goosebumps. "},{"Title":"Classic dialogue makes for a hilarious film","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"60 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the late 1960'sm Withnail and our narrator are two unemployed actors who have little chance of being employed.  Fed up with their lot in Camden, they flee for a restful break in Penrith in the cottage of Withnail's Uncle Monty.  However the facilities, the oddball locals and the advances of Monty put their friendship under pressure.There is very little I can add to the many reviews that have rightly praised this film as one of the funniest British films ever.  The basic plot is not enough to keep you watching and you should not come to this film looking for an amazing narrative - I have watched this several times and never once has it mattered where the film was going, only how it goes there.  The joy of the film is a script that is rich in highly memorable and quotable dialogue that will make you laugh out loud.  It is crass to let this become a list of lines but if you stood up in certain circles and declared `I demand booze' or `I want something's flesh' then it would immediately be recognised!Of course, the dialogue would not work if it were delivered badly, a problem that does not exist here.  Grant is, and always will be, Withnail; no matter how many stupid adverts he does for shops this is how I will remember him. His delivery is tremendous and he brings the character to life in a spinning fireball of comedic excess!  McGann has the less showy part but is equally as good and has to make his character real in order to hold the film together.  Support roles are just as well scripted and just as funny - notably Griffiths (you terrible c*nt!) and the late Michael Elphick.Overall this is simply one of the best British comedies ever made and it breaks my heart to see voter's lists where things like Four Weddings top it! The delivery is great and the writing is consistently outrageous and hilarious.  The only downside of this film is  that director/writer Robinson has never topped this wonderful movie and looks like he never will. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Brit Comedy","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"47 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Strange to believe that WITHNAIL AND I , a film that is regarded as today one of the best British comedies ever made flopped spectacularly on its initial release in 1987 and maybe it's not too easy to see why . In the late 1980s the British film industry was in an absolute mire and the very phrase itself  British film  made a homegrown audience roll its eyes and think of art-house crap directed by Derek Jarman or Peter Greenaway . Any British film no matter the genre or how good it was always got tarred with the same brush in those days . Years later actor Ralph Brown ( Danny ) was asked  Why is it a good film ?  to which he replied  Because there's no crap bits in it  which simplifying the truth . WITHNAIL AND I is a very rare type of British comedy since it has been developed to its utmost potential . All too often British comedies of the last 20 years feel like they've been rush released before the script has been used to its full potential but not with this comedy classic because nearly every scene couldn't possibly be any funnier . Everyone has their favourite scene like the one in the Irish bar or the tea room or the one with bull but for me the stand out scene has got to be the urine sample down at the police station . It's also interesting to note that it's a movie without any female characters and feels both homo-erotic and laddish at the same time . It also carries an emotional and poignant impact at the end , something all of us can relate to when our best friend finds a new best friend and we become quickly forgotten All the cast are excellent but Richard E Grant is nothing short of superb and it's probably his performance as much as Bruce Robinson's smart script . You could argue that because Withnail is a camp , self centered , mincing thespian Grant is playing an extension of himself and while this may be true he's certainly enjoyable to watch here . Ironically enough I'd have thought he'd be brilliant as the title character in DOCTOR WHO but it was co-star Paul McGann who got the role in the 1996 American TVM and what a major disappointment he was . As it stands both actors will probably be best remembered for their cracking roles in this movie "},{"Title":"Perennial Favourite","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"47 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Pretty superfluous to add to the praise of Withnail & I. If Oscars mattered particularly and, further, went to those deserving, surely Richard Griffiths (Uncle Monty) would receive one for his high camp, yet credible and deeply touching turn. That's the key - it's all too credible, 'cos we've done it. As an essay on the final shedding of a strange inverted innocence for the corruption of 'normal' life with its compromises, self-discipline and grind, unsurpassed, I believe. Likewise for its appreciation of the deep platonic love that can spring up between young men in the trenches of poverty and booze. Everything pitch perfect from the herniating slapstick to the pathos, from the soundtrack to the props, from the rain to the booze and all the way from Withnail... to I. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"49 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" By far the greatest film ever made!!! Truly shows what can be done with just brilliant writing. There are no car chases, explosions, aliens or superheros. This film touches the nerves of anyone that's ever struggled for something that seemed unobtainable. That naive part of youth that makes us feel invincible. The time of your life when you don't mind going without. The time of your life where your greatest memories will come from. The freedom and irresponsibility of being young. Before settling down and having to be a responsible adult and taking the kids to school. I love this movie, it reminds of a time when all I needed was a beer... "},{"Title":"Role of a lifetime","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"39 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Richard E Grant is simply perfect as Withnail, the addled but undoubtedly well-equipped actor on holiday with his pal, the I in the title. His soliloquy from Hamlet in the final scene is one of the best readings of that scene anyone's done in film. This is a film with a point, and a great way of avoiding making it too emphatically. I love every character, and every line. When Withnail frantically searches for antifreeze after drinking lighter fluid in a crazed attempt to become drunk, I says, Everyone knows you shouldn't mix your drink!  Superb! "},{"Title":"my absolute and utter favourite film","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a film! The one-liners, the names (Monty, Withnail...where else would you find such spectacular names?!) True it does not have much of a plot but what it lacks in plot it makes up for in sheer brilliance of dialogue and wit. I had never heard of this film and then suddenly out of the blue  the people i babysat for told me about it, my friend Sarah began raving about it and then the ultimate shove towards watching it, my sister brought the video home! Now if that is not fate i don't know what is. I will be forever grateful. Richard E. Grant is the epitome of the brilliant character actor(i would put his performance on a level such as Daniel Day Lewis, a fete not known by any other actor in my book)finding an exquisite foil in McGann. Watch this film and if you do not find it in the least bit interesting then so be it you are condemned to be boring forever. But if you do not even crack a smile at the infamous line GET IN THE BACK OF THE VAN!! then i would worry for your future in the art of film watching. "}{"Title":"More than a comedy","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film may now have become the property of students, but that fact should not allow us to stop looking at this film as being anything other than a true classic of British cinema. It is perhaps one of the most quotable films I have ever come across and one could say that it is this fact that has made the film a `cult movie'. The truth of course is, that this film is far more than just endlessly quotable lines; it is far too fine a film to be herded into the cult category. This said, it is the outrageously amusing lines that punctuate this film and the sharpness of the comedy that can survive endless re-watchings, but I prefer to think of it as something more than just a comedy. This is a very personal story to director Bruce Robinson, a fact that comes off very clearly by his outstanding direction. Robinson lived the life of 'Withnail and I' himself in the late 60's and Paul McCann's character being referred to as `I' is no coincidence, Robinson's friend Vivien (who unfortunately died) being the real life Withnail. When you have a film that is so close to the director as this, it always clearly shows. This film is about friendship, it's about loss and it's about what to do when you are out of work actors in the final months of the 1960's. There has been such said about the homosexual references in this film, im sure many believing that Withnail and I have some kind of repressed desire for each other. I certainly do not go along with this theory; it seems to me that they have a repressed friendship, which is finally and movingly realised when Marwood (I) leaves Withnail at the end of the film. This is of course a tragic ending, or more fittingly, the character of Withnail is a tragic figure, who, despite our better hopes, we all know will not cope on his own. Despite what would seem an unhappy ending, it has a kind of raw emotion to it. What we are seeing is not a man about to fall apart, we are seeing a man finally realising his true and brilliant potential as an actor with a searing performance from Hamlet. Only upon watching the film a second time and hearing Uncle Monty announce `it is most shattering experience of a young mans life when he awakes and quite reasonably says to himself 'I will never play the Dane', when that moment comes, one's ambition ceases' that you realise the epic nature of Withnail's ending speech. The real beauty of this film is that you can look at it as deeply as you like, or you can look at it as a film about a couple of alcoholics going on a drinking spree to the countryside. Either way, you can't help but look at it as a truly magnificent piece of work that really deserves to be recognised as more than a `cult comedy'. "},{"Title":"A Faultless Work Of Art","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Withnail & I is in a class of it's own. I know of no other film whose entire script is quoted ad infinitum by those addicted to the fabulous language. There are no jokes as such, just one memorable line after another. We all have our favourites and you can find many of them on the message boards. But it is the delivery that makes this stuff work so well. The ensemble cast work a particular kind of magic together that is sheer perfection. The characters come to life in such a vivid fashion that you really know these people. Richard E Grant gives an outstanding performance as Withnail, this is the sort of performance that should be rewarded with an oscar, not the kind of rubbish that the Academy usually praise. Paul McGann is the straight man that provides the anchor to the whole film. Richard Griffiths' Uncle Monty is just so brilliantly portrayed. His wonderful lines delivered with perfection. Such moments as as a boy I used to weep in butchers shops and flowers are essentially tarts, prostitutes for the bees will live forever. In amongst all of this hilarity is an underlying feeling of elegaic regret and despair for lives that have never quite reached their expectations, hopes that have been frequently dashed. As Danny says, they have failed to paint it black. The final scene in Regents Park is almost too much to bear, as Marwood leaves Withnail quoting Hamlet to the caged wolves in the zoo. You realise that it's not funny anymore.A new era dawns for Withnail and us.   "},{"Title":"I was underwhelmed by this film the first time I saw it.","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The first time I saw this film I was expecting the finest of British comedy. I was left pretty disappointed by it. I was about 12 at the time.A few years later (I was about 15) I watched this film again and absolutely loved it. Since then, I have considered this film to be my favourite film of all time (I'm 26 now).This is said to be one of the most quotable films of all time - and it really is! I couldn't even start to say which is my favourite one! Whenever I recommend this film to people, I always say that it might not blow you away first time round. But once you've watched it and given it a second chance - you realise the sheer genius in this film.Richard E Grant is the most convincing alcoholic ever - and the actor himself is allergic to alcohol and so never touches the stuff.Paul McGann is one of my favourite actors, and he is the perfect on screen contrast to Withnail's neurotic ramblings.This film is much more than a film about booze, drugs, and unwanted gay advances - above all it is a film about friendship.I can't recommend this film enough. "},{"Title":"There is no other movie....","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There is no other movie that I have seen where almost every line of the screenplay is memorable. This is a beautifully crafted script and many of the lines in the film will live with you forever. But of course, it is the way the words are spoken that makes them so memorable, and this is where Marwood and Withnail take you through a journey of almost impeccable desperation, confusion, anxiety, freedom and ultimately love, loss and redemption. It's in this field of complex and beautifully woven emotion that all the aspects of the film become greater than the sum of it's parts. To hear Withnail quoting Hamlet in the rain at the end of the film is one of the most underrated moments of modern cinematic history-it's stunning.If you've ever spent time in London, been naughty and been caught in a period of uncomfortable and chaotic transition this is a film that will capture you. This film is about 'youth, beauty and decay' as Uncle Monty would say. "},{"Title":"Smashing Comic Surrealism","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Being a student at Public School, I am well aware of Withnail and I's cult status and I had some idea of the sort of lines that were I was about to be exposed to, particularly as they had been constantly quoted to me ever since I arrived at Public School. But nothing had prepared me for what was to follow.London, 1969. Two out of work actors, Withnail and the anonymous I decide to escape the grot of their flat and the growing tea bags of their sink for a week at their Uncle Monty's cottage in Yorkshire. However when they arrive there they realise that they've gone on holiday by mistake and that, not only did they have hardly any food or fuel, but that they have attacked a local whom they believe to be homicidal. What follows is drug, drink and insanity fuelled romp through the country and back to London.Bruce Robinson's script is brilliant. Filled with fantastic comic set pieces and superb lines, this script has so many quotable pieces that the audience is left rolling in the aisles and yet wonderfully touched by the ending. The characters are wonderfully constructed but it is the performances that give them and the film a fantastically sharp edge. Richard E. Grant is joyous to watch and unforgettable as the eponymous Withnail. His performance is made even more astounding when you consider that he is teetotal. To weigh against this surreal drunk is the down to earth, but similarly inebriated, I, played superbly well by Paul McGann. His sensitive performance is glorious to watch. Richard Griffiths is also strong in support of the two leads as the raving homosexual Uncle Monty. The film is also supported by fantastic music, notably Jimi Hendrix's version of All Along the Watchtower.Brilliantly funny and superbly well acted, Withnail and I is a deserving cult classic that will stand the test of time. "},{"Title":"Cannot please all of the people all of the time!!","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fulsome praise is indeed warranted for this funny/sad/touching/anarchic jaunt into the English (small e) countryside. i cannot add much more than all the comments here, and i HAVE read them all. suffice to say that the negative comments are somewhat surprising? the irony is that country folk are usually depicted as fish out of water when visiting the 'Big City' and it is far more amusing watching a neurotic and alcoholic out of their depth in the countryside. i am a big fan of Nicolas Cage, but cannot for the life of me see how his performance in Leaving las Vegas warrants an Oscar above Richard E Grant's sublime performance. truly one of the greatest character performances of all time. A shame this is not appreciated more globally, but i am sure there is many a film from other countries i am sadly missing out on. i could list many films i enjoy that people MUST see, it is testament to the scriptwriting, acting & sheer roller coaster ride from sad to ridiculous that this would probably be the ONE MOVIE i would recommend to any person not familiar with the British film industry. GO BUY IT OR RENT IT. You will not be disappointed. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Absolute masterpiece","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is a masterpiece. A MASTERPIECE. There is not a single line out of place, every word is perfectly crafted and integral to the film. Richard E Grant is stunning in his role (Withnail), it is not surprising that it earned him so many more. Equally perfect is Paul McGann (I), whose connection with Grant is captivating. Both are extremely talented and diverse actors who are amply deserving of Richard Griffith's excellent performance (as always) as the raving homosexual Monty. I have never seen a film that has delighted me so much in its every single aspect as this does. Bruce Robinson is a pure genius whose work cannot be enough extolled. 'Withnail & I' should be shown to every single drama student and revered as is Shakespeare for it is no less poignant, subtle and hilarious - in fact far more hilarious! I repeat... A MASTERPIECE! "},{"Title":"We've gone on holiday - by mistake.","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Withnail & I (Bruce Robinson, 1987) has one of the great scripts, with skies that are beginning to bruise, a landlord who was coming over all bald and a pair of heroes who are drifting into the arena of the unwell. Paul McGann is I (the script calls him Marwood), a mild-mannered actor who decamps to the country for the weekend with boozing, carousing flatmate Withnail (Richard E. Grant) - an eternally inebriated bull artist and wannabe thespian - and the unwelcome Uncle Monty (Richard Griffiths). There they battle against supposed starvation, fear grown of disorientation and alcohol, and the advances of predatory homosexual Monty, who has his eye on I.The plotting is virtually non-existent, but the dialogue is sensational and Grant's theatrics as the gaunt, wild-eyed Withnail are the stuff of legend - culminating in a heartbreaking spot of Hamlet in the pouring rain. McGann, in his more restrained part, is also superb, while Griffiths oscillates between being affectingly vulnerable and hilariously irritating and weird with admirable regularity. Though there are moments of conventionality that jar with the brilliance frequently dripping from Robinson's pen - including some fish out of water stuff that could have come straight from The Egg & I - and Ralph Brown is a bit one-note (and a bit much) as a frazzled drug dealer, there isn't a half-minute that passes without some moment of borderline genius or a disarmingly hysterical joke. Though superficially dealing with excess and the foreign nation that is the English countryside, Withnail & I is really a film about self-destruction, self-delusion and friendship, as one young man heads for the big-time and another for the alcoholics' ward. As a comedy, it's virtually matchless - as a tale of lost dreams, heartbreaking.Trivia notes Robinson boiled down three years' of experiences in a shared flat in London to a narrative spanning two weeks. Withnail is based on Vivian MacKerrell, a friend who talked about how he was the best at everything, but never did anything - in Robinson's words. Uncle Monty was famously inspired by the writer-director's experience of working for Italian filmmaker Franco Zeffirelli, who supposedly pursued the boyish Robinson after casting him in Romeo and Juliet. The line Are you a sponge or a stone?, is apparently ripped from that encounter. "},{"Title":"the greatest british film ever? course it is !!!","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A difficult film for me to remain calmly objective about and avoid hyperbolic hagiolatry for I am one of those classic sad cases who go through life forever quoting from this particular gem the first opportunity they get. Having said that I'll have a go. 'Withnail and I' is for all intents and purposes the archetypal stoned, student slacker movie (made years before that term became vogueish) and is the tale of two out of work actors who spend their days in a dishevelled flat consuming copious quantities of alcohol and amphetamines.  One day they drive off into the country to'rejuvenate', and that's about it really. It's simplicity is it's beauty however and the almost episodic nature of the film only heightens the pleasure and the overall impression one is left with is of a series of beautifully crafted sketches neatly woven together into a thoroughly satisfying whole. Grant is superb and has quite simply never done anything to surpass his role here and both Paul McGann and Richard Griffiths give stirling performances but it is Grant's film really and as he staggers shambolically from one paranoid drunken rant to the next he seems to eclipse everything else on the screen. Whether it is roaring profanities at gay uncles Monty, you terrible C**t! or hurling salacious abuse at teenage schoolgirls Scrubbers!, he is gloriously monstrous and lovable all at the same time. Having said that though the real star of the film is Bruce Robinson's script which throws any traditional plot conventions out of the window in favour of a charming (oh so very English) tale of a fading, outlived friendship set against the backdrop of a fading, outlived decade. It is a truly unique achievement filled with eccentricity, surreality and just a dash of pathos with Robinson's restrained direction leaving the dialogue and the flawless performances (honourable mention should go to Ralph Brown and Michael Elphick) to carry the film which they do effortlessly. The greatest British film ever?  There's a few close contenders (Black Narcissus, Scum, Trainspotting to name but a few)but for my money there isn't even a debate.  Course it is! "},{"Title":"I stayed with it and kept waiting for it to get better.","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"19 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I went into viewing this film with the utmost optimism that it would be just as funny and deserving of its high rating on this site as one would expect.I wanted to like it, and boy did I try to find something redeeming.The acting was good, and I'm sure many people could relate to living in a nasty apartment and being broke, but that's about it. However, when a film is this unglamorous and unattractive, there had better be a compelling story and dialogue to back it up. There ain't. It just didn't work for me.Maybe it's because I'm not British (though there are several British comedies I love), or maybe the frame of mind I was in wasn't right. But it's not my responsibility to find a reason to like this film if there's none to be found. I know others like it, and Tracey Ullmann when introducing it on TCM said that it had her weeping with laughter, but I suspect I won't be the only viewer on whom this films possible charms are lost. (Maybe that's why Ullmann's show never found a U.S. audience if this is her taste.) Well, Withnail fans, I tried. At least give me credit for not turning this off and deleting it from my DVR--as the person with whom I was watching wanted me to. I gave this film every chance, and it gave me nothing back. Two half chuckles at the most, but not one laugh. Sorry. "}{"Title":"Booze, drugs, friendship and existentialism","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is my all time favorite movie. I saw it 5 times as a teenager at the local movie theater, when it was first shown. I just purchased it on DVD, and saw it again. It is as fresh now as it was then.What gets me every time is the performance of Richard E. Grant, or Withnail. It is the most harrowing and sad portrait of a young man/actor going to the dogs, despite intelligence and wit. He is more self destructive than any other movie character that I can think of. All the characters are very odd, but still seem so human and plausible.Despite their common misery, you can't help but laugh, because the story of Withnail and I is so beautifully told, and presented with such great self irony. I adore this movie, and always will. "},{"Title":"Utterly great.","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'd heard this film mentioned a few times, but surprisingly I hadn't heard about just how good it was. I saw it for the first time on TV last week. I sat up to watch it and as the credits rolled I immediately found myself wanting to watch it again. Two days later I bought the DVD and I've watched it four times in one week - partly because I've been looking for distractions from studying for exams, but mainly because it's endlessly entertaining. It really is a gem, one of my favourite films now.The script excellent. There is a perfect balance between hilarity and pathos. It's darkly funny; however, some scenes are just dark without being funny and are merely engaging. All the actors are very good but of course I can't review this without commending Richard E Grant's amazing turn as Withnail. He manages to make a belligerent, selfish drunk come across as lovable. I read that Grant is in real life a tee-totaller. Simply a great performance, no doubt about it.In a nutshell, it is a film about life, friendship, love (I'm sure there is love), dependency, and above all, I think, being wasted - and by that I mean both excess of alcohol and the waste of talent like Withnail's. That powerful closing scene is brilliant and saddening. I've started spreading the word about this film since nobody I know has heard of it and already I've made my brother and one friend love it too. I just wish I'd watched it before now, because it seems to get better with each viewing. "},{"Title":"Three viewings over two decades. I still don't get it.","Date":"23 July 2011","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't get it.I didn't get it 15 years ago when I first saw it.Didn't get it 5 years ago when I revisited to see if my 'missing the point' was due to previous immaturity.And I don't get it now.Withnail and I is the tale of two out of work, down on their luck, constantly searching for a cheap and quick high actors who live in squalid conditions and manage to cadge a free 'holiday' in the country out of Withnail's well to do Uncle Monty.As I see it (and I may be wrong) the entertainment comes from their awkward interaction with a society that doesn't understand their eccentricities, and the fact that wealthy Uncle Monty is flamboyantly gay and is constantly trying to pork the non-relative of the duo.Withnail is overly dramatic about everything, most frequently the lack of fine alcohol or drugs and an absence of creature comforts. He is in a constant state of displeasure and discontentment, and seems to be eternally coming down from something, meaning he teeters on the verge of either total collapse or vicious attack. This leads to his constant search for a new fleeting high from something, anything, and verbal lamentations when this chemical or alcoholic relief is not immediately forthcoming.I can see how much of his dialogue is perceived as being 'quotable', but can't fathom the pleasure or amusement that one might derive from hearing it again and again, or worse from repeating these well-worn phrases and statements.And 'I' is never named. He exists around Withnail, though trails about in his wake is perhaps more apt. When Withnail scores &#x96; be it drugs, grog or food &#x96; he is there. When Withnail collapses he cautiously tries to take charge&#x85; at least until Withnail storms back.I mean as I see it that's about it. I can hardly think of a single scene that remains with me aside from the afore-mentioned male on male possible rape scene &#x96; and rest assured that was because of me seeing the discomfort rather than the humour - and while Withnail is indeed a whirlwind and a genuine presence (Richard E Grant in his debut and defining role) he doesn't say anything of sufficient magnitude or wit to stick to my ribs.To me Withnail and I is a two hour exercise in waiting, waiting for either entertainment or something memorable to arrive. I've waited three times now, it isn't coming&#x85; Final Rating &#x96; 5 / 10. After three viewings over two decades I still don't get what others so obviously do. I'm afraid now I never will. "},{"Title":"Deservedly a cult classic (spoilers)","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I hate students.  It's a shame, really, because I am one, but I hate them anyway.  I hate the mass-thinking system they use, where they all do and say and think the same things, while all thinking they're unique.  They all get drunk, they all have posters of Che Guevara on their walls, they all love Withnail and I.  That really put me off, but I'm happy I finally saw past my studentphobia and watched it, because it's a great, great movie with a depth that escapes most comedies.Richard E Grant gives a stunning performance as Withnail, making the most convincing drunk I've ever seen on screen.  Nicolas Cage won the Oscar for Leaving Las Vegas; Grant should have won two.  Comedy is often overlooked, but he is hilarious and manages to walk the line between being pompous and pathetic.  Withnail is one of the strongest and most memorable characters in movie history.  That may sound like an exaggeration, but when you think about it there really aren't many great characters.  There are great movies and great actors and great lines, but not many stand-out characters.  Withnail is one of the few.Richard E Grant is at the centre of the movie, and the few scenes without him are by far the least interesting.  But he is not the only great thing in this great film.  Bruce Robinson's script is unique and relentlessly funny.  There are so many quotable lines it's easy to understand why it has become a cult classic, although it would spoil too much to give them away here.  See it for yourself and hear them fresh, in context.The soundtrack is another high, with classic sixties songs played throughout to emphasise the period.  With George Harrison as executive producer, `While My Guitar Gently Weeps' stands out a mile, but it's one of his best songs so I'll let him off.The ending is suddenly sad, and while it might horrify the students who think they're the first people in the history of mankind to smoke dope, it has something of an anti-drugs message.  Until the last scene we assume Withnail is an out-of-work actor because he is a bad actor, but we come to realise that he is a great talent, and that alcohol and whatever else is in his bloodstream has robbed him of it.  Like Trainspotting, it is not so much against drugs as against addiction, seeing that it steals talent and takes over people's lives until they have nothing but the habit.  It is this scene that turned Withnail and I from a good comedy to a great movie.  Do your best to ignore its reputation and enjoy it for yourself. "},{"Title":"Funny, Sad, Uplifting and depressing classic British film.","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Withnail and I is one of those films thats gets better and better with each viewing, until you rather sadly find yourself quoting from it in your everyday life, especially the pub! The screenplay is brilliant and the acting is superb. Richard E Grant has never bettered his debut appearance, he is excellent as Withnail and god knows how he ended up doing those incredibly annoying adverts on TV. Paul McGann the one time Dr Who is every bit as good and Richard Griffiths is hilarious as Uncle Monty. Ralph Brown nearly steals the show as the drug dealer though! This film has so many great lines its no wonder it has such a cult following similar to the Monty Python films. The ending is rather sad though didn't see that coming. Great use of some classic Jimmi Hendrix songs too. Its like Heartbeat on drugs! "},{"Title":"Loved by many for a good reason.","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When Withnail and I was first released it passed off without too much publicity but over the years it has gained cult status , especialy from the student population and you can see why. Richard E Grant and Paul McCann are brilliant as a pair of out of work actors who live a drug and drink hazed exsistance while waiting for their next dole cheque to fall on the door step. Grant especially is superb and really looks stoned throughout the movie and will do anything for his next shot of whisky or pint of ale and that includes setting up his homosexual Uncle with his best friend on a trip to his county house. The look of fear on his face when he is followed around the cottage by the lusty fat uncle is a joy! This a film that is not made great for its story but for it acting performance from all the cast and it's a shame that there are not many films made like this anymore. What i would love to see is a sequel 15 years later. 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"This may be the last island of beauty..","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This for me is the greatest film of all time. How anyone couldn't laugh at it is beyond me. For some maddening reason this film was overlooked for so many years and I saw it when it first aired on Channel 4. At that time my television was broken (a dark patch obscured the faces of the actors) and yet this still didn't stop me thinking this as an hilarious film. These people were meant to appear pretentious that is what was so funny about them, the fact that they thought themselves to be the greatest actors with so much potential when in fact they were deeply sad and empty individuals.  The script of this film is fantastic with some of the most caustic dialogue I have ever heard.  Then we have the underlying story of Withnail's repressed love for Marwood which is so subtley delivered by Richard E. Grant that it is easy to miss. This film has given me friends whom I would never have met had it not being for my constant quoting of the film's dialogue.  Also we must take into consideration that this was the first film Bruce Robinson directed and that it was the first script he wrote and yet it flies high above the sanitized American trite we are usually force fed. Please watch it, then watch it again and if you still haven't fell in love with the saddening madness of this film then watch it again.  "},{"Title":"The greatest decade in the history of mankind...","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...is over.  And as presuming Ed here has so consistently pointed out, we are foul to paint it black.So says Danny, the Delphic Oracle of the film, and this is the nut.  For anyone who has ever looked back at the demise of the counter-cultural movements of the 1960's and felt sadness at their disintegration and subsumption by the forces of corporate marketing mass mind-control, this movie is for you. Yes, it's a comedy, and like all great comedies, it's drama works best because the humor of the story throws the drama into such sharp relief.If you've ever chased after your dreams with drugs, and found yourself tattered and broken at the end of a long road of pain and loss, this movie will reach you.  If you've never used your food money for the week to buy booze or drugs for the day, if you've never been afraid of the multilayered quagmire of standing water, dishes and unidentifiable matter in your sink, then you will miss a lot of what this movie has to offer. If you've ever had a dream, and had to watch it die knowing that it was your own bungling that killed it, then this movie will reach your heart.  And if you've ever gotten so stoned with your friends that you all searched your apartment for twenty minutes for the keys that were in your hand the whole time, you will find a lot to laugh at in this movie.Once again, Richard E. Grant scores a bullseye. His Withnail is every drowning loser left at the end of a voyage undertaken with high hopes, caught in a storm watching the waters close over his head, making an enemy of (his) own future, drifting into the arena of the unwell.If you've ever looked at life, with its wages and cubicles and sports, its schedules and its rules, no place to hang your hat and be let alone but that you must pay someone rent, and felt like something was wrong, something must be missing, you will understand Withnail's terrible, desperate compulsion to stand on the throttle and blast through one disaster after another.I never got Shakespear until I watched this movie.  If you don't get anything else from Withnail & I, at least try to embrace the Hamlet soliloquy at the movie's end.  Maybe you've never been troubled by a feeling that life is empty and tedious. And maybe you've seen those people who do seem to see life that way, and not understood why. The answer for you is in that speech at the movie's end.Danny says, When you're hanging on to a rising balloon, you're presented with two choices; either let go or hang on which brings up the question of how long you can keep your grip on the rope?  How terrible it must be to have been involved in the hippie subculture in the sixties, and to have to watch it die in the seventies.In his able and compelling epitaph of the 1960's, Hunter S. Thompson put it best when he said, San Francisco in the middle sixties was a very special time and place to be a part of.  But no explanation, no mix of words or music or memories can touch that sense of knowing that you were there, and alive, in that corner of time in the world. Whatever it meant.There was madness in any direction, at any hour.  You could strike sparks anywhere.There was a fantastic universal sense that whatever we were doing was right--that we were winning.  And that, I think, was the handle.  That sense of inevitable victory over the forces of old and evil.  Not in any mean or military sense--we didn't need that.  Our energy would simply prevail.  We had all the momentum.  We were riding the crest of a high, and beautiful wave.So now, less than five years later, you can go up on a steep hill in Las Vegas and look west.  And with the right kind of eyes, you can almost see the highwater mark--that place where the wave finally broke, and rolled back.Semper Fidelis, Montague Withnail. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, delightfully politically incorrect film about 60s bohemianism","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a brilliant film. It's also, inadvertently, one of the most delightfully politically incorrect films ever made, especially given the period of its release--the era of high pc, the late 80s. It's best seen on the big screen, not on the tube. The opening scene, with the filthiest sink of unwashed dishes ever filmed, has the proper effect only when it's right in your face, as it was meant to be.  Anybody who lived through the decadent phase of sixties/seventies bohemianism will absolutely howl with recognition of every scuzzy (but at the same time tender and hilarious) detail of this movie, from the drawling, sinister, but thankfully semi-retarded from too much pot, dope dealer, and the obese (if solvent) homosexual uncle--a predatory Oscar Wilde-manque type whom Withnail and the protagonist I spend the movie manipulating and evading, with checkered success.  This movie deals with the period without any sentimentalism or polemical pointmaking one way or the other.  It's cultural anthropology of the highest order!  Go ahead and dump shelves of pedantic sociological tracts which extoll or condemn the sixties and just see this film.  Bruce Robinson is a genius. Robinson's How to Make it in Advertising is a good flick, too, funny and Kafkaesque, but it feels a bit like a film school exercise and, unlike Withnail & I, it preaches a bit.   "},{"Title":"An --- interesting movie...","Date":"29 April 2010","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have to reluctantly join the majority who gave this film a thumbs down. I rented it fully expecting to enjoy it so it's not like I didn't give it a fair shot --- I gave it a more than fair shot, sticking with it all the way to the end, but it wasn't easy. There's a great deal of talent on display but it doesn't add up to much. I find the frequent references to WITHNAIL'S hilarity truly baffling. I laughed exactly twice during the whole movie, and now I can't remember why. Certainly it's possible to make a good movie about obnoxious losers --- TRAINSPOTTING did it beautifully --- but WITHNAIL reminded me of nothing so much as being trapped on a long bus ride next to an obnoxious bore who won't shut up. You don't want to be rude but man do you want that ride to be over. "}{"Title":"With Greatness & I","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Two actors who can't find an acting job find themselves living in squaller. One is a drunk (Withnail), presumably drinking to ease the pain, and the other (I) is seemingly an under-confident, paranoid man. They go on holiday to the country (courtesy of Withnail's rich uncle Monty) to take a break from this horrible way of living. When they return to London, I has received an acting part, and must move away and leave his friend Withnail in order to take it.This film is set in 1969, 18 years before it's release, and as a consequence, eagle eyed viewers can expect the usual that wasn't around at the time thing which will annoy them, but won't matter to anyone else.It doesn't have a particularly high budget, as you could probably tell by watching it, but it doesn't really need one. Just as Monty Python and the Holy Grail and Life of Brian weren't lavished with money, they too are masterpieces of cinema and comedy. These films are prime examples that films that have a 2,000,000 budget can often be more entertaining than those that cost 200,000,000 to make.This film was a very funny comedy film, probably one of my favourite comedies, with a great cast who many people will probably recognise from their work after this film, very relate-able characters, but just as importantly, a great script. I feel that the ending may make you wonder what happened to the protagonists after going their separate ways, but I personally feel that it ended in a way that makes a sequel very unnecessary. Overall, you won't regret seeing this film. "},{"Title":"Fine British Trousers","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A cult movie that seems now to be embraced by the mainstream, Withnail and I is quirky, funny, and occasionally self-indulgent. Cult movies often are self-indulgent -- that's partially how they become cult movies.A certain type of person in his or her early 20's is going to discover this film and see so much of himself or herself in it that it will become a signpost for that certain time of life when some people don't entirely know what's coming next, but do know that what's going on now has to end, and soon.Richard E. Grant's Withnail is a very, very unsuccessful actor in London in his late 20's; Paul McGann's 'I' is a slightly less unsuccessful actor and Withnail's roommate. It's autumn of 1969. They're drunk a lot and stoned a lot. Their apartment is overrun with dirty dishes, rats, and the occasional lovable drug dealer. Withnail cons his uncle Monty (a flaming Richard Griffiths) into giving them the keys to his country cottage. They go off for a restorative weekend in the country.'I' narrates the film -- writer-director Bruce Robinson based the events on things that happened to him over a five-year span -- with a paranoid, puzzled lan. Withnail, perpetually drunk and perpetually, outlandishly over-sized in speech and gesture, is both frustrating and magnetic. Monty, initially a caricature, grows into a sympathetic character without losing his own out-sized charm. A lot of the humour of the country sequences springs from the utter incompatibility of the two leads with country living -- they might as well be trying to vacation on the moon without spacesuits.Withnail is the flamboyant, self-destructive, untrustworthy showpiece of the film, while McGann holds down the fort with his befuddled, panic-attack-prone protagonist. To some extent, it's like a Sherlock Holmes movie with no crime.There's a certain sadness to the end of the film that I imagine a lot of people identify with the end of their college days, and an end to spending huge amounts of time with friends one will soon lose touch with, forever. I can imagine a lot of people hating this film, but those who will like it, will probably end up loving it. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Mr. Robinson, Are You Trying to Seduce Me?","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Possibly, this is a story about moving on from a friendship, potentially sexual, which is going nowhere, due to the inability of one of the friends to overcome addiction, and function in an unwelcome world. So, Withnail & I is a little too vague its dramatic intentions; but, the obliqueness does wind up mirroring Withnail's character. It gives the film a (perhaps unintentional) eerie quality; it's as difficult to completely grasp what's going on beneath the surface as it is for Withnail & I to figure out how to exist in reality. The Hamlet ending is great; but, before that, some final sequences seem abrupt. Parting is such sweet sorrow.The film's comedic worth is considerable; it's extremely witty. Bleary-eyed Richard E. Grant (as Withnail) and bright-eyed Paul McGann (as I) create exceptional, memorable characterizations. Richard Griffiths (as Monty) manages to play the gay joke without becoming too offensive; saved, again, by an exceptional script. Ironically, director/writer Bruce Robinson delivers to die for roles to two actors playing desperately unemployed actors. Mr. Robinson's script is superb -- and; it's one reason you should plan to watch this film twice. ********* Withnail & I (1987) Bruce Robinson ~ Richard E. Grant, Paul McGann, Richard Griffiths, Ralph Brown "},{"Title":"A student must see","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film should appeal not just to those of us disenchanted or plain disinterested in 9-5 society, but also to anyone who enjoys a strong character based comedy. Set in London and the English countryside at the tail end of the 60's, the state of mind of the two main characters reflects the mood of the times. Impoverished actors, Withnail (played superbly by Richard E. Grant) and 'I' (Paul McGann), exist on a diet of drugs, alcohol, and no little insight.With 'I' as narrator, we are shown a world where days blend together, the most important decisions seemingly being which drug to take to escape their private reality. Their dealer, Danny/Headhunter, ensures that they shall never be set free.When the claustrophobia of the city becomes too much, they embark on an ill-advised and poorly planned (to say the least) holiday in the countryside, staying at the cottage of Withnails' rich uncle Monty. Here they endeavour to adapt to life away from the convenience of London. Matters become complicated by unhelpful farmers, the local poacher, and the unannounced arrival of Monty.We cannot help but to like Withnail, despite the fact that he is almost entirely self-centered and a slave to alcohol. His hedonisitic, live for the moment attitude makes him something of an anti-hero. Many people will identify with the main characters in the film; it is regarded as a cult classic on this side of the Atlantic, beloved especially by students perhaps because they can identify with the lifestyle of these disenfranchised but clearly talented people.Overall, this has to be one of my favourite films. Though it does sag slightly in the middle, I feel it holds something for every viewer and have no hesitation in recommending it to anyone who enjoys subtle and intelligent comedy. It makes a refreshing change from the dumbed down style so prevalent in cinema today. It also boasts an excellent soundtrack which should be of interest to lovers of 1960's music.8.5/10  "},{"Title":"I mean to have you, even if by burgalry!","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Probably the most emminently quoteable film of all time, and one of the most humorous.Amongst the qualities of this wonderful film is it's seemingly endless supply of quoteable scenes and dialogue.This is a very British film, more so than aimed-at-America productions such as Curtis's Four Weddings or anything with Hugh Grant in. I'd like to think/feel that the folks Stateside would appreciate this film just because they won't really be able to relate to it, but I think they'd maybe be missing the point a little. The strange humour may be a little too surreal or too English for them.I LOVE this film. It is one of the very few British films that does not involve either the Monty Python crew/Victorians/posh twits/striking northeners or angry Scotsmen (just one angry Irishman). It can not really be categorised soley as a comedy either, it is quite melencholy, glum and plodding in places.It was one of the Neuvelle Vague directors, Truffaut I think, who said that a truely great film does not need to maintain as standard a seamless fault of excellence to be seen as a great film. As long as there are a certain number of good, memorable scenes the film, he believed, would still be regarded as great - he cited the much lauded Hitchcock as his example of this fact. Personally I disagree, I feel that quality should be maintained for a film to be regarded as great rather than just good.And this, I feel, is Withnail & I's one and only short-coming. Some scenes seem to distract from the generally excellent quality of this film. Yes, the film does give the effect of the passage of time, and I's narration emphasises his predicament but I can't see a solution to this as the plot is only really an excuse for Grant, McGann, Griffiths et al to have a load of fun and there is no way the film could have a decent running time if such considerable momentum was maintained throughout.Maybe it's because the films highpoint's are so undeniably excellent and quoteable that these few 'dips' are all the more noticeable - the slightly over-long scene at Monty's being the most obvious candidate for interrupting the film's aforementioned momentum. This same blight in my opinion damaged the Python's Holy Grail it probably had the funniest scenes of all the Python films, but Life of Brian is more memorable as it is more consistant.Anyway, this is only a VERY minor quibble. And it doesn't need to be perfect for me to love it, I still find it thoroughly enjoyable.Whether you're Fifteen or Fifty you should BUY THIS FILM. Even if only to see one of film's most original - but spectacularly unsucessful attempts at beating drink-driving legislation. So, go on, BUY IT NOW, you know you want to. Then go annoy all your friends (if you have any) by mis-quoting it endlessly, nay, mercilessly.  "},{"Title":"The best cult film of 1987","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Question Have you ever demanded cake and fine wine in a               cafe?              Does the idea of eating saveloys in the bath appeal?              Smokers Ever rolled a carrot-shaped cigarette while talking in a               slow, staccato London accent?              If the answer is 'yes' to any of the above then chances are you're               addicted to this cult 1987 movie starring Richard E Grant.If you're a newcomer, then you'll probably be wondering what all the fuss is about so here's the lowdown It centres on a couple of out of work thesps, Withnail (Grant) and Peter Marwood (Paul McGann), struggling to make ends meet during the late Sixties.Marwood is a thinly veiled version of Robinson, a reflection of the days when he was a handsome young actor perhaps best known for his work on Franco Zeffirelli's Romeo and Juliet. The character of Withnail is based on Bruce's late housemate Vivian MacKerrell, an outrageous drunk who Robinson described as A wild aristocratic figure, highly educated.Robinson never achieved star status but went on to make a living as a scriptwriter. When The Killing Fields landed him an Oscar in 1986, Withnail and I got the green light and Bruce made his debut as director.The star of the movie is a first class coward with delusions of grandeur and a drink problem so severe he'll down a can of lighter fluid in order to get a fix - on the day of the shoot, the production team substituted the can's contents for vinegar, a fact unknown to Grant, which probably explains his stunned reaction.As research, the director had his two leads go out and get drunk so they would have a chemical memory of what it was like for future reference. Grant, a devout tee-totaller, was prepared to suffer for his art and gave the performance of his life.It may have cost next to nothing to make but the aftermath of Withnail was staggering. Jobbing thesp Grant suddenly became one of Hollywood's favourite 'English' actors - the fact that he was born in Swaziland seemed to pass most movie bosses by.On the strength of this he went on to work with some of the world's finest film-makers including Martin Scorsese (The Age of Innocence); Robert Altman (The Player) and Francis Ford Coppola (Bram Stoker's Dracula).                                                               Ralph                                                                Brown                                                                also won                                                                millions                                                                of fans                                                                all over                                                                the                                                                world as                                                                drug                                                                dealer                                                                Danny.                                                                Not least                                                                Mike                                                                Myers                                                                who got                                                                him to                                                                practically                                                                reprise                                                                the role                                                                for Wayne's World Two and George Lucas who cast Ralph in current smash, The Phantom Menace.Director Bruce Robinson has fared less well in recent years. His Withnail follow-up, How To Get Ahead In Advertising, was an ingenious flop while US directorial debut Jennifer 8 was torn apart by the studio that backed it.These days he continues writing screenplays such as In Dreams (another costly flop) and the little-seen drama Return To Paradise.However, things seem to have gone full circle as Robinson recently made a return to acting and gives a knockout performance as an ageing rock star in recent video release Still Crazy.As with all cult movies, Withnail and I is choc full of quotable one liners, many of them uttered by Uncle Monty (Richard Griffiths) and Danny. Once heard, who could forget the immortal As a youth I used to weep in butchers' shops,? Or Danny's comment on the follically challenged I don't advise a haircut, man. All hairdressers are in the employment of the government.Hairs are your aerials. They pick up signals from the cosmos, and transmit them directly into the brain. This is the reason bald-headed men are uptight.  "},{"Title":"A Comedy Triumph","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film has been made a cult classic and quite rightly so. Just about everything in this movie is good, perhaps apart from the music which can sometimes be annoying (with the exception of the excellent music of the period).The cast are excellent and there must be extra credit given to Richard E. Grant who when going to the audition had to compete with such fine actors as Kenneth Branagh.Very funny and it does have a meaning. I believe that there is a lot of in jokes for people in the acting business, but everyone will find their own humor in it - be it such lines as We've gone on holiday by mistake, or when asked to see the fuel and wood situation Withnail enters with a small twig and when asked what it was the reply is fuel and wood situation.A must see for anyone who has ever experienced life as an unemployed actor, or been on the dole, or anyone who appreciates a good funny film. "},{"Title":"I demand to have some booze!","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As soon as I watched this film I knew I had to obtain a copy. Withnail & I is an absolute classic and is a film that encompasses humour, sadness and depth. It has also got one of the coolest scenes from ANY film, (that being the scene where Paul McGann's character Peter Marwood climbs into the car whilst wearing a 3/4 length leather raincoat, flipping the shade covers down on his glasses, cigarette hanging from his lips with All Along The Watchtower by Jimi Hendrix playing in the background.The one liners and other comments by Richard E. grants character (Withnail) are ones of quality and hilarity. They add to the films humour as do the lines from Danny. Withnail and I has got a brilliant array of characters in it, and even the drunk Irishman in the pub is great to watch with his few number of lines.I cannot describe the quality of the great British film. Put it on your favourites list next to, or around, Get Carter. All I can say is If you haven't seen W & I, then what the hell have you been doing since the mid-Eighties, eh? "},{"Title":"We'll probably be found DEAD in here next spring!","Date":"27 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's 1969. Broke, depressed, living on methylated spirits (do NOT try that at home), our intrepid heroes, Withnail (Richard E. Grant) and Marwood (Paul McGann) endeavour to get away from their dingy London flat and escape to the English countryside, courtesy of Uncle Monty's cottage.Our two heroes want to be actors, and, being of an artistic leaning (ie, no use to man nor ornament) they arrive at the cottage with no food, no water, no matches, and no idea of where to find any.This film is not only achingly funny, it is also a satire on the Sixties. The greatest decade known to man is exposed as a vanity project, a mouthpiece if you like for a generation of people who want it here and want it now. Marwood is touched by the Sixties, but in many ways Withnail IS the Sixties. 'I'm going to be a STAR!' he shouts atop a mountain overlooking the beautiful lakes.On a tiny budget Bruce Robinson manages to capture perfectly what the Sixties probably felt like - or at least what I imagine it felt like. So redolent of its time does it seem I half expected a St Trinian's schoolgirl to wander in to their derelict London pad in a straw boater and stockings. In fact there is a very brief cameo by some schoolgirls in the film. Withnail memorably refers to them as 'SCRUBBERS!'The two leads are ably supported by Richard Griffiths's Uncle Monty, an hysterically over-the-top has-been, who yearns to tread the boards one more time as Hamlet, despite being nearly big enough to fill the Globe Theatre on his own.But the best supporting role of all has to be Danny, played by an almost unrecognisable Ralph Brown. The monologue he delivers near the film's end, cautioning his friends about the end of the Sixties and the come-down which is imminent, is both insightful and humorous.I heard that Bruce Robinson wrote this film as a sort of tribute to a friend who passed away not long after the Sixties had passed. For anyone interested it is well worth the effort of buying the screenplay in book form and reading Robinson's own intro to what has rightly become one of the most iconic screenplays of British - or indeed any - cinema.The film is almost poetic in both its language, its humour, and its sense of an era which is about to close.Withnail may well BE the Sixties, but Withnail and I, is surely what Britain has become, a nation that so desperately wants to be a STAR! "},{"Title":"The best film ever made about friendship.","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was amongst the very few people who saw Withnail and I on its cinema release early in 1988. It passed by largely unnoticed, but has since grown in reputation due to video, DVD and repeated TV screenings. A favourite of drunk students, it's the best film made about friendship and also ticks those two indispensable boxes necessary for assessing a great film it stands up on repeated viewings and it is timeless.Bruce Robinson wrote from his own experiences of living as an unemployed actor in the 1960s (and, in the Uncle Monty case, of almost being seduced whilst filming 'Romeo and Juliet'). One of my all-time favourite films, it's the story of the end of a friendship and takes place in a very specific time and place London and the Lake District in the autumn of 1969. But's a world away from the 'Swinging 60s' of myth - this is an England of grim flats, of overcast and rainy countryside. Withnail (Richard E. Grant) and his anonymous flatmate (Paul McGann) are two unemployed actors sharing a run down Camden Town flat. They spend there time getting drunk at the pub, or buying cannabis from the hippie drug dealer Danny (Ralph Brown). Withnail is all ego and unfulfilled ambition, and a respite from their existence comes in the form of Uncle Monty (Richard Griffiths), who, in McGann's words, is raving homosexual. Monty loans them his Lake District cottage for a weekend. It turns out to gloomy and cold, and Monty soon arrives determined to have his wicked way with McGann. The two return to London, where McGann is offered a job in rep in Manchester and the two have a tearful farewell in the pouring rain before a drunken Withnail recites Hamlet to the Wolves.And that's it. There's no real story, just a series of incidents. No women, no romantic interest, no story arc or 'journey' so beloved of Hollywood scriptwriters. There are no 'jokes' as such, just witty and clever lines. And yet the film is perfect. Not a scene or a line could be cut without loosing something from the overall texture. The two actors complement each other beautifully the low-key McGann and the sometimes manic and desperate ex-public school boy Grant, frequently drunk, always resentful and bitter. Griffiths is a triumph as the flowery Monty, forever going on about his youthful indiscretions, but actually quite threatening when he bursts into McGann's bedroom dressed in a nightgown and proclaiming I adore you. And it's Danny who delivers my favourite line We're 90 days away from end of the greatest decade in the history of mankind. Outside, in the real world, the Beatles had just recorded their final album and British troops had just been sent to Northern Ireland. This is the end of the Sixties dream.The final farewell in the rain is poignant and moving without being mawkish. Like the best English films ('24 Hour Party People', 'Life of Brian', 'The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp'. 'A Matter of Life and Death'), it's a complete one off and one I shall never tire of seeing. "}{"Title":"Like looking in a mirror","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This wonderfully dry tale of shameless substance abuse and desperation (which is of course 'the English way') manages to be menacingly cynical, riotously funny, endlessly quotable and heart warmingly poignant all at once. The pleasantly meandering plot and blurred motivations are unusual practice in films, normally reserved for literature, so it's no surprise that Robinson originally intended it to be a novel. All that happens in the film comes about apparently 'by mistake', and I think for that reason, it's a film that closely mirrors my own lowly existence as a student. Grant offers a truly mesmorisingly insane performance, his beady eyes riveting around in his skull like some sort of Camden Klaus Kinski, and Griffiths turns in a wonderfully obscene caricature of a wretchedly lonely old poof. The soundtrack's a corker too, with King Curtis and Hendrix. Often imitated yet totally unparalleled by anything since, this film exists completely on its own, timelessly quoted in pubs and flats from one Withnail to the next. "},{"Title":"a shock duo in an almost immaculate film","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" London at the dusk of the sixties. Two unemployed young thespians, Withnail and I share a tawdry flat and wait in vain for the role that will change their lives once for all. They drown their sorrow in cigarettes and alcohol (they spend a good part of the film smoking and drinking) and occasionally in drugs that a dealer Danny supplies them. One day, despondent, they decide to go on holiday in a cottage held by Withnail's uncle, Monty an overweight, offbeat homosexual and hope to lead a life several notches below than theirs in London. Alas! The cottage isn't as lascivious as they had expected but rather seedy and cold. And life in the country is not as better as in town. The two pals have to ask, even to coax their surrounding for some food and other things essential for them to survive and to learn among others how to pluck a chicken and to unearth potatoes. When Monty comes out of the blue to give them a hand, the situation appears to become clearer but this posh, Oxford-educated man has visibly a crush on I who can only try to withstand him...This Bruce Robinson's effort has large accents of biopic film and originates from his difficult student years. For his debut movie, he pulled out all the stops thanks chiefly to two major assets a faultless screenplay and first-class performances. His scenario shines when it comes to construe and forehead the persona of his two young actors. Withnail and I are headstrong, self-centered and show a big incapacity in adapting themselves to the urban living standards as well as the rural one even if I is more sensible than his sidekick. Robinson didn't want to feel pity at all for his two young unconventional figures and preferred to include as much laughter as possible. And one arrives here to a point British cinema excels to shroud a film with a feel-good vibe in a dreary universe. In Withnail and I, scenery are often sordid and the two young unfortunate ones' living conditions could convey despair and pessimism. But the director shelved this and chose the direction of humor with laughter galore. He seemed particularly on top form when he wrote his screenplay. It is among others a spate of witty, funny cues. My favorite one would be when I think there 20 000 sheep outside and we are bent to eat vegetables.... And he knows how to create comical moments with sometimes a glib tonality. A bouncy soundtrack adds to the exhilarating vibe that the film shelters.Topnotch performances also make it worthwhile. The personality of the two young lads fit like a glove to the two young actors. Richard Griffiths shines as uncle Monty and it's impossible to forget Ralph Brown's hippie attitude.Brilliant script + mind-boggling acting = genteel English comedy. "},{"Title":"The Pinnacle of British film comedy","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Bruce Robinson's 'Withnail & I' is a comedy masterpiece and undeniably one of the best films I have seen to date. There are unforgettable performances from Richard E. Grant as Withnail, Richard Griffiths as Monty and Ralph Brown as Danny the dealer; not forgetting Paul McGann's character, '...I', who was based on Bruce Robinson himself when he was a struggling young actor in London, in the late 60s. Every line seems to stick in the memory and you find yourself quoting Monty at the dinner table (as a youth I used to weep in butcher's shops), or Danny to your friends (sit down man, take control, find your neutral space), or even Withnail in the pub (I DEMAND TO HAVE SOME BOOZE!!). And yet the film is not entirely comedy based. The film can be painfully hilarious in many parts and thought provoking and poignant in others. Comments on the current political situation (of 1969) and rural and urban society are frequently delivered, and combined with the beautifully funny one-liners, it makes you appreciate Robinson's ingenious writing even more. Withnail and I was Bruce Robinson's directing debut and for many of the actors it was their first time on a film set. For Grant and McGann it was the perfect launching pad for their careers and Robinson instantly became a very respected writer and director. My favourite fact about the film, mentioned in the movie trivia, is that Grant, in real life, is a non-smoker and a teetotal, and played every drunken scene sober! What a performance. What a film. "},{"Title":"This film is so good that I once watched it through the b/w viewfinder of my camcorder","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In my opinion one of the definitions of a truly great film is that, after the first viewing one is inspired to see the film again and that, after repeated viewing, enjoyment is still to be had and new details remain still to be discovered.This definition applies to Withnail & I more than any other film I have yet seen. I first saw it a couple of years after it had been released in a repertory cinema in Oxford with some University friends. They had seen it several times before and I was impressed at the time by their ability to quote extended passages of the script along with the actors.I have had a copy on video for more than eight years and I guess I must have watched it, both on my own and in the company of others, about 20 times. As the film seems to be little known (outside UK cult circles) it is therefore a video that I often find myself lending to other film enthusiasts. Unfortunately it is also a tape that is difficult to retrieve from them because they have, in the spirit of spreading the news, lent it on again to their friends. I am thus on my second copy.There was a point some years ago when work took me to a remote location here in Africa that was without the usual comforts of home. After some months sans local cinema I felt so starved of my TV and video player that I watched my tape of Withnail & I through the tiny, black and white viewfinder of my VHS camcorder using headphones for the soundtrack. The Swiss friend I was sharing with, equally hungry, was so curious about what I was laughing at that he put down his book as soon as the film had finished, rewound and played the whole movie through again.For me the film is a work of genius. The script written by director Bruce Robinson, who also wrote the screenplay for The Killing Fields, is so pin sharp, literate, and has not one wasted word. The dialogue is piled high with memorable quotes. To me almost every line is a classic film quote. Check out the IMDB for a small, sample collection. The three main characters are played to perfection. Ralph Brown is hilarious as Danny the small time drug dealer and aspiring lawyer; a role he was later to reprise in Wayne's World 2. The soundtrack opens with a rare and most excellent live rendition of Whiter Shade of Pale by saxophonist King Curtis.Many alcoholic beverages are drunk during the course of the movie. A pub drinking game exists based on the type and order of booze consumed. Legend has it that the game cannot be completed in one sitting without eventual recourse to a hospital. I do not recommend you try it out.When is Bruce Robinson going to release the Director's Cut? There are a couple of scenes missing from the film that are included in book of the screenplay. I hope they were mistakenly edited out of the original and are still available to be reinserted. The original sound mix is now showing it's age and, I think, requires the dialogue to be digitally re-mastered as in some places it is less than crystal clear.Of course, as my favourite film it scores a 10 and is a must-see for anyone who has even heard of England or the sixties and is prepared to watch something other than mainstream Hollywood pap. If Lethal Weapon 4 or Beverly Hills Cop 2 is your all-time number one movie then you just might not get Withnail & I.  "},{"Title":"Sporadically amusing character-driven comedy","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Two loser actors leave London to go on holiday in the north of England then come back home again.Withnail and I is virtually a plot-less movie. Nothing much really happens over the course of the narrative. Instead it's all about witty dialogue and eccentric characters. This seemingly is a film favoured by students, and it's not really surprising seeing as it's primarily about a couple of young guys with little responsibility who sit around in grotty surroundings drinking and taking recreational drugs. I guess the film is partly about a guy coming to the end of such a life-style and entering adulthood. Where at the end Marwood, replete with sensible haircut, exits to pursue his career, leaving his debauched life behind, Withnail, we are in no doubt, will never move on from this world and things will only get worse for him. This theme is enforced by the film being set at the end of 1969. One character describes the 60's as being the best decade the world has known, and its closure in the movie signifies the end of an era in more ways than one; although it has to be said that the film certainly does not romanticise the decade. It's continually raining and everything is gloomy, drab and joyless.While Withnail and I is certainly a very well acted movie &#x96; Richard E Grant is particularly good &#x96; the main problem I have with it is that by in large I don't actually find it very funny. I fully realise that for some people, such an admission is tantamount to sacrilege and as punishment I should be strung up by my testicles and repeatedly punched in the face. However, it would be remiss of me not to admit to this reservation. While there are a few good lines sprinkled throughout the film, for the most part it's not, for me, comedy gold. It may well have been partially due to the depressing world that the character's inhabited, I'm not sure. But whatever the reason, that aspect disappointed me. Nevertheless, I thought the film as a whole was an enjoyable enough character-driven period piece with fine acting, a few good lines and some wise sentiments. "},{"Title":"Awful in ways, but you'll see a lot worse","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Up until now I've only ever viewed the IMDb website, though I must say it's excellent. However, reading the reviews on this film (Withnail and I) finally prompted me to join.When I first saw this film I was a student. My hair at the time was moderately long. After viewing the film I went straight and got it cut. If you want to see a film to point out how not to live your life this is it. If you want to see a film that makes you realise how boring some seemingly 'interesting' people are - again this is it.For all that, you'll see much worse films - much, much worse. I think if you're British it maybe helps as the characters are all kind of familiar, the scenery is familiar, the weather is familiar, the social class settings are familiar. It flows along, making you cringe, but in the end is watchable enough. That alone is an achievement many films will never match. "},{"Title":"Good but NOT great","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've seen this film about 3 times now, it's a good film but not great. It's treated by many people as cult classic. On that basis, it is overrated. Saw it at the Glasgow Film Theatre tonight with a few friends, thought I'd give it another chance. There was a number of people in the audience in fits of wails of laughter, and actual applause at the end. It's not often that happens, but once again, I did not see that it merited that reaction, and my fiends thought the same. It's definitely got a few laughs, mirth, and a lot of scenes which bring a wry smile, but not the stuff of legend. Paul McGann and Richard E Grant gave good performances, and Richard Griffiths was fine as Uncle Monty. So although enjoyable, it did not convince me as to why it receives such adulation. Guess its just each to his own. "},{"Title":"Few films combine comedy and drama so well, and Withnail & I finds the perfect balance between the two.","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Withnail & I is a completely refreshing comedy. When most comedies of the 80s were horrible Porkys teen spoofs (on both sides of the Atlantic), Withnail & I is a witty, intelligent, and character driven comedy. Occasionally the humor is a bit too British for my tastes but more often than not the dialog made me chuckle. If you look at the memorable quotes section on IMDb, its practically the whole script. Bruce Robinson proves himself to be a great writer. The humor is very subtle and low key. His direction is skilled as well, keeping everything at a good pace, not too quick as to avoid paying attention to details and not too slow as to make everything dull. The film never received the recognition it deserved upon initial release but subsequently became a cult favorite.Like the best comedies, this works well because of the characters. They're not the most moral people but remain likable throughout. Withnail drinks way too much and is always cynical yet oddly sympathetic. Marwood isn't as memorable but still makes for a good protagonist. Robinson made the right decision to have the film told from the point of view of the straight man and the most realistic character. At first Monty seems to be a setup for some jokes but is revealed to be a tragic character. There are a few moments when the film achieves a sense of sadness. Few films combine comedy and drama so well, and Withnail & I finds the perfect balance between the two. (7/10) "},{"Title":"My favourite film of all time!","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Withnail and I' is my all-time favourite movie. It's difficult to describe what makes it so great - it's mainly the dialogue - it must be one of the most quotable films ever made. The casting and characters are superb. It's brilliantly written and directed by Bruce Robinson... His debut film, no less. I must have watched it 100 times and I still laugh every time! I can't believe that people who have watched this give it any less that a 10! The film is a must for everyone who is or has been a student, or indeed an out of work actor, the squalid lives of the central characters and their need for escape certainly bring back some memories. "},{"Title":"Flower-power degenerates into chaos and craziness","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's often said that Withnail and I is a cult classic, and I can see why. Set in London in the last days of 1969, it is a tragic and comic film which at times borders on total chaos.Gone are the flower-power days of the 60s and the Summer of Love... and the central characters (two mis-matched young would-be actors) imbibe various substances and fight off imagined foes to try to keep themselves functioning during the winter. But life in their squalid London flat becomes too much of a struggle and they opt for a holiday in the English countryside, which (of course) goes hilariously wrong. Some of the funniest country scenes feature eccentric Uncle Monty (Richard Griffiths). Withnail's classic comment during this section of the movie is We've come on holiday to the country by mistake!But it is the crazy car trip to the country that is a highlight. A storm rages and the old Jaguar has only one headlight and one windscreen wiper (on the wrong side). Hendrix's All Along the Watchtower (the definitive version of this song) screams out as the Jag careers down the motorway. Voodoo Chile is another Hendrix song which is featured. An instrumental version of A Whiter Shade of Pale opens the movie.If you liked Withnail and I, you may also like Harold and Maude, and Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. "}{"Title":"Art in cinematic form","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have read most of the reviews posted here and must concede that everything I'd like to say about this film has already been said....nearly. One liners are certainly abundant; my favourite 'I feel like a pig shat in my head' As pointed out in another post, the look on withnail's face when discovered substituting childs p*ss in the police station is funny yet infinitely more tragic. More relevant to this forum though is the fact that the watching of this film in a rather dark period of my life led to the realisation that there were other people in this world who actually thought like I did.Kind of like the first time you see a Gary Larson comic and go...s**t I get that....exactly! Lastly to those very few who left a less than positive review..go away, you don't get it;your views are irrelevant. "},{"Title":"HHHHHHysterical and dammed insightful!","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I would not be surprised if this ends up being the funniest movie I ever saw. Not to mention it's intuition. I often wonder who was sober or not during the whole making of it. The dialogue is so bloody quotable. Good god, the scene where Withnail is hanging out of the car, shouting to people to, kill yourselves, made me lose it. The soundtrack could not be more appropriate. Stevenson's reciting of Shakespeare, I believe Hamlet, in the film's ending comes across with a wallop. Everyone in the film is a bonafide head case, and would be potentially, 'bad news' if you met them in real life. But, alas the movie makes you care deeply about them. An amazing film with amazing performances. And anyone who say's otherwise, will just have to threaten me with a dead fish. "},{"Title":"Not half the film it's cracked up to be.","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There is a touch of 'emperor's new clothes' about the reviews of this film. Withnail & I really is tedious and irritating and someone needs to say so. Two unemployed actors escape their sluttish flat (yes men can be sluts) to try for a cheap holiday in a cottage in the Lake District. Getting seriously drunk in a hotel bar they then act like bullying slobs in a quiet tea shop and we are, presumably, supposed to find this hilariously funny. Hilarious also, supposedly, is Withnail's willingness to betray anyone for his own short-term gain. The only redeeming feature is Richard Griffith's brilliant portrayal of the hapless desperate Uncle Monty. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Too Much Fun","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I began this film knowing nothing about it, letting Netflix talk me into it based on If you liked that, you'll like......, etc. In the first five to ten minutes I hadn't a clue what I was watching. After twenty minutes I was intrigued and giggling. After a half hour I was fully absorbed and guffawing. You just cannot stop watching these two guys.This is a comedy like no other. What inspired film making! The best description I can think of is Tom Stoppard writing Laural & Hardy on drugs and alcohol. As if our main characters are not enough, Monty almost steals the show.Warning This may not be a film for everyone. Sure was one for me. "},{"Title":"Class in a Glass","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Forget about confining Withnail & I to genres like 'best comedy', 'best British' etc. Simply put, W&I is one of the best FILMs ever made. If you don't believe me, read the script, study the craft and marvel at Uncle Motny.Those who don't like it are superfluous. People who write comments suggesting lovers of this film are suffering from 'Emperors new clothes' syndrome cannot see beyond their own ignorance - they can watch Friends and live off gruel.I would however like to see a better, more concerted effort at distributing this film elsewhere. It is, after all, a British export which perfectly encapsulates the stuff we're good at; punk, p*ss and prose. "},{"Title":"This what they call. . .a Film.","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not a movie--But a Film. It's funny, but in the British vein-- no laugh tracks, no obvious humorous clues, no clich driven comic set-ups. It's funny in the way you and a friend just going through a day together will laugh at something you did or he did that will just be silly because of the way you know each other.This movie is a nicely prosaic look at a slice of life of two young friends in the span of a few days. Definitely Art house. I guess this is what the snobs mean when they call something 'Cinema' with the Accent on the 'a'. I agree. Funny, Sad and Moving. Even for a Guy.If you are only used to the usual Hollywood menu offerings and try this one out for size, just be prepared to be in the right mood before plopping this disk in. This one is best watched during a vacation. . .in the middle of the week. Allow it time, and allow yourself to watch without impatience. And allow yourself to remember old friendships. "},{"Title":"I Feel as if a Pig Shat in my Head","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Withnail and I opens with a shot of Marwood within the confines of a dilapidated, grimy apartment in which rodents have taken residence within the stack of dishes in the sink. Chain-smoking, Marwood can't handle the oppression within the apartment, but soon runs back when the images of downtrodden, working class society assault his senses. However, back home his alcoholic roommate Withnail is on a bit of a rampage about the lack of booze in the apartment and eventually goes as far as to down a bottle of lighter fluid and then demands to know the location of Marwood's toolbox so he can drink the paint thinner.This is the world in which Withnail and Marwood live. Both seemingly from well-off families, the two young men seem to be the black sheep of their respective families because of their desires to be actors. However, it seems that there is little work for our heroes be it the hard times or directors' lack of desires to hire two wasted men. Because of their bleak situation, Marwood asks Withnail to ask his wealthy uncle Monty if they can stay at his cabin in the mountains. After talking with Withnail's uncle, a mad man who details the advantages of growing vegetables over flowers for room dcor, yells at his cat, and has quite a strong attraction to Marwood, they get his permission to use his cabin. Yet, after a horrible trip the cabin with Withnail completely smashed along the way, the two friends discover that the cabin is every bit as dilapidated as their apartment and that they lack not only food but wood for heat. Their little trip to the country might not be quite as relaxing as they thought it would be with its cold, angry poachers and bulls, and gay uncles coming up for the weekend to check on the boys&#133; I cannot recall the first time that I heard of Withnail and I, but it has been on my films to watch list for quite awhile. Maybe it was because of Ralph Steadman's cover art that sparked my interest, or maybe it was because of the enjoyment I receive from reading the literature of William S. Burroughs, Jack Kerouac, Luke Davies, and Murakami Ryu that attracted me to it. Whatever the reason might be, Withnail and I makes for quite an enjoyable viewing experience. It has some quite funny moments such as the scenes involving Ralph Brown as Danny the dealer, but it also has some quite sad scenes. With its soundtrack infused with the music of Jimi Hendrix and a delightful main theme, Withnail and I is quite an enjoyable film that might not be appropriate for family movie night, but a good film in a similar vein as Trainspotting. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest British films ever made","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" We've gone on holiday by mistake!. This line, spoken by Richard E. Grant's flamboyant and tragic alcoholic Withnail, sums up this cult British masterpiece. Made on a shoe-string budget (partly funded by George Harrison), Withnail & I has gained momentum in the last decade or so, and is now considered a British classic and certainly one of the greatest comedies made in the last thirty years or so. It tells the story of two hard-drinking, out-of-work thespians living in their filthy London flat awaiting that call from their agent that will inevitably break them. Tired and consumed by the misery of 1969 London, 'I' (often referred to as 'Marwood', played by Paul McGann) persuades Withnail to travel to the remote cottage in the Lake District owned by Withnail's outlandishly homosexual Uncle Monty (Richard Griffiths).The two city-dwellers struggle with survival, poverty and the aggression of the locals, until Monty arrives in a comical scene where the two think that a threatening poacher has broken in to kill them. Withnail is happy sponging off his Uncle while I remains terrified and uncomfortable at Monty's increasingly aggressive sexual advances. While this hardly sounds like a barrel of laughs, writer/director Bruce Robinson's script (based on his personal experiences) is chocked full of great, quotable lines, as well as genuinely beautiful wordplay. While the film has become the focus of many an annoying student who enjoy playing the 'Withnail Drinking Game', I refuse to let this ruin my absolute love for this truly stunning film.While the comedy is what it is ultimately remembered for, Withnail & I is also a sober and quite depressing portrayal of the death of 'the greatest decade known to man'. Danny the drug dealer (played brilliantly by Ralph Brown) sums it up when he says they're selling hippy wigs in Woolworths, man. 'I' is truly disillusioned by his surroundings, and often the film feels like a massive comedown from the colossal high of the 1960's. This is apparent straight away, as the first scene depicts 'I' slumped on a chair, his eyes tired and red after a massive speed binge, painfully toking down a joint while the soundtrack plays a wailing saxophone.But Withnail & I is remembered for it's comedy for a reason. There are literally too many great lines to quote, but my personal favourites have to be why has my head gone numb?/why'd you drug their onions!?/here, hare, here? Here, hare, here!/flowers are merely tarts, prostitutes for the bees!/fork it!/we're going to buy this place, and install a f*****g jukebox in here, liven you stiffs up a bit!. I'll stop now, as I can literally quote the entire film. These lines, as great as they are, wouldn't be half as good if they didn't have great actors saying them. Grant always gets the plaudits (and considered he is teetotal, his performance is truly great), but Paul McGann's equally impressive performance is understated and ultimately underrated. And Griffiths injects an air of tragedy into the nostalgia- filled and lonely Monty, who poetically remembers his times at Oxford when his life was once full of excitement and feeling.I could literally talk about this film for hours, I love it that much. Every time I see it I notice another visual gag, another verbal joke, or another line of beauty that I failed to grasp the previous times. And never has a film moved me so much every time I view it, when, at the climax, Withnail quotes Hamlet while slumped over a railing, wine bottle in hand, rain hammering onto his umbrella. Truly exquisite, exciting, personal film-making, and one that will forever remain one of my personal favourites.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Nothing happens in this film, they don't do anything","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...but it's the way they don't do anything.This film is about dialogue, some of the greatest dialogue ever captured on film. I don't think there is a redundant or misplaced clause in the script. It is introspective (as you would expect from an autobiography) touching and melancholy, but above all hysterical and yes eminently quotable.And I would like to congratulate those geniuses that have spotted that Withnail's relationship with Marwood is ambiguous, and we are left to wonder whether he is in love with I. Well duh, do you think Robinson might have intended that? But that does not make this a movie about a homosexual relationship, not everything has to be about sex, people. This is a movie about friendship and 'coming of age' and the sorrow and joy of those times. A poignant a witty insight into a universal experience.It would be wrong not to include a quote in any Withnail review, but my thumbs have gone weird, so I shall throw myself into the road to escape all this hideousness. "},{"Title":"Withnail and I A Darkly Funny Piece of Comic Genius","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The debut of director Bruce Robinson, and first film performance of actor Richard E. Grant, Withnail and I is a true cult classic. As famous for its mixture of drama and tragedy as its drinking game, it is a film which began several successful careers.Withnail and Marwood are two impoverished, pathetic, tatterdemalion alcoholics struggling to make it in London as actors. Distressed by the bulging pressure of unpaid bills and unsuccessful careers, they decide to take to the country as a break from their urban monotony. Their adventures in the mud and cottage of Withnail's flamboyant Uncle Monty lead to a series of hilarious escapades.Primarily a comedy, Withnail and I immediately gets the ball rolling in its introductions to our two main characters. We meet Withnail, the eccentric of the two wild, desperate for his next fix of alcohol, and cursed with an inherent pessimism. Marwood balances these characteristics with his own, he the optimist of the pair hopeful, determined, yet ever loyal to his potentially insane friend. The early humour comes not only from their interactions and the histrionic lugubriousness of Grant, but the fetid squalor of their surroundings the filth with which they surround themselves representative of the ironic depravity of their circumstance. Withnail's cries of desperation and dependency are rife with stage quotations and a rich verbosity. lending a sense of grandiose absurdity to his deep-heat smeared figure. Once the plot itself gets rolling, and we have the pleasure of meeting Richard Griffiths' Monty, the humour comes faster than the binges, an astonishing achievement I assure you. Grant leads with his regular soliloquies, condemning the indecency of the world through a thick cloud of cigarette smoke and whiskey fumes a truly astonishing comedic performance outdone only by the scene-stealing splendour of Griffiths. His is an instantly memorable character camp; old-fashioned; and devilishly suggestive. Indeed, Griffiths manages to whisk the entire film away, every word which escapes him laced with hilarity and double- entendre. Performances aside, the film manages to transcend the glass ceiling of mere comedy by its surprisingly poignant climax, the building seriousness behind Withnail and Marwood's comic facades gradually elevating the tragic undertone of the story. As the credits roll after Grant's closing lines, we wonder how exactly Robinson has so subtly yet efficiently managed to bring to bear this serious thought amidst the constant riotous outbursts of laughter.In Withnail and I, what begins as a darkly funny piece of comic genius develops to be a darkly funny piece of comic genius with a real world relevance and important depth of character not seen in many comedies. Combining beautifully both elements, not forgetting the iconic Uncle Monty, this is as good as it gets. "}{"Title":"A Divisive Masterpiece","Date":"5 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Withnail and I' is a movie that polarises opinion. It is hard to define why some people love and some people loathe the film; it seems to be beyond peoples' taste in comedy. However, those who love the film love it to death. I am one of these people.I first saw 'Withnail and I' when I was fifteen, and since then I must have watched it in excess of twenty times. It is one of the rarest of movies, in that it seems to get better and better the more you watch it (even once you're well into double figures). Even now, when I sit down every six months or so and put it on, there are still moments and lines that reveal themselves to me for the first time. Plus, the old lines and famous quotes never fail to make me laugh until I cry.A plot synopsis for the film could be written on the back of a matchbox failed actors live in London, are miserable; they go to the countryside for a vacation, are miserable; they come home. However, to boil the film down into a synopsis is doing this brilliant piece of art a disservice - the lure of the film for people who have seen it innumerable times is the characters and the dialogue. I have heard the claim made that 'Withnail and I' is more akin to a stage play than a film; while this is still a little wide of the mark, it does make sense.You may not 'get' 'Withnail and I', but the least you can do is watch it. Hopefully, you would tap into the rich, hilarious, touching, debauched, foul-mouthed and tender classic that is my, and many other peoples', favourite film of all time. "},{"Title":"Just too good.....","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Let me get the gripes out of the way....the lighting is adequate at best and downright awful at worst and the dialogue is difficult to digest at first because of the English dialect. Those two issues alone could sink a film's chances of being successful but this movie overcomes these deficiencies because I believe it's one of the funniest films of all time and one of my favorite films as well.It's not slapstick humor (though there's some of that), it's not disgusting humor (though it has some of that) and there's no obvious punchy one liners (though once in context of the film, there's some of that too). The humor here works because the different characters' relationships feel real and that brings you into their world where the jokes are less about joke telling and more circumstantial. Yet within the circumstances the one liners flow like wine and it's devastatingly hilarious. There's too many great moments, scenes, and character exchanges to recount here. Suffice to say, if you get into this film it will make you laugh in amazement at it's brilliance and even warmth. Despite the whole of the film being a comedy of errors, the closing scene is effectively emotional. The writing is a cut above and Richard Grant's Withnail steals the show.Get nice and toasted, put the volume up nice and LOUD (so you can better hear the dialogue) and enjoy the hell out of it. "},{"Title":"Throw yourself into the road, darling!","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I suppose this movie is indefensible in many ways, but that doesn't mean it's also not one of the most supremely enjoyable comedies ever made. Notorious, deluded and narcissistic Withnail and sweet, passive, hippyish I are one of the cinema's most original odd couples---viewers can sense the attraction between them as well as the hidden antagonism. This film begins in dimness and moves to blackness. It is terribly funny nonetheless, with some of the most brilliant and unique scenes of comedy ever dared. Its status as a cult film is well-deserved, but it holds its own as a statement about self-preservation, hedonism and anarchy. With a dazzling performance by Richard E. Grant. Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"gets better, or at least funnier, the more I think about it (first viewing)","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Amazing I didn't hear about this one until recently, but that seems to be the song and dance with these cult films. Withnail & I is one, a film that was made in such short time and on such a short budget one of the executive producers (Dennis O'Brien, usually the best of chums on the Monty Python films) tried to shut filming down when he thought the comedy just wasn't working. It didn't get much of a release, at first... Then the buzz grew, and it's since become one of the most popular British comedies of the past 25 years. At least among those who might have some identification with these blokes it's about twenty-something out of work actors in 1969 who go aimlessly through a holiday at one of the bloke's uncle's house out in the country where nothing goes right (least of which with the uncle itself). But it's also got sharp-as-a-tack dialog, the kind of zingers that seem to have a droll way about them even as the actors deliver them with a style that fits the malaise or eccentricities or just plain ego they carry with them.And, of course, it's very funny. It's the kind of humor that snuck up on me, where the oddball seems what it is, but also with an air of reality that doesn't seem false. It would be one thing if Bruce Robinson were after simple quirks. But he's lived this world he's created (it's largely autobiographical), and the gray look and the grime and grit and rain et all fits the sensibility of the comedy. It also follows the tenants of very funny movies about the most unlikely of friends (ala Sideways and Fear & Loathing in Las Vegas), where it's a wonder at times how the characters don't go at each others throats, but they also have a strange bond that the audience clicks with. And, of course, there's straight-man and comic-relief, so to speak, with I and Withnail respectively.I/Marwood (Paul McGann, great at doing an half-neurotic, half-awkward-around-the-flaming-uncle bit) is a bit of a wreck emotionally, swinging between slightly normal and totally on edge scene to scene, and Withnail (the brilliant Richard Grant, probably one of the best things, if one could point out in the movie in and of itself) who's a bigger than life dude, who thinks of himself as such more than anything, and washes his (somewhat) hidden misery with booze. Like all lovable jerks, he sees himself as being much more than he is because he acts it, whether he gets into a jam (i.e. at the pub, with the cops, with a farmer) or if he's just fobbing off whilst drenched in body lotion. It's a solid match. Then there's also two key supporting roles with Uncle Monty (Richard Griffiths, the kind of British character actor you spot here and there in movies), who's a total nut with a penchant for weird carrots- as well as, gulp, Marwood- and Danny, who in the first scene almost appears as a wild fluke, as a kind of deranged bad-ass in the guise of your common spaced-out drug dealer, and then later on appears again and brings it full circle in one of the funniest pot scenes I've ever seen.Sometimes a joke or a look goes over the head, or the 'British-ness' of the comedy, where it's sometimes in a mood that relies on a sudden reaction or another line to bounce back. But these aren't often enough to bring down this recommendation Withnail & I is a slightly crazy movie about sad sacks who've got their lives ahead of them, or not as case might be, and it's another in a lot of many quasi-nostalgia tales of the late 60s, only with a bit more deep-down lament than some others. That it should prove to be quotable on repeat viewings goes without saying. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Top Stuff","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  'Withnail and I' is THE cult film of the 1980's British film industry, whilst some look to the more flashy and up to date 'Trainspotting' as Britain's best cult film 'Withnail' is without a doubt a contender despite being as old as I am.The comedy loses little with age thanks much to be set in the 1960's thus the audience expects to be looking through historical goggles rather than nit-picking the Thatcher-era details which would now date it.The jokes are timeless though without a doubt Richard E. Grant is the star of the show. Lines such as 'We've Come on Holiday by mistake' and 'Liar! Where's your toolbox, you've got Anti-Freeze' are ingenius and should not be under rated.The two lead protaganists are much like a male version of the girls from 'Absolutely Fabulous', minds filled with urban garbage trying to fit in with their polar opposites in the Dales, its an old trick but one pulled of with steely perfection thanks to the acting delights of Grant and McGann in delvering such an iconic script of genius.Top Top Film "},{"Title":"It just gets better!","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I came to this film only a couple of years ago.  Many people had told me that it showed exactly what being an actor would be like.  Naturally I was not sure how this would work on screen.The answer was of course very well.  Considering that many aspects of this, the director, Richard E. Grant and Paul McGann are all really first handers at the 'film' business.  Yet it gives the film a wonderful fresh appeal. Grant's performance as Withnail is great.  A true joy to watch.  His energy seems boundless.  But of course these moments would be lost if not counted by McGann's 'I' who regulary reminds us of the 'normal' guy in the acting business. The other main shining character is Uncle Monty played Richard Griffiths.  Who manages a performance that tries not to cross the line of gross exagerration, but gives a fully round character whom by the end of the film you develop a warmth to.Overall a great film, and sveral veiwings later Im still seeing more bits of the actors enjoying themselves.  It just keeps getting better every time I watch it. "},{"Title":"My first experience","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First saw this film way back in the early nineties having been bombarded with all the hype by my friends. Since then I have seen it at least thirty times and always notice something new in the background. Used to rent a cottage in Scotland off a farmer who was a dead ringer for Parkin and have met quite a few Jakes. The scene in the tea rooms has to be my favourites as well as the look on Withnails face in the police station! I am getting to the point where I can lip synch the entire first half hour as this has to be one of the funniest British films and one of the wittiest scripts I have ever read. One tip to anyone who doesn't find the film funny at first and wonders what all the fuss is about - watch it again!! "},{"Title":"So True It Often Hurts","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What can be said that hasn't been said already? Robinson's film is one that, if there is any justice in the world, will live on forever. It should be given to people as they turn 16. It should be the film equivalent of National Service, as it not only is painfully funny, but also tells a story of friendship and hardship, and how the two sometimes go hand in hand. The performances are excellent, Grant plays tipsy better than any man alive, McGann looks paranoid to hell from frame one, Ralph Brown is the quintessential drug dealer Danny (He's lost one of his clogs. He's come in to get out of this perpetual cold)and Richard Griffiths is not only camp as a box of mink stoles but is also painfully sad as the sexually tormented Uncle Monty. Please, I implore you, seek it out. Buy it on DVD (The Anchor Bay version is excellent) and keep it forever. It will never, ever, let you down.We are drifting into the arena of the unwell..... "},{"Title":"Like fine wine, it gets better with age","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw withnail on TV some three years after it`s first cinema release, vaguely remembering a trailer from it. I watched it,not thinking it would be my cup of tea.   The next day almost everyone i spoke to who saw it was raving about it-how come nobody made much a fuss about it on its first release. Its reputation has snowballed ever since- endlessly quoted by both students in bedsit land and lager lads in the pubs.   I think the main reason this film is so loved is that you can never tire of watching it, and even thinking about it brings a smile to my face- no other film has this affect. Everything about Withnail is flawless- the farcical comedy, the oscar worthy performances of McGann and Grant, and the tragic poignancy in the final scene as withnail quotes Hamlets sililoquy. A word of warning, once you`ve seen this masterpiece, you`ll watch it again and again   "},{"Title":"Like the finest wines known to humanity, this film gets better with each passing year!","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is my favourite film but I've never really been sure exactly why very little 'happens' (they drink loads, take lots of drugs & 'go on holiday by mistake'), there isn't much 'conflict' or 'drama', it doesn't really 'say' anything about society or whatever, and the characters aren't exactly lovable. But, but, but...I've seen the film over fifteen times and could happily sit down and watch it right now. I think this film works for me in the same way that my favourite music does if I meet someone who doesn't like the film I know I'm going to have a hard time getting to like that person. Shallow? Maybe, but I've yet to meet anybody who doesn't love the film. (By the way, is it just me or does the 'Danny' character sound remarkably like Harold Steptoe?) "}{"Title":"Tragi-Comic Masterpiece","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The plot has been summarised by other reviewers to the extent that further comment on that is superfluous.I have seen this film so many times now that it has quite a different effect on me than it did on first viewingWhen I first saw it, it was an unending belly laugh of recognising within the 1960's setting all the madness of my own youth and the general daftness of what went on in the social circles I moved in throughout the 1980s. I found the whole thing side-splittingly funny and every situation seemed more than mildly familiar.As time moved on, I saw other darker aspects in the film, and now I see it as a terrifying morality piece which harks back to Waugh, Hardy, Dickens and beyond in reflecting the desperate tragedy of doomed and thwarted youth, egotism and ambition. Marwood is lucky, he finds redemption through his own working class common sense and graft, but the deluded pretensions of patrician Withnail condemn him to an impecunious and ultimately tragic existence, forever a victim of his own preconceptions and expectations of life never allowing him to come to terms with the actuality, forcing him to view the world through a haze of drink, drugs and his own arrogance in order to try to make sense of it all. It becomes increasingly clear as the film moves toward its close, and Marwood finally abandons his companion, that Marwood is choosing life over death, and we realise sadly that Withnail, for all his wit and bizarre charm, is already an incompetent, lost, lonely and tragic soul who will live and ultimately die alone, friendless and unfulfilled. "},{"Title":"Truly Magnificent.","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Withnail and I is a masterpiece. It is funny, without being overly crude or stupid. It is stylish, yet not driven by style. It has meaning, yet is not portentous at all. The characters are beautiful in their simplicity, and compelling in their complexity. Withnail, the reckless, foolish, careless, nihilistic, pitiful, self-obsessed 'ponce', is masterfully portrayed by Richard E. Grant. Marwood, or 'I', the worrisome, vulnerable, sensible, confused protagonist is portrayed superbly by Paul McGann. All the other characters, from Monty to the Irish Drunk are simple, superb caricatures of the colourful people of 'Little' Britain, and are truly unforgettable. The plot is simple two struggling actors go on holiday by mistake. It's simplicity allows for heap loads of character revelation, tense yet moving scenes, and barrels of laughs, and leaves you feeling amused, moved, refreshed and enlightened, and supplied with dozens of witty quotes to use whenever you desire, to impress your friends, your family, and yourself. A solid 10 out of 10 without a doubt. "},{"Title":"One of few films genuinely worthy of 10/10","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In my long time rating films for IMDb I have not yet given any full marks. However, I feel that Withnail & I is truly deserving of this.I'm not saying that it is a perfectly made movie, with performances that cannot be beaten, but it one of only a handful of films that I could watch over and over again and never ever tire of it. It's one of those films, which I happen to have on video, and can just slot in in at any point in the movie and watch for half an hour or an hour and really enjoy.#Spoiler Warning#One of the earlier reviews said that it was tragic, but wasn't sure whether it was meant to be. to me it has one of the sadest, most tragic endings ever.The thought of Withnail being left to cope without I (or Marwood) is frightening. More so as it is based on the writer/director's own experinces and people he knew (yes there is actually a withnail).Also, the theme of your friends leaving you alone to pursue greater things could be the reason why it so popular amongst university students (that and the vast amount of booze drank in it.) It is a film about the fun times at the end of a friendship, mirrored in the film by it being the end of the 60's.It's a film that has many stand out lines which come over brilaintly the first time, but it is the other less well known lines that do it for me. When uncle monty says It is a sad time in one's life when you say to yourself 'I will never play the Dane' is a classic.Needs to be owned and watch, and not just when you're drunk or at a party, but when you fancy a laugh. "},{"Title":"Dear God, do you negative people have no soul?","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have meant to add my two cents on Withnail ever since I discovered the IMDb a couple of years back. Now I've finally registered and I'm making good that pledge.I cannot for the life of me imagine how this film's average score is lingering around the 6 stars mark... Just take a look at the distribution percentages for a view of how much love this film has attracted. As practically everyone has said thus far, the performances - particularly stand outs from the two leads, Richard Griffiths & Ralph Brown, are nigh on faultless and the bittersweet tone of the entire movie from the script to the soundtrack are spot on.My relationship with this film goes back to a TV showing >somewhere in the early nineties when I didn't understand it and didn't much care for it. Since then, despite being neither an actor or a child of the sixties, I have grown (as every decent English student does) to love this poignant masterpiece. The Hamlet speech is perfection. The desperate alcoholism is aspired to by a whole (sad) generation. The quintessential Englishness of the countryside and the city remind me sentimentally of home more so than any Four Weddings ever could... And the video store here in Champaign has probably had more rentals of this tape since I got here than ever >before(!)Rent it, Buy it, just watch it. If you don't like it then you don't deserve to live. "},{"Title":"Sod your bloody pheasant!","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one truly life-changing film...so many classic scenes, from shooting fish in rockpools with a shotgun to ordering cake and the finest wine available to humanity, you have to see it.Richard E Grant is masterful as the out-of-work actor Withnail and Paul McGann is too. All the characters are exceptional, and will stay with you - Richard Griffith as the camp-as-you-like Uncle Monty, Ralph Brown as Danny and Michael Elphic as the Poacher ('you want working on boy')This film has so many quotable lines your head will be spinning for days and you will want to watch this film over and over again, check it out now.. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!!","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is one of my favourite comedy films. It is a shining tribute to the ability of British film-makers and actors.I first saw this film shortly after it's release in the UK. Several years later, I bumped into a bloke in a pub who was shouting out things like How DARE you!! and Don't attempt anything without the gloves!. At this point, I realised how wide-spread the film's reputation was. Then, some trendy in a London magazine got whiff of W & I and that was it.Anyway, I highly recommend this film to anyone who appreciates subtle wit, irony, poignancy and outright belly-aching uproar in a film. It beats virtually any comedy output by Hollywood in recent times and it hasn't aged since it was made.All the actors, whether in a main or supporting role, contribute well. There are so many scenes that you miss the first time that you could watch it twice back-to-back and still enjoy it.Who knows how well it would have been received on both sides of the Atlantic if it had been handled like Waking Ned Devine?A masterpiece. "},{"Title":"My favourite film of all time!","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A marvellous piece of total anarchy. Characters, story, dialogue all side-splittingly funny, but with a touch of reality and pathos that only increases the magic. The only film that actually shows a kitchen as disgusting as my own...Well done, my boys! "},{"Title":"There are no jokes !","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is about a couple of actors in a run-down flat in London with a holiday in the Lake District in the last days of the Sixties. Swinging London is incredibly mundane because they have no money but is made mildly more pleasant by cider, gin, beer, lighter fluid, unfeasibly large joints and (potentially) anti-freeze and life threatening barbiturates. Throw in a predatory homosexual uncle and the best performance of a drunk by a tee-totaller and you've got the film. Doesn't sound funny? Bruce Robinson refined and hawked this script for years. It gained mythological status with whoever read it before a shot was taken or a deal was made. Frankly, you either get it or you don't. If you don't get it you really haven't got a clue about comedy and it's not enough to quote cultural differences. Not a single joke or one liner in it, just a brilliantly skewed look at the human race. "},{"Title":"Classic British Cinema","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having seen this film for the first time only a year or so ago, I am already obsessed with it. It takes the title of 'my favourite film', and yet I'm not sure why.Perhaps my confusion is related to the great number of fantastic aspects of the film- acting, atmosphere, production, script.Set in 1960s London, it is the story of two hapless actors Withnail and 'I' ('Marwood')-(Richard E. Grant, Paul McGann, respectively) who decide to, after a lifetime of squalor, take a break in the British countryside. There, they encounter a plethora of mishaps involving strange locals, rain, bulls and Monty, Withnail's eccentric and outrageously gay uncle (who owns the cottage the pair are staying in).The plot is relatively simple, there is no climatic ending, nor any massive revelations or twists. This doesn't affect the quality of the film due to superb acting and a fantastic script, however.Richard E. Grant especially shines in his role as the over-dramatic luvvy Withnail. His delivery of the lines is wonderful, and makes the film as memorable as it is.The script itself deserves a great deal of praise- it is endlessly quotable and basically every line is so well thought out. The dialogue between the two protagonists is complimentary to the setting itself- dank, dark and ironically hilarious.Furthermore the atmosphere is enhanced by the 'low-quality' filming, though I feel the drab, fuzzy camera and editing has become as much a part of the film as the three players and countryside itself.Thoroughly recommended, and rudy marvellous. "},{"Title":"Two great comedic performances","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have enjoyed 'Withnail and I' since I first saw it years ago and it has aged pretty well, mostly due to the brilliantly funny (and bittersweet) performances of Richard E. Grant (Withnail) and Richard Griffiths (Uncle Monty), especially the latter. I look forward to every scene with Uncle Monty. The trifling story of a weekend spent in the country by two struggling young stage actors in London in the late 60s provides a benign background for what is really a sad little tale of frustrated love and loss. It is really a homosexual love story without the sex or outwardly visible angst of unrequited love. Withnail is in love with his friend I (Paul McGann). Uncle Monty is a preview of what may very well happen to his nephew Withnail; a sad elderly homosexual living alone in his old-world house in Chelsea, battling with his rancorous cat and growing carrots for his bouquets instead of tulips. Richard Griffiths turns in what I think his greatest performance on screen, and he has done many fine turns in other films, notably in 'A Private Function' and as the grotesque cook, Swelter, in the otherwise awful version at 'Gormenghast' a few years back.The kernal of the story takes place in a ramshackle stone cottage in the Lake District near Penrith. It is there that the sexual tensions come to fruition, starting off as a very funny battle of wits and ending as tragedy. Monty is a soul who lives for love and beauty in a society that has no interest in either, especially of the homosexual variety.McGann is the object of both Withnail and Monty's adoration, though Withnail masks his obsession behind a facade of caustic invective and abuse, whereas Monty, in his advanced years and decadence, takes the direct approach in a last ditch effort to achieve a poetic ecstasy of his dreams. McGann's character is the face of modern ambition and a ruthlessness that kills love. He goes on to assumed success in his acting career, leaving Withnail alone in a rainy park reciting lines from 'Hamlet', leaving the viewer a little depressed.Along the way there are many memorable lines and little scenes that stick in the memory. There is a vivid little scene in a run-down public house, 'The Crow and Crown' wherein resides a drunken old military man slowly dying of alcoholism. This little tragic person too is turned into a highly comic creation, capturing the very fine line between tragedy and comedy, akin to the closeness of genius and madness. Bruce Robinson's script is wonderful in that regard, as is the cinematography and use of great rock tunes from the time.The drug references are funny and not overdone but hardly the central focus that many of this film's cult devotees seem to think it is. But Ralph Brown's burned-out drug dealer is truly a classic comedic turn. And his Camberwell carrot (a gigantic joint) is indeed memorable. The attempts at philosophy fall a bit flat, such as Brown's comment that we have failed to turn the world black, an ersatz paen to the failure of the 60s drug/culture revolution. Ho-hum.Otherwise 'Withnail and I' is a good little film possessing an Ealing Comedy charm that hardly exists anymore in the movies.I recommend this film simply on the strength of the great performances by Richard E. Grant and Richard Griffiths. "}{"Title":"a capsule in time and space","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  definitively scripted, cast and acted, the movie will nevertheless cause problems for our American friends. and enemies, come to think of it - but they'll be busy beating up on some other foreigners they don't understand, so where were we now....oh yes. what the British did to the freedoms of the 60s and on is quite distinct, and hard to read, 'cos they're smarter. which means they'll mix punk and Shakespeare, and the cynicism Americans can only get the tiniest hint of in their Left - because they don't have one. desperate despair, false meanings, all dipped in the hilarious soup of the queer game of the earlier upper class. and Class. if you can adopt a British ear, this piece is a masterpiece. already worth the viewing for an exquisitely correct usage of the word 'mauve'. yes, the whole piece exquisite. a capsule in time and space.  "},{"Title":"Repeated viewings highly recommended","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this movie in 1987, I knew I would like it immediately. About thirty minutes into the movie, however, there is a quick cut in which a large wrecking ball is demolishing a brick building while the soundtrack carries Jimi Hendricks' All Along the Watchtower. I knew then I was in the presence of pure genius.Great movies get better with repeated viewings. Withnail & I is one of those rare ones. See it as often as you can. "},{"Title":"It's the homophobia, stupid!","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are many movies with sympathetic villains, lots of character studies that show us the desires of the perverted or the hearts of the bigoted; this movie is like none of them.And yet both of its main characters are homophobes. Both & I and Withnail, charming, playful, and disarmingly articulate, are in denial about Withnail's homosexuality.Withnail & I is a story of unrequited love between two down-and-out actors at the tail end of the free-love era.  The denial of Withnail's sexuality is a running joke; but it runs UNDER the story. The pair accidentally trap themselves in a rustic cabin and thier growing anxiety mirrors and merges with the impending , seemingly inevitable confession of Whithnail's feelings for &I. When this is compounded by the sneaky arrival of Whithnail's flaming and lecherous uncle, the situation grows funnier and more tortuous.Laughter mounts until the sad and deeply ironic ending wherein Withnail is left alone in the rain reciting Hamlet's soliloquy. The final attempt to hand us the theme Withnail deftly adds back the line which follows, Man delights not me, usually excluded from recitations  No, nor woman neither. "},{"Title":"Funny but Tragic","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Possible Spoilers!!!!The first four times I watched this I always something new to laugh at but the fifth time of watching I found something very different.This is a tragic movie.I doubt it was meant to be tragic but the way Withnail watches his talent (there is some) drown in a pool of lighter fluid induced vomit and then sees his best friend and less talented actor 'I' get a big part and leave him, it makes you think.Look beyond this 'great drinking game' and recall Steve McQueen in PAPILLON. A wasted life is the worst crime you can commit.  "},{"Title":"Comedy or Tragedy.....?","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To parody a recent one-liner, you can divide film fans into two groupings, those who have seen 'Withnail' (i suddenly realized how us fans would never bother adding the & I), and those who haven't. To the former, it is either the best film ever made or a load of rubbish; i almost envy those who haven't seen it (yet).Really, would you get excited about a film rated 5/10? Really? A 1/10 though... now that holds promise. You know how it is, if the 'Wilburs' of this world don't like it/ don't get it; it could well be right up 'my' street.I have been known to consort with people who hire cinemas (i believe some of you refer to them as 'movie-theatres', sorry, 'theaters') in order to watch this 'oevre' with like-minded people at least once a year. One of them was telling me of telling people at his workplace that the previous weekend he had hired a big cinema to put on a film that 'they' had never heard of.They asked him what the film was about, or what happened. And there's the rub. How the hell do you? Two unemployed actors? Who go on 'holiday by mistake'? And come back.....Which of the actors - the two principal characters - do you think will make it as an actor? And which one won't? (Nor is likely to... he won't...).And therein lies the tragedy.It is up there with the greatest films ever made by virtue of its sublime script. Of course, words are nothing without an equally sublime cast, and in that respect writer and Director Bruce Robinson ensured that his baby - if failing miserably at the box-office - nailed it in the annals, and posterity, along with the superb and superbly-staged locations.Wellknown are Withnail fans for endlessly spouting their favourite lines, and scenes, for their drinking games (matching 'Withnail' and 'I' drink-for-drink - it's an activity for youngsters), to visiting the places referenced (even a particular phonebox!) and paying homage to the actors.The set-up is comic, the characters are comical, the script calls for comedy. Did Robinson intend it as a comedy? He has always said that the character of Withnail was based on a person he knew when they were unemployed actors at the fag-end of the 60s.There is a whimsical end-of-an-era theme running throughout. Metaphors abound throughout, usually to great comical effect.But the overall effect, the final scene, is it not pure tragedy? The parting of the ways, friendship asunder and talent wasted, presumably that of the more talented of the 'friends'. There appears to be no escape, and therein lies the tragedy. "},{"Title":"You need working on boy....","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What can you say about this film to a new viewer? The first time you watch it you will find it bizarre and wonder what all the fuss is about. On 2nd viewing you will pick up on all the dead pan comical moments,the offhand liners,the little devious looks characters give each other.3rd time viewing you will be more familiar with the film and start enjoying the memorable lines are you the farmer? And who f#cks Ase's? Maybe he f#cks Ase's, we want the fines wines available to humanity,we want them here and we want them now etcBy now you should understand the concept of the film and the wonderful interaction between the characters. Subsequent viewing and you will be hooked. That's fine. Find your neutral space man.Ps I'm not from London you know..... "},{"Title":"Hilarious British comedy","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hilarious British comedy.London, 1969. Two unemployed actors, Withnail (played by Richard E Grant) and Marwood (Paul McGann), are destitute and desperately in need of a change of fortunes. They decide to go on holiday to a cottage in the country. The cottage is owned by Withnail's eccentric uncle, Monty (Richard Griffiths). Things don't go entirely smoothly and get even more complicated when Monty arrives unexpectedly...Incredibly funny, especially the first few scenes - them living in their squalor and having to be resourceful - and the last few scenes - when they're back from the country. Dialogue is great and is delivered perfectly. Richard E Grant's wonderfully over-the-top performance makes the movie. Not that Paul McGann gives a bad performance, he is just more the straight man in the comedy duo and thus his performance is less intense. Any scenes involving Danny the drug dealer (Ralph Brown) are fantastic too.On the negative side, some the situational comedy is a bit cheap and silly. This is particularly so with the ongoing tension between Marwood and Monty. That seemed over-exaggerated and overdone. The third quarter of the movie seemed to drag, due to that.Production values are not that great either. Both video and audio seemed sub-par. "},{"Title":"A brilliant, atmospheric movie about an extraordinary period in English history","Date":"12 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The start of this excellent film features a dysfunctional, hypochondriac English actor & some equally strange friends who provide a hilarious insight into a period, it's like of which will never again be seen. trying to survive on benefits in a depressing, run down part of West London. The leading actor plays an unemployed, obviously 'high- born' Thespian, with aspiration of grander things, with contacts in circles which bely his personal financial state. But that economically challenged state means his flatmate and his friends live in an extremely frugal way. Even though his circumstances are very relevant to that period, his persona and his experiences are very relevant to modern London. "},{"Title":"Truly a masterpiece","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I like my substance abuse surrounded by dry British humour (though I'm not really a fan of Trainspotting). Withnail & I is full of narcissism, paranoia and gleeful disobedience but also a sense of despair - an understanding this lifestyle is unsustainable and self-destructive - adding the pathos that makes a comedy last. You can tell it was based on real experiences (of the writer-director, Bruce Robinson, who hasn't done that many films, but I really need to check out How to Get Ahead in Advertising), especially some of the gags about washing up. Good performances from Paul McGan, Richard E. Grant, and Richard Griffiths (who you may recognize from the Harry Potter films) give weight to a script that is narratively thin, but character-rich. "},{"Title":"What is this quintessence of dust?....","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" London, approaching the end of the swinging sixties. Two 'resting' actors, Withnail and 'Marwood', fed up with the damp, piles of washing-up, mad drug dealers and psychotic Irishmen, decide to leave their squalid Camden flat for an idyllic holiday in the countryside, courtesy of Withnail's uncle Monty's country cottage. When they get there, it torrential rain, there's no food, and their basic survival skills turn out to be somewhat limited. Matters are not helped by the arrival of Uncle Monty, who shows an uncomfortably keen interest in Marwood...What you may have missed on the first or even second viewing (it took me at least four) is that Robinson is basically satirising every class of person, every type of educated fellow, so no one, not even 'I' comes across as the hero in this biting movie.The titular characters are people that we see every day, educated, but rich from the bank of parents, and sitting there, miserable, putting the world to rights, when they are what is wrong with society. It's a timeless tale that's been done for every demographic, every time frame, and will continue to do so for the rest of time.But what the difference this film has from others is that Robinson demands you to care for the two. With nail is an insufferable person, one you would avoid at all costs if you saw him in a bar, but here, you just want him to make a foo of himself again, you want that Irish man in the pub to punch him, but despite all this, you like/pity him.Mar wood on the other hand is the sufferer,mother one who is misunderstood, the poet, who has a voice, but no one listens, again, someone with whom you are familiar with, but then, his voice is in his head, he rarely speaks to anyone else except Withnail, and only Monty really acknowledges both of them at the same time.So in many senses, should the film be called Withnail is I?Maybe I'm looking too much into the film, but rest assured, it's deliciously funny, Grant has never been better, and it has an awful, cold bleak feel to it, the feeling you get when the old dear bites into the egg sandwich sets the tone of the film.One of the great British comedies, indispensable. "}{"Title":"great debut for Richard E. Grant","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's 1969 London. Withnail (Richard E. Grant) & I (Paul McGann) are a couple of struggling actors living in a rundown filthy flat. They struggle to find the money for heat. Withnail is a constantly complaining drunk. I suggest going to the cottage of Withnail's gay uncle Monty (Richard Griffiths). They are visited by Danny the local drug dealer.It's a dark comedy. I don't know why but a lot of it didn't connect for me. It's possible that I don't get half of the references. It's also possible that I don't find Withnail funny. Grant is doing a big performance but not a funny one for my taste. I also don't understand their 'friendship'. The homo humor wears out for me. It is however undeniable that Grant shows the power of his acting in his film debut. "},{"Title":"Good film, but kind of slow","Date":"4 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's hard to explain this film, as it is mostly a very weak story with a lot of great acting in it. Richard Grant makes it all worthwhile, even if this is his first role in a film. Ironically, the film is about unemployed actors looking for work. Well, it's not about them looking, it's more about them getting high and drunk and living from one day to the next looking for the next source of booze.The emotions of these impaired people are made extremely clear by the subtle but smart dialogue and the great acting of all involved. It reminded me of Trainspotting a bit, since the story is basically about drug and/or alcohol addled friends and the wonderful time one can have in this company, but also the trap that it lays for someone trying to live in the modern society. Meet the last thespian barbarians, living their lives as they see fit, while they still can, before the future catches up with them.On one side the film kind of bored me, as the scenes were slow and uneventful, on the other it fascinated me to see the great acting and to get the characters. It is also a subtle satire on the British society, starting with people waking up to read all those ridiculous news about crimes and corruption, and ending with a grandstanding description of we live in a kingdom of rains where royalty comes in gangs, while the middle of the film is just people trying to survive without being part of that world.Worth a watch, definitely a good movie, just make sure you are in the mood for a slow dialogue driven film. "},{"Title":"My favourite film of all time!- You can watch it a million times, and it will never get old!","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Withnail and I is my favourite film. It is the story of two resting or unemployed actors living, drinking, and existing in their cheap Camden flat. They decide to take a break from life in general and take a break in Withnail's uncles country home, but things take a turn as they try to avoid strange locals, and Monty's amorous intentions. While struggling to find food and firewood. Even a stopped clock gives the right time twice a dayWithnail contains the three best characters ever committed to film each with there own hilarious faults and great merits. Withnail is hilarious, and played brilliantly by Richard E Grant, so much so that even the line No can get a million laughs. Marwood is equally funny but also provides deep and meaningful dialogue that makes it so much more then a comedy. Finally, in his best role, Richard Griffiths shines as Monty, a madman and a Blatant Homosexual, who desires Marwood much to his despair. All three are memorable, funny, and much more then 1 dimensional.Withnail and I is the funniest film I have ever seen. Not just because of the characterisation. If it was just these characters doing day to day business it would still be funny, but the situation in this film is ingenious. Combine comedy genius and a sad, moving tale of friendship, desire, and the end of an era and you get not just the best comedy of all time but the best drama of all time too.It means something, and you can't imagine how someone could think of such a movie, it's pure genius.If you haven't seen it. Watch it right now, then watch it again! "},{"Title":"Full marks","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 10 out of 10? Really? Yes. This beautifully written, superbly performed movie deserves nothing less.Maybe to get the very best out of WITHNAIL AND I, some knowledge of the English obsession with class would be helpful. And maybe too some sense of what the 1960s represented for the principal characters. But even without all that, its depiction of mutual dependency growing into estrangement is so tenderly done that the film transcends any specific time and place. It's the splitting up of a double act taking place before our very eyes.Funny and sad. Just like life.Perfect.Full marks. "},{"Title":"Withnail and I  Bruce Robinson's superb tale about the mad world of failed actors.","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Each national film industry has its own profitable crop of films dubbed as Cult films. British cinema got lucky in 1987, a year when director Bruce Robinson's autobiographical tale 'Withnail and I' achieved enormous critical success partly due to its highly unusual portrayal of 'artistic angst' of its two young protagonists. Although it was made in 1987, Withnail and I remained too frank in its portrayal of 'drug culture' experienced by youngsters in 1960s. A viewer would simply have to cast a glance at the way all important drug talk was depicted in this film. In the last three decades of British cinema, a handful of films can boast of having a marked presence of rural Britain.'Withnail and I' turned out to be a major exception to this rule. It showed vast expanses of rural hinterlands where farmers have no difficulties in getting their daily ration of meat and vegetables. Bruce Robinson's film succeeded as it revealed a 'never before seen' facet of poor,ordinary Britons in an honest tale about a journey into 'self exploration' undertaken by two unknown actors. British actors Richard E. Grant and Paul McGann brought more than perfect dignity in their roles as two failed as well as unlucky actors 'Withnail' and 'Marwood'. The film also features a powerful performance by actor Richard Griffiths as an aged homosexual. His performance is so convincing that out of sheer resentment, some intolerant viewers might develop a feeling of homophobia. Lastly, any good actor must be prepared for all times whether bad or good as success is not easy to come. This is precisely why Withnail and I  questions why some actors are not so lucky. As Withnail and I continues to enjoy a cult films status and is available on DVD, it would be a great idea to watch it in order to understand a time when drugs were considered important by youngsters. "},{"Title":"A compulsory cult classic","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Comedy is seen as an everlasting stable of the British film industry and British culture in general. There are many great comedies from the nation and one of the most highly regarded films is Bruce Robinson's semi-biographical film, Withnail and I.Withnail (Richard E. Grant) and the unnamed I (Paul McGann) are two unemployed actors living in a squalid flat in Camden Town, London in 1969. Withnail is highly theatrical alcoholic and I is a more level headed and neurotic personality. Desperate to get away from London, Withnail asks his flamboyant Uncle Monty (Richard Griffiths) to stay in his cottage in the Lake District. But the pair's friendship is tested, due to the dilapidated conditions of the cottage, horrible wet weather, hostile locals and Monty' s sexual advances towards I.Withnail and I was a big flop when it was first released back in 1987 but found a second life thanks to the home video market and most importantly of all, university film societies. Now, the film is a cult classic, seen as compulsory viewing for any university student who considers themselves a film fan in the UK.There are two key reasons why Withnail and I is such a beloved film, the first being the script (particularly the dialogue) and the performances from Grant and McGann. Withnail and I is very quotable film, filled with witty and hilarious monologues and exchanges between the characters, as they navigate through more farcical situations together.Grant and McGann had a great working relationships, providing plenty of comic energy and had the chemistry the film needed. Grant was able to brings a lot of bravado as Withnail who has a theatrical delivery and attire, while McGann is the straight-man of the pair, yet still provides plenty of laughs. Both actors complemented Robinson's dialogue, enhancing the comedy, while Robinson uses a few visual gags and set pieces to make the audience laugh.Along with Grant and McGann, Withnail and I features a memorable supporting cast of British and Irish actors. The most notable are Griffiths as Uncle Monty, who's always trying get his way with I, yet has some moments of humanity and Danny, the philosophical drug dealer played by Alien 3's Ralph Brown. It is easy to see how Danny was an influence for the character of Super Hans in the sitcom Peep Show (if you have not seen Peep Show you should do so immediately).Withnail and I is not all comedy, it follows the old maxim of 'make them laugh, make them cry'. The friendship between Withnail and I does deteriorate during their holiday and the ending is tender, sombre and respectful towards the characters.Withnail and I is a classic comedy because its fantastically written characters, their dialogue with each other and the performances from the whole cast. There is a great recreation of the 1960s with a soundtrack featuring the likes of Jimi Hendrix and The Beatles.Withnail and I also spawned a drinking game where participants need to copy what Withnail drinks this features nine and half glasses of red wine, half a pint of cider, two and half shots of gin, six glasses of sherry, thirteen glasses of whisky, half a pint of ale and a shot of lighter fluid. If you try this, you will most certainly need your stomach pumped. "},{"Title":"Fear and Loathing in the Moors","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This takes a pretty ferocious look at modern life, a gray British life to be sure but it more generally directs its disillusionment towards a global generation that could even faintly remember the Stones and Vietnam, or at least grew up on that certain charged dream.It is about the dissatisfaction bred by city life, the misery and sense of sickness, more pronounced of course. Now we have settled down, we are beginning find transcendence in this world. Two down-on-their-luck actors take a trip to the countryside, there fail to find much cleansing and report back to normative life, Withnail to return to his hazy half- life of drinking and vexation, the narrator to go on to a 'normal' life.Their groundlessness with all its freedom has no reflection merely anxiety and madness, and finding an anchor, as it happens in the end, means becoming an actor on the stage, assuming again the old narrative. Sure it is hilarious to watch, but deep down it is a tremendously sad film.Here is where another quality of the film manifests, British. The Brits are trapped in a historical narrative, anchored in Shakespeare and the old empire. Their films when they channel that self are verbose, logical, theatrical, hardly visual outside a square narrative space. Smart, expertly narrated, impeccably acted; but hardly what I'd call contemplative.Lawrence of Arabia could only find contemplation in a desert that was precisely somewhere else, by adopting a new self for whom that desert could be an uncertain abode. For Dennis Potter, closer to my taste, the encounter with the viewer who looks back at himself happened in old songs and movies.So when the Brits rebel against that which is so ingrained in them, story, the results generally tend to be thin. Merely squashing story is liberating enough, refreshing of its own. This is not so thin as the Pythons but still in a similar vein of situational disorder, skidding from one prank to the next. Implicitly, however, the filmmaker who also wrote this, knows that he is not doing a collection of skits. The film's title is a clue. There is an I here for whom the story exists as both world and hazy recollection. A writer, one of the two actors, is our troubled narrator, Withnail a sort of fractured self lost in delirium and outgrown in the end.So we have this British rebellion against the yoke of narrative in a clear way. Everywhere they go they become actors, they constantly reinvent themselves, imagine narrative, you'll see this in every situation from the scuffle in the pub early to the poacher who is out to kill them.And this yields both comedy and inner pain, coming from a sensitivity to the cruelties of normalcy. It's as if life cannot be approached simply, the absurd spectacle reconciled with, say a poacher with eels down his pants&#x97;it is to them a source of fear and vexation precisely because it doesn't make much apparent sense. This gonzo style obviously emulates Hunter Thompson, in fact the promotional material for the film are designed in Thompson's vein by his cartoonist since the Kentucky Derby days, Steadman. Gilliam in his Fear and Loathing went overboard in trying to actually portray a drugged perception, but it was his way of preserving the essence of a world at a certain remove and the self tearing at the viewing walls.It fits here like a charm against the mannered world of the Brits until the silly bit with the gay uncle derails the second half&#x97;from that point because suddenly the urges make sense, there is story and it is pretty unambiguous and certain. So unwittingly it falls back to that British trap that it was trying to claw its way from.The filmmaker would return to Thomson with Rum Diary, this much better captures the spirit. "},{"Title":"I didn't get it either, but I suspect it is an age thing","Date":"22 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You can admire the acting (especially of Griffiths and Grant; I tended to find McGann more irritating than amusing or enlightening), but that is about it for me, I am afraid and this otherwise had very little to appeal to an oldie like me. I have not got the faintest idea where the scores of quotable quotes others have referred to are to be found in the film (I have had a fee ales - not really Oscar Wilde, is it?) while I found the 'plot' (thinner than the side of a paper bag used to transport a cup of soup) lacking in any real interest or amusement, let alone insight. As regards the latter, I can only imagine this film would appal to early-/mid-twenty somethings who are in the process of saying good-bye to student life and are beginning to look back on this phase of their lives with nostalgia before having to think about such horrors of post-univ life as getting up at a set time, wearing a suit or trying to get a mortgage. If they enjoy it and find it a modern British classic, good for them as I doubt, by the same token, they would find much in a film which meant quite a lot to me at their age such as Electrical Glide in Blue. (The moving finger writes.....) "},{"Title":"Reprobates Rule in this British Cult Classic","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is the second time I've watched this movie - with a mere 20 year gap in between viewings - and I can honestly say it's as brilliant as I remembered and still made me want to live the life of a reprobate, booze-swilling, drug-chomping, out of work actor, lounging around in a smoking jacket or madly running round the Welsh countryside being chased by angry locals- despite the fact that that romantic idyll is so thoroughly de-bunked in 'Withnail & I'. For some reason, the film can't help one view Withnail and Marwood's 'bohemian' lifestyle through rose-tinted spectacles.Withnail, an unemployed and (for all intents and purposes), unemployable actor is an inspired act by Richard E. Grant and Marwood, his long suffering friend, is portrayed skillfully by Paul McGann. The two degenerates have sunk to the very depths of squalor and despair and live surrounded (and drowning) in their own filth and detritus. Withnail is the perfect stingingly aloof, uncaring 'angry young man', immersed in self-destruction and the very epitome of a self-destructive, sneering, middle class intellectual that only the British could engender. Marwood cares a mite more and eventually becomes somewhat concerned about their situation the copious amounts of drugs they ingest, the money they don't have and the terrible state of their health and surroundings. Facing the kitchen sink (and the horrors that lurk therein) appears to be the turning point when they both realise they have 'have to get away from it all'. At this point it would be very remiss of me not to bestow praise upon Ralph Brown, who plays Danny, the stereotypical monotone, ever-stoned, ever-present drug dealer, who, while appearing and sounding like he doesn't have many brain cells left, actually provides a quirky brand of mindfulness, wisdom and calm in the face of his clients' drug induced bouts of terror. When things can't get any worse for the hapless duo, Withnail remembers that his rich Uncle Monty has a 'cottage' in Wales that could be just the ticket for their escape from the filth, drugs and self induced paranoia that have become the very essence of their dissolute London life.The thing about 'Withnail & I' is that the plot really doesn't matter; it's all about the characters, the dialogue, the milieu and the emergence of a generation of 'drop outs' who just don't care about societal conventions and yet hold on to a strong sense of self-entitlement; as such, this movie effortlessly provides entertaining, hilarious, 'black' and addictive cinema. It captures so many quintessential elements of British culture from the all too obvious class system, to the rolling countryside, stone fences, and patchwork fields, to the emerging culture and the ways in which characters of Withnail and Marwood's ilk attempt to rebel against the social order. Despite their intellectual prowess, the two miscreants have no practical skills whatsoever, resulting in much hilarity (for the viewer) as they lurch about the countryside, supremely inept at 'living off the land', or even making it to the shops. Uncle Monty, played by Richard Griffiths, is perfect for the part and his lascivious pursuit of Marwood results in the ultimate bedroom farce.Withnail and I is a cult classic, from its excellent and fitting soundtrack to its perfect depiction of the privileged, over educated and willfully unemployed generation of that time. If you appreciate good movies and haven't seen it - YOU MUST! "},{"Title":"Very entertaining... if a bit crazy!","Date":"8 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw this film many years ago when I stumbled in one night from the pub. I don't remember much about it except that there was a drinking game associated with it&#x85; after that it all became a blur. So, many years later and much more sober I decided the time had come to give it another try, but this time without the obligatory drinking game. What I found was a quite bizarre, at times, tale that was not only entertaining, but also pretty funny too.Withnail and his flatmate, Marwood, are two out of work actors who have a hard time keeping a grip on reality. To put it very mildly, they both like a drink and Withnail, in particular, will go to extraordinary lengths to satisfy his lust for the booze. Dissatisfied with the situation in London, Marwood persuades Withnail to get his uncle, Monty, to let them stay at his cottage in the Lake District. The pair drive up there only to find that life in the countryside is quite different to life in the city. They soon find their feet though, but have a bit of a run in with a local poacher. Uncle Monty drops in unexpectedly and pays Marwood a lot more attention than he would like. Can he get out of the situation with everything intact? Will Withnail stop drinking long enough to care? Will either of them ever find a paying job? All these and many more questions are answered in this interesting and amusing film.The film is set in 1969 and a few of the songs that were popular at the time litter the soundtrack. This includes a snatch of 'While My Guitar Gently Weeps' by Executive Producer, George Harrison. Great performances all round, particularly from Richard E. Grant as Withnail and Paul McGann as Marwood, both really threw themselves into the parts. Also, Richard Griffiths was superb as the camp Uncle Monty. A special mention for Ralph Brown as their crazy friend Danny, a part he reprised (in the guise of Del Preston) in the 1993 film Wayne's World 2.This is very much a character driven piece, and what characters we are given to enjoy. They are all larger than life, but are all people it's possible to spot, if you do enough people watching that is. Although the plot was a little weak, I found after a while that didn't matter, the people are just so entertaining&#x85; Recommended.My Score 7.5/10 "}{"Title":"at loose ends","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A pair of unambitious young actors face the bitter end of the 1960s with a mixture of suspicion, fear, and the sort of paranoia brought about by long stretches of enforced boredom and too many hallucinogenic drugs. In a desperate attempt to 'get away from it all', the arrogant, high-strung Withnail and his equally neurotic companion trade their seedy urban flat (in which all sorts of loathsome creatures lurk among the dirty clothes and unwashed dishes) for the even more claustrophobic confinement of a rustic country cabin. There they encounter more than one unexpected bucolic peril a recalcitrant chicken; a seemingly antagonistic poacher; and finally Withnail's amorous Uncle Monty, an aging pederast pursuing his nephew's terrified, homophobic friend.No one who lived through the '60s is likely to remember the decade quite like this...but of course no one who drank as much liquor or dropped as many pills as the arrogant Withnail and his anonymous roommate is likely to remember much of anything. Writer-director Bruce Robinson lends a disarming comic masochism to his own loosely rendered autobiography, creating an oddly eccentric (but not unkind) portrait of two misfits on the edge of a society in transit, both of them out of touch with changing times and facing an uncertain future with equal parts contempt (from Withnail) and paranoia (from his anxious companion).The film itself is only slightly more eccentric than its characters, but such offbeat originality could only have come from personal experience, and Robinson (author of 'The Killing Fields', and the otherwise unnamed 'I' in this film's title) fills in the blanks with caustic black humor and 20-20 hindsight. Even the flamboyantly self-centered, cynical Withnail earns a degree of sympathy by the film's end, as he wanders off into the rain, a soon to be forgotten relic who couldn't quite adapt to changing times. "},{"Title":"Review Withnail & I","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Even a stopped clock tells the right time twice a day, and for once I'm inclined to believe Withnail is right. We are indeed drifting into the arena of the unwell Based on Bruce Robinson's autobiography tells a story when he was a struggling actor in 1960's. Withnail & I is a story about two unemployed actors who sharing a same apartment in London suburb. Marwood (Paul McGann who is channeling Bruce Robinson's life) is neurotic, hypochondriac, soft-spoken young lad. While Withnail (Richard E. Grant, in his first collaboration with the director), is the other way around. He's vicious, vulgar and simply arrogant human being. But, be that as it may, two of them have one thing in common. They're confused kids who can't find a way to move on with their life. Withnail is prestige drama-school graduated but now too proud to accept the role when he's not a lead. Marrow is also too scared to audition and thinking that Withnail is his only true friend whom he cannot leave behind.Fed up with city lifestyle, two people decided to spend their (deservedly) holiday in a countryside cottage provided by Withnail's gay uncle, Monty (Richard Griffiths). Things quite weren't working out as they planned. The cottage is rotten. People weren't really friendly. And some blokes in a bar threatened to take their life. And the worst part of all, Uncle Monty decided to come to his own cottage in order to hit on Marwood (whom he thinks so adorable).There isn't much of a plot or something that will happen in the film. But Withnail & I is constant cult favorite because of their witty dialogs. You can simply quote those all day without running out of a line. It's a nostalgic piece for everybody who fond of that era. It's also timeless great character study drama. Because people usually go through the same phase as those characters for once in their life, and at the end of the line, you are either Withnail or Marwood.There's also subtle sexual intension between those two friends. Even though there is a comic situation when Uncle Monty came on to Marwood, but as the main plot goes, the film is clever enough to let people work it out on their own interpretations. Who knows that why on earth Marwood decides to stick his life with Withail until this far? Or how come Withnail is heart breaking when he heard his mate saying goodbye to him? I think that is audience's job to decide.And that's lead to a final moment when Withnail deliver his tantalizing epilogue. It isn't just the director want to give an audience some closer that might suddenly come out of nowhere, but instead it's carefully constructed into the film. It is the line in William Shakespeare's Hamlet which is mentioned once when Uncle Monty talks about his glory past. It's also an important moment for us because, for the first time in movie, Withnail finally opens his heart to himself (and the audience). He delivered it so brilliant that it finally show how capable he is and how is considered to be one magnificent actor. It's sad to see him commits self-destructive life-style throughout the film and, by that, ruining his life and probably destroy his soul forever after finishing that speech.BloodyMonday Rating 3/4 "},{"Title":"Splendidly squalid","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Bruce Robinson's celebrated cult film features the splendidly squalid lives of a pair of rather theatrical actors Withnail (Richard E. Grant in a career-defining role) and the slightly saner narrator, played by Paul McGann. Among the supporting cast, Richard Griffiths shines brightest through the rain. The film touches on some deep themes the end of youth; and the end of the 1960s; but mostly it's just great fun, frequently surprising the viewer with brilliantly conceived touches. One interesting point is how distant the era depicted appears from our own even though the lives we see are fairly grotesque in some ways, there's also an innocence here lacking from our own age. A highly original movie, it deserves its classic status. "},{"Title":"Best of British","Date":"8 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When a friend regards his need for the high life, over your unambiguous heterosexuality, its a small price to pay. Withnail & I is one of those rare movies that gets better with each viewing. Bruce Robinson's writing is such, that the film ages very well, like a fine wine lost in an old dusty cellar. Richard E Grant portrays Withnail, a witty booze artist. Paul McGann plays I (Marwood), his suffering muse . Grant's acting got him noticed, and kick started a successful career. The two leads head up a fantastic cast, least to mention Richard Griffith's hilarious uncle Monty, and Ralph Brown's unforgettable Danny. With laughs a plenty, a tear or two, and superb comic acting, Withnail & I is quite frankly, not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Bizarrely, W&I didn't meet with universal approval on its release","Date":"31 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A peerless comedy, acted with skill, superbly written and directed, what I find interesting about this film more than 20 years after its release is how timeless it is. But its cult status could not foreseen back in 1987 when it first saw the light of day. I was reminded of this the other day when someone said they had seen it when it came out and the audience reaction was strangely mixed a few people laughing until they choked, while dozens of others sat impassively throughout the duration of the film. This was also my experience; those, like me, barely able to breathe for laughing, while around us sat many people simply motionless. Bizarrely, W&I appears to be one of those otherwise classic films that only works for some, although I have to say how anyone could be unmoved by it remains a mystery to me... "},{"Title":"Summer of '69.","Date":"1 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A celebration of English eccentricity with hilarious episodes en route taking in attitudes to drinking, authority, drugs and class in a rollicking comedy peopled with fantastic characters. Set in the wet summer of 1969, it's also about the come-down after the summer of love and revolution years of 1967 and 1968 as Withnail (and I) move in and out of various stages of intoxication to get through their grim existence.To escape their filthy squat and state of unemployment, they embark on a weekend in the country at Withnail's camper-than-Butlins older Uncle Monty who has his beady eyes on Paul McGann's I and can't resist turning up to attempt to have his way with him. This is probably the comic highlight of the film, with Richard Griffiths' passionate intent (literally) up against McGann's terrified reserve in a scene that'll have you squirming and giggling at the same time. There are other funny scenes too, as the drunken duo alight on a posh tea-shop as well as Withnail's brush with the law after being caught drink- driving, where his carefully worked-out anti-breathalyser strategy comes unstuck.That said, there's pathos in the ending too with Withnail's bemoaning the loss of his friend of the summer, declaiming Shakespeare in the pouring rain, leaving the impression that the film is also about this intense sometimes bizarre moments you go through and then look back in with a mixture of pleasure and incredulity, but also sadness for their passing.It's impossible not to like both leads, Richard E Grant, in particular, creating an iconic character study in dissipation while McGann is just as good in the less showy part of his partner in crime. Griffiths almost steals the film with his turn as the blinded-by-lust uncle, but really all three actors inhabit their parts terrifically well, although you'll be glad you only had to witness rather live through this particular weekend. "},{"Title":"I feel like a pig shat in my head.","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I spent considerable time years ago as an officer in a veterans group. This meant I was in the post lounge frequently. I saw many veterans consume alcohol to the point of death. In fact, it was so long ago that most of them are probably dead by now.Alcohol is not a subject for comedy. I am probably one of the few that did not laugh at Arthur, or at this film. Admittedly, I did chuckle at the chicken in the oven scene, but that was it.Having said that, Richard E. Grant and Paul McGann were magnificent as the two friends that supported each others alcohol and drug habits. One could hardly believe that they played the parts sober; they were just that convincing.You can laugh at the silly situations they get themselves into,and at Uncle Monty (Richard Griffiths), but you can't help but feel sad for their choices in life. "},{"Title":"One of the finest films ever to grace the world of cinema.","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If I had to sum up this beautiful film in three words I would describe it as humane,honest and stunningly authentic.It combines the best of so many worlds.Comedy at it's best and the never-ending search of ones self that we all face in our every day lives.And the relationship between us and those we care about.The film is witty and also unashamedly frank in its delivery. Richard E Grant, who in my humble opinion is one of the finest actors in cinema is absolutely amazing in this film.Everything you would expect from a seasoned actor. He delivers his performance with such passion ,and truth and in the end scene his superb,emotive acting will have you in tears.Paul Mcgann is also excellent in his role as Marwood. The cast of quirky,flamboyant,comical characters will also have you in stitches.Trust me you will laugh until your stomach hurts. We ,all as human beings have goals and dreams we want to accomplish and as individuals we all go about in many different ways.And in our search for truth things don't always go to plan and along the way we are all faced with situations that leave us wondering what destiny really has in store for us.Even though this film was made before I was born,its definitely a film for all ages.one many can relate to.A film that although for some may leave a pensive mood due to the misfortune of its main characters ,it will also for many leave a perpetual smile on their faces.For me it did.A feel good film with heart.A film that showcases what a truly talented writer Bruce robinson is. A movie you can watch and throughly enjoy with friends or enjoy when you're by yourself. Without doubt ,Withnail and I is one of the finest films to come out of Britain and will remain for many cinema-goers a true masterpiece.A deeply moving film that stays in your heart long after the credits roll. Mr Robinson I salute you ,for making a fim that is not only a work of art but also a piece a cinema that reaches the soul.Notable scenes-Lighter fluid scene -tearoom scene-meeting monty -final scene "},{"Title":"One of the best British films ever","Date":"4 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of the best British films ever, according to its many fanatics, and one of the biggest cult movies, Withnail and I is the story of two unemployed actors, Withnail and Marwood (or simply I), living in Camden Town, London, in the 60s, and desperately trying to survive. They live in a very shabby and dirty flat, drinking and doing drugs, whilst waiting for the big chance, or at least a small part, just to make some cash. The script contains a vast array of witty punch lines, and there are many famous quotes off the film, especially lines belonging to Withnail, such as I must have some booze. I demand to have some booze, or I want something's flesh. The amount of alcohol drunk by Withnail during the film is life-threatening, and one can find on the net the complete list of such drinks, also associated to drinking games.The character of Uncle Monty plays an interesting counterpoint to Withnail, highlighting even more his dysfunctional histrionics; Monty the well-spoken, Monty the prominently homosexual uncle, quoting poems, lover of all things beautiful, to whom Withnail tries to offer Marwood as a sacrificial lamb, in order to achieve his goal. But, then again, it is Marwood the real 'nemesis' to Withnail, and all the more so because he is not openly against him, he does not, generally speaking, antagonize him, but his actions, and the results of those actions, will serve as a clue to the attentive viewer to uncover a deeper symbolic level to the film.The film could be defined tragic-comic, or a dark comedy; the story is based on director Bruce Robinson's own experience, whilst living in Camden in the 60s, and it must be a way of life many of us have experienced in London, at one time or another, albeit maybe not as extreme as we see in the movie. Probably, this element must have contributed to the enthusiasm the film generated in so many people. "},{"Title":"Not just a comedy","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of the funniest movies I know, but its reputation as an all-time great comedy can set up false expectations. There are more funny lines and great quotes in this movie than any comedy I've ever seen -- but its overall mood is an elegy. The first time I watched it, I was out of sync. People told me it was a riot of laughs, so I was caught off guard by its much more mixed atmosphere. I laughed, but wasn't expecting the melancholy. When I watched it again, with different expectations, I found it both funnier and sadder, simultaneously -- and that feeling grows with every viewing.It is brilliantly written, acted, and produced. Don't miss it, but don't expect it to be light. "}{"Title":"Ice in the cider","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Like a slow-burning Camberwell Carrot, Withnail And I (in novel, script and movie form) has been passed around intoxicated fans for decades. And, like a good joke and a fine wine, the story improves with age. The movie's belated resurrection through university halls, on video and DVD, scooping up legions of dialogue-quoters, copycat drinkers, and trivia fiends in its wake, has seen it become one of the most beloved films of the past 20 years, owing to its pitch-perfect performances (Richard E Grant, in particular, has reluctantly coasted on his splenetic debut ever since), the unshowy direction (no jokes), the music - and, of course, that fantastic (and fantastically quotable) dialogue, much of which has since entered the language. Withnail And I has entered the pantheon of true British classics, surpassing even its original cult status; a rare accolade. Yet for all the glorious bad behaviour and gleeful antics associated with the movie and its devotees, it's profoundly melancholic; the ending, one of the most moving ever seared into celluloid. Much of this sense of sadness undoubtedly springs from Robinson, whose personal history (and the story, in fact, behind Withnail And I, for the two are indelibly linked) has since passed into legend. The result is a tragi-comic masterpiece, an incisive essay on male companionship, suffused with a peculiarly English sense of schadenfreude; and befitting its origins, gilded in grief throughout. Withnail And I is a deliberately crusted over paint pot in place of the psychedelic colours of the 1960s are the colours of mourning and loss - autumnal browns, lethargic greys and dismal blacks, stippled into the frame on Robinson's insistence. Aside from the legend 'Camden 1969' at the film's beginning (and signs for the M25 accidentally finding their way into the picture), Withnail also has the curious distinction of being both timeless, and a comment on its time - meaning the time it was first released, the 1980s, a decade when heritage films proliferated; period pictures such as Chariots Of Fire and the Merchant-Ivory productions harked back to the Tory ideal of England, a patriotic escapism from the troubles of Thatcherism. Robinson refuses to buy into the fantasy poverty, drugs, housing problems, homophobia, racism and unemployment were all fixtures of the 1960s - and the 1980s. Retreating to the English pastoral won't help Withnail and Marwood. Apart from one rare moment of stillness, a beautiful country dawn rising over the lakes, the pair find only horror there. Bulls run amok, locals greet their overtures with suspicion, the rain is constant, the darkness blinding. Stephen Poliakoff's Close My Eyes similarly subverts any notion of a peaceful wood beyond the world - where even a glide down a sun-dappled provincial river is fraught with potential danger. Robinson says that the symbolism of Marwood's haircut at the end of the film was prompted by the horror of Thatcherism coming along, and in Uncle Monty's post-prandial diatribe and Danny's stoned soliloquy there's much that resonates with the era's malaise. Danny's portentous musing is precipitous indeed; the stock market crash and inevitable recession was just around the corner. (Robinson's follow up, How To Get Ahead In Advertising, bombed at the box office, having replaced Withnail's subtle digs with a steamrolling anti-Thatcherism polemic.) Withnail ends the film howling Hamlet's soliloquy, the greatest performance he'll ever give, to a couple of disinterested spectators in the rain. For 170 years this little corner of Regent's Park, an overspill from London Zoo, housed a pack of wolves. During full moons, sad souls would congregate to listen to the creatures as they howled at the silver disc. Bram Stoker came to study them for 'Dracula', while Ted Hughes sought solace here following the death of Sylvia Path, empathising with their lonely moans. In 1998 the last two ageing inhabitants - presumably the ones from the movie - were removed, having outlasted Withnail himself, Vivian MacKerrell. Through Withnail And I, his mischievous legacy, for good or ill, lives on. "},{"Title":"A laugh out loud classic","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I had of course heard of this film but somehow I'd managed to avoid watching it until today... having just finished watching it I must say I regret waiting so long; it is the funniest film I've seen for a long time. The laughs don't come from gags and slapstick but from a genuinely witty script delivered brilliantly by Richard E. Grant and Paul McGann as their characters struggle to find food and a way to keep warm in London and later in a farmhouse near Penrith... somehow they don't have a problem acquiring alcohol or drugs.Set at the end of the 1960s the film follows the lives of two out of work actors; Withnail played by Richard E. Grant and the unnamed narrator (I) played by Paul McGann. They live in a squalid north London flat where they are cold and hungry. They have the idea to go out of town for a bit and talk Witgnail's uncle Monty into letting them stay in his farm house in the Lake District. When they get there it is pouring with rain, they have no food or firewood. Their attempts go feed themselves include dealing with a live chicken, a run in with the local poacher and hunting for eels with a shot gun... all laugh out loud scenes which all manage to seem like something that might happen rather than something included as a gag. It seems that they are saved when Uncle Marty turns up and provides food... unfortunately he has come up because he has taken a liking to I and is determined to bed him.The film has a great cast all of whom deliver their lines perfectly, even minor roles are memorable. Normally when I watch a comedy alone I just smile or occasionally giggle at the funny scenes but here I found myself laughing out loud many times. Like many great comedies there is an feeling that it could easily switch to tragedy.If you haven't seen this already don't delay like I did, watch it at the first chance you get. "},{"Title":"This is a film about two peoples lives who run parallel for a period","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My summary is the opening line in The Motorcycle Diaries and this film explores exactly the same themes (Time, Shared Space, Friction, Differing Goals, and lastly, Coming of Age) or is it the other way round as Withnail and I the film, was created some 20 years before.An earlier review indicated that he felt the movie is about repressed friendship and I agree. There are too many hidden emotions regarding class and social rank for Withnail to properly respect his flatmate Marwood.Almost everyone has been Withnail at some stage in their lives whereas you have to reach a particular crossroads in life before you become Marwood.This film to me is much less about quotable lines and comedy, much more it is an education regarding the importance of having proper relationships and friendships as opposed to mere acquaintances. And how many films can say that? "},{"Title":"A simple story made great by brilliant dialogue.","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is truly one of my favourites. It is one of those films that are complete in every way- the acting is superb (esp. Richard E. Grant), the story is brilliant, the dialogue is a joy to watch.Goes to show that even a simple story can work perfectly without muddying it with unnecessary over plotting. The fantastic dialogue and biting humour drives us forward.The 60's setting is spot on - you would never know it was filmed in the 1980's!Well acted, funny, hilarious. Pure dry wit. A CLASSIC. "},{"Title":"Something very special.","Date":"22 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is sublime... a masterpiece. and though I and many other find it incredibly funny, (possibly the funniest i've ever seen) it's not a comedy film in the sense that is so popular today. it's a portrayal of an era, and the end of the era, and the sadness of things coming to an end... and in this inevitable sadness there can be derived humour. not in the sense expected by the vast majority of people expecting instant kicks and one liners.The comedy is in the heartache and sadness of the two characters and they're Finlay crafted and delivered dialogue between the two. i can fully understand the majority not finding it funny eg the young without a sense of empathy or perhaps most non British movie viewers as the irony and melancholy are woefully thickly clad in every scene.a film with sublime characters... practically no plot and sparse but perfectly selected soundtrack. it generates so much atmosphere that it makes even the yolk fallout out of an fried egg sandwich humorous.... Sheer genius. "},{"Title":"Great Classic","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Never viewed this film until just recently when it was shown on TCM and found the film full of laughter and at times it was depressing and sad. Withnail, (Richard E. Grant) plays the role as an actor who cannot seem to find very much work and he lives with another actor named Marwood, (Paul McGann) who is also in the same situation. They live in a filthy apartment with plenty of empty booze bottles and piles of garbage throw all over the place and dirt dishes piled high up in the kitchen sink. These two characters are decided to get away from the city life for a weekend and convince an uncle to let them stay at his stone cottage in the country farm land. These two actors gave an outstanding performance which makes this a Classic Cult film which can be viewed over and over again. "},{"Title":"Get in the Back of the Van!","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A perfect marriage of writing and acting, Richard E. Grant gives one of the best performances ever put to film! I mean.. He's off his rock! He plays a vain, snooty, but intelligent and quick witted freeloader who seems destined for better things, but is stuck in a perpetual state of alcohol withdrawal and frustration. His bulging eyes, pallid skin tone, and manic voice are what make this performance electrify everything else in the film into second place. It is a hilarious film, in a very 'British' sense, in that it is dark and intelligent, while still offering lines that rival those in the best and oft quoted comedy films. There are simply so many scenes that stick out, I am so glad to read here that Bruce Robinson will be directing the next Hunter Thompson film, after disappearing from the radar for the past several years. I recommend 'How to Get Ahead in Advertising' as a follow up or primer to this film, they share a lot of the same blood.. "},{"Title":"Withnail and I","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Two down-on-their-luck actors awaiting that chance to be on stage must overcome the obstacles of poverty while also battling various addictions. Withnail(Richard E Grant who is excellent)and Marwood(Paul McGann who also narrates)are pretty fed up with the city and take to the countryside for some rest and relaxation from their horribly unkempt, rat-infested flat in London. Surviving there will be easier with Monty(Richard Griffiths)furnishing food and wine hoping to land in the sack with Marwood who finds that his good ole pal Withnail has told his uncles lies regarding their relationship. Sufficed to say, Marwood is placed in a difficult predicament when Monty advances his feelings of sexual adoration one night with a drunken Withnail in the other room. The film provides us with the hilarious drug-dealer, Danny(Ralph Brown)who supplies them pot as they often lend him a place amongst them in their dirty flat. The film's mystery is will either of these two ever make it in the acting world or struggle to lead a normal existence with actual money lining their pockets.The film's narrative thread is thin, but the film is a droll comedy on the aspects of surviving on literally nothing but ingenuity from day to day dreaming that the letter will come to inform them of that major part which might change their lives forever. The leads are terrific and the dialogue rich. Witty and introspective, the film looks like it cost as much as the lead characters have in their pockets. That's an appealing quality I think. "},{"Title":"Soaking The British Countryside In Alcohol; Deserving The Cult Acclaim For Being A Natural Comedy With A Coarse Edge","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The 80s was quite possibly the worst decade for film; it was a decade of odd style and where the action blockbuster would rule the film industry, since then blockbusters have been the big thing. There is something that stands out about the 80s though which was a truly landmark time for independent American cinema and British cinema. The standout British films of the 80s are The Long Good Friday, Brazil, The Elephant Man, Monty Python and The Meaning Of Life and of course the cult masterpiece Withnail & I. Few British comedies over the past 15 or so years have matched the same level rare ambiguity.Withnail & I follows the outings of two lazy, low-life, and ex-university students who are failing in their careers to become actors. They are fed up with life and what life has to offer them and so spend their days intoxicating their sorrowful downfalls in life. Feeling the need to get of the bombsite they dwell in, decide to take a trip up North to Withnail's Uncle's country cottage. The film from then on follows their day-to-day antics&#133; Withnail & I has become somewhat of a cult success among British students and middle aged men who can quote the script as well as they understand the film's subtext on friendship. Possibly the most famous aspect of Withnail & I is the alcohol and on the surface it's a more gritty version of 2004's American masterwork Sideways (there might possibly be a certain influence there). Some of the film's drinking games have become an iconic part of pub culture today. If you're tempted to become a die-hard Withnail & I fan then make sure you don't miss-quote and you use the quote with heart.Withnail & I is clearly a personal story to Bruce Robinson and so it feels more realistic. The trials and tribulations of the pair's friendship certainly makes everything feel far more accurate and a rational look at friendship. The contrast between the pair is superb; both of them have completely different interpretations on morals. Withnail being the kind who basically doesn't give a damn about anything and I being the kind who'll want to be more rational about a situation.I personally feel the best part of the film is the script, which is sharp, unpredictable, British and certainly quotable. The dialogue perfectly intertwines with the scene and the sequence in the Tea Room would be the most noticeable example of this. The direction captures the gloomy weather on the wide British countryside. The shots of the muddy fields, the rolling fields and wide-open greyed motorways are all part of showing the bleak nature of the film. Beauty is in the eye of the beholder is a phrase that best suits a work like Withnail & I. The film's soundtrack is used expertly to reside by scenes and the memorable (and perfectly executed) scene involving the old banger of a car going along the road with the accompaniment of Jimmy Hendrix's All Along The Watchtower and Voodoo Child.The comedy is awkward, but hilarious all the same and indulges in its own unique style of dark satire. The film's undertones are all there and show the decay of the culture we're living in. The film uses the low budget expertly and Richard E. Grant (Withnail) manages to steal the show with his career defining performance of an enigmatic, depressed and humane failed actor. The viewer understands that he wanted to be a star, but we never truly understand the reason to why he's failed to make his way into the acting business. Richard Griffiths (I) creates his character with distinction and thrives to become the character that strives to be somebody in life. The film's few characters are all eccentrics and that's what makes them so comical and iconic.Crude, bittersweet, quirky, charismatic, personal, and vivacious, Withnail & I has a lot on offer. If you can thank anyone for this masterpiece in British comedy then it would be the late George Harrison who helped fund the work. It's a fine wine that has never been corked since release; you're going to adore the aftertaste. "},{"Title":"Superb Movie Classic","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Without a doubt my favourite movie of all time an AMAZING journey I love the movie from start to finish its brilliant. The story breaks down like this two actors (losely speaking that is) Withnail and Marwood enter the countryside into Monty's (Withnails Uncle) for a week of relaxing to rejuvenate when they succumb to hostile locals Pensioners in cottages a psychotic poacher Jake and a Randy Bull as well as Marwood having to fight off Monty who feels that Marwood is indeed an oppressed homosexual Where talking about me naked in a corner this movie is a brilliant tale with such amusing and lovable characters from Presuming Ed to Danny it is a great movie balancing wit and friendship at the end of its tether I love each moment of this great film. The soundtrack is Superb as well and each quote is a brilliant and witty one liner that sticks In total this movie is the perfect movie I cannot praise it enough and my advise is for whoever has not seen it to do so now "}{"Title":"Brilliant but maybe too close for comfort","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one excellent film. I think you have to be English to really appreciate it, maybe even to understand it. What was really scary though was how accurately it mirrored people I actually knew at university. Apart from the main characters who I'm sure were living just across the street from me, there the dope dealing room mate, the rich 'eccentric' uncle with the house in the country, the drunken barman and the poacher, well I've met them all too.I guess what makes the film so good is that it finds so much humour in real life situations (maybe rather extreme real life, but real life none the less) and doesn't have to wander off into fantasy land. Oh that other film makers would do the same. "},{"Title":"A week in the country? pah, I demand booze.","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  On 26/06/2004 I first watched Withnail and I, only weeks after asking people can they remember any good British films from the eighties. Withnail and I doesn't enter the league of 'good British movies' it ranks a lot higher than that. A basic semi-autobiography from writer/director Bruce Dickinson about two failed actors living together in a pit of hell(their house). They embark on a week in the country and the outcome is an hilarious tale of side-splitting laughter and idiocy. The storyline itself is not so strong however, this film just goes to show you don't need a great storyline to have a great film. It is a pioneer to amateur film makers and despite nearly stopping the film on the first day, it becomes my favorite British film of all time overtaking Trainspotting. Watch it, love it or loathe it, but admire the humor and great acting from Richard E.Grant and Robert McGann in for both of them, their first film roles.  "},{"Title":"My Favourite Film of All Time","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just love this film. I saw it fist at least 15 years ago then sought out the video and finally the DVD. Iv'e introduced countless others to it including my wife who also loves it. Its just a perfect film, great acting, lines you can repeat with others 'who know' like Monty Python episodes. The music is perfect, Richard E Grant and 'I' are just brilliant. The cosy sunday roast beef lucnch over a few bottles of good wine is just a perfect moment, one that stays with you. The beutiful English Lake Distric setting is also perfect as this is probaly my favourite place on earth. The end is very sad and probaly the icing on the icing of the cake is Withnails hamlet recital to the Wolves in Hyde park-Just brings tears to my eyes. For me, no film has come close to matching it, there are no special effects, bid budget actors just pure filmaking brilliance which has not been repeated since.  "},{"Title":"Superb Acting","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is truly one of my favourites. It is one of those films that are complete in every way- the acting is superb (esp. Richard E. Grant), the story is brilliant, the dialog is a joy to watch, even the background music is perfect. Most important of all though is that it is funny, hilarious. Pure dry wit. A CLASSIC  "},{"Title":"It's incredible really","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A work of art. Many a times i've sat in one of the shoeboxes that we called home (uni digs) with my friends, a large crate of beers, and just whiled the night away getting slowly p***ed, and laughing. This film HAS to be seen. "},{"Title":"The depraved and the sublime","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In a perfect world, there would be at least one movie like this released every year. In reality, it's more like one in a decade. Withnail & I has everything Laughter, suspense, confusion, decadence, poignancy, you name it. The script can only be described as unique, and the acting brings it flying into the realm of classic comedy, although any pigeonholing would be a crime here. This is a movie to be savoured, watched again and again with good friends in the knowledge that a wonderful time is guaranteed. If this one doesn't make you laugh, check yourself into the cardiothoracic ward of your local hospital. "},{"Title":"subtle comedy at its best...","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When first viewing this movie, it comes across as a very realistic, believable, good film. But as the bits of excellent dialogue filter through here and there, the comedy sneaks up on you. It gets funnier and funnier as it goes. There are so many great quotes and great scenes from this movie, that I would venture to say...& this is saying a great deal, that this movie has almost as many great quotes as a Python flick. I think this is Richard E. Grant's role of a lifetime. This is an excellent film on every level - 10/10. "},{"Title":"THE DRIPPINGS OF A THOUSAND BUTTERED CRUMPETS !!!!!!!","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  'A coward you are Withnail, an expert on bulls you are not!!!'This film is marvelous and can provide you with an array of great quotes to use down the pub!!!!!Best comedy I have ever seen and I believe Spielberg is a huge fan, so not just for a UK audience -) "},{"Title":"the nature of englishness","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  English culture at its finest. By turns funny, ironic, savage and sad. As poignant as Brideshead Revisted for those alive at the time (I dare say). Richard E Grant gives an amazing performance considering he had only been drunk once before the film was made. Now available on DVD for those learning to repeat these lines verbatim.  "},{"Title":"42% 10's 16% 9's and a 7.0 on IMDB","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK I've complained about this before ,but what gives with this rating system.  Does comedy mean two points are automatically subtracted.  This and Let It Ride are the two most underrated comedies of the last twenty years, but IMDB's awkward rating system will do nothing to help these films find the  great following that they deserve.  This is a film whose lines you will quote for years to come.  I am one of those folks who has watched it multiple times.  Being an American is a slight handicap with some of the jokes.  It takes a time or two to catch them, and that is part of the greatness of the script.  So much of the humor is contained in subtle lines that are almost dropped.  There are few characters in the history of cinema as hilarious as the drugged out Presuming Ed.  What a terrific film and yes Richard Grant did deserve an Oscar nod for his portrayal of Withnail.  Search this film out and enjoy. "}{"Title":"Probably the funniest British movie ever made!","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is an absolute classic. I've seen it more than 20 times (I know what you're thinking - I should get out more), but seriously, ever time I've seen it I find a new joke in it that I didn't see before.The performances are absolutely brilliant, and the screenplay is so well written that it is probably the funniest british movie ever made! So stop reading this and go out and hire it for one of the funniest evenings you've had in a long time. "},{"Title":"Without peer","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you want to see modern usage of the english language that is as precise and poetic as Shakespeare, this is your movie.  The lines have melody to them (Fork It!) and they nail these folks so thoroughly you will count Danny, Withnail, Monty and I as your friends.  It's only sin is it's a comedy, and for that the Academy punished Withnail and I in its usual way. I wish this was done as a midnight play, I'd go once a month . . .  "},{"Title":"See This Film!","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Withnail & I is one of the finest films ever made. Using a fantastic cast and some of the driest humour I've witnessed, it creates an anarchic portrait of the sub-culture at the end of the 1960's. Fuelled with a cocktail of alcohol and drugs, Withnail and his companion (Marwood or 'I') spend time in London and in the English countryside. Unable to fit in wherever they go, they're union is corrupted when Marwood (Paul McGann) finally lands an acting job, leaving Withnail (Richard E Grant) alone and unhappy delivering the finest rendition of one of the soliloquys from 'Hamlet', when we discover that he has the talent to become an actor and yet never will. A fantastically funny and moving film, combining amazing dialogue and blistering delivery to create a film you'll watch over and over again.  "},{"Title":"If this film were a woman I'd make love to it","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A great, great black comedy/white tragedy. The greatest happening for British culture since Keith Richards discovered heroin. Withnail and his uncle Montague H. Withnail are two of the most memorable screen characters out there; the kind you LOVE to watch but would hate to have in your living room. The story flows effortlessly and there are enough classic scenes and dialogue to go some way to justifying my umpteenth viewing of this film......like that guy out of Spinal Tap says where do you go when you hit 10? Naturally then I give this Shakespeare-on-quualudes Epic 11/10... "},{"Title":"How to roll a Camberwell Carrot and laugh","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought Withnail was too good to be a cult film.Its acid wit has lodged half the script in the english vocab, so that making time, Camberwell carrot or low temperature spade can trigger hysterical collapse in a casual conversation; and scenes, of fairy-fearing idiots in london pubs and cantankerous Cumbrian poachers, have barbed truths that only farce can carry off.Against this is the sadness of talent wasted on lighter fuel and self-pity - the script came from experience of these times.But on the way to understanding this view, you'll have a high old time...  "},{"Title":"An undiscussed aspect of this film","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I agree with most of what has said about this film -- it is phenomenal, truly an under-hyped, over-looked gem.One thing that puzzles me is that, in all the comments, no one has mentioned the recurring theme of homosexuality.  There is more to it than Monty's flagrant swishiness.  Monty's affection for I is unrequited -- I dodges his advances by claiming that he and Withnail are intimate.  He reveals this to Withnail angrily, and Withnail wryly apologizes.Later, in the (amazing) Hamlet soliloquy, Withnail ends by bitterly enunciating no, nor women neither.It seems clear to me that Withnail is in love with I, and that this fact gives the film much of its poignant power.  Strange that it isn't discussed. "},{"Title":"Incredulity","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can only assume the low rating, in relative terms anyway, is due to the fact that most of the registered user are from the United States and may not fully appreciate the humour and style of the movie.The film has a depth and feel to it that may not be always appreciated and is reponsible for many a catchphrase utilised on a drinking spree. In fact it probably inspired many a drinking spree.Think about it for a second. It's a movie about two down and out unemployed actors who live for their next narcotic, be it alcohol or something stronger, who decide the best thing for them would be to use the extraordinarily gay Montys cottage in the country for a sabbatical from the pressures of London life.It shouldn't work really should it? But the beauty is that it does and it would take some incredible piece of genius to surpass it. "},{"Title":"no sex, no sfx, no media hype....","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  warning this movie is not jurassic park, not reservoir dogs, not 9 and a half weeks and certainly not the latest star wars outing. why ? because there is no stunning computer gererated graphics, not a hint of blood squirting gun fest violence, sex isn't even mentioned here and lastly for now, in 1987 when it was released, nobody had even heard of it. so, what do you think so far? a must see? i say yes, see it.a most divine piece of comedy, superbly acted, a script more quotable than any other movie, even, if i dare, then your favorite work of shakespeare.i love the high tech, high violence, high budget flick but this remains the pinnacle of the cinematic experience.tip never watch withnail & i without a saveloy and a glass of lighter fluid to hand. "},{"Title":"What?","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Another one of those classic films that doesn't really make sense, yet evokes a strange feeling of happiness when you watch it. The Plot Two failed/failing actors embark on a cross country trek, tailed by a fat gay bloke. Everything that can go wrong does. Richard E Grant says some stuff in an upper-class accent even though he's not British, and that stoned bloke who's also in Wayne's World 2 says some funny stuff about carrots. I've watched this film quite a few times and I still don't really see a proper plot. But that doesn't detract from the atmosphere the film is trying to create. 'I demand to have some booze' isn't actually funny, yet I can't help but laugh out loud whenever I here it. Bizarre, yet an excellent film. "},{"Title":"Best of the British","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is no doubt in my mind that 'Withnail and I' is the most underated movie of the 80s. Apart from a small cult following in the U.K the film is relatively unknown anywhere else. This gem was made by Handmade films (other films by this company include The Long Good Friday, which happens to be also underated) and should hold the world record for the most amount of cracking one liners in a film. Richard E Grant is quite simply magestic in his role as Withnail and steels the show as the drunk, unemployed actor although there other great comedy performances from Uncle Monty and Danny. The great strength of the film is that it never fails to make you laugh, regardless of the number of times its been viewed and the easily repeatable dialogue is great to quote from (e.g I demand to have some booze!) I beg you to watch this film. "}{"Title":"Eminently quotable","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What do you mean you haven't seen Withnail. This is a film where every line is quotable, and in fact has been quoted in student bars and pubs everywhere. The plot goes nowhere, but it goes there in such a laid back and erratic way, that in the end you couldn't really care less. It is the characterization that is wonderful, everyone from the eponymous heroes, through Danny and Uncle Monty to Mrs Blennerhasset the waitress in the Penrith Tea Rooms (Mrs Blennerhasset do not call the police).Half the people I speak to have never heard of it, so if you haven't heard of it, hear about it quickly. "},{"Title":"Movie that deserves its cult status","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A Brilliant Movie. Bruce Robinson's script is excellent and the dialogue is superb. The music and scenery set the tone from the start. You can not help but be captivated by Withnail's closing performance. A must see for anyone who has ever experienced a hangover.  "},{"Title":"Student Ponce","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Always a mistake to see a movie that has gone from flop to cult masterpiece several years after both stages. What seemed outrageous to conservatives on release and rebellious to cult-makers everywhere seems predictable and insipid a quarter century later. It's easy to see that on paper the 'creative' team - best left unnamed for fear of embarrassment - felt they were onto a winner by coming up with a classic teaming of one virtually 'normal' half of a duo paired with someone who makes Oscar Wilde seem a milquetoast and then trump this by creating a third character more outre than Withnail and Wilde put together. The word overkill springs to mind. It probably still has its supporters, aging hippies still wearing leathers and studs as they enter their sixties. What can I tell you, if you like that sort of thing don't let me stop you. "},{"Title":"It's you he wants. Offer yourself to him!","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Coming from a former British colony, The Bahamas, and being educated in The United States and The United Kingdom to me Withnail & I is the classic cult film of all time in the entire English speaking world!The dialogue and acting was brilliant. Each line can be used for so many occasions. When I was at university in London in my long haired grunch period of the early 1990's friends and I would act out scenes putting us all into stitches of laughter.On strips to The US visiting friends at college they too knew of this classic film and got most of the English slang. A true round the world cult classic.I saw Richard E. Grant on the stage recently in London and all I could think about while watching the play was there is Withnail! "},{"Title":"Cult UK film","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has become a cult film in the UK. A large number of people have attempted to match the on-screen drinking whilst watching the film. I've no doubt that some have succeeded, but I bet they've had a hell of a hangover.Withnail (Grant) and I (McGann) are two down and out actors living in the not so swinging sixties. They escape their humdrum city lives for a week in the country. They find that country life is not what they expected with a whole host of difficult situations to overcome. The film is very funny in parts and is well worth a watch. Grant is very watchable which is the case with most of the movies he's been in.  "},{"Title":"More than a movie","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Bruce Robinson's masterpiece is far more than a movie, it's a way  of life. Not only does it break the standard screenplay formula (there's no plot and no substantial character development) but it rests entirely on the outstanding dialogue and central personalities within the film. Rarely does a flick have so many entertaining peripheral characters (Danny, Presuming Ed, Jake). Withnail And I also manages to make viewers believe in all the onscreen antics, which is a superb ability for a comedy. The emotional ending further elevates it for enjoyable romp to cult classic. "},{"Title":"funny characters, hysterical script, serious acting","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  if for nothing else, this movie is to be seen for the hamlet soliloquy performed by richard e. grant at the end.  if there is any uncertainty while watching the movie, stick it out.  it makes the whole thing worthwhile.while hard to understand at times, and centered in a particular place at a particular time, this movie can be appreciated, i feel, by people who weren't directly involved in that 'society' (1969 london), and even by those that don't speak 'proper' english.definitely a break-out role for richard e. grant.  what a talent. "},{"Title":"Reasons not to miss Withnail and I","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  King Curtis' Whiter Shade of Pale as Paul McGann struggles to meet the day.  Richard E. Grant's rain-soaked Shakespeare.  Richard Griffiths' persecution by his cat.  The slaughter of the chicken.  Danny's take on the world.  This film takes pride of place on my list of favourite films, along with The Princess Bride, Hope and Glory, Local Hero and Another Country, all of which offer brilliantly insightful and hilarious scripts.   "},{"Title":"IMDb's Memorable Quotes  Is Practically The Entire Script!","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" WITHNAIL AND I (5 outta 5 stars)Okay, I'll be right upfront and saw that this movie is not for everybody... but if you are the kind of person who likes this kind of movie... you will probably love it! Great comic performances and practically every line spoken is a classic quotable line. Withnail (Richard E Grant) and I (Paul McGann) are a pair of struggling English actors, living together, drinking way too much alcohol and complaining constantly about their lack of work and/or money. Not to mention debating philosophy and politics with Danny the neighbourhood drug dealer (Ralph Brown). After an unsuccessful attempt at cleaning their kitchen they decide what they need is some rest and relaxation in the country cottage owned by Withnail's Uncle Monty (Richard Griffiths). Unfortunately Uncle Monty has designs on the boy-ish-ly handsome I and shows up unannounced to pursue the object of his affections. It's an endless subject for debate as to which characters are gay and which are not... there are endless clues and hints that support any hypothesis. Don't worry... just relax and enjoy the endlessly amusing dialogue We've gone on holiday by mistake! Hairs are your aerials. They pick up signals from the cosmos, and transmit them directly into the brain. This is the reason bald-headed men are uptight. Don't threaten me with a dead fish! I assure you I'm not officer. I've only had a few ales. What happened to my agent? B*st*rd must've died! I want something's flesh! Flowers are simply tarts; prostitutes for the bees. We are indeed drifting into the arena of the unwell. Throw yourself into the road, darling - you haven't got a chance! "},{"Title":"Its the castle of comedy's dark realm","Date":"26 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One has to free words from all obligations to do justice to the beauty of this movie. The praise this movie deserves is absolute and incomparable. I never knew that a comedy movie could be so hilarious and yet force you to think so seriously about life at the same time. Withnail and I, imo is the castle of comedy's dark realm.This film started my obsession with British comedy movies, an addiction that continues to prosper and thrive ever since. Right from the opening scene where the narrator and Withnail are moaning about the mess they live in to the one towards the end where the latter recites a soliloquy from Shakespeare's hamlet; the movie, and in particular, Withnail mock the world so aptly that its hard to find fault. People often say that losers like to moan and don't try hard enough to get their lives back on track. When this movie began, I thought it'll reiterate this point but the character of Withnail so tellingly reproached the ways of the world that I ended up siding with him. I knew Withnail will offer the bait at some point, and I knew that it'd be wise to refuse it, but when he did so, the offer seemed too good to resist. It made me laugh at really serious stuff, some of it was miserable enough to make me cry normally.That's what I feel it does to you. It makes you learn how to laugh at your own plight. There's no doubting the quality of humour on display, it comes right from the top drawer of the British comedy reserve. Sarcasm is the essential word here, if I miss it, the review shall not be complete. The movie was rife with quick witted and smartly disguised sarcasm and is bound to auger well with everybody who loves satire genre.Shakespeare used to say that every play/movie etc. can be classified as either comedy or tragedy, but I find myself in a dilemma while trying to classify this as either of those. Words escape me and its not possible to write any further, so I'd like to end by quoting Withnail from the movie itself. We've gone on holiday by mistake. We're in this cottage here. Are you the farmer?  "}{"Title":"Wicked, wicked, wicked I tell you.","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Is there a movie that's as quiet as this yet makes you groan with empathy. we've all had those occasions when and where nothing goes right. to watch everything goes wrong for our two heroes while we are dry when they are soaked, when they are desperate for food and wine and we are watching filled with food and wine, when the perfect family queer haunts the heroes, it's like reading of a recent trek across Afghanistan in winter or the right-titled 'worst journey in the world. but the glory of the movie is the form of humor. see it and groan. i wish there was a way to get this movie out of cult status and into every college town in the u.s. and Canada. "},{"Title":"Booze, Drugs and th Flower Power generation !!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simply put, this is the best way to while away the hours regretting that you missed out on the 60's. A glorious booze and drug fuelled descent from the greatest century in the history of mankind, with the finest portrait of the burnt out homage to human excess- Danny, ever put down on celluloid. So good in fact was Ralph Brown, that Danny reappeared for Waynes World II. All of the characters are played to such perfection that it is hard to believe that this film was made over 20 years after the events. A film not to be missed !! "},{"Title":"I DEMAND TO HAVE SOME BOOZE!","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No, really, I do.  I haven't had a beer for, ooooh, hours.  But the film.  Very funny, very funny indeed sir.  It relies on that bastion of British comedy, swearing and being a degenerate (see Four Weddings & A Funeral.  Or better still, don't).  Richard E.Grant swans about the place boozing, losing and abusing (I'm here all week) and the films trundles about a bit until it ends.  What's it about?  Don't ask me, I just work here.  The scenes with Ralph Brown will make anyone who's seen Wayne's World 2 go Oh him!.  Not only is Withnail & I a funny film, it is a serious film, a sad film and the basis for a fantastic drinking game.  I suggest you watch it and then quote lines from it to your friends, because believe me, they will laugh. *DISCLAIMER*  Quoting lines from comedies is no substitute for actually being witty. "},{"Title":"A one-off.  The funniest one-off.","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the sort of film people love to learn quotes from because there's no better way to communicate the sometimes inexplicable hilarity.  The actors make the roles their own.  The music goes brilliantly.  A film you either love or see little point in, but must see. "},{"Title":"A Genuine Masterpiece","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've never seen anything quite like Withnail & I.  My first viewing was in 1989, attracted to it from the Ralph Steadman artwork on the box.  Sadly, I just didn't get most of it the first time.  Subsequent viewings (with better copies - the audio is indeed difficult to hear at times) have proven me wrong and it has become one of my favorite films.  Richard E. Grant gives the performance of his career.  I, Monty, Danny, et al are equally hilarious and quotable.Its also has a few solemn moments, about life's changing chapters from the wild into the adult, and parting ways with a longtime friend.  And Monty on that cat of his, like white on rice; once again that oaf has ruined my day! "},{"Title":"Quite simply one of the best films ever made.  (Even Ebert thinks so.)","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Quite simply one of the best films ever made.  (Even Ebert thinks so.)  A true character study with indelible performances by Paul McGann and Richard E. Grant - easily the best of their careers to date.  It's cult film status only serves to endear the film more to the viewer; the fact that there are many self professed movie goer's that have never heard of this film is quite comforting to the true Withnail follower. "},{"Title":"POSSIBLY THE FUNNIEST MOVIE OF ALL TIME!!","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Withnail & I is simply a classic movie.  From the opening until the end we are spoiled with a hilarious script.  How many movies do you know that you can watch again and again and again - it just gets funnier!  I'm not going to write much more than this.  If for some crazy reason you actually haven't seen this masterpiece sign off your computer NOW and buy it.  Withnail, Marwood, Monty, Danny, Presuming Ed, and all the rest are waiting for you! "},{"Title":"Very smart and funny, well written, great characters.","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite films.  The narrative and dialog is brilliant, powerfully written, and unique.Every character in the movie is deranged in his own way, and all of them are memorable.Richard Grant's Withnail is one of cinema's greatest lovable, irrational, irritable slobs; a wonderfully played role in a great, important comedy.WARNINGS1) The script assumes a literate audience who is familiar with British culture, especially in the late Sixties.  While knowledge of Shakespeare, toilet traders, and the rivalries that exist between certain British colleges may not be essential to understand the whole story, such trivia will help you get some of the jokes and clarify some of the characters' motivations.  People who know _nothing_ about British culture may not find the film funny at all.2) Some characters have very thick accents (of different kinds) and may completely unintelligible to viewers who aren't used to hearing them. "},{"Title":"Laughter like you've never laughed before!","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Withnail is an absolute gem when you discover it. The scriptwriting is very clever and subtle and after you've seen it a couple of times you will still be laughing even perhaps a little louder the more times you see it. Richard Griffiths is born for this role - I only have to see him in the film and he makes me laugh. I think that the thing I love most about this film is the anarchic nature of the script and the unconventional theme. Considering that Richard E Grant doesn't drink its incredible he can play someone who is drunk all the time. I put this film on on a rainy afternoon for my girlfriend not sure whether it would amuse her but she couldn't stop laughing. I thoroughly recommend this film. Go and get it on DVD now! "},{"Title":"Should Be on Top 250","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Withnail and I, is a non-stop laughing film. I cannot really call it a Family film though, I do not recommend parents letting kids watch this movie. There is a large amount of drug use, and although they show the outcome of drug-use, it makes it seem alright. It's about two drugged-out losers going on vacation into the country-side. Throughout the adventure they're attacked by a randy bull, terrorized old women, tried to be seduced by a gay uncle Monty, and unsuccessfully tried to cook a rabbit. This is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. You'll catch yourself reciting lines from it for days! "}{"Title":"Hilariously sad movie","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Acting (real acting, not starring in some lame sitcom, soap or action flicks) was always depicted in movies as an ungrateful job with no income security, no respect from close family and friends or even from professionals in the entertainment industry. Those who do choose acting as their livelihood (although, more often than not, other people make that choice for them) do it for the sheer passion of acting.Passion is the one thing Withnail and I (his name on the credits) lack unless you consider consumption of alcohol and uppers by the gallons-passion. The roommate actors (who seldom act) share an apartment, usually accompanied by rodents and drug dealers with well thought philosophies in the form of powerful Marijuana that looks like cigarette on steroids. Both actors scrape their way through existence in hopes of recognition that fails to arrive. One day, Withnail's affluent and eccentric (putting it very mildly) uncle gives them the key to his dilapidating cottage in a beautiful rural area (Penrith in Cumbria county, UK). In that cottage both of them will view their morbid life from a fresh perspective (literally).Now,I could note Bruce Robinson's straight forward direction that uses acting and a wonderfully deep yet entirely non-indulgent script as the brick and mortar of the film (which unfortunately, isn't common enough, even among veteran directors), but if I have to specify one ingredient that makes the film such a rare treat is Richard E. Grant's truly great performance. The portrait of a struggling actor with layers of frustration and moroseness that lie beneath the surface of a seemingly aloof and extrovert man in his 30's,  adds to this comedic plot a sad note that reflects every person's aspirations lost in the abyss of modern living (or is it just me).This film (which I have to say, is not suitable for every mood) uncovers the relationship of two lost people (especially Withnail) in a way few movies do. McGaan and especially Grant's acting, should be taught in acting classes (maybe they are, I wouldn't know) just to show that great actors don't outshine one another but, rather, complete one another.One final note about the background of the characters. Although the names are fictitious, the basic plot is true. I is based on the writer/director of this film, Bruce Robinson's days as a fledgling actor and Withnail's character is based on Vivian MacKerrell. The latter participated in a documentary about the film in 1999 (which I have yet to see) and passed on shortly after that from throat cancer boasting a very short lived career. It seems that the final scene  besides the effect it leaves on the viewer, seems like an uncanny prophecy about the course set for the two characters.Summing up this movie is great but it's not just a comedy but a pretty sad tale so keep that in mind when you rent it (and rent it you should)9 out of 10 in my FilmOmeter. "},{"Title":"we must have tea, tea and cakes ...","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Bruce Robinson's hilarious story of two out-of-work actors in sixties London is a well-structured and scripted piece in which Withnail (Richard E Grant in towering form as the red eyed neurotic alcoholic who shoots fish with a rifle and totters around in the rain quoting Hamlet) and 'I' (Paul McGann as his amused and fairly sensible friend) leave their squalid flat to go to stay in the country cottage of Withnail's Uncle Monty. Unfortunately Monty has more than a visit in mind when he turns up on their doorstep!There are just so many bits which you remember years after viewing the Camberwell Carrot; the chicken, half-plucked, sitting on a brick in the oven; the policeman with the high-pitched voice 'get in the back of the van!'; Michael Elphick as the village heavy; Withnail's desperation for drink and drugs ('if I don't have an aspirin, I shall die!'); and of course, Richard Griffiths as the predatory Monty cornering 'I' in a compromising position. Grant makes Withnail a sympathetic character, selfish and addicted as he may be, and makes the role truly a memorable one. "},{"Title":"Good film with a strange premise","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  *****SPOILERS****Story of 2 roommates in the late 60s whose friendship and sanity are tested under the influence of booze, drugs, and malnutrition as they attempt to get away from it all in Withnail's rich uncle's country place (a shack, basically).  They meet the unfriendly locals, including one surly poacher, who promises to wake them at night with live eels.  Very funny, with a subtext that comes out but is never verbalized -- that Withnail is in love with I but, because I isn't gay, he hasn't been able to actuate anything.  Withnail's raving egotism probably doesn't help him.Very good performances. "},{"Title":"The Precursor to Fear and Loathing?","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is very much the precursor to Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. Besides the obvious connection of artwork (Ralph Steadman), there is something about the drug and booze scenario that really parallels. I was especially thinking so during the scene with the device that allows people to drive drunk by spraying urine...But yes, this is the rope that connects Where the Buffalo Roam to Fear and Loathing, whether that was the intent or not (and since it is autobiographical, clearly not).What could have made this film better? Daniel Day-Lewis was offered but declined the role of Withnail. That would have helped. But seriously, it stands firm, and despite being a cult classic does not get the respect it deserves. More people ought to see it. Ahead of its time -- you will never believe it is an 80s film. "},{"Title":"Well received comedy,but not my kind of humor,","Date":"15 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Withnail & I is a fairly funny film with a bit of a dark setting,it's a well received comedy but its not really my kind of humor and I didn't really get a lot of the jokes in it.I watched it because I'm trying to watch a show I saw called The 50 Greatest Comedy Films,I'm trying to watch all the films on the list and Withnial & I made it in at 21.Two drug abusers,Withnail and Marwood (I),Withnail being educated and upper crust and Marwood having more of a visual outlook on life,escape from there unemployed,stay at Withnails uncle Montys cottage.Monty is a middle aged homosexual who begins to fall for Marwood.-DILLON HARRIS "},{"Title":"classic","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie about 10 years ago and it was ruined by the fact that I met a huge fan of it before viewing. I was forced to hear all the funny lines, shouting get in the back of the van in your face is about as funny as pain if you dont know what the hell you're on about. I watched the movie knowing I could be like him if I enjoyed it and I didnt take to it. The memory of him well gone I watched it again and loved it. If you are a big fan just say so and leave it at that you ruin it for the rest. Still get in the back of the van is not funny. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Classic cult movie (Griffiths is amazing)","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was first shown this by a friend who highly recommended it.  I was sceptical at the time, but have been fully converted now (having purchased it on DVD and watched it about 5 times already with more viewings planned).10/10. "},{"Title":"Awesome Script and Music. Great characterisation.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Some might say a very English Movie, with plenty of references to specific Englandisms, but all in all a script that is witty and tight, with the characters debauched lives on show. The movie is a comedy but the ending leaves us a with a feeling of tragedy in the life of Withnail.  "},{"Title":"A Classic Little Gem","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This Film Is Hilarious ! If You Like Witty Dialogue Films You Will Like This. Richard E. Grant Gives An Oscar Worthy Performance As A Cynical, Depressed Out Of Work Actor Who, Along With His Flat Mate Goes On Holiday By Mistake To The English Countryside. This Film Will Cheer You Up If You Are Having A Bad Day  "},{"Title":"And I quote  Balls to Monty!!!","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have never seen a film that makes me laugh so hard, even after having seen it at least two-dozen times. Superb.....Such fantastic lines.....phenomenal characters....God Almighty........Danny the Drug pusher and the Camberwell Carrot........I feel the distinct need to watch it again.....right now.  "}{"Title":"Such character!","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This would have to be one of the UK's finest films - it has it all; subtlety, humour, pathos and identifiable characters (not to mention an excellent soundtrack).  Each character in this film, from Withnail,  Marwood & Monty to the proprietor of the tea rooms in Penrith, is given depth.  Some may only have a line or two (GET IN THE BACK OF THE VAN!) but each and every one has a place in my heart.  Incredibly funny and dry dialogue, (the sort to generate spontaneous rectitals at parties) excellent performances (the feather in Richard E. Grant's cap) and well-rounded, lovable characters.  I have a handful of friends who appreciate this film as much as I do, yet others, to whom I have recommended it, have turned their nose up and declared it silly, pointless and unfunny.  I suppose you have to have a certain sense of humour to 'get' this film.  Generally speaking, if you're a fan of Monty Python or Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, you will enjoy Withnail & I immensely.   "},{"Title":"Utterly Unfunny","Date":"9 August 2011","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A couple of losers take a vacation in the country. British hilarity ensues. This one is so bad that it's painful to watch. There are funny moments, but they last a total of about five minutes out of the running time of nearly two hours. There's mild amusement after Uncle Monty arrives at the cottage; otherwise this comedy is not worth a single chuckle. The actors are not to blame. McGann, Grant, and Griffiths obviously are good comic actors, but they are let down by a script that is unbelievably tedious and unfunny. Some viewers think Brown is great as Danny, and he may be, but he speaks through gritted teeth and is mostly unintelligible. "},{"Title":"the rating for Withnail and I underscores problems with IMDB","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As almost everyone who has written here points out, Withnail and I is a masterpiece.  The script's dialogue is arguably the finest of any English language film.  Add to that perfect acting, perfect music and perfect photography and editing.  The film's only weak point in my opinion is a slightly murky sound quality which makes it difficult to understand some of the breakneck speed dialogue, especially for people not used to listening to British accents.I guess IMDB downgrades the rating of movies which receive a lot of 10 scores.  They ought to find some way to get around this problem as a 7.1 score seems ridiculous when so many people consider this their all time favourite film. "},{"Title":".","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is surely the funniest British film ever. I particularly enjoyed the dialogue between Paul McGann and Richard E. Grant about a chance to stay in the country for a bit which endedWell, what's his number? I don't know, I've never met him. Well, neither have I. What the **** are you talking about? "},{"Title":"Hooray for British Films","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A work of Genius, overlooked and under rated by the masses. I won't bore you with my enthusiasm, just watch it. "},{"Title":"my thumbs have gone weird","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A great movie. For many, a classic. Two out of work actors struggle to survive in late sixties north London. Their solution? A delightful weekend in the country...In Withnail and I, Richard E Grant gives a career best performance. He's never been better. The script is sharp and economical and frequently hilarious. Richard Griffiths gives superb support as Uncle Monty. The DVD release has a great documentary, Withnail and Us. Ralph Brown sums up the project ' Its good because there are no crap bits in it'.Amen to that. "},{"Title":"Late comer","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Only just saw this film. Somehow escaped me at the time. The situation reminds me of Filthy Rich & Catflap / Bottom. Probably just coincidence. Brilliant film, reminds me why I love being British.Now the part where I pad this comment out with pointless and irrelevant text in order to secure a successful submission. This is without doubt the most ridiculous constraint I've ever come across and ensures that I'll never be arsed to enter anything on here again.And it's just pointed out to me that it doesn't know the word arsed. So I've added it again. I guess they couldn't be arsed to add it to the dictionary.Best Regards, Bye Bye. "},{"Title":"The Withnail and I drinking game.","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK, I'm a student from Yorkshire, studying at Nottingham University, and have always considered myself to be a heavy-weight as far as drinking is concerned (compared to the southern pansies also studying here), but I met my match last week when I attempted (with my housemates) the Withnail and I drinking game (We substituted vodka for lighter fluid). All I'll say is, its a damn good thing we have the QMC (Queen's Medical Centre) Hospital across the road, because we all got severe alcohol poisoning. If it hadn't been for the one housemate who doesn't drink, we'd probably be dead, if he hadn't called for an ambulance.Long Live the Withnail & I drinking game! it rocks (I missed my exams because I was on a stomach pump!).Hurrah for Withnail and I, the best British comedy in decades. And the best international comedy in over 50 years!.  "},{"Title":"Everyone will enjoy this film!","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's about a couple of unemployed actors who visit the countryside in an effort to 'rejuvenate'. Poverty and squalor is the name of the game here, and the two generally live on a diet of pills, booze, meths and grass. To really appreciate it you have to be drunk, but it is nevertheless a big favourite with just about anyone who enjoys a good comedy.  "},{"Title":"Withnail & I","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I knew the leading actor whose career was launched by this British film, and it featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, good reasons to see it. Basically, it is 1969 in London, and unemployed anxiety-prone actor Marwood, or I (Paul McGann, the one time Doctor Who) and unemployable alcoholic actor Withnail (Richard E. Grant) live together in their damp, cold and dirty Camden flat. Wanting to continue resting and seeking a getaway from their drab style of living, they seek a holiday in the north of Penrith cottage of Withnail's uncle Monty (Richard Griffiths). They may have the nice countryside, but the weather is awful, the cottage is almost as dirty as their flat, there is little food and drink, and of course, eccentric and homosexual Uncle Monty being there isn't helping. Withnail falsely told Monty that Marwood is also gay, so there is a lot of affection going in his direction, and Marwood is just politely ignoring it. Then of course there is the point when Monty expresses his feelings for Marwood at bedtime, and he has to make up a really good lie to get him away from him, and obviously Withnail gets an earful of complaints. While the two friends are distanced, Marwood is told by telegram he has an audition, and he returns to the London flat with drug dealer friend Danny (Cape Wrath's Ralph Brown) squatting there. After cutting his curly hair short ready for the audition, Marwood prepares to leave, and drinking Withnail insists he accompanies his friend some of the way to the station, before being left in the rain in Regent's Park. Also starring Michael Elphick as Jake, Daragh O'Malley as Irishman, Michael Wardle as Isaac Parkin, Una Brandon-Jones as Mrs. Parkin and Noel Johnson as General. Grant makes a great drunk character with his reciting play lines very fun to watch, McGann is also very affective as his sometimes reclusive friend, and he is obviously tested by the reliable Griffiths coming out to him. I may not have caught on to the fact that this was meant to be a black comedy, but there were some good giggly moments, and it is a cult film to enjoy. It was number 38 on The 100 Greatest Films, it was number 21 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films, and it was number 16 on The 50 Greatest British Films. Very good! "}{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dark? Yes. Clever? Tries hard to be. Funny? In patches. -- That would be my tagline for the film.Withnail and I is one of those films that suffers from achieving cult status after a mediocre performance on release. Go to any student hall of residence and a copy will be there (next to Reservoir Dogs and an ironic copy of Teletubbies...oh so funny!) It is not a bad film, but reading the reviews on this site you would expect a bewildering laugh-a-thon. The one thing the film does have is an exceptional example of acting. Richard E Grant does what he does best - hamming it up big style! If you ever hear a student shouting 'Scrubbers!' out of the window of their car or attempting to roll a 'Camberwell Carrot' - I suggest punching them! PS I am not a studentphobe, I was one after all! "},{"Title":"One Way Sideways","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This has a very clumsy ending, but we hardly notice because there isn't much to end. It is a series of linked vignettes, each seemingly written independent of the others. It steers randomly this way and that as if the stupor of Withnail were the guiding consciousness.(If you see the documentary on the DVD you will see that this is so.)The more I think about Sideways the less I think of it. Initially, I marveled at its almost perfect structure. It is so well shaped that the structure of the thing is what carries it. But all that structure is from the current playbook the external reflection, the rule of twos, the law of ironic noir.But the more time you spend with it, the more sterile it seems because that structure is so perfect. Here's the antidote essentially the same story except no women and no shape at all. Everything is in the texture of the thing. The accompanying documentary says this is poorly shot, but I think not. It looks like Barry Lyndon to me, without the gloss. There is literally tons of atmosphere fog, rain, smoke, dew and just filth in the air.It has the tone of The Dresser in terms of being actors about acting and tragically so. It has a disembodied noir tone that reflects the dreary state of the sixties in London, quite a bit more defeatist than in the states at that time. It uses music in a more internally integrated way than any other piece of the period.And most of all, it has a huge number of memorable lines. It has a cult status in Britain, which is good, but sadly all that seems to come from the quotable dialog rather than the cinematic aptness, and this is a very bad thing indeed.The ending is inept as I say, but it hardly matters because there is no arc to resolve. It is a collection of arcs, scoped small, just as the lives depicted would be.I suggest you watch this and then see In Dreams. Sheds a whole new light on that difficult to appreciate project.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"exhausting","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"18 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In Withnail and I we follow a pair of irritating, detestable, friendless losers with zero potential or prospects as they live in squalor and encounter a catalog of difficulties. Sound fun? Unlucky for us they're also quick to anger, and prone to over-dramatic tantrums which aren't terribly funny. A dirty sink is funny? It's ninety minutes of watching two miserable people who just can't cope; which evolution should have dispatched long ago (They can't provide for themselves). The histrionics of this immature, developmentally-late, proto-gay duo make them seem like Joe Orton and Kenneth Halliwell, only they're no fun at all. I can't imagine how this could be more depressing. It has no forward momentum. It seems to lack the generous helping of wit that would push the material anywhere near the vicinity of entertainment. Maybe you had to see it the moment it was released to have a fond recall of it. Maybe being a weed fiend would help. Maybe being British...I find it extremely exhausting watching characters who are failing desperately at every moment of their existence. "},{"Title":"In the minority, but still...","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"16 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I realize I'm in the minority, but I did not like this movie. I have read the many raves and glowing recommendations posted on this site, and I must say, WHAT? I have heard wonderful things about this movie for years from friends whose tastes I trust; unfortunately, I was sorely disappointed. I had to force myself to watch the movie in its entirety. The title characters were weak and annoying at best, despicable and reprehensible at worst. Simply because many viewers knew such characters in uni does not make the characters worth knowing. I also thought the acting of the two principal performers to be forced and stilted. Richard Grant in particular seemed capable of only two emotional states, snotty or histrionic. The humor of many of the lines was completely overshadowed by the wooden high-school delivery. On the bright side, I did thoroughly enjoy the characters of Uncle Monty and Danny, and thought the actors who portrayed those characters made them human and realistic, rather than stereotypes or caricatures like the title characters. "},{"Title":"A much hyped film that failed to please","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a well written, well acted  and well made film. It is also pretentious middle class nonesense that lacks pace and punch. It has become a cult movie in the UK and people seem to fall into a like it or hate it category.McGann's performance is particularly fine and the film is well worth watching, but you may find it doesn't live up to it's hype.Has anyone else noticed that the Jaguar used carries a 1970 registration plate even the film is set in 1969? "},{"Title":"Funnier than Schindler's List but only just!","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"13 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Weird people go to the country where they meet more weird people and weird things happen. Apparently this is hilarious to some. The only amusing bit (but not funny.) was putting the chicken in the oven. I can see what the other commentators say about it being funny and it's not totally unwatchable. but it just doesn't work for me. I did watch it all the way through. Perhaps it's all the hype I'd heard before I watched it. If I hadn't heard the hype maybe I would have switched it off half way through and thought no more of it. Now apparently I have to write 10 lines. Like this movie my question is why? I still haven't written enough. 10 lines is more than this movie is worth! When I've said I don't like it I don't want to spend all my life explaining why. "},{"Title":"Dated. Mildy amusing diversion.","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"14 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the end moderately 'witty' one-liners cannot resurrect this now-dated film.  Withnail and Marwood are stereotypical English boors irresponsible, self-centred, lazy, slobby, poor personal hygiene.  This type usually migrates to the dominions and becomes a shop-steward, or a drama teacher and in neither case adding adding value to life.The witty one-liners aren't all that witty.  Have a look at the memorable quotes.  Not all that memorable.  The delivery is not memorable.The plot is a re-hashed &#145;Town mouse visits country mouse'.  John Schlesinger did a far better job of this genre in &#145;Cold Comfort Farm'.To get anything from this you had to be there at the time.  It doesn't travel incomprehensible in the US and Canada, a time-filler for middle-aged males in Australia.  "},{"Title":"Pretentious British Pap","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"11 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a major let down this film proved to be.  If your idea of a good time is to witness pompous British players (notably Grant) prancing around London, spouting mindless drivel then good luck to you!  I found this so incredibly dull and unfunny that I ached, and can only think that those hailing it a 'classic' are as easily pleased as the leading characters.  "},{"Title":"Such a disappointment!","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"13 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Whilst at university, this was everyone's favourite film. I seriously doubt anyone really likes this film - it's just too dull. Sure, Grant is great but the rest is dire stuff. When you read how much of a nasty man the director was during this film it doesn't help the comedy.  "}]