[{"Title":"Loved them all!!!","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"39 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Having just seen Dead Pool, the last of the Dirty Harry series, I have to say that I enjoyed this film as much as the other four. I don't have a favorite, I loved them all. Recently I became interested in Clint Eastwood's films and have seen a number of them including the westerns. Eastwood is an amazing guy. He has presence on the screen that is extraordinary. It's not that he is such a great actor, but I can't take my eyes off of him when he is in a scene. His face conveys such hysterical expression when he comes out with, Swell! or Marvelous! He's irreverent, gritty, rude, shoots criminals in the back, beats the sh-t out of them, antagonizes everyone, and so what. He gets the job done! I liked everyone in the cast even Patricia Clarkson and her nasal voice. Liam Neeson was great, sounding for all the world exactly like Ralph Fiennes. And the music in all five of the series was terrific -the best! What a treat! "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry still has it","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"34 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Dirty Harry still has it. This film has all the mayhem, the violence, the wisecracks, the whole formula. Patricia Clarkson's delicate beauty is a good counterpoint to Eastwood's ruggedness. It was interesting to see actors like Neeson and Carrey paying their dues. When I first saw this film, I didn't realize that the car chase scene, running from the toy Corvette, was a spoof of Bullitt, but on viewing this time, I found the homage hilarious. No, this film isn't the equal of Dirty Harry but it's not bad at all for a fourth sequel. "},{"Title":"Last ''Dirty Harry'' And A Good One","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This was the fifth and last Dirty Harry movie with Clint Eastwood playing the hero again, Inspector Harry Callahan, cleaning up the streets of San Francisco from all the scumbag criminals. I've always found The Dead Pool to be one of his best in this series.It's entertaining with pretty taut suspense and always fun to go back and see a young Jim Carrey. It's always cool, too, to watch those little remote-control cars with bombs attached go speeding through the streets underneath automobiles. At an hour-and-a-half, there are no dry spots in this film, either.The female lead, Patricia Clarkson, is not one of my favorites. Eastwood seems to like those skinny blonds. Evan Kim, playing Harry's new partner, Al Quan, was a likable guy. Even Harry's slightly more low-key in this movie, his language more tame and he gets in a few comedic zingers as well. Carrey plays a totally-despicable drugged-out rock star but he doesn't last long in the film. Carry and Liam Neeson play low-life people and combine to put some sleaze into the story.Despite the usual less-than-credible action scenes at the end (where the villains miss from point-blank range, etc.), this is still a very entertaining movie and one of my favorites among the Dirty Harry films. Clint went out in style with this film. "},{"Title":"Pool Of Dead Critics","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"32 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This was altogether too simple for the critics back in '88 -- the whole idea was to point the barrel of the joke right back at the criticism.Whereas the previous Dirty Harry features sat on a platform of utter contempt for bureaucrats and political correctness, here it's expanded to contempt for journalists, and especially the subspecies of 'media critics'. As if they couldn't make it clearer, a 'movie critic' is murdered, and treated as an occurrence of 'death of celebrities by threes'.Yes, this is explicitly about movie making; the previous four movies suffered from poor supporting casts that only got in the way of the narrative. Here Van Horn deliberately employs good actors to play bad genre roles and thus turns the series on its head.Along the way, we get a nice comment on Bullitt, this time deflating the over touted car chase with a gag an explosives laden model '63 Z06 (instead of a fastback Mustang, to drive home the point).By this time, the .44 Magnum is treated as a character, with a 'voice' that rolls off the cityscape like thunder...the bad guys run at the mere sight of it. To put the icing on the 'man with the biggest gun' motif, Clint dispatches the villain with an earlier one liner (you're S.O.L.) and a movie prop harpoon. The elaborate conflation of sexual double entendre, humor and cowboy justice went soaring over many heads. Arnold wishes he was half this funny in Last Action Hero.Ah, we miss Harry...but his retirement to Carmel was both serendipitous and necessary. By the end of this, he's killed off every cartoon bad guy left in the movie universe, paving the way for both the dimensional villains of Die Hard and its ilk, AND the hosannas bestowed on Unforgiven. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry lite","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  While this film was just pure entertainment,  at least we got to see Dirty Harry doing what  we all wanted to see him do kick some serious  ass. Sure, it seemed a little odd that a 60-year  old man would be kicking the buts of guys of  half his age, but isn't that what film is for to  escape reality? While this is somewhere in  the middle in regards to the series as a whole,  one cannot contend with the idea of Harry  Callahan being one of the most endearing  film characters ever made. A nice send-off  to say the least. "},{"Title":"Eastwood's last Dirty Harry","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" In the final Dirty Harry movie, Inspector Callahan (Clint Eastwood) is annoyed by his new-found fame, caused by his court testimony against an important mob figure. His next case is a real winner an obnoxious British director (Liam Neeson) has a dead pool on the set of his new horror flick. Each crew member picks ten celebrities they believe will die, and the one with the most dead celebs on their list at the end of the game is the big winner.Just one problem with this - the people on the director's list start dying at an alarming rate and mysteriously, including his leading man. And guess whose name is on the list as well - yeah, Harry's.If this isn't enough, a TV reporter (Patricia Clarkson) wants to do a big story on him.Directed by Buddy van Horn, The Dead Pool is a spoof of a sort, killing a movie critic as part of the story (ouch), and the story actually concerns movie-making. It also has a car chase that's a take-off on Bullitt. The stereotypical characters found in this type of film are played by some excellent actors, and there's plenty of sexual innuendo to go around.Someone mentioned that Eastwood seems a little old here for Dirty Harry. He seems old for just about every role he plays, frankly, but he keeps playing them. It's always amazing how men are able to do this with no problem, but give the man his due. He's a great presence, and in 1988, his best work as both a director and an actor was yet to come! Very entertaining and well-acted. If you can get the joke, you'll enjoy it all the more. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable.","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Tough San Fransisco cop Dirty Harry Callahan (Eastwood) is on the trail of a psychopathic killer who is obsessed with the works of British horror film director Peter Swan (Liam Neeson). Swan has developed a macabre but harmless game called The Dead Pool, in which he drew up a list of local celebrities whom he believed would all die in nasty seemingly accidental ways. These include his harshest film critic Molly Fisher (Ronnie Claire-Edwards), drug addict rockstar Johnny Squares (Jim Carrey) and Inspector Callahan himself. The demented film buff proceeds to murder the people on the list one by one in horrific ways which correspond to Swan's movies. Callahan finds himself not only tracking down this crased psychotic, but also has to contend with various attempts on his life organised by a disgruntled crime boss whom Callahan put away and a new colleague, a Chinese American karate expert called Inspector Al Quan (Evan C Kim).THE DEAD POOL is Eastwood's fifth and final incarnation as Dirty Harry to date. The series always reworked the seemingly routine premise of Callahan's unorthodox approach to police work, his dislike of workplace politics and his relationships with work colleagues. However, these are essential characteristics to the series no matter how much our film critics moan about them. A bit like how much the same old smutty seaside postcard humour is valuable to the Carry On films. If the filmmakers abandoned them they would lose out at the box office. THE DEAD POOL in itself has all the characteristics of it's predecessors and the action is plentiful and Eastwood is superb as always in one of his most famous roles. One of the best set-pieces involves a car chase through the streets of San Francisco with Callahan and Quan being chased by no other than a radio control car, only this is more than a harmless kid's toy, it's a bomb! The film is also memorable for featuring future stars Liam Neeson (who is excellent as the arrogant filmmaker) and Jim Carrey as the ill-fated rockstar before he went into making those overblown comedies like DUMB AND DUMBER. "},{"Title":"Harry's last entry in which he is sent to stop a vicious murderer killing celebrities","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Rock-hard and taciturn Harry Callahan is called once again , this time when occur rare deaths of celebs registered on a black pool . But also Callahan's name appears on the list . Being the first suspect a terror cinema director (an effective Liam Neeson) filming a picture titled ¨Hotel Satan¨. Two-fisted Harry and his new partner cop (Evan Kim who did all his own stunts including the martial-arts fighting) try to track down a vicious murderous . Harry Callahan strides grimly throughout streets San Francisco in pursuit of the cruel baddie . Then the killer hijacks a TV journalist (Patricia Clarson) . Silly and exciting scenes when the murderer sends a toy-car directed by remote control and strapped to an explosive onto the streets of San Francisco pursuing the cop couple . Whatever your reservations about Harry's expeditious methods we know he'll always vanquish , shooting in cold blood with his Magnum 44 pistol (in fact, it is titled the second entry  Magnum force) and abusing on civil rights .Fifth and last entry in Harry's series is less gripping and inferior its predecessors . Tension , action-packed , crisped edition , suspenseful , thrills abound in this stirring outing . Although there are lots of action and entertainment this time doesn't feature Callahan's classic lines such as ¨Do you feel lucky¨(on Dirty Harry) or ¨Go ahead make my day¨(on Sudden impact ) ; however , here he also says some original sentences . When Clint Eastwood made this movie, he was the Mayor of Carmel, California , the picture was the third and final of three films Eastwood made whilst he was the Mayor of Carmel ; the others were Bird (1988) and Heartbreak ridge (1986) . The car chase sequence was inspired by the one in the earlier Steve McQueen movie Bullit (1968) . There was an intention to top that car chase with this film , reportedly, the sequence is Clint Eastwood's favorite from the movie . Permission was given to film in San Francisco, despite protests from citizens who thought Harry Callahan was not a good representative for the city . Jim Carrey does a brief and sympathetic apparition as a rock star . Jim Carrey, at the time still an unknown actor , was billed as James Carrey . Being first of two Clint Eastwood movies which feature a then unknown Jim Carrey , the second would be a cameo in Pink Cadillac (1989) where Carrey is briefly seen . And brief appearances from David Hunt , Michael Goodwin , Shawn Elliott and Justin Whalin . This was the only Dirty Harry movie not to feature Albert Popwell , an ordinary actor of the series . Thrilling musical score by Lalo Schifrin , a great musician , usual of the seventies who composed all Harry Callahan's series , and including an anti-climatic soundtrack on the main titles made by means of synthesizer . Good and evocative cinematography by Jack N. Green , Eastwood's habitual . The motion picture was regularly directed by Buddy van Horn who made with Eastwood other action films and it was the least successful of the five Dirty Harry films at the box-office . Rating  5,5 . Acceptable and passable . "},{"Title":"Rather obvious stuff but fans of Dirty Harry may enjoy the basic formula even if it is only average stuff (spoilers)","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  'Dirty' Harry Callahan has finally brought top mobster Lou Genaro to justice and seen him sent to jail. The side effect of this high profile case is that he has become something of a media favourite &#150; the 'hard nosed cop who brought down the mob'. Sadly, Genaro doesn't see it the same way and puts a price on Harry's head, attracting all manner of hit men. As a result of this, Harry's celebrity status also means he gets involved in 'the dead pool' a game where players list celebs who will they reckon will die by a specified date. An innocent enough game but somebody has gotten hold of one of the player's lists and is killing them off one by one. Of course the main suspect is the player himself &#150; director Peter Swan, but Harry suspects it is someone else; but can he stay alive long enough to find out who?Watching it now in 2004, I did wonder whether or not Callahan's rather rough form of justice would wash today (shooting bad guys in the back etc) and in a way I suppose that depends on your own politics, but as a film this stands up as well as it did back in the late eighties. Of course this is not saying much because the film was never much cop (pardon the pun) and even if it had dated badly, the effects of time could not be used to explain away an average plot, some silly action and a film that is driven by its star's personality rather than anything else. The plot is simple enough but it gets things like Genaro thrown in (to pad out running time), not to mention a completely unnecessary red herring, which continues for about an hour after the audience have worked out that it isn't who the film wants us to think it is. For these reasons, a lot of the plot is unengaging, never dull of course but you do feel like a lot of stuff was added to make the film run longer or something like that.The action is typically tough and fans of 'Dirty' Harry's hard-line approach to criminals (judge & jury etc) will enjoy this stuff &#150; but one has to wonder why the writers did try harder to integrate some scenes into the main story rather than throwing in the Genaro thing to (seemingly) create a few shoot outs, not to mention a robbery simply to create a few more quips and bad guys for Harry to kill. It all smells of overkill and audience pandering &#150; claims that must surely be put out there whenever you witness Harry murder the unarmed (no bullets anyway) baddie with a massive harpoon! A car chase through the streets is fun but it needs you to be really into the film if you are going to be able to accept that a chase between a car and some tiny remote control toy.Of course the attraction for most people will be the draw of Eastwood in one of his most famous characters &#150; playing totally on his tough personae all the way. Despite the weak material, he is allowed to do his usual stuff and he is enjoyable for that. He is pretty much the main reason to see the film and, when he is handing out justice in his own way, it is easy to forget that the narrative is all over the place to allow him to do so. Clarkson is OK in a side role but she is used to hammer home a rant about the media's obsession with violence (pot/kettle stuff) but she is good enough despite this aspect. Kim is good but underused but still quite fun as Harry's partner. Neeson has nothing to do except be a red herring and his accent is all over the place (wandering from English, Irish and American). The support cast of goons and tough guys all fall over just as they were required to do but are hardly much good although an early role for Jim Carrey is worth noting.The film is worth seeing and it will please those fans who shudder at the onset of the PC police and Harry does all the stuff we have come to expect from him. However as a film in itself the plot is padded to create 'Dirty Harry' moments outside of the story, while the main thread just doesn't really have enough to it to really engage and it is a rather average ending to a series that starting with such a bang.  "},{"Title":"A fitting end to a great series","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The Dead Pool ended the Dirty Harry series just right. It is the worst of the movies but that in no way makes it a bad film. When you're up against greatness it makes it hard to do as well. This movie falls short of the other films in that it doesn't have the charisma or aura of the first four. It also lacks the 70' feel that I alluded to in Sudden Impact but since it was made in 1988 it can be forgiven for this. Don't miss Jim Carrey in an early role as a strung-out rock star. He was mugging at the camera then just like he does now. This movie still delivers decent action and a solid plot. A good bonus is the chase scene with the remote control car. Very exciting and inventive. Bottom Line This is the worst of the series but is still a great film. You must get the box set and watch them all to fully experience the impact of these fine films.   "}{"Title":"Undone by a weak ending","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Warning Contains spoilersThe Dirty Harry series ends with a whimper thanks to a weak ending. Why conceal the identity of the killer when he turns out to be a subsidiary character who is built into the story in the last half hour?Patricia Clarkson makes for a bland leading lady (despite a knockout figure) and has little chemistry with Eastwood. So, placing her in jeopardy creates no suspense. Also, having Harry surrender his legendary sidearm doesn't fit well with previous installments, since he has a clear head shot with the killer. Finally, having Harry find the harpoon gun shown in a previous scene is just a little too incredible.Buddy Van Horn, as a director, is no Eastwood, but he does a pretty good job. Most of the stunts are quite good and the cinematography is excellent. Lalo Schifrin's score is bouncy, but forgettable.Too bad, as a little script reworking would have made for a very good Dirty Harry effort. As it is, however, The Dead Pool is the weakest of the Dirty Harry series. "},{"Title":"It's a shame what they did to Harry for this one","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" To be fair, the movie has a lot going for it. The movie paces well, it didn't get boring. The plot is pretty fun. It's great to see a younger Liam Neeson and Jim Carrey. The misdirection of the audience is enjoyable. Harry's romantic interest in this movie doesn't feel right. She doesn't come across as the type of woman that would interest him. But she plays a small enough role that it doesn't bug me much. His new partner is hilariously stereotypical, and that is a pretty big wink at the audience.But what bugs me is that Harry no longer even tries to act like a cop. In the first five minutes, he shoots two attackers in the head, and shoots a fleeing attacker in the back, killing him. When he finishes off the villain at the end, the villain is out of ammo, and Harry acknowledges this. Then Harry kills him. A guy that he knows has been diagnosed with mental problems.Harry was fairly heroic during the other four movies, to varying degrees. In this one, he's not a good guy anymore. He's just bloodthirsty. "},{"Title":"Last but not best Dirty Harry","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This was the last Dirty Harry film and it was directed by veteran stunt man, Buddy Van Horn. It is surprising then to find that this one had the least amount of action and stunts out of the entire franchise.Clint Eastwood plays a softer less violent Dirty Harry this time out. It feels like there is an attempt to show Harry as more of a well rounded individual. This movies marks the turning point where PC started affecting how movie characters were written. At times the conflict between he and the bad guys plays second fiddle to the romantic conflict between Eastwood and his romantic foil, Patricia Clarkson, who plays gutsy but beautiful reporter Samantha Walker. This duality works really well, since its been well established throughout the franchise that Harry absolutely detests journalists. The chemistry between the two is good, second only to Eastwood and eventual wife Sandra Locke.Other co-stars include Jim Carrey, who does just an okay job playing a frantic junkie in a performance that is somewhat amateurish; its more zany-bad than zany-good. Carrey fans though will warm to the first inklings of this immensely talented comic's ability; his performance in this movie is a poorly executed version of the zany characters he would later perfect in Ace Ventura and Dumb and Dumber.Taken fans will likewise be surprised at how young Liam Neeson is in this. Neeson is marginally better than Carrey, playing one of the many scuzzbuckets that usually people Dirty Harry's America.This was Dirty Harry's swan song. As is the case with Eastwood's career by this point, this movie is lean and mean, barely scraping into a 90 minute running time. He learned cinematic economy from legendary crime director Don Siegel. As you move forward through the Dirty Harry franchise you can see this increasing and you can certainly see it in Eastwood's post Dirty Harry directing career; Lean and mean just like Clint Eastwood himself. It's not the best Dirty Harry film, but there are only five films in the franchise, so watch them all, but watch this last. "},{"Title":"Not so grand finale but passable","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" So this is the final movie in the Dirty Harry franchise. And for a finale it isn't that great of a final. This one just takes the great vibe it had in the series for the most part and gets way too cheesy. What this movie does is try to be entertaining and it is to some degree. But the movie as a whole just isn't a very good edition to this franchise. This franchise was never really realistic but it just comes off goofy for the most part and not really in a good way either. At least it has Liam Neeson as the probable main villain this time which is great, because he plays badass characters really well. So for Harry's probable final opponent it makes it worthwhile. So Liam Neeson character might be a evil film maker that does mostly horror films and might be the one who does some killings by playing a game called the dead pool and it's up to Harry Callahan to take the culprit down. But the thing is even for a movie like this some scenes just comes off way too absurd without it having much impact. This movie is ironic though how the main thing that drives this movie is death and violence and yet this one bashes on film makers that is infatuated with making violent movies. Harry's character is also a bit different in this, I don't know if the character changed after aging but it just didn't seem welcome. Harry Callahan seemed more like Robocop and the criminals in this is just absurdly incompetent. So sure the movie has bunch of flaws especially since it hardly has any meat in the story but it's still somewhat entertaining and worth a watch especially if you like this genre. And it's a alright finale for this tough cop thriller.6.3/10 "},{"Title":"Good bye Harry!","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" San Francisco detective Harry Callahan had a long career in the world of movies. This was his last appearance as the law enforcer that was too quick for his enemies. By the end of the first half hour, Harry has disposed of at least eight bad guys, and that was only the start.This time around, Harry is the target for having put away Lou Janero,a mafioso, who ran all kinds of criminal activities in the city. The man has sworn to get Harry. For that he engages his men to try to ice his enemy in any way they can.At the same time, something is going on in the set of a new crime movie being shot in the city. Peter Swan who has specialized in gore and blood, is at it again. Strangely, things are happening in the locations he uses. Swan has attracted the attention of the media that convene like vultures to get any sensational item them can get to show their viewers on the nightly news. Samantha Walker, is one of them, although she proves to be a bit more intelligent than her fellow journalists.Harry is asked by his superior to be nice to the press because his image is not exactly what the force would like to see. He clicks with Samantha in many ways, but their dinner date ends up with them trapped in an elevator, being attacked by machine gun from the outside. That brings them even closer. After all, the department wanted to appear to be more cooperative with the press.The Harry Callahan saga was rewarding for Clint Eastwood, who went to make a name for himself as a tight lipped detective who could outsmart and out shoot anyone getting in his way, or interfering with his job. This final installment was directed by Buddy Van Horn. Different men had been in charge in the other Harry pictures, Don Siegel and Clint Eastwood even tried their hand at them. The film is full of action for those fans that went to see it because of it. On the other hand, Harry remains an enigma in other aspects, which probably was the intent all along.Clint Eastwood's Harry was a man of few words and a lot of action. As the stone faced detective, he never changed, but we kind of expected it from him. The wonderful Patricia Clarkson is Samantha Walker the television reporter that happens to catch Harry's attention. Liam Neeson plays the sinister film director Swan. David Hunt has some good moments as the man behind some nasty incidents around the set. "},{"Title":"Suitable finish to a classic character","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Clint Eastwood wraps up his run as what is arguably his single most famous character (or maybe that The Man with No Name) in this entertaining thriller. This fifth entry in the Dirty Harry series also has the most interesting plot - on a popular horror film director's set a list of people, whom the players of a certain bizarre game expect to die, known as the dead pool starts to become too much of a reality as some of the mentioned people begin to die. Of course, soon enough a copy of the list surfaces with Harry's name on it.For a what is a straight-forward thriller formula this film packs enough memorable moments to be enjoyed by more than just Dirty Harry fans. Jim Carrey appears, in a very early role, as a crazy rock star. Harry finds out that he might have met his match in terms of partners. Harry of for once actually hunted by a bad guy giving the film slightly more suspense than previous entries. Finally there is a crazy car chase where Harry and his partner are attempting to evade a remote control car. Meaning, yes, the hard as nails Detective Harry Callahan is flooring it to get away from a toy, but you see the toy has a bomb so it is not that Harry is getting soft all of a sudden.Also there is the interesting notion here of a film becoming a bit too real as people on the Dead Pool actually start to die and the list is found on a film set. It was only a few years after this that Clint Eastwood put down his .44 Magnum and badass persona for good to a more realistic set of films that continue to this day. Clint might have become a bit more real, but he was still great when he was being slightly ridiculous. --- 8/10BsCDb Classification 13+ --- violence "},{"Title":"Good bye Dirty Harry","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is the fifth and final film to feature San Francisco detective Dirty Harry Callahan, it is also the lightest of the five featuring more humour and a bit less violence.The film opens with two plot strands; after sending a local mob boss to prison Harry is targeted by his henchmen in revenge, at the same time we see somebody writing a list of local celebrities which includes the Harry who is in the spotlight after the trial. Soon after a rock singer, played by Jim Carrey in an early role, dies and Harry and his new partner are called in to investigate. At first it looks like a routine overdose until his name is found on the dead pool list discovered on somebody killed in a robbery.This leads Harry to the low budget horror film director Peter Swan on whose list the dead singer's name was along with Harry who isn't too amused. After a run in with the media Harry finds himself going to dinner with a female reporter who ends up part of the news rather than just recording it.I thought this film was a step up from Sudden Impact, the previous film in the series, largely because the film was back where it belongs in San Francisco but also he was once again with a partner and the story was more fun. While Clint Eastwood was getting a bit old for the role he still played it well, the other actors were pretty good too. The most memorable scene in the film has to be a rather unusual take on the classic car chase, this one is different as Harry is chased by a remote controlled toy car which contains a bomb.While this isn't one of Clint Eastwood's best films I'd certainly recommend it to fans of the early Dirty Harry films and for people for like cop films in general. "},{"Title":"Harry Callahan might be getting older but he hasn't lost his touch.","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Part Five of the Dirty Harry series, now Harry Callahan must investigate the ongoings of the new game called 'The Dead Pool'. Kinda funny role by Liam Neeson as a horrible slasher movie director who rips off everything he has ever liked on film, he plays Guns and Roses while a heroin addicted Jim Carrey lip syncs to the song while stomping around next to a bed with a lady sitting there doing a rendition of the exorcist! As always, Harry gets a new partner who is a little shaky at first about working with 'Dirty' Harry. A lot of the scenes in this movie are 'Dirty Harry' inspired, talking to authority like their just somebody out on the street, the usual Dirty Harry one liners before the 44 magnum goes off, definitely good times but I think the series has seen its end. They've (the filmmakers) pretty much exhausted all the material you could rehash for another Dirty Harry film in this one and it barely ekes out in my opinion. Still very good and as always Mr. Clint Eastwood always puts on a great show. The best part has to be when Jannero's men come to keep a protective eye on Callahan (be Callahans' bodyguards) and Harry comes out of nowhere and just beats the crap out of both of them, really funny stuff. 7/10 stars, could've been eight out of ten stars if the reporter wasn't in the movie, she was very annoying. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I've been watching a few of Clint Eastwood's films lately and am finding them really good. I don't normally go for A grade material but the dead pool was made some time ago so now let me get to it. Eastwood plays the role of dirty harry Callahan once more and he plays it very well. Yes he may not be in his prime anymore but he still had it in him to pull off a fifth film. The plot with the film director and the celebrities getting knocked off all over the film was not really original but guess what it was the 1980's and they could get away it. Jim carrey's performance was almost forgettable but every actor has to start somewhere i guess. Liam neeson did an half decent job at the role he was playing and the remote control car scene was really good as well. I will not be holding my breath of a dirty harry 6 cause it will never happen so i will just have to be happy with what has been made. "},{"Title":"Slightly Aged, But Just As Dirty","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The Dead Pool of 1988 is the final of the Dirty Harry films with Clint Eastwood, and it certainly doesn't reach the quality of its predecessors, but the old formula of the grouchy, super-tough, no-nonsense cop still works, and Eastwood is great as always in his role of Dirty Harry Callahan, whom he plays for the fifth time. This last Dirty Harry flick may not be imaginative. It only readopts the exact scheme of its predecessors. But that's a good thing, in my opinion, since I love the entire Dirty Harry series, and it certainly didn't need a change. In case you have seen the other films, you more or less know what to expect. The story isn't too imaginative (allthough it's good enough to keep the viewer's attention throughout the movie), and the new characters aren't too special either. What really makes this film a joy to watch is, once again, Dirty Harry Callahan, his hate of reporters, his disrespect for his superiors, his bad temper, his ability to shoot a whole bunch of attackers in few seconds and his unbreakable will to 'do what's right', without mercy and regardless of consequences. Dirty Harry is simply THE tough, incorruptible cop, and The Dead Pool does everything to emphasize this image. Dirty Harry is just as dirty as ever in this film, which makes this a real joy for lovers of the series. Even apart from Harry, the movie leaves out no cliché. Harry's partner in crime-fighting, who happens to be a Chinese-American, for example, is, of course, a kung fu expert who has a superstitious Chinese grandfather And these clichés make this movie so fun to watch. The Dead Pool is certainly not one of the great Dirty Harry films (my favorite is still the 1971 original Dirty Harry, followed by the fourth, Eastwood's very own Sudden Impact of 1983), but it definitely is another badass and highly entertaining Harry film that is great fun to watch and that no lover of the previous films can afford to miss. And what would be more entertaining on a quiet evening, than to have a beer and watch Insp. Harry Callahan take down three assailants in two seconds, and shoot the fourth one in the back when he's trying to flee? - In my opinion, nothing is! Highly recommended to all the Calahan fans out there! "}{"Title":"Your out of bullets & you know what that means... your sh*t out of luck. Solid 80's tough cop thriller.","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The Dead Pool is set in San Francisco where crime-boss Lou Janero (Anthony Charnota) has put a hit out on Inspector 'Dirty' Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood), while dodging attempts on his life & with his new partner Inspector Quan (Evan C. Kim) Harry has to investigate the death of rock star Johnny Squares (Jim Carrey) when he is discovered dead in his trailer on the set of a horror film. With help from a local new reporter Samantha Walker (Patricia Clarkson) Harry discovers the existence of a dead pool, a list of celebrities which horror film director Peter Swan (Liam Neeson) & some of his friends bet on who will die before a certain date. It quickly transpires that someone is systematically going through Peter's list & killing the celebrities off one-by-one & Harry learns that his name is on the list which makes him a potential victim...Directed by Buddy Van Horn this was the fifth & to date final Dirty Harry film, I haven't seen all of them as yet but I thought The Dead Pool was a pretty good if unspectacular 80's tough cop thriller. The script by Steve Sharon is alright, it has a fairly good story that tries something different for the genre although one has to say I felt it had more potential than it ultimately delivered. The idea of a dead pool lottery style bet about celebrities dying could have made for a great film but here the idea is underdeveloped, it's never revealed what the point of the dead pool is in the first place. I mean it's seemingly nothing more than a silly bet between a horror director & a few of his friends, it's never revealed what the actual prize was meant to be or just how seriously those involved took it & it gets forgotten as the number of murder victims grow. What I'm trying to say is that I never felt there was sufficient reason behind the killings & the climax which reveals it was the work of a lone psychotic was somewhat underwhelming. The Dead Pool also tries to say something relevant about media coverage of crimes & cops, this is quite well handled & the point is made effectively enough. The makers could have had a lot of fun with the dead pool & turned this into a gripping thriller, as it is it's a decent action thriller that passes the time but ultimately doesn't live long in the memory once it's over.Director Van Horn does alright, it moves along at a decent pace, there's some good action scenes & shoot-outs along with an imaginative car chase in which Dirty Harry is chased across San Francisco by a remote controlled car packed with explosives! Harry himself is still a great character & he has everything it took to be an action hero back in the 80's, the utter & total contempt for authority, the droll one-liners & the need to use excessive & deadly force at all times which he also had during the 70's of course. He has it all, he's maybe a bit old but he still holds his own as he blows bad guy's away left, right & center. There's some violence & a bit of blood which helps things along nicely.Technically the film is good, it has that solid Hollywood big budget feel to it & it's well made especially the car chase. Shot on location in San Francisco despite, according to the IMDb, the cities residents (people with obviously too much time on their hands) protesting that 'Dirty' Harry Callahan would be a bad character to represent the city! The acting is OK, there are early roles for Liam Neeson & Jim Carrey while the members of Guns N'Roses appear as extras at the funeral of Johnny Squares.The Dead Pool is a solid action thriller, it's not the best one ever made but it's far from the worst. Dirty Harry fans should like it & general action fans should too, worth a watch if nothing else. This was a sequel to Dirty Harry (1971), Magnum Force (1973), The Enforcer (1976) & Sudden Impact (1983). "},{"Title":"It's my favorite Dirty Harry movie.  And it's Underrated.","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" People underrate this Dirty Harry movie. Clint Eastwood played Harry Callahn one last time in 1988 for The Dead Pool. When I first watched this movie, I knew there was something odd. It doesn't seem like the other films. Many of the Eastwood regulars don't make appearances. I still liked it! And the idea of keeping the villain of the movie hidden until the end. This Dirty Harry movie shows another human side of Harry and he's more mellow. Especially towards the love interest, Sam Walker played by Patricia Clarkson. If you haven't seen this movie, give it a look see. It really isn't that bad. Give it a chance. It had action, crime, a little humor, as well as some romance between the two characters. "},{"Title":"Fifth, Final And Fun Dirty Harry Cop Thriller","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" San Francisco detective Harry Callahan is on the case when various associates of horror film director Peter Swan end up dead. Callahan is befriended by a news reporter, and the two attempt to uncover if Swan is behind the killings.The fifth and final of the Dirty Harry movies is an enjoyable if a little predictable cop thriller, but not as good as the seventies films. I like Harry; he's your standard lovable right-wing maniac, whose idea of justice is to shoot anyone he doesn't like in the head. He's ever so slightly anachronistic these days, but he is what he is, take him or leave him. There is some nice characterisation - Clarkson does a good job as the reporter waking up to her industry's shallow cultural contribution, Neeson has fun as the bad-tempered hack filmmaker with a camp accent somewhere between Ballymena and Dick Van Dyke, and Kim is great as Harry's latest hospital-bound partner. As ever with Eastwood's slick Malpaso crew, the film looks terrific and stunt expert Van Horn turns in a nifty chase sequence involving a radio-controlled toy car rigged to explode. The subtext of the film takes some swallowing though - that ghoulish media jackals and gory horror films are to blame for a sick society; very rich in a movie with a non-stop litany of violence and popular anti-authoritarianism. But this is good old-fashioned dirty fun all the same. Watch out for an early role by Carrey as a hopped-up rockstar, and a brief cameo by seminal eighties band Guns'n'Roses. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good. Watch out for Jim Carrey.","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I usually avoid Clint Eastwood films but Jim Carrey is my movie hero so I watched. For the first few minutes I had my doubts but from the moment Jim appeared I started enjoying myself. His scene was one of the best (obviously) but I also liked the remote controlled car. The horror elements worked well and so did the humour. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Great action","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I was disappointed that this was the last of the Dirty Harry films. I think there would've been room for more. As it is, this was yet another good sequel in a dependable action series. Eastwood is at his charismatic best delivering those one-liners with aplomb. The only thing I don't like about this movie (and its predecessor Sudden Impact) is that Harry's bosses are way too cliched with their flustered What the hell are you doing?! attitude that became a trademark in 80s cop movies. But check out pre-famous Liam Neeson and Jim Carrey! I was in 7th grade when I first saw this and remember it was the first time I heard the expression, You're sh*t out of luck. Of course, no one has ever said it as great as Eastwood. I miss Dirty Harry. And it's interesting to read the various reviews in this site that criticizes Dirty Harry, or even Eastwood, because some of the dialogue and actions in the film is so not PC. I remember flipping through the channels and saw Oprah going on about how great Dirty Harry was when Eastwood was on her show. It's unbelievable how PC everybody has to be these days. I had seen all the Dirty Harry films growing up. Since my dad is a big Eastwood fan, I bought him the Dirty Harry series on DVD. I started watching them again, and I still love them.  "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry still Has it","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  In one of the best sequels in the Dirty Harry films, Clint Eastwood returns in the Dead Pool. It is never a dull film, and the action starts right from the beginning. The movie begins when a drug-addicted rock star dies (played zanily by Jim Carrey). When Callahan investigates he discovers a sinister, twisted game called the Dead Pool, and his name is on the list of those expected to die. This is a great movie, and a fun one to watch. And of course, Harry has some memorable quotes; like his one on opinions. Also check out Liam Neeson in this movie as a director.  "},{"Title":"A New Side of Harry Callahan.","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" People are quick to say The Dead Pool is the worst in the series. It has always been a favorite of mine. This film features a terrific but odd cast. I doesn't have the Eastwood Regulars that are in other Malpaso films. There is Liam Neeson as a horror film director and Jim Carrey as a drug addicted rock star.One of the best things about this film is Patricia Clarkson. Her character and her acting made the film a joy to watch. Another thing great about the film is the new mellower side of Dirty Harry. Clint does things that Dirty Harry would do as well as giving us a gentle side.Finally, there is Lalo Schifrin's music. People also complain because of the cheesy synth main theme...but that's it. Even thought I loved the theme, the rest of the score is classic Schifrin. Much like a 1950's film noir.If you haven't yet seen this Dirty Harry, give it a shot. It does have a cartoonish feel and comic book characters, but it's Dirty Harry with a lot of new elements to the franchise. A great way to end the Dirty Harry series. "},{"Title":"Exhausted.","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Plenty of action in this late Dirty Harry flick. Harry's car is hemmed in on the highway and three or four machine-gun-toting gangsters puncture his car with a thousand bullets. Finally, silence. The vehicle lies there, smoking and shattered. One of the goons walks over carefully to the wreck to make sure Harry is in the same shape as his car. Harry pops up out of the door and shoots him in the face. Then he shoots the remaining goons while they desperately fill the air with lead.Machine guns can't kill Dirty Harry. Sound absurd? Here's another instance. Harry and his blond Boswell are descending in one of those outside elevators and another squad of thugs unloose a fusillade of slugs, turning the now immobile elevator into a spaghetti colander. It's no use. Harry and the ambitious blond has escaped simply by lying on the floor and when the elevator door opens they slither out.The best thing about these scenes is that they have nothing to do with what appears to be the main plot -- the dead pool that has celebrities listed and bet on according to the order of their deaths. I know what a boat pool is. But the dead pool is never explained. That doesn't matter, though, because, as I say, it has nothing to do with the murder that precipitates the action.It's not worth going on about the film for long. An amusing scene has a radio-controlled miniature car racing after Harry and his new, Chinese partner around the city's streets. Harry has no tag lines, like, Make my day. The writers have given him sardonic comments like, Swell. But no laughter could have made up for the pattern exhaustion on display here. They've simply run out of ideas, and Dirty Harry is now aging. His hair is gray and his voice coarsened by the years.It's a sad movie -- not because of Harry's age or the throw-away plot but because this seems to be Hollywood's idea of a decent movie. "},{"Title":"The dead Harry Callahan","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Inspector Harry Callahan was born in Dirty Harry, 1971, and was shot dead in The Dead Pool, 1988. By shot dead, I don't mean gunned down. I mean that when they shot this film he was dead or like dead in every scene.Inspector Callahan had already probably died of old age in Sudden Impact, back in 1983. Producers should have realized this fact. After all, it was scripted in the movie, when Capt. Briggs, one of Callahan's superiors, shouts You're a dinosaur, Callahan! And Clint Eastwood should have understood that the success of the character he had given life to, 12 years prior, was based not only on the stubborn cynical attitude displayed by Harry Callahan but also on a degree of vitality that his middle-aged Callahan could no longer expend (Eastwood was 53 in Sudden Impact and 58 in The Dead Pool). Don't get me wrong! I think Mr. Eastwood has played some of his most memorable roles beyond that age. In Unforgiven he was 62, in The Bridges of Madison County he was 65, not to mention the extraordinary directing he has done since. But no-one had ever asked to watch the physical decline of Harry Callahan.Steve Sharon's dialogue in The Dead Pool is a sad and sorry affair, a career first and last, made worse only by Buddy Van Horn's directing. Mr. Van Horn is a stunt-coordinator. Judging by his résumé, he's probably a very good one and has, likely, staged numbers far more perilous than this without (one would hope) anything going wrong. In The Dead Pool, however, his judgment is so far off that the consequences are disastrous. Not that any of the actors does much to help Mr. Van Horn. Clint Eastwood slurs his lines and not even Harry's one gem in the whole 91 minutes, (WARNING IN A FILM THIS AWFUL, TO GIVE THIS AWAY MIGHT BE CLASSED AS A SPOILER!!) the one about opinions and asses and everybody having one, (END OF GEM!!) gets the delivery it deserves. Liam Neeson plays the film director, and it's a wonder he was ever asked to act again. A wonder, because he's so frail and erratic throughout the movie, that he can't even hold the same accenT halfway London Cockney, halfway Irish. Lucky for us and for Schindler's List that this performance was forgiven and (surely) forgotten. Then, there's Jim Carrey, who plays a cheap film star, and, though he's credited as James Carrey it really makes no difference. They can't fool us we know it's good old reliable Ventura/Mask/Cable Guy-Carrey.Dirty Harry, Magnum Force and The Enforcer might have bequeathed history an acceptable and fun trilogy of flicks, with that seventies flavor, music and pace to them, with that slow and brusque yet lethal Inspector Callahan and his Charles Bronson mentality. Yet, if Sudden Impact was, potentially, a mistake, then The Dead Pool was, undeniably, a fatal error. "},{"Title":"the anti action-film film","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I read all the reviews of people that absolutely hated it because it was implausible or stupid.. but I think thats the point. This is the perfect ending for the Dirty Harry series because it is all about making fun of the action film genre. First of all, a karate sidekick. The filmmakers aren't that stupid, people. Eastwood said himself that he hates cliché. I think the karate sidekick was used as a joke. I mean cummon, he uses his skills in one scene and then his hospital-ridden like the rest of eastwood's sidekicks. A car chase with a remote control car?? I was laughing my ass off! That was the funniest thing I've ever seen and totally bashed all these movies with stylized car chases that really are just sped-up quick-cutting pieces of trash (e.g. The Rock). The last scene of the movie speaks a lot too. We've all watched the 5 dirty harry movies up to this final scene of the series and Eastwood's gun runs out of bullets in the hands of the enemy?? Cummon, this is the first time its ever run out of bullets. Harry never has to reload because its Hollywood. This final scene is a perfect ending because it brings the audience out of the dirty harry style of movie and back into the standard Hollywood action genre that comes after it. All the conventions that the Dirty Harry series created are finally laid to rest, and the filmmakers are fully aware of everything they are doing. "}{"Title":"Harry's Last Case?","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Clint Eastwood returns for the fifth & last(?) time as Dirty Harry Callahan, San Francisco police inspector who has now found himself a media celebrity after his successful arrest of a crime boss, whose family plans retaliation. This case also brings him to the attention of a Hollywood director(Liam Neeson) who has put him on a dead pool list, where people bet on the next celebrity to die, and win money. Someone is killing the people on the list(including a film critic(!) Harry must stop both the clever killer, and the mob.Satisfying finale to the series has a good script and direction, plus lots of the usual situations where Harry does his effective job of stopping criminals. Amusing toy car chase is a highlight, and film has the right balance of menace and fun.Great job Harry Callahan, you're missed! "},{"Title":"Dumb fun.","Date":"24 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The Dead Pool is cited by many as the worst of the Dirty Harry films, but I simply cannot agree it might not be a great example of quality film-making, but it has such a high degree of trashiness that it proves a far more entertaining watch than either The Enforcer (lacklustre) or Sudden Impact (boring).The film starts with James Carrey (or Jim, as he is more commonly known these days) performing a crazy dance routine to Guns 'N' Roses' Welcome to the Jungle (before being offed by a killer with a synthetic drug); it has Liam Neeson putting on an awful accent as schlock horror director Peter Swan; there are pointless cameos from Slash and Axl Rose; it features the silliest use of a remote control car as a weapon outside of an Andy Sidaris flick; Harry Callahan's new partner can do kung fu; and the whole thing has the feel of a cheesy slasher movie rather than a gritty thriller.By the time Clint pins the film's schizo killer to a door with a fully-functioning harpoon movie prop, you'll either be cursing all involved for the ridiculous debacle you have witnessed or, like me, grinning from ear to ear at the sheer silliness of the whole thing.7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for the moment Harry pops out of an oil drum/barrel to ice some mob killers. Hilarious! "},{"Title":"the Last Dirty Harry Film","Date":"7 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" And at this point, Harry isn't even taking it seriously anymore. Honestly, it's kind of like a Star Trek Holodeck program where you are doing a Dirty Harry flavored movie and it lacks the grit.Not to say the movie isn't fun. But here's where I think the flaws are.First, a weak villain. We don't even meet him until the end of the movie. He's an unseen menace in the film. The others were out front with the villains and who they were and what they were up to and why.Second- Harry's kind of turned into a cliché himself, and Clint seems to be in on the gag. He's kind of moved on from this character, but here he is again strapping on the big .44 and doing the part. We go through all the checklist of what should be in a movie like this. Harry shoots it up with street thugs. check. Harry has a message- this time sensationalist media is bad. Check.Third- No Albert Popwell. Al is an African-American actor who appeared in the previous four installments playing different characters, and there seems to be a role for him in this one, but someone else played it. (The thuggish looking prisoner who threatens the mob boss trying to kill Harry.) Fun stuff to look for. Jim Carrey before he was making 20 million a film playing a bit role as a rock star and first victim. Liam Leesom before he became the Wise Jedi and was just playing the Snooty English guy. Evan C. Kim playing Harry's wise-cracking partner.Still, fun to watch, and Eastwood is ALWAYS a treat in these movies. "},{"Title":"Good entry in the Dirty Harry series...","Date":"7 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" 1st watched 5/4/2010 -- 6 out of 10 (Dir-Buddy Van Horn) Good entry in the Dirty Harry series has Harry Callahan, played of course by Clint Eastwood, on a list called the Dead Pool that is being played as a game by a filmmaker and some of his friends. The idea is to guess what celebrity will die next. The movie is written well with touches of humor that always helps this series when it's executed well. The investigation starts out with a rock star's death(amazingly & effectively played by Jim Carrey in an early role) who was being filmed in a movie being done by a hardcore horror filmmaker, played by Liam Neeson(also an early role). The Neeson character is expected early to being involved mainly because no-one likes him. The mystery of the movie is determining who's doing the killing and why and this keeps your interest. There is a unique chase scene included involving a remote-controlled car, but also a bland and blase final chase scene. The movie succeeds because it keeps you guessing, there is some good humor, and the acting and presence from the main star is right on. The cliché Dirty-Harry schtick is kept to a minimum and this also helps. I have to admit that this one just barely got a thumbs up from me, but I guess sometimes the entertainment value is what makes the difference and this one did just that -- entertain. "},{"Title":"Not the best in the Dirty Harry series, but it is still a fun ride.","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dirty Harry is close to retiring in this film, but he goes out with a rather good bang. A director has made a deadpool list, and the people on that list are being murdered. On that list is Harry himself, so he takes this case personally. The plot is rather over the top and actually pretty funny at times. I think this one is being over the top with certain points on purpose and it works to a degree. The movie features a car chase that has to be seen to be believed and a new partner that Harry says needs to get a bullet proof vest thanks to what usually happens to his partners. He also visits a guy in jail that has it out for him and it is a rather funny scene too. The supporting cast is good and over the top too and we even get an early appearance by Jim Carrey in this one as an wild singer who is strung out on heroin. Liam Neeson plays the director who made out the deadpool to begin with and he is always good in his roles, even when they are rather minor. So a rather good end to the Dirty Harry series, it might would have been nice if they made one more where he was retired and still kicking butt, but it had to end at some point. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry's Last Case?","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The Dead Pool is a out and out action flick aimed at the audiences who loved Sudden Impact but not the complicated storyline that went with it. The Dead Pool is a game in which various players choose six celebrities they think will be dead by the end of the year. A Film Critic is found dead and a list of the Dead Pool is found nearby. Meanwhile as a result with his war on crime Dirty Harry is Suddenly a celebrity and thus his named is added to the list When this connection is discovered Harry is assigned to the case to find out why. More murders occur and Harry makes a enemy of sorts in a film directer played by Liam Neeson in an early role. The film wraps up in a grand style and a fine sendoff for one of cinema's most enduring Heroes Dirty Harry. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but insubstantial.","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The fifth and final entry in the DIRTY HARRY series sees Eastwood coasting on auto-pilot.  The plot is larger than life, the characters one-dimensional and the film almost descends into self-parody.  That said it is still an enjoyable ride with a number of witty one-liners for Eastwood and some effective action scenes.  The chase involving a remote-control car wired with explosives sums up the movie with its affecting absurdity. "},{"Title":"''You're s**t out of luck.''","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  --Possible Spoilers--After a five year break, 'Dirty' Harry Callahan is back in his old stamping ground of San Francisco. After putting away a mob boss, Harry becomes a media hero. His superiors decide to take advantage of this to promote the image of the department. Harry is partnered with Al Quain and together they investigate the murder of Johnny Squares (Jim Carrey). Discovering that he was on a list called 'The Dead Pool', Harry digs deeper and discovers that the director of Squares' last film, Peter Swain (Liam Neeson), was playing the game. And that Squares' name popped up on his list. Not before long, Harry's name appears on the list.Director Buddy Van Horn, who appeared as the suicide jumper in Dirty Harry (1971), has gone for all out parody of the character. And it works. Eastwood places his tongue firmly in his cheek, and the action is staged very well. In many ways, it's like a greatest hits collection the one liners, the 44. Magnum, the fights with superiors, the partner and the steel look.However, the violence of the movie is more slasher movie oriented and sometimes the film becomes confused as to what it is a parody, an action movie or a slasher movie. It does not suit Dirty Harry.On the whole, I enjoyed this as a no brainer. Quite sad when you think about it, because Dirty Harry was born with serious intentions, but that's Warner Brothers for you.I give The Dead Pool an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Imagine if he were real!","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  In real life, there is no way that Dirty Harry could keep a job as a cop.  After all, given some fairly reasonable and easy opportunities to make an arrest, he shoots and kills on the spot.Perhaps he hasn't got the keys to his handcuffs!Film director Liam Neeson - sporting a particularly awful accent - has compiled a list of who he thinks will be the next celebrities to die.  It's in a competition called The Dead Pool.A deranged nutter starts knocking off the people on Neeson's list, although the chase to find the killer was disappointingly easy for a Dirty Harry film.Plenty of shooting and killing - just what you'd expect - but other than Eastwood being OK the rest of the cast were awful, particularly Neeson and a very young and very bad Jim Carrey as a pop star.Definitely one for the officianado only. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry is back with a vengeance, but haven`t we heard that before ?","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Clint Eastwood isn`t as cool as he used to be.   17 years have passed since he blew us all away with Dirty Harry, but times have changed since back then. The Dead Pool is the fifth and final Dirty Harry-film, and is as such an improvement over the rather tedious Sudden Impact. This movie has more action and coolness than the last movie, and THAT is precisely what saves it.  Story- and plotwise it is pretty unoriginal stuff, but you might want to notice Jim Carry as a rockstar in this film. 6,5/10 "}{"Title":"Rip-Roaring, none too challenging.","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Jim Carrey and Liam Neeson are interesting enough to see in these fairly minor parts.  But the highlight of the film, for me, was the chase scene involving a toy RC car as the pursuing bad car.  Every cliche of a Hollywood car chase scene is fulfilled to a T, right down to nobody being seriously injured despite massive destruction of property.  This alone is worth the price of admission/rental. "},{"Title":"Dive on in....","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  It never fails.Every time I watch a movie like The Dead Pool, my eyes squint up like Harry's, a grimace stretches my lips down and I start talking through my teeth.  No wonder; Eastwood knows what kind of movie people want to see. And he proves it again for the fifth time.Here, Eastwood's basically put through the same old tricks.  But with a few added bonuses like a car chase involving a toy car, Jim Carrey in a bit part, Evan C. Kim as a high-kicking partner and such sights as Patricia Clarkson and Liam Neeson, this outing gets high marks, even if everything else seems a little tired.You gotta love the scene in prison, though.  I know I do.Eight stars.  And anyone who smokes as much as you do must be one dumb....Oops, sorry.  Did it again. "},{"Title":"Brings back a little life into the franchise but nowhere near enough","Date":"27 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Improves a bit from the horrible 'Sudden Impact' but that is not enough making it just another addition to the franchise riding on its original appeal. When everything was going south, a terrific thrilling chase sequence brought the movie back to its life and it probably is the best action sequence of the entire series. That and the inclusion of beautiful Patricia Clarkson but though she gets enough screen time there is too little meat in the role than she is capable of.SFPD witnesses the murder of a celebrity Johnny Squares (Jim Carrey) and when they come across a racket that bets on which celebrity is going to die next. The death of another celebrity makes a low end horror film maker Peter Swan (Liam Neeson) a prime suspect in the case but Harry's instincts tell him otherwise. Harry is assigned a new partner and also meets a beautiful news reporter Samantha Walker (Patricia Clarkson). When the killer notices a sidetrack in the investigation, he tries to take on Harry personally.Works a world lot better than 'Sudden Impact' but still a mile away from the first two. The chase sequence between the toy car and the real one though exaggerated and unrealistic on hindsight, but was quite thrilling and one aspect that brings the movie to life. Liam Neeson plays the perfect B-Movie supporting character. Patricia Clarkson is well known for her acting prowess but looked gorgeous in this younger and earlier role. With a crisp runtime and not too many deviations, it was a breeze to sit through but never shedding the feel of a B-Movie.Brings back a little life into the franchise but nowhere near enough "},{"Title":"Great Callahagn Swan Son","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Saw Dirty Harry originally with my Dad in '71 at the show. It was a benchmark cop film ahead of it's time. Dead Pool being Eastwoods last effort to play the 'inspector of steel' was a good way to close out the character Harry. Plenty of shooting, slimy , despicable people, and an unusual story line. Thought Inspector Quan was a good addition to the film.Although none of the films which followed the original Harrycould match the story line, I would have to say this closed out the series strongest. Patricia Clarkson was a good casting choice to be Harry's eventual  interest '. If you like Harry and want his best DVD's get the 1st and last. "},{"Title":"Greatest car chase ever","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The most boring and senseless cliché of cinema - the car chase - is here given a truly surprising, clever and entertaining twist (no, I will not spoil its nature here). The movie is worth seeing for this sequence (the best in the movie) alone.It's also interesting, and somewhat chastening, to compare this sequel with the original movie to see how far towards political correctness the Dirty Harry character has moved. While in the original, Harry is presented (at least initially) as an intolerant racist, here it is the Lieutenant that is presented as racist, seeing Harry's partner condescendingly only as a token ethnic whose pairing with high-profile Inspector Callahan will be good for the police department's public relations image; Harry relates to the Chinese officer in question as Al, an equal, from the start, and mocks the Lieutenant's attitude. "},{"Title":"A fitting send off for Harry Callahan","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Clint Eastwood has always been one of my favorite actors, I grew up watching his films on TV. I especially loved his Westerns and the Dirty Harry films. When The Dead Pool was released in 1988 I was at last old enough to go and see it in the cinema, so of course along I went to the cinema with my mates! A bonus was that I was a big fan of Guns n Roses when it came out and one of their songs Welcome to the Jungle was used heavily in the film, plus the band made cameo appearances in the movie but I would be lying if I said I noticed them first time round! Even future star Jim Carrey made an appearance credited as James Carrey, funnily enough he also had a blink and you'll miss him appearance in another Eastwood picture Pink Caddilack. Anyway as for the film itself, well it's no way near as good as the original but is arguably better than any of the other sequels. Clint breezes through the film and is at his best here. Liam Neeson is pretty good too although the story isn't particularly great to help them out. Evan Kim is a pretty bland partner for Harry and you are just waiting for him to get killed or ended up in hospital. The film has a great car chase sequence with a neat twist as a bonus! Also the music score is provided once again by Lalo Schifrin and as ever is great. All in all The Dead Pool is a very entertaining film which Dirty Harry or Eastwood fans will love, anyone else might find it a bit daft. A fitting send off for Harry Callahan and second only to the excellent original. "},{"Title":"The last Dirty Harry movie","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Clint Eastwood has always been one of my favourite actors, I grew up watching his films on TV. I especially loved his Westerns and the Dirty Harry films. When The Dead Pool was released in 1988 I was at last old enough to go and see it in the cinema, so of course along I went to the cinema with my mates! A bonus was that I was a big fan of Guns n Roses when it came out and one of their songs Welcome to the Jungle was used heavily in the film, plus the band made cameo appearances in the movie but I would be lying if I said I noticed them first time round! Even future star Jim Carrey made an appearance credited as James Carrey, funnily enough he also had a blink and you'll miss him appearance in another Eastwood picture Pink Caddilack. Anyway as for the film itself, well it's no way near as good as the original but is arguably better than any of the other sequels. Clint breezes through the film and is at his best here. Liam Neeson is pretty good too although the story isn't particularly great to help them out. Evan Kim is a pretty bland partner for Harry and you are just waiting for him to get killed or ened up in hospital. The film has a great car chase sequence with a neat twist as a bonus! Also the music score is provided once again by Lalo Schifrin and as ever is great. All in all The Dead Pool is a very entertaing film which Dirty Harry or Eastwood fans will love, anyone else might find it a bit daft. A fitting send off for Harry Callahan and second only to the excellent original. ***7/10*** "},{"Title":"A very good and exciting Dirty Harry movie!","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The Dead Pool is a good action packed Dirty Harry film! Clint Eastwood was good as always! Liam Neeson was excellent! Jim Carrey was very good! Lot of action it the film is never boring! The car chase scene was really cool! Lalo Schifrin's score is excellent! If you like Dirty Harry I recommend you see this great and final sequel! "},{"Title":"Last Harry Callahan film is still enjoyable","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Buddy Van Horn's The Dead pool was the fifth Harry Callahan movie and last part of the beloved action thriller series. I've always had huge troubles of actually deciding which one of the four sequels of the original Dirty Harry (1971) is the very best and which one's the worst because I sort of like 'em all. Of course the easiest solution would be to simply claim that every new sequel was a bit worse than the previous since even Clint himself confessed that perhaps he made couple of Harry Callahan films too many.Well, he was only 41 years old in the first Harry flick and 58 in this so that should tell something. Only reason to shoot The Dead pool was the regrettable fact that Bird (1988), Eastwood's own direction and most personal work about the jazz legend Charlie Parker he adored, turned out to be a flop and Clint had to do a movie that would be a reliable, certain commercial success. When he took up his good old .44 Magnum for the fifth time everybody knew that this movie would be a definite hit.But I just can't help it, I know what I like and I like The Dead pool. Jim Carrey is quite fabulous in his small yet important role of a drug addicted heavy rock star Johnny Squares. Music video scene (with outstanding Guns n' Roses song Welcome to the jungle on the background) is one of my absolute favorite moments of the film. It's interesting to observe how Jim has his hilarious comic gestures, expressions and mannerisms several years before his breakthrough and even in the more serious role.By the way, note to rock fans, have you noticed that all the members of Guns n' Roses' 1988 line-up are guests in the funeral of Johnny Squares? I know we've seen all the important there is to see about Harry Callahan in the first four movies. The Dead pool only rides in the charisma and popularity of Eastwood's famous macho character but it's still an excellent and enjoyable film so it just doesn't matter to me. It includes good traditional action, nice amusing characters and various legendary Harry Callahan one-liners like Swell, Marvelous and You're s*** out of luck and it entertains anyone who loves Eastwood. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is the best out of all the dirty Harry movies.  I particularly like Liam Neeson's role in this movie.  I think that this is also the scariest one of them all.  See it it's just the movie to see for fun. "}{"Title":"Thank God it was the last one in the series","Date":"13 March 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is the fifth and last of the Dirty Harry films of Clint Eastwood, which began with DIRTY HARRY (1971, see my review). The worst of the series was unquestionably SUDDEN IMPACT (1983, see my review). This is the second worst. It features a ludicrously overdone raving psychopath and an equally ludicrously overdone raving film director of horror movies, played by Liam Neeson, who must in retrospect be seriously embarrassed by his performance and hope no one ever sees it again. Presumably these characters were meant to be a kind of black comedy, but if so, how sad at failed humour can you get? The strange title refers to a gambling pool of how many celebrities will die in a certain time. Plenty of them die, it is all very grisly, and the film revels in showing us how. Naturally, Dirty Harry shoots as many people dead as usual, and the body count for the film is extraordinarily high. No matter how many hoodlums shoot at him with machine guns, they always miss. This makes the film more like a comic book than a movie. It is surprising how many people have not grown past the comic book stage and enjoy 'Blam Blam!' and 'Zeewowww!' more than dialogue. Perhaps the people who like watching this stuff should be taken out and given a good dose of reality on a battlefield somewhere, and see how they like blood and gore when it is splattered all over their own faces. As for the raving psychopaths of whom Eastwood seems to be so fond, the question of his own sanity is one which I think needs some looking into. After all, how many characters have been killed by Eastwood in his film career? Just think about that one. If you had killed several hundred people in spaghetti westerns and Dirty Harry films, would you still be sane? "},{"Title":"Good farewell Harry Callahan","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A list of eight famous people runs for San Francisco and are becoming macabre bets, which are to guess who these people will die first. One of the names is the famous inspector Callahan, which is investigating the case. This film is the fifth delivery of the saga police born with Dirty Harry, starring the controversial police inspector of Los Angeles, Harry Callahan (Cilnt Eastwood).Dirty Harry (1971) was a success in its time and the beginning of another cinema of action police, its main idea was based on the charisma of its protagonist and the hardness of police response to the criminals.17 Years later, the character has moved with great success within the world cinema, has been the umbrella of many opposing views and has prevailed their jargon without going to be a dinosaur aged by their own ideological criteria. The Dead Pool is not a bad film, i believe that attempts to meet a goal that is especially maintain a level worthy, something that if you get. It is a film with some fluctuations, which must be attributed to a script that presents two fighting different, with the character and another with its history. The director, Buddy Van Horn, play well to the error with the viewer to assume things that after change unexpectedly and fails to maintain the thriller until the end, through a history well developed and defunct.The merit of this film is in the side effect that puts the figure of Eastwood, its presence and credibility, sympathy that transmits with ease and that leads us to worry about him and not by the rest of the victims of the list. The pithy sayings of Clint Eastwood remain ironically sensational.We have the opportunity to see Jim Carrey in the beginning of his career and Liam Neeson Starring that also began his career film, but certainly in the movie is Eastwood a giant among the major that closes one of the stages of his brilliant career. "},{"Title":"You forgot your fortune cookie.......","Date":"11 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A rock singer is found dead of an overdose, but there are signs that it was not accidental, so Harry is assigned to investigate. Initially Harry is suspicious of Peter Swan, the man who directs the singer's videos. He also crosses paths with a television reporter, Samantha Walker and after being threatened with a law suit, the two of them form a bond. Harry discovers that Swan and several other people are playing a game called the dead pool, where they make a list of individuals, who are high risk, and turns out that Squares was on Swan's list, and Harry's also on the list. And someone is following him.......Well if you are sleeping just before the film starts, it's opening music will wake you up. But for all the wrong reasons. Even though I listen to this soundtrack quite a lot, the opening track by Schifrin is hilariously inappropriate, and sets up the mood for this film.If you watch it as a standalone movie, and try to forget that its a Dirty Harry movie, there is lots of fun to be had. Otherwise, it's just a script that was going round Hollywood for a while, and they decided to whack the Dirty Harry moniker on there to put bums on seats.And it worked to an extent.It's a good enough idea, high risk celebrities on a list and they just happen to die is quite a high concept, but at the same time, it's very early eighties slasher fodder, in fact, there are scenes that are very reminiscent of Stallone's Cobra.Eastwood is wonderful as usual, and for a police officer, shooting people in the back is no problem.We also have Liam Neeson spending the film acting sinister and having a rat hang off the back of his head as the main suspect, but it's all too perfect to have him as the killer, so come the end, it's just a random no one who is responsible for all the shenanigans.Oh and Jim Carrey is in it as James Carrey.It's throwaway stuff, poor for a Dirty Harry movie, but for a Clint Eastwood action vehicle, it's a pretty enjoyable 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews....","Date":"3 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The Dead PoolTo successfully predict celebrity deaths, you must first know which stars are addicted to Percocet. Thankfully, the detective in this action movie has a cheat sheet of likely victims.Renowned police inspector Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) and his new partner (Evan C. Kim) investigate a singer's (Jim Carrey) death on the set of a music video.When the producer is also killed, a list of names surfaces that reveals a morbid game in which participants bet on the life expectancy of famous people, including Callahan.On a tip from the director (Liam Neeson), Callahan's turned on to a schizophrenic super-fan (David Hunt).The final Dirty Harry movie, this iffy fifth installment in the franchise doesn't do much in the way of delivering a memorable departure, save for its title, which Marvel later used for a comic- book character.Nowadays, when a singer inadvertently dies on-set they just activate their hologram.Yellow Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"not really a dirty flick","Date":"8 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The dead pool is the last in series of the Dirty Harry franchise and as so many franchises it's best that way. Where in earlier entries there was a bit of humour added and Callahan going berserk facing criminals this is a bit about falling in love and shooting those who deserves it.Some scene's were okay like the RC car chase but to add an Asian partner to Callahan you can see were it is all going. But just have a look to the first minutes, Jim Carrey in it as an actor doing his typical plastic facial jokes while making a clip. While attending that I never had the feeling that I was in a Dirty Harry movie. Sure, you could see that Jim is going to make it after this one and he surely did but what the hell is this scene doing in this flick. Further Liam Neeson could not convince me. I do have a love hate with him, some flicks are great with him some don't. Nevertheless, back then they were becoming big but on the boat scene you can see Guns 'n' Roses standing on board and their songs are indeed used throughout this flick. Bad, can't really say that because Clint Eastwood is top notch as always but the script tears it down.Gore 0/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 2/5 Story 2/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"A Worthy Final Addition To The Dirty Harry Series","Date":"23 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The formula for the Dirty Harry movies had been well established by the time The Dead Pool was released and true to form, for this, his final appearance, the famous maverick cop gets involved in shootouts, car chases and all sorts of trouble with his bosses. His contempt for authority, bureaucracy and the media remain undiminished and his modus operandi, which entails shooting all criminals dead continues to save the tax-payers shed-loads of money and avoids any problems with judges who might decide to set the bad guys free on some technicality. Fortunately, despite all the dangers of his job, he also continues to provide plenty of laughs with his regular supply of wisecracks which often carry a sting in the tail.The publicity he gets after providing testimony in court that puts a San Francisco mafia boss behind bars, makes Detective Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) a local celebrity but also a target for the Mafioso's henchmen who attempt to eliminate him when they ambush him in his car. After surviving this attempt on his life, Callahan and his new partner Detective Inspector Al Quan (Evan C Kim) are assigned to investigate the death of rock star Johnny Squares (Jim Carrey) who'd been making a music video under the supervision of horror movie director Peter Swan (Liam Neeson). A little while later, Callahan and Quan see a robbery taking place in a Chinese restaurant and Callahan kills a number of the robbers before Quan uses his impressive martial arts skills to subdue and arrest another one.Callahan and Quan discover that a customer killed in the restaurant robbery was Peter Swan's production accountant who was carrying a list of names in his pocket. Further investigations reveal that the producer was a participant in a gambling game (called the dead pool) in which those involved, placed bets on which local celebrities would die by a predetermined date. A well-known movie critic and a talk show host are also murdered as the serial killings continue and, as all the victims are on Peter Swan's dead pool list, he becomes the prime suspect. Callahan isn't convinced however and continues to pursue the killer with all the determination that anyone whose name also appears on Swan's list naturally would.Callahan's unlikely love interest in this movie is a TV reporter who he's forced to co-operate with and whose single-minded determination to get a sensational story overrules any considerations about decency or good taste. Examples of this are when she aggressively pursues Squares' girlfriend who's absolutely distraught after learning of her fiancé's death and when she starts to commentate live in a filmed report of a disturbed man's attempted suicide. Patricia Clarkson is very good as this highly-motivated woman and there are also great contributions from Liam Neeson as the detestable movie director and Jim Carrey as the drug-addicted rock star who lip-synchs colourfully to the Guns 'n' Roses track Welcome To The Jungle. Evan C Kim is also surprisingly good as Callahan's likable partner.There are some highly amusing sequences in this movie such as the Bullitt inspired car chase in which Callahan is pursued by a radio-controlled toy car that's loaded with explosives and a terrifically over-the-top confrontation with the villain of the piece, when he arrives armed with a huge harpoon!! Clint Eastwood is predictably good as he follows Callahan's simplistic code, shows contempt for numerous people, blows away the bad guys and miraculously avoids any form of injury.During their 17-year-run, the Dirty Harry films provided a great deal of entertainment and thrills for audiences as well as a certain amount of interest as Callahan's character developed in subtle ways in each of the five movies. The Dead Pool has an interesting plot and provided a worthy final addition to the series. "},{"Title":"Awesome solid fifth underrated Dirty Harry action flick!","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The Dead Pool (1988) is Clint Eastwood's most underrated and the fifth final flick in the Dirty Harry series. I love this movie and I think is better than The Enforcer. This was the third film I saw in my youth as a child. The first and the second movie were Dirty Harry and Magnum Force. I grew up with this film. The scene where Rook (David Hunt) kills with a knife Walker's (Patricia Clarkson) cameraman scares the hell out of me. Evan C. Kim as Al Quan also did a great solid job Harry's partner since than I don't see him in the film business anymore. I don't agree with critics this film is bad, which is not. I have always loved this movie, I even saw the VHS tape in 2003 on a sale sadly I didn't bought it, but I have now whole collection on Blu-ray disc. Patricia Clarkson was in my opinion much better than the actress Sondra Locke. I love the theme music in the opening scene and I love this action flick. This is the first time I see Jim Carrey in this flick as Johnny Squares who gets murdered in his trailer which the killer fills him with drugs. Liam Neeson is also in here as Peter Swan the movie director who becomes the murder suspect in this flick on a dead pool list of people who also Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) becomes the target as him self in it. This movie was directed by Buddy Van Horn who directed previously Any Which Way You Can (1980) the sequel to Every Which Way but Loose (1978) Clint Eastwood films and Pink Cadillac (1989). The Dead Pool is the fifth and final installment in the Dirty Harry film franchise. The 1988 sequel finds Inspector Callahan (Clint Eastwood) trying to solve a series of murders that appears to be linked to a list of celebrities that were deemed likely to be dead in the near future. The film's cast included Liam Neeson, Evan Kim as well as the feature film debut of Jim Carrey. I think this movie is close to The Rookie (1990) another Clint Eastwood flick that Clint directed it him self and I love it. Because Michael Goodwin who plays the character Lt. Ackerman, the last name Ackerman was later used in Charlie Sheen's character The Rookie (1990). Both of the movies are each other like and they are both good. Just in The Rookie Clint plays different character than Harry Callahan. The basic plot about, this film, is more about a psychopath killer who stalks Hollywood stars including the director and making his own movies. The film does have a plot wholes, like the killer was revealed by the end of the movie and his motives. Just trough whole movie the actor David Hunt is shown by the end of the movie. This great last chapter in the career of Inspector Harry Callahan can not be missed! You have got to check out the remote controlled car chase...reminiscent of that great Sunday drive scene in BULLITT, with Steve McQueen! Look for the great Jim Carrey acts to GUNS N' ROSES' Welcome To The Jungle, as a junkie rock star...side splitting stuff!! Eastwood delivers the goods in his last appearance as the San Francisco cop who took care of the bad guys...HIS WAY!! BANG...with that .44 Magnum Smith & Wesson hand-cannon!! Be sure to add this movie to your collection. I got the DIRTY HARRY 5 film collection on Blu-ray !! I recommend this movie as well as the others!!Back in the day, Roger Ebert called this final Dirty Harry film the best since the original. I'll take it a step further I think it's the greatest Harry film of all. And he even gets the girl at the end! An awesome end to one of the greatest film series in history...Please just don't let them start remaking these films! I'll have to smother myself! Anyway this movie is great and none, I repeat NONE of the Dirty Harry movies are bad, they are all great and I love them all. This movie deserves 9 from me. This is my fourth favorite film in the series, the last one will be The Enforcer. The Dead Pool is a 1988 American action film directed by Buddy Van Horn, written by Steve Sharon, and starring Clint Eastwood as Inspector Dirty Harry Callahan. It is the fifth and final film in the Dirty Harry film series, set in San Francisco, California.9/10 Grade A+ Studio Warner Bros. Starring Clint Eastwood, Patricia Clarkson, Liam Neeson, Evan Kim, Jim Carrey Director Buddy Van Horn Producer David Valdes Screenplay Steve Sharon Story Steve Sharon, Durk Pearson, Sandy Shaw Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 31 Mins. Budget $31.000.000 Box Office $37,903,295 "},{"Title":"Fitting end to the Dirty Harry trilogy.","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is the fourth and last sequel to Dirty Harry, where Inspector Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) finds himself on a list of a betting game thought up by filmmaker Peter Swan (Liam Neeson). The game's object is to see which local celebrity would be the first to die.Eastwood continues his justice-seeking and sarcastically witty portrayal of Callahan and delivered some great gun-totting action, never-say-die attitude and humorous one-liners that kept me laughing and engaged at the same time. The random crimes foiled by Callahan continue to pop up within the main plot and kept the movie interesting and fast-paced. Jack N. Green gave us a nice cinematographic view of San Francisco and Buddy Van Horn directed a movie with a solid cast. I especially liked the chemistry between Eastwood and Patricia Clarkson and liked seeing the appearances of Liam Neesom and Jim Carrey in one of their earlier film roles.In addition, Callahan pairs up with new partner Al Quan (Evan C. Kim), which I thought is one of the better pairings as Quan had good rapport with Callahan and seemed to be more engaged on his mission and ***spoiler ahead*** ultimately having a better fate toward the end of the movie than previous counterparts. ***spoiler ends*** I also liked Quan's martial arts sequence during the restaurant scene.While the plot has lesser surprises, it is still a fun movie with some occasional unique scenes (the toy race car scene) popping up throughout the story. A fitting end to the Dirty Harry trilogy.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Going Out with a Bang","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The Dead Pool (1988) *** (out of 4)The fifth and final film in the series finds Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) turning into a celebrity against his wishes after his testimony puts away a dangerous mobster. That doesn't mean the mobster can't put a hit out on his life and while trying to dodge those murder attempts he must also try to solve some celebrity murders whose names are showing up on a dead pool list.THE DEAD POOL, it turns out, would be the final film in the Dirty Harry series but considering how much money this one made, I'm a little shocked that the studio and Eastwood never made another one. With that said, there's no question that the entire series is a very good one and you really could argue that it's one of the best ever made. The first one is an all-time classic while all four sequels were good in their own right. This last film manages to offer up the typical Dirty Harry situations that everyone loves as well as an interesting story for him to play up against. With that said, there are certainly some flaws here but fans of the series should be entertained.As you'd expect, Eastwood is simply wonderful in this role and it really does seem like the actor is having a good time playing Harry for the fifth time. A lot of times actors can become bored because they're just cashing a check but that's certainly not the case here as Eastwood has all the energy that you'd expect and there's no question that the dry humor is on full display. The supporting cast is also extremely good with Patricia Clarkson really shining in her role of the reporter trying to do a story on Harry. Evan Kim makes for a good partner and we've also got Liam Neeson good as a film director. Even Jim Carrey shows up in an early role for him and he too is quite memorable.As I said, the story itself is quite interesting and I think it holds up quite nicely. The technical things are good as well including the cinematography, the editing and even the music score works. There are some flaws and that includes the rather brief 91-minute running time. I don't mind the short running time but it seems the movie is wanting to say something about the media and their responsibilities but the short running time never really gets to dig into this aspect.Still, THE DEAD POOL delivers some great action scenes and of course there are the bloody shootings that the series is known for. Fans certainly won't be letdown. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry vs. the Dirty Remote Controlled Toy Bomb Car!","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" 17 years and four degenerating sequels later, I presume it's about time for Dirty Harry to think about retirement&#x85; Throughout the franchise, the legendary character Inspector Harry Callahan has transformed from an unorthodox and nihilistic copper into a bleak and almost laughable caricature, and since the release of the the almighty 1971 original, the big cinema screen got overflowed with similar protagonists, usually depicted by equally grumpy-looking actors (Charles Bronson, Chuck Norris&#x85;). By now, Harry's cynical interactions with journalists have become rather dull and routine, and what's also repetitive is the fact that villains fire off entire arsenals of machine gun bullets at him while he just nonchalantly shoots once with his Magnum and kills the opponent immediately. The concept of The Dead Pool is still engaging enough, but the film contains far too many dumb sequences, clichéd & predictable sub plots and dire politically correct supportive characters! The glorious days of punk! and Go ahead, make my day&#x85; are gone forever. Around the same time that a jailed mafia boss put a price on his head, Dirty Harry is investigating the strange death of a punk-rock star/actor. He &#x96; Johnny Squares &#x96; was just shooting a film with the notoriously sleazy and sicko horror director Peter Swan, and Harry &#x96; together with his new Asian American partner Quan &#x96; discovers that Swan organizes a macabre little game called dead pool where he predicts the death of celebrities. The people on this list also actually start dying, and Dirty Harry is on there too! Is Peter Swan really as psychopathic as his reputation suggests? Are the murders controlled from behind bars? Does Lt. Callahan even care? The idea of a celebrity dead pool is quite exciting and some of the supportive characters are fascinating. Jim Carrey briefly appears as the first murder victim Johnny Squares and uses his facial talents to do a funny playback imitation of Guns 'n Roses' classic song Welcome to the Jungle. The sequence perhaps doesn't fit in a supposedly raw and gritty late '80s thriller, but it's definitely fun. Also Liam Neeson is delightfully loathsome as the scumbag director &#x96; complete with ponytail &#x96; and, as a horror fanatic, I would really love to watch some of the fictional films that he made. They have titles such as Hell without the Devil, Hotel Satan and Night of the Slasher! Where can I buy those? The questionable highlight of The Dead Pool is undeniably the long and totally bonkers chase of Callahan & Quan versus a six inch remote controlled toy car with a bomb hidden in it. I honestly can't figure out whether this sequence is meant to be a parody or a genuine moment of suspense. The two actors try very hard to look scared and the stunt work is impressive for sure, but the scene is so damn goofy and implausible that even the good old principle of 'suspension of disbelief' fails! By starring in this otherwise pointless and nonsensical film, I strongly believe that Clint Eastwood was merely just doing a favor to his Buddy-director "}{"Title":"Still Entertaining For A Last Dirty Harry Film","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The Dead Pool is a the fifth and final film of the Dirty Harry film series.Clint Eastwood returns as Inspector Dirty Harry Callahan with a cast that includes future stars Liam Neeson,Patricia Clarkson and Jim Carrey.In it,we get to see Dirty Harry gets involved in a manipulation of a dead pool by a serial killer.It is written by Steve Sharon and directed by Buddy Van Horn.In the movie,there exists a sports pool on about who among the next famous celebrity that is going to die next.A serial killer tries to somehow manipulate the said pool by changing the odds and doing something about the result.The next victim happens to be Dirty Harry himself together with a high-profile TV journalist.But as the viewer expects,Dirty Harry is able to get through the threats and manages to capture the said serial killer before further celebrity killings happens ahead.At this point of the series,fans know what to expect from a Dirty Harry film.The screenplay gets into business right away and places some car chase that is run by a remote control for good measure.But too bad that it loses some edginess and less excitement.The only refreshing element in it is how the killings are made for they are more brutal and a lot violent.But in spite of it,Eastwood still manages to provide entertainment in the role that made him an icon.It was good that this was Dirty Harry's last film for a sequel would have been disastrous. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry turns a bit campy","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dirty Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) is publicly credited with putting mob boss Lou Janero in prison. He is put on a list, the Dead Pool. He is ambushed and Callahan kills a bunch of bad guys. He's assigned a new partner Al Quan (Evan Kim) to watch his back. Rock star Johnny Squares (Jim Carrey) is a drug-addicted drunken mess and he is murdered while on a video shoot directed by Peter Swan (Liam Neeson). After shooting a bunch of stickup guys at a Chinese restaurant, Harry finds a list of names including his and Johnny Squares'. Reporter Samantha Walker (Patricia Clarkson) breaks the news of the Dead Pool which Swan participates in. He goes out with Samantha and is ambushed once again. A man claiming to be Swan kills movie critic Molly Fisher who is on Swan's list. The killer uses remote control cars to blow up people including an attempt on Harry.Dirty Harry turns into something campy. It starts with Jim Carrey as a rock star. Harry is shooting every bad guy in this thing. Then the killer uses a remote control car in one of the sillier car chases in the streets of San Francisco. Finally the killer turns out to be a random crazy Swan fan and Harry shoots him with a harpoon. If this was any other character, I would laugh. This is Dirty Harry and that allows some shoot 'em up fun. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the last 3 but better than Sudden Impact.","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dirty Harry's last movie The Dead Pool is better then Sudden Impact but not as the first 3 films. In this one Inspector Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) is a local celebrity after having just put away crime lord Lou Janero (Anthony Charnota). But because of this Harry is now being targeted by Janero's henchmen. Meanwhile a movie director named Peter Swan (Liam Neeson) and is crew are playing a game called the dead pool, in which the players make a list of celebrities that they presume will die. One of the names on Swan's list just happens to be Harry. As more and more people die on the list, Harry suspects Swan more and more, but the killer turns out to be someone else. I didn't like this one as much as the first3 movies, but it was better than Sudden Impact. It was more fun to watch, and felt more like a Dirty Harry film too. The big problem I see with it is that the villain who turns out to be a big and obsessed fan of Sawn really doesn't have a whole lot of depth. We really don't know much about him other than the fact that he really likes Swan's films. It also just seems like it's missing something and wasn't the best film to end the series. But that's just me talking. So I recommend this movie if you liked the others, and want to finish the series. "},{"Title":"Life in the old dog yet but they were right to end things here","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" So, Dirty Harry's final adventure and a great deal has changed since 1971. But some things haven't and Callahan's 44. Magnum is still the best solution to a surprising number of problems. Every Dirty Harry film deals with some hot topic and this is no exception, here we have the power of the media and the influence of violence in entertainment on real life. Addressing of course all the criticism of the violence in Dirty Harry films and in an interesting sidebar featuring the murder of a female film critic just like a certain disparager of the first Dirty Harry film. Good partner this time around and we're all happy that he survived, one of only 3 out of 7 to do so (remarkable that we'd never got to San Francisco's Chinatown before?). This means that the survivors are in the first and last of the series. The gym scene is genuinely funny. Harry gets a likable and believable love interest and unlike his previous girlfriends there may actually be a long term future for them, maybe he won't have to be 'God's lonely man' any more? Remarkable cast in hindsight with an almost unrecognisable Jim Carrey (here listed as 'James') and a remarkable extended cameo from then practically unknown 'Guns and Roses'.Bad stuff? Liam Neeson's accent is HILARIOUSLY bad, I mean Keanu Reeves in Dracula bad. The plot is unnecessarily convoluted, the villain forgettable and the remote control car pursuit an interesting idea that never really comes off. As suggested by the ending of Sudden Impact Harry seems to have changed his mind since Magnum Force about the benefits of vigilantism, shooting an unarmed and fleeing Mafia assassin in the back and killing the villain in the end with his harpoon when he knows that the man's pistol is out of bullets. So what happens to our boy in the end? He's certainly eligible for retirement so I like to think he marries his reporter girlfriend, starts a family and maybe does some PI work on the side. "},{"Title":"You really haven't made my day","Date":"24 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This fifth Dirty Harry outing, now seems to show wear and tear. The movie with the most intriguing and original story, out of the five, is still a good action vehicle, but I mean that in the entertaining sense. Eastwood still stays true to the character, his best role, the one he was born to play. I would hate to be Harry Callahan, as escaping all the murder attempts put upon the poor fellow. One jealous failed screen writing sicko, has set up this game, with a pool of celebrities, and guess who's name is on the list. Teaming up with Callahan, or I should say assigned to him, is an Asian cop, karate kicking Evan Kim, who I only became more aware of him, after, seeing him in flicks he made earlier, as I thought, more or less, this was his first starring role. Besides Harry still giving it to his superiors, we have him again being in the wrong place at the right time, where he quickly diffuses a robbery, with a fifth Harry tagline, he uses again at the end, finishing off the victim in what I thought was quite a pathetic kill. The chase sequence with the remote control, was hardly thrilling but fun to watch, but turned deadly, when Harry was cornered. Too this featured a young Jim Carrey as the first victim, a rock singer, working on a film, directed by Peter Macneill (Liam Neeson, unknown then) to which the stalking psycho feels great ill will. The Dead Pool won't go down as the classic of the Dirty Harry's. It's a more speedy pumped up one, but lacks the substance and impact, either sudden, enforced, dirty, or sending a message with a magnum. And again, we have a love interest, that of The Untouchable's Patricia Clarkson. The scene that has Harry warning off a mafia figure in prison, where he had a few guns coming at him, as shown in it's thrilling start, with much a similar scene in Sudden Impact, was a hoot. This is the last of the Dirty Harries. Leave it there. Finished, over, forgotten, rest in piece. Great opening racy soundtrack, as we look out at the lit up San Francisco, at night, again mirroring the opening of Impact. "},{"Title":"If you play the game, you better know the rules, Luv.","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This was a Dirty Harry I didn't catch back in the day, so as I'm watching this morning I say to myself, gee, that drugged out Johnny Squares guy looks a little bit like Jim Carrey. Maybe he should have been cast as the Harlan Rook character, a lot more bizarre possibilities there don't you think? Well I guess this one was cashing in on the Harry legacy, as it's not all that great a film. For Eastwood fans like myself it was an OK flick, giving him a chance to go out with a bang as Inspector Callahan, or should I say, with a harpoon. I have to admit, when I saw Callahan hoist that mother into position I just about bust a gut because it was just so over the top implausible. For a minute there I didn't think he'd do it, but then again, why not? Dirty Harry made his own rules.But you know, think about this. You're in a vehicle with Callahan driving like a maniac trying to outrun a radio controlled toy car, and you don't scream out in fear or apprehension? Or even come up with a wise-ass remark to bring things down to some semblance of normality. That was just the dumbest way to film that scene with Harry's partner Al Quan (Evan C. Kim) just going along for the ride. At least he could have asked for a change of underwear.I don't know if I understand the whole Dead Pool concept behind the movie, it just didn't make any sense to me. Why would otherwise healthy people like the ones on Swan's (Neeson) list wind up dying under normal circumstances while a movie's being filmed? Better not to think about it too much. Which is what I'll do. "},{"Title":"Not so much Dirty Harry, more a case of slightly unclean.","Date":"8 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dirty Harry 5 and Callahan has to contend with being both on the hit list of a mobster and that of some wacko who has a list of celebrities to vanish from the planet.It's not great, but it is fun enough for Eastwood fans in a undemanding mood. The Dirty Harry series didn't need another film, and in fact it had arguably run its course at the release of Sudden Impact five years earlier, but even an ageing Eastwood remained watchable when he was dolling out the machismo. Such is the case here.The writing is a bit trite (is that an attempt at a link between violence and the media?) and boorish in its adherence to Harry Callahan's exhausted formula (ooh look it's another worried side-kick). Peril is very scarce; though a toy car sequence is wonderfully bonkers and played for great effect, and pre-fame Liam Neeson and Patricia Clarkson stick out like a sore thumbs for not entirely the right reasons.However, in spite of the caricature that Harry has become, he's still a bad MOFO. If it's just him running effortlessly along the promenade, throwing a glorious punch to the jaw of a loser, or wielding a Harpoon Gun like it was part of his body, Harry Callahan in Eastwood's hands is entertainment. It's the reason why we watch it in the first place and the reason why they made a fifth film in a series that started so brilliantly in the early 1970s. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Eastwood's final outing as the infamous cop","Date":"17 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Watching the fifth and final of the Dirty Harry series, I can't help but feel glad that they stopped making these movies when they did. While THE DEAD POOL is a fun and often engaging movie, it's definitely of a worse quality than the earlier movies in the series. It has a slightly spoofy feel to it that the earlier films didn't have (at one stage, a movie critic made up to resemble Pauline Kael is murdered), and the humour feels more laboured too. It makes me think that these films would have probably ended up diabolical if they'd continued making them into the 1990s.For Eastwood's gun-happy cop, it's business as usual as he sets about tracking down a killer who's using a 'kill list' of local celebrities to choose his victims; the bad news is that Harry himself is on the list. The storyline mainly takes place around a cheesy horror director (Liam Neeson in an early turn) and the films he's making; this gives the scriptwriter ample opportunity to question the lengths of screen violence and the possibility of copycat crime in return. In the meantime, Eastwood is paired with another rookie &#x96; this time the kung fu-fighting Evan C. Kim &#x96; and finds opportunity to romance a female journalist (Patricia Clarkson) at the same time.Action fans will be happy with this movie, as there are plenty of shoot-outs and car chases to keep viewers entertained. Eastwood's cop seems even more trigger happy than usual, pulling out his magnum time and again to blow away a few crims. Late on in the film, there's a car chase which riffs on BULLITT, jumping those same roads in San Francisco but throwing a comic spin on with the introduction of a remote controlled car; it's pretty crazy, but works well when you see it on screen. The acting is solid, particularly from Clarkson and Neeson, although the killer doesn't make much of an impact here; certainly no Andrew Robinson, that's for sure. Watch out for a pre-stardom Jim (James) Carrey as a rocker. In the end, this is an entertaining movie but not a very memorable one, like earlier outings in this long-running series; it's about on par with most '80s-era cop thrillers, but lacks that edge that made these films a hit in the first place. "},{"Title":"Funniest and Goofiest of the last Dirty Harry movie.","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Inspector Harry Callahan (Four Time Oscar-WinnerClint Eastwood) finds himself investigating the murder of a Heavy Metal Rock Star Johnny Squares (Jim Carrey). Harry thinks that the horror/music video filmmaker Peter Swan (Liam Neeson) has something to do with the murder of Squares. Since the cast and crew members were playing a sick game called The Dead Pool, which the game is simple. The rules are naming ten celebrates in the city of San Francisco and thinking those, who would die first before the game ends. Harry's name is also in the game. Which makes Harry furious and he finds himself with a television reporter (Patricia Clarkson), who investigating The Dead Pool herself. Which Harry's life is also in danger. But Harry is been mixed up the mob, after his court testimony that put the key mafia Lou Janero (Anthony Chamota) put to jail. Now Harry is forced to investigate the crazed murderer, who after celebrities and Janero's men, who's trying to kill him.Directed by Buddy Van Horn (Any Which Way You Can, Pink Cadillac) made an enjoyable action/suspense/thriller that is slightly campy at times. Eastwood's charisma makes up for most of the flaws in the last Dirty Harry movie. This movie is occasionally unintentionally funny at times and action sequences are ridiculous at best. Perphas what makes The Dead Pool so enjoyable now is watching then up and coming actors like Clarkson and Neeson is good supporting roles. The highlight is Carrey in his bit part, who's just laugh-out funny as a Heavy Metal Rock Star and his death sequence is just as goofy as his work for comedies. One of the most memorable sequence is the scene with Harry and his partner Insp. Al Quan (Evan C. Kim) are chasing by a remote control toy car that is strapped with a explosive device! Lalo Schifrin's (Rush Hour Trilogy, The Amityville Horror, The Osterman Weekend) music score is occasionally goofy and awful at times. But still, you will find yourself entertained. The plot might be dumb but it's surprisingly straightforward. Die Hard fans of Dirty Harry movies will certainly love it. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"S10 Reviews The Dead Pool (1988)","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" 'Dirty' Harry Callahan is (Clint Eastwood) up to his Magnum shells in baddies in the fifth and most likely last installment of this classic series. Harry winds up on the title list; the dead pool is a game where the participants choose eight names of celebrities that will likely die in a year. All this morbid fun is brought together by a horror movie director (Liam Neeson) and several of his crew. But when the director's list starts to be extremely accurate (one of the hits is an early role by Jim Carrey) and Harry might be next.While not the best in the series 'The Dead Pool' still manages to entertain. All the things you love about Dirty Harry films are present and Harry is a Magnum barrel of laughs as always. Keep an eye for a cool car chase that pits Harry against a remote control car that ends with a bang. "}{"Title":"The last of the Dirty harry films isn't that great","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This film was the last of the dirty harry films, although i haven't seen any of the other ones, i take it this is the worst. Here, dirty harry (eastwood) is trying to solve a serial killing mystery which involves a list of people killed who are not on good terms with hotshot director peter swan (neeson). This film is actually not as bad as IMDb rating show, but almost. The script is stupid for the most part, direction is non-existent, eastwood gives an average performance, however patricia clarkson and liam neeson both shined in my opinion. it was a bit entertaining, but too far-fetched and a bit stupid. THe direction was nothing special, but the cast helped it. 6/10 "},{"Title":"The last Dirty Harry","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Its hard to believe that the original Dirty Harry was so controversial when it was first released in 1971. Who would have ever believed that it would become such a blockbuster and inspire four sequels. By the time The Dead Pool was released in the summer of '88, Dirty Harry seemed like a favorite crotchety uncle or a family friend. Clint is really showing his age in this film (he never aged well). Its pretty routine and straightforward, he gets to shoot a lot of people, but how he dispenses of the last bad guy at the end is pretty ingenious. Patricia Clarkson is good as the reporter who wants to do a story on Harry and gets a lot more then she bargained for! She has since become one of our most dependable character actresses. Harry gets a new partner here, an Oriental who is a kung fu master (by the way who would want to be Harry's partner anyway? They all end up dead). The Chinatown shootout is very well handled, but the scene where that guy sets himself on fire is pretty gruesome. Clint once said that maybe he took the Dirty Harry series too far and has said that he would never play him again, I think this is a good way to close out the series. Also, this was one of the first film appearances for Jim Carrey, he plays the rock star who gets killed in the very beginning. Who would have believed he would have come so far with as little talent as he has. Someone said that this film helped pave the way for his own career, its a shame he ever got the part and got noticed.   "},{"Title":"last entry is also the weakest","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The last entry in the best police thriller series out there is also the worst.  When I read a plot summary I thought it sounded like a solid entry but when I saw it it was kind of disappointing. There are a few good action scene's in it, especially the car chase, but I did'nt like the whole horror movie thing and I did'nt think the villain was very good either.  There are many flaws with this movie which make it less enjoyable, but Clint Eastwood is pretty good and there is some good action which make it worth a look. 3/5 "},{"Title":"best dirty harry film!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I dont care what people say about that this movie was cheesy ,because this time it involves a karate wiz.Great san francisco scenes and has a very suspensful look to it. Youll notice that jim carey has a small role as a punk rocker. this movie is much better then sudden impact "},{"Title":"The WORST in the series!","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is the fifth and by far the last Dirty Harry movie. This is a bad movie and it doesn't feature the formula or style that made Dirty Harry popular. The only good part of this movie is the little toy car sequence.*out of****stars  "},{"Title":"Busted down to traffic....","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Dirty Harry is back, five years on from 'Sudden Impact' looking more craggy and tired then ever before. 'The dead pool' may be an interesting premise for a murder plot, but having Liam Neesons very hammy horror director as a major character indicates how ropey this film really is. OK, we do get some typical set pieces, and the car chase seen is pretty good. But the attack on Callahan in his car is a virtual re-write of the one in 'Sudden Impact' as is the suicide man, who wants to get on TV (echoing the roofjumper from 'Dirty Harry').Harry signs off with (by this point, outdated- Roger Moore like corny line 'he's hanging out back there) his largest gun to date, and I'm not sure if its supposed to be a joke or not... but this film follows on from 'The Enforcer' with the rule that 'as the guns get bigger the films get lamer'.This film isn't really worth any notable attention, unless you like to see Jim Carey slumming it early in his career (some would say his best role!). For the first time we don't get a screen appearence from Albert Popwell, which is a shame, but perhaps he knew something that Clint didn't about this poor entry into the Dirty Harry series. I'm still debating whether its worse than 'The Enforcer'. Harry shouldn't have returned for a fifth outing, and lets hope that even with this poor showing the series isn't resurrected with another actor playing Harry, as this is one role that Clint made his own.5/10 2/5  "},{"Title":"Same old Dirty Harry","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The Dead Pool, like all Dirty Harry movies, is an entertaining movie, but doesn't have a standout story.  In fact, this story, of a group of people placing bets on what celebrities will die, is down right ridiculous.  Even with this drawback, Clint Eastwood carries this film to respectability.  It is fun to watch, and the dialogue is humorous.  What I find neat to watch in this movie is seeing Liam Neeson and Jim Carrey in the same scenes together. Here are two huge superstars, before either of them had made it big time.Good movie.    7/10  "},{"Title":"Dead Poor","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Spoilers There have been many great car chases in Hollywood history, Bullitt and The French Connection are two that spring readily to mind. Even the earlier Dirty Harry films had exciting chases. But what do we get here? Grown men being chased by a toy car.A toy car! I'm not sure whether this was meant to be serious or some sort of satire, but I laughed out loud at this sequence, mostly out of embarrassment of how pathetic it was. Leaving aside how underwhelming this looks, Can a battery powered toy car really keep up with a petrol driven real car? And, for that matter, could something that size contain enough plastic explosive to do any real damage? The rest of the flick is strictly by the numbers. Harry's most Politically Correct sidekick (wasn't PC parodied in the rather better The Enforcer?) is also the dullest. The actor in question is given to baffled stares (perhaps because of the lacklustre script) and one is not saddened when he meets the violent accident which befalls all of Harry's sidekicks (the only sad thing is that it wasn't fatal, but then fatality only seems to befall Harry's interesting partners). "},{"Title":"Poor old Harry","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" 'The Dead Pool' is further proof that the ideal finale for this series was when Harry threw his badge in the river; the character is now so watered down that Clint shouldn't have bothered. This tired sequel to a sequel to a sequel, which sees Harry investigating a series of murders seemingly based on a list of predicted celebrity deaths drawn up by horror movie director Liam Neeson, resembles a second-rate TV movie more than anything else. It comes to life slightly during the inspired car chase in which Harry and his partner are followed by a remote-controlled toy packed with explosives, and Eastwood's withering stare and growly one-liners are still good for a bit of mileage, but it's not enough. The plot failed to involve me to the point that I forgot I was supposed to care who the killer is, the romance between Harry and reporter Patricia Clarkson draws nothing but yawns, and if you think for even one second about the gap in quality between this and the original film then you'll more than likely hit the stop button. "},{"Title":"Sad...","Date":"30 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" So sad that Dirty Harry went out with such a weak bang...Love Clint Eastwood, love Harry Callahan, but this final installment just doesn't come close to meeting the standards of the earlier movies. They all have their weak spots but but this one brings new meaning to the word weak. A few examples 1. We know Harry can take on all kinds of bad guys with the six bullets in his Magnum, but, cmon, 2 thugs armed with machine guns? How does lying down at the bottom of a glass-walled exterior elevator protect you from machine gun bullets, by the way?2. Can someone really drive a vehicle in a high-speed chase thru SF and yet still be able to handle the controls of a remote-control toy car? Back in 1988 did they really have RC cars that could go 60 mph while loaded with an explosive device? What kind of battery powered that thing... plutonium? 3. Would the Mafia chief in the prison really fall for Harry's scam... to the point of hiring bodyguards for Harry? Really??4. Weakest partner ever for Harry... Kim has done some good work in film and TV but he has very little to do here beyond the one obligatory martial arts fight scene. His becoming yet another wounded partner is becoming old,especially where this time we haven't even had a chance to get to know the guy.5. Harry's bosses griping and complaining about Harry... again, becoming very old and tired. Especially when the actors have no personality to speak of. Bring back Leslie Nielson!6. Liam Neeson's character... pure stereotype. Very uninteresting. The villain is a total nullity. Really bad writing here. He's not scary, not interesting and not very believable. Compare him to Andrew Robinson in the first DH movie. Wow... talk about contrasts!7. The sub-theme about the media exploiting the pain of ordinary people to increase ratings and circulation... gee, I doubt this was ground-breaking even back in 1988. The fact that Clarkson is converted to Harry's point of view after getting machine-gunned... well, at least she catches on quick!8. The final confrontation where Harry harpoons the bad guy... did anyone else LAUGH when Harry comes out with the harpoon gun in his hands? It's a nice twist to have the villain holding Harry's Magnum but really?! Also anyone else notice the ethical problem here Harry kills a man he knows to be unarmed (out of bullets) and who is offering no resistance. He never did that in the first DH... that was the whole POINT of Do you feel lucky, Punk? Even when he shoots Robinson in the football stadium, his INTENT isn't to kill an unarmed man, it's to coerce information about the poor kidnapped girl out of him. Sure, it's extreme but it isn't an execution. IMO this presents a major degradation in Harry's character, perhaps betraying a failure in the writer's appreciation of Callahan's ethical mind-set. If they wanted the villain dead at the end, which makes some sense, why not just have him pull another knife out of his pocket and charge Harry?9. Filmed like a one-hour TV episode of a show like Cannon or Hawaii 5-0. Actually I've seen better episodes of ordinary TV dramas than this and I'm sure they cost a LOT less to write and to film.Ultimately, it isn't so much that one could reasonably expect Dirty Harry 5 to come close to the quality of the first DH. But one could expect a movie of this significance to be far superior to an ordinary TV drama. Right?Worth watching once, if for no other reason than to appreciate how great the first DH is. "}{"Title":"A Lottery No One Wants To Win","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I remember seeing Clint Eastwood saying that he doesn't anticipate any more movie appearances by Dirty Harry Callahan of the SFPD. At his age who would want to see Harry Callahan collecting his Social Security and maybe using Dependz.So Inspector Callahan has probably made his final screen appearance in The Dead Pool which focuses around a series of murders in San Francisco. A number of celebrities have given there own list of celebrities they feel likely to shuffle off the mortal coil for one reason or another. Now someone seems to be hurrying a few of them along. And for one reason or another suspicion seems to fall on cult horror film director Liam Neeson, mostly because of his lovable personality.Another celebrity on The Dead Pool list is news reporter Patricia Clarkson. Dirty Harry has never been a big fan of the media, but Clint certainly makes an exception in her case.The Dead Pool also has a short, but memorable performance by Jim Carrey early in his career as a punk rocker whose overdose death also coincides with his appearance on The Dead Pool. It was obvious Carrey was going to have one substantial career even from this small bit.I don't think The Dead Pool is quite up to the standards of the earlier Dirty Harry films from the Seventies. Still it will please the fans of the legendary Mr. Eastwood who are found all over the world. "},{"Title":"Goes out with a bang","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Many people don't like the 5th installment in the Dirty Harry series. My question is why? I personally found it enjoyable. Sure its not the first one, but its not as bad as The Enforcer.There were a lot of good new scenes and twists. And there were a lot of good actors here. Clint Eastwood finishes up Dirty Harry just in time, before the series dragged on too long. Liam Neeson was excellent as Peter Swan, a lesser-known horror director. Patricia Clarkson was decent as Samantha Walker, a well-known reporter in San Francisco. Evan Kim was actually good as Al Quan, Harry's partner for the movie. Michael Currie returns as Donnelly (promoted to Captain it seems), and isn't all that bad. Michael GOodwin was annoying as Lt. Ackerman, but since he's the superior I guess he did his part. Anthony Charnota was decent as Lou Janero, a mob guy who has a beef with Harry. And Jim Carrey was excellent in his small role of Johnny Squares, a metal rockstar who has a drug problem.Not a bad finish to a great series.7/10. "},{"Title":"The ending of the Dirty Harry Series!","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Being a target for the paparazzi isn't always a great thing. But sometimes there's something worse than them. Someone is stalking celebrities and the other target isn't a Hollywood star. It's Dirty Harry Callahan(Clint Eastwood). Why would anyone want to stalk a cop? In The Dead Pool, someone is playing a sick and deadly game of targeting local stars. First one is singer Johnny Squares(Jim Carrey, Earth Girls are Easy, and before In Living Color) who was a victim of O.D. Of course someone wanted to take advantage of his drug habit. Then more and more celebrities are picked off. Then there's the scene where this RC of a nice car carried a deadly secret. It took out one car, and Callahan's car was next, only it destroyed the engine. The final showdown with the psychopath resulted in Callahan getting the biggest gun he could use A spear gun. No way the game player was getting away. Great movie, I liked it! 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"The 10 Most Provoking Things In This Movie !","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Yes, this is the worst Dirty Harry movie ever ever. Although I'm a big fan of action movies with heroes over fifty years old in it (except Charles Bronson's movies in the 1980s !) but here I found myself asking  why they did it ?! Definitely Eastwood is a legend and I'm a great admirer of him not only as a star or actor but truly as an adventurer, unwavering and respectable moviemaker with so many dreams which he could fulfill it all, and he's still dreaming to make it true even if his age is approaching 80 years ! But here, every thing seemed to be worn out, small and not that skillful. So the provoking reasons are  1 - Another restaurant confrontation with the bad guys (after the famous one of Sudden Impact - 1983 !) 2 - Another trying (lousy this time !) to have one catchy sentence for the lead. Here it's ( You're s**t outta luck !!) NAAA, BOOO, SO CORNY !! 3 - Another young psycho serial killer with no understandable motive except that he's a young psycho serial killer !! 4 - The pony tail of (Liam Neeson) ! and him being in a vapid role ! 5 &#x96; The bomb-toy car's chase which turned out to be an unintentional comic scene !! (Actually how a star like Clint agreed to make that embarrassing crap scene ?!) 6 - Here you'll find Callahan hitting some reporter because not respecting a girl's mourning !?? Does OUR very well known inspector 'Dirty' Harry Callahan finally become emotional ?? 7 - Too much fabricated ending.8 - A cruel intentional killing done by Harry for the evil guy at the end (he shot him while he was unarmed !??) 9 - If you're familiar with Eastwood's movies you'll find strangely that almost every movie of him at the time had the very same last shoot ! That long shoot, by a flying camera, that has the survivors walking together and behind them the belated police cars in here at last, where the frame becomes wider and wider with nice slow music to end the movie. It has been done at (Tightrope - 1984), (Sudden Impact - 1983), (The Enforcer - 1976), and so in (The Dead Pool - 1988) and in other many more also by Eastwood of which I can't remember right now !! 10 &#x96; It was wrong move not to do such a movie at the era of (Beverly Hills Cop, Rambo, Lethal Weapon).. But to do such a sequel after (Sudden Impact) the strongest and the most successful part of the series for sure !.. So this fifth one didn't really make OUR day ! "},{"Title":"He stole my nightmares and made them real!","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" **SPOILERS** Last and most violent, in it's graphic violence not body-count, of all the Dirty Harry movies where Insp. Dirty Harry Callahan, Clint Eastwood, takes out five bad guys within the first ten minutes of the film in a bloody shoot-out off a Golden Gate Bridge exit ramp. Surprisingly Harry's more civilized and law abiding in this movie then you would have expected him to be. It seems that he finally, after seventeen years on the force, learned to respect and uphold the law in his being commended for putting mob boss Lou Ganero, Anthony Charnota, behind bars not six feet under, as Harry usually would have done, and being used as the poster boy for recruitment for the SFPD.It doesn't take long for Harry to get back to his old and familiar ways when he becomes involved, by being added on to, in what's called a celebrity dead-pool. Eight famous persons in the San Francisco area are mysterious picked to not live out the remainder of the year, Dirty Harry Calahan is one of them. The first member of the dead pool to go is world famous rock star and admitted drug addict Johnny Squares, Jim Carrey. Johnny's found dead from a drug overdose in his dressing room while making a rock video. Harry investigating Squares' death together with his new partner Insp. Quan, Even C. Kim, feels that he was murdered and the murder made to look like Johnny died, for him, of natural causes. Resulting him from having injected too much junk into his system.It's later when investigating horror film director Peter Swan, Liam Neeson, who was directing Johnny's latest rock video that Harry feels that he in some way was involved with his stars death. The film The Dead Pool goes on in it's merry and destructive way with Harry getting romantically involved with pasty and annoying, but very cute and sexy, TV news reporter Sammy Walker, Patricia Clarkson. Sammy ends up becoming a target of the psycho killer who put both Harry and Johnny Squares on his hit-list dead pool.After offing two more victims of the now infamous dead pool movie critics Molly Fisher, Claire Edwards, and tennis pro Noland Kennard, Bill Wattenberg,the unseen killer sets his sights on Harry and that's when he finally takes his gloves off and starts to play dirty. Not just his .44 cannon but with a harpoon that's capable of disabling and reeling in Moby Dick.At 58 Clint Eastwood is a bit too old to be playing Dirty Harry and the actions scenes of him beating up out-gunning and outrunning hoodlums half his age strains creditability to say the least. The movie being the last of the Dirty Harry series doesn't offer that much in that you've seen it all before in the previous four Dirty Harry movies. What really makes the film The Dead Pool memorable and more then worth watching is the almost unbelievable car case towards the end with Harry and his partner Insp. Quan being chased by a model car loaded with high explosives. The chase takes place throughout the very up and down dangerous and hilly streets of San Francisco. The car chase is in fact far better then the legendary car chase scene in Bullit some twenty years earlier on the same city streets.In the exciting chase scene where Harry & Quan are threatened with a fiery death by a remote-controlled exploding model car, that goes at speeds of almost 100 MPH, is something thats never been done before and, as far as I know, since. "},{"Title":"even the lesser of Harry's is substantial as B-action fare","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The biggest liability for me with the Dead Pool is that there isn't, at least for me, the kind of balance between the savage wit/irony and the hard-boiled drama and action of the earlier films. There are some laughs of course, in particular with a young Jim Carrey as a rock star (also, likely the only time you'll see him as a junkie on film), and with some good jabs at Harry's 'kung-fu' style partner. But sometimes the humor isn't as sporadic; anytime Liam Neeson tries to be amusing, he isn't, and his curiously is not one of his better performances. The story has some interest Harry, as usual against the system and more and more against the scum of San Francisco, is up against a 'dead pool' of names of celebrities picked to die, him one of them. This brings on a series of scenes, and not without the cohesion of the previous films, but something sort of missing or replaced in shape of it. There aren't any real compelling underlying statements about society, aside from the movie business stuff, which isn't as striking as say corruption in the police (Magnum Force) or a woman's own sense of justice (Sudden Impact). The highlight, however, is definitely worth watching for the film- a car chase that involves the most clever little car ever devised for an action film of this sort (the direction, surprisingly, is of a much higher quality in this sequence than in the rest of the film, aside from the music video shoot perhaps). Sturdy enough of a film, but far from greatness. "},{"Title":"The title makes the puns too easy - a film that's dead in a pool of it's own mediocrity. I thank you.","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"   Callahan must fight the forces of banal writing in this fifth, and final, Dirty Harry movie. Some rich people have started a dead pool game - making a list of celebrities who they think will die. The winner is the one to have all their celebrities die first. Unfortunately Director Peter Swan (Liam Neeson) ha a list where everybody is turning up dead real quickly. Can Callahan stop the killer before the last person on the list is killed - one Detective Callahan!!Script and plot? Oh dear. Oh dearie me. Oh dear oh dear. The killer? Boring. None of the great neurotic ticks that Scorpio had. Instead he's straight out of a bad TV-movie-of-the-week. The final identity of the killer is just plain rubbish and uninteresting. Callahan is teamed up in ethnic minority land to solely have a partner who can spout some mysticism, and do karate. This partner is about as interesting, and has about as much charisma and acting ability, as a particularly dull brick that even other bricks find boring. That would all be bad enough, but then the script insults us, by spelling out certain things as, it seems, we are all imbeciles. Thank you Fink family for this - I never knew what R.I.P. stood for or what the phrase `15 minutes' referred to. What ever happened to your ability shown in `Dirty Harry'?The film further denigrates itself with me, by feeling very aged. Ironically the originally `Dirty Harry' seems fresher than this. Maybe the script-writing Finks,  and Director Buddy Van Horn, felt it was a good idea to firmly lock the film into a horrifically 80s New Romantic era. There's an awful pastiche of Guns'N'Roses that almost had me weeping - the film seems to attempt to mock the era but only succeeds in mocking itself. The camera work is quite sloppy, the set design weak, and the synthetic music is both tired and limp. Unsurprisingly his directing career went nowhere after this.Eastwood alone saved me from lobbing a brick through the movie. He is working with  substandard conditions, but he still fits into the Dirty Harry role with a great ease. Due to the material he has, his character lacks the wit and edge of former instalments and hr almost becomes a caricature of his previous self.  Still Eastwood has great screen presence and helped soothe my irritation with his gravely delivery, weathered charm, and ease with himself.I won't recommend `The Dead Pool' to anyone. It's an insult to films and to the Dirty Harry series. It's got nothing going for it, with a lot going against it. I watched this so now you don't have to. Very poor. 1.5/10. "},{"Title":"Lampoon?","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Average DIRTY HARRY movie that tried to have both a serious atmosphere and a lampoon/self parody of itself and other movies in the past with the same genre just for fun.The result was not too palatable becouse the parody was too well hidden,taking away credibility from many of the movie's various critical sequences which the audience expected to take seriously.Just when the audience is about to give up on the movie,the last few minutes make us realise it was all a lampoon!Either that or it was all one big mistake because the scene was so funny!The directing was below average and the supporting cast was cartoonish.Eastwood did his usual top quality performance and his fans will still delight to see him here despite the film's drawbacks.Not for an audience who do not like subtle comedy/parodies and those who do not like Eastwood a lot.Still I feel Eastwood should not have done this film becouse it takes away some credibility from the earlier classic DIRTY HARRY movies.He may have decided to do this one in order to apologise for the dark propaganda the DIRTY HARRY character spread regarding VIGILANTISM and loose canon cops,in a way stating that DIRTY HARRY is not to be taken too seriously.........       "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry Didn't Know His Limitations","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The Dead Pool is a contrived, plodding, old-fashioned melodrama grafted on top of a Dirty Harry Callahan movie. It lacks the kinetic energy and crisp direction of the Don Siegel original, but tries to make up for it with camera tricks and contrived, disjointed set pieces that are more laughable than anything else. The movie's low point comes when the villain sends a toy car loaded with plastique after Harry and chases him through the hilly streets of San Francisco, a la Bullit. The Dead Pool is a sad ending to the Harry Callahan character. "},{"Title":"That 80's Harry Part 2","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Opinions are like a..holes, everyone has one and here is my opinion on the last Dirty Harry. This film unlike other Dirty Harry films is not too long. It is just long enough. There is the usual shooting, the usual one &#150; liners and so on. The story is OK and so is the action. But this film does not come further than being a bit above average, just because there are not enough thrills and not enough excitement is generated. There is a lot of comedy though and the most hilarious scene by far is the Jim Carrey &#145;Welcome to the Jungle Dance'. If you are a rock fan (like me) look out for Slash, Izzy, Axl, Duff and Steven Adler from Guns N Roses.6 out of 10 "}{"Title":"All good things (Dirty) must come to an end","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  THE DEAD POOL (1988) **1/2 Clint Eastwood, Patricia Clarkson, Evan C. Kim, Liam Neeson.  Fifth and somewhat disappointing installment of the Dirty Harry series with Harry investigating a deadly game of murder involving celebrities and himself on the killer's list of victims.  Variation on a chase sequence with a model/remote controlled race car rigged with explosives after Harry's car.  And yes that is Jim Carrey lip-synching to Guns N' Roses Welcome to the Jungle as the murderer's first offing. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood could not do much to save this weak link of the famous Dirty Harry series.","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The credit for making Dirty Harry series famous goes to American actor Client Eastwood. It is through his roles as a tough inspector who would not stop at anything in order to get desired results that 'Dirty Harry' series became famous. However, 'The Dead Pool' is the weakest of all 'Dirty Harry' films where even Clint Eastwood's presence does not do much to add extra popularity to the film. There is not much scope of actions scenes as the entire film appears to be a lame exercise in investigating about crimes where some celebrities are involved. Hence, the focus is more on depicting the antics of a television personality who has come into contact with a serious policeman. To make matters worse, Liam Neeson has been given the role of a crazy director who might be viewed by some viewers as the culprit. His character doesn't contribute much to take the action forward. It is rather unfortunate that the game of dead pool is also introduced much too late in the film. This is why it could hardly get any sympathy from viewers. Lastly, action scenes especially a car chase are the only saving grace of this ordinary film. "},{"Title":"Dead Last","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The last Dirty Harry movie is the most generic of them all. There are no great lines or memorable scenes. It's just a very tired-looking Clint Eastwood trying to protect celebrities on a killer's hit list. Patricia Clarkson plays Clint's much-younger love interest. Liam Neeson plays a douchebag movie director. Jim Carrey is a rock star drug addict. Hey, that's Guns N' Roses as his band. Who said Clint wasn't hip with the kids? It's the least of all the Dirty Harry movies but still watchable, I guess, as a routine '80s cop film. This is the one with the car chase scene that has Clint chased through the streets of San Francisco by a toy car. How embarrassing. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry turns into bubblegum","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The Dead Pool is the fifth and final film in the Dirty Harry franchise. In my opinion this is the weakest in the series , but not unwatchable. It's not the triumphant farewell to Harry Callahan I wish it could be .The biggest problem is the mood . Dead pool  can't decide what it is  a parody , a serious action movie , a slasher. It wants to be both dark and funny . It just doesn't work too good. This might be result of Buddy Van Horn as the director . He made 3 movies with Eastwood  2 bad comedies &#x96; Any which way you can (1980) , Pink Cadillac (1989) and this one . IMHO he's a bad director &#x96; he just jumps from scene to scene. He isn't able to direct an exciting action scene or to create suspense . The whole movie feels like it was directed by amateur.On one side we have such silly elements as  karate sidekick , unusual car chase , miraculous escape from death , harpoon as a weapon . On the other hand DP quite rightfully seems to criticize the movie industry and media for their obvious attraction for death and violence. It also criticizes people for their hunger of fame and mistaking fiction for reality.Acting is quite good in this one . Eastwood is perhaps a little too old , but still great . Liam Nesson (Schindler's list) is nice as the horror movie film director , so is Patricia Clarkson (The Untouchables) as the TV reporter and Evan Kim as Harry's new partner. The movie unfortunately lacks a good villain . It's also interesting to note that in this movie Harry seems to be softer than before ( he is nice to his partner , thinks about a relationship , his language is more tame and he gets in a few comedic zingers ). Watch out for Jim Carrey ( in the ending credits &#x96; James Carrey ) as the rock star . I like the cheesy synth main theme by Lalo Schifrin . So 80's &#x85; There rest of the music is decent , more like a 1950's film noir . I also loved the use of Gun's n Roses song Welcome to the jungle . Have you noticed that all the members of Guns n' Roses' 1988 line-up are guests in the funeral ?The mystery is a rather simple one and it's hard to believe it took Callahan so much time to figure out who the murderer is . In this movie we also have assassins who can't shoot , bodyguards who appear in one scene but later disappear for the rest of the movie and a suicide maniac who don't know who Harry Callahan (the most famous cop in the whole city &#x96; a celebrity) is . I have to admit that I actually like the famous car chase  scene . It was a spoof of Bullitt . It's actually a kind of clever and original idea . It doesn't feel like it belongs in the world of Dirty Harry , but the whole movie feels weird compared to previous four movies.It does have a cartoonish feel and comic book characters . It's slightly campy at times . It's also the funniest and goofiest of whole franchise. I give it 4/10. "},{"Title":"An 80's film weighed down by the 70's","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The Dirty Harry character was hewn in the 70s. It's one dimensional, uncomplicated masculinity successfully provided relief in a time post 60's sociatal upheaval. By the late 80's the Harry persona had been by superseded by the more complex, less self assured action heroes, the chief exemplars being John McClane (Die Hard) and Martin Riggs (Lethal Weapon).The Dead Pool can't (and doesn't even try to) escape from it's 70s roots. The action scenes are one sided, in each set piece, Harry avoids thousands of rounds of bullets and dispatched the bad guys with one booming .44 each. Funny in the 70s, laughable in the 80s. The San Francisco street's and communities are used as stereotypical crime ridden back drops, and any interesting plot points contemporaneous to the 80s (the rise of celebrity, power of the media, the impact of video-nasties) are lost in the attempt to shoehorn in the next set piece or one liner. The use of Gun's 'N Roses' Welcome To The Jungle early in the file, promised to be a jumping off point to a more rock driven outing, but the sound track quickly reverts to the bland orchestrations tinted with whah whah.Being only 90 minutes makes the film watchable as the story quickly moves on, but overall the Dead Pool represents the low point in Clint Eastwards career. This was a money making pause between his 70s action hero outings and the rich, character driven story telling of his acclaimed directorial output. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry 5","Date":"18 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" though not the best of the Dirty Harry films,this fifth and final entry in the series is not without its merits.the acting is good.the movie is well paced.the overall feel of the film is one of sleaze and grime,which is probably what they were going for.Patricia Clarkson classes things up substantially and is a great romantic interest for Harry.i wouldn't be broken be too broken up though if i didn't see this entry for at least another five years.the most i can say is it's average at best.it doesn't stand up to the other entries in the series,except maybe number 3,The Enforcer.for me,The Dead Pool,AKA Dirty Harry 5 is a 5/10 "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood is in top form, but the movie is merely average.","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The Dead Pool is without a doubt the worst entry in the series, and it shows with its now tiresome formula. Harry's character just didn't look right with the more modern 80's era, I'm not one for the whole dying breed theory but it might just be a true fact here. In typical violent 80's fashion. Harry tackles on another case, only this one doesn't feel nearly as special as any of the others for a number of reasons. I didn't care for many of the characters, especially Patricia Clarckson's reporter portrayal she was too nosy for my liking. The whole music video thing with Guns'N Roses was also annoying, and wastes one of Liam Neeson's 1st famous appearances in the process. The gritty atmosphere is noticeably absent, the special qualities that made the 1st three special, and even Sudden Impact entertaining are noticeably absent, it just seems like a muddled 80's cop thriller. The Dead Pool's title is kinda ironic because it turned out to to be the end for Harry Callahan and this series.Performances. Clint Eastwood is terrific and tries his hardest, but the movie doesn't do him any favors. Patricia Clarkson does a good job but her character grated my nerves. Liam Neeson arrogant portrayal of Peter Swan is amusing, but the script lets him down as well. Evan C. Kim is decent as Clint's partner and surprisingly didn't look that out-of-place place. Jim Carrey has a wild cameo at the beginning.Bottom line. They smartly realized this was the end for this series. It's not horrible, just bland and routine, lacking a lot of entertainment value. All good things must come to an end, but if you're a die hard Clint fan this one may perk your interest.5/10 "},{"Title":"Improving but also concluding","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Strangely enough Clint Eastwood manages to give some new life to his mascot detective, aka Dirty Harry. This time he mixes a horror film maker and some kind of game for sophisticated supporters kill as many celebrities you can on the list provided by the director. Of course no one meant really killing them but one can always be schizophrenic enough to take it down to the last dot on the i's and cross on the t's and then the dead pool becomes the hearse of quite a few murders. But that has to be done in style and with a lot of elegance in the method. That schizophrenic serial killer is quite creative, well rather creative, well a good plagiarist. But something else is needed to animate this crime scene. And this time he uses the framing, convicting and sentencing of a mafia lord to put some spice on the roast and the roast is Dirty Harry who is chased by the hit men of that mafia lord, though the latter is an easy target in a prison and Dirty Harry has some inmates that are always ready to do some dirty chores for him if necessary for some cigarettes and a few favors.The last innovation is a female TV journalist who wants to get some true experience of Harry's life. That sure is easy to provide and within just a few days she gets more than will do for a life time. A lift down from the top of the Needle riddled with hundreds of automatic weapon bullets for one. Being lady-napped by the schizophrenic serial killer for two. Finding herself involved in some wild chases after some criminals, or some savage escapes from some other murderers then and her week was full of adventure, as full as a fool is full of tom-foolery. She is of course blonde and has long hair.The music is also new for the time, Guns and Roses, that's original too for this inspector who never leaves a blade of grass standing under his feet, let alone roses where his gun passes. And it fits San Francisco quite well. You just add a chase up and down the steep street of San Francisco and the adventure is complete. The new partner is Chinese American and he ends up, of course, in the hospital.But what value is added to that entertaining recipe? Not much actually because the discourse against the police being ineffective, rotten or simply sterilized by justice is long gone now and there is not much left to say about it. The crimes are not high level political crimes and thus the political side of police work is out too. That will also be the last film of the series because television is going to start competing with the master with police and crime series that are going to take his recipe a lot farther than he has ever dreamt. So as a concluding opus it is OK, but it had to remain a conclusion, and apparently it did.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Tired Entry Into This Otherwise Fine Series","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The Dead Pool is an unworthy addition into the superior Dirty Harry series. Despite a decent plot- someone has compiled a celebrity death list from which people start dying, it in no way feels like a Dirty Harry movie. When watching the movie in comparison with the earlier entries, it's tone and overall look show little similarity. Gone too are some of the series mainstays (Harry Guardino, Bradford Dillman, John Mitchum) and Eastwood company players (Albert Popwell) that added immeasurably to the previous films. Pairing Harry with an Asian partner (after he's already teamed in the previous films with a white, a hispanic, a black and a woman)seems contrived and all too PC. Eastwood himself looks bored- a shell of the righteous, angry anti-hero in the prior films who boldly took on everyone and everything in bringing killers to justice. Even Lalo Schifrin's music score stunk, having none of the edginess or grit present in the first two movies in the series Dirty Harry and Magnum Force.All four of the previous movies had something for the viewer to remember Dirty Harry introduced us to the character and featured an outstanding villain as portrayed by Andrew Robinson. Magnum Force had an interesting plot twist involving rogue cops. The Enforcer boasted a fine performance by Tyne Daly. And Sudden Impact featured despicable villains and the Go Ahead, Make My Day quote which entered the lexicon. The Dead Pool gave us nothing of any significance in any area of the film. A real shame, considering Clint Eastwood's contribution to this character and to film in general. A disappointment, to say the least. "},{"Title":"Harry's last dip?","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Easily the weakest and least memorable in my eyes of the Dirty Harry Franchise, but still it's not without a few merits and it's Dirty Harry going around one more time (well for just the moment). Clint Eastwood returns with the squint being cranky and cynical as ever, and with a new ethnic partner (Evan C. Kim) to improve the police department's dependable image. The story starts off promising leading to some solid developments of suspense (like the idea of a game involving a pool of celebrities on a death list) and generating a laugh or two, but then the whole investigation loses its edge to succumb to blatant silliness (the remote control car chase is a prime example) and the reveal of the killer is eye-rolling and over-cooked stuff. There are some high end stunts done mainly in the Hollywood backdrop, but everything from the camera-work, editing and direction falls in the routine bracket. It really does lack the brutal pouch I've come to expect, but Lalo Schifrin scores a deadly, but the same time soothing blues music arrangement. He knows how to incorporates the action and even the San Franscio scenery (which is essential to the film's make-up) to the cues. Like that breathtaking closing shot of the camera zooming out (pretty much like in the first three films) and Schifrin's score creeps in. Certain scenes and a little bit of the tone very much reminded of the original movie. The material starts off dark, where there's a parallel between the film industry / media intrusion and the fascination that's drawn from them. Where life begins to imitates art. The performances shape up, but no one really stands out. Eastwood slums it in with his tough, smart-lipped presence being enough. Patricia Clarkson and Liam Neeson are modest at best and Evan C. Kim whips out a few amusing lines. Jim Carrey has an enjoyable little role as druggie-rock star (and would also go onto appear in another Eastwood film 'Pink Cadillac' a year later). Fine entertainment in the Dirty Harry formula, despite the slick treatment the auto feel does take control. "}{"Title":"A man's got to know his limitations, indeed.","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This film is wrong on many, many levels. It's just so damn bad. This rotten egg makes Sudden Impact look like Sudden Impact.Bad performances, bad dialogue, cheap looking production values, half assed script with as much tension as a cheese sandwich. Even Clint looks like he's wondering if he's left the iron on in several scenes.Liam Neeson is particularly awful in this film. Jim Carrey is particularly Jim Carrey in this film. The oriental sidekick is under-used. You know you're in trouble if even Bradford Dillman opted out.Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear. There are only three Dirty Harry movies. 1971, 1973 and 1976. "},{"Title":"Good one!","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" After the drudgery of Sudden Impact, the fourth and worst sequel to Dirty Harry, no one could have expected the fifth to have any signs of life. But The Dead Pool is fairly inspired, even playful--check out a chase scene between Clint Eastwood's Harry Callahan character and a remote-controlled toy car wielding a bomb--and it ended the long-running series on an unexpectedly positive note. This time, Callahan investigates a series of murders that appears to be on a death list, while becoming romantically involved with a television reporter (Patricia Clarkson). Jim Carrey has a small but memorable part as a doped-up rock star, and Liam Neeson is on board, too. Directed by Eastwood surrogate Buddy Van Horn (Any Which Way You Can). "},{"Title":"Not Eastwood's best, but watchable","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I am rewatching all of of Client Eastwoods Dirty Harry movies (and a few others). Though this isn't the best of the lot, its still entertaining right from the beginning with a Harry in trouble scene and car stunt that engages the viewer immediately. Naturally Eastwood comes out shooting. The banter between the policeman at the offices is very 70's like and stilted, but Eastwood manages his scenes well. Not many liked the female reporter in the film but I thought he was one of the better leading ladies in an early Eastwood film. I especially liked the Asian actor (sorry I forgot his name) and felt he was well matched with Eastwood's character. An early martial arts scene stands up well and is very believable - even more powerful than Clint's shootout. I thought the tiny car scene was silly and detracted from an otherwise good movie. Watch for the old typewriter and computer and what passed as office furniture back then. Also, I think most will agree Eastwood rose above this slight silly storyline. He's at his best in a prison scene where he manipulates two convicts. For me its the highlight of the film. "},{"Title":"Not so swell","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The fifth and most recent (perhaps final) installment in the Dirty Harry saga finds 'Inspector Callahan'............still in San Francisco, but this time instead of doing the chasing, he's the one being chased. Not only does Harry have to deal with hit men sent by a crime lord he's just put away, but he also finds himself on the list of The Dead Pool.Eastwood has relinquished the director's reigns for this film, and Buddy Van Horn takes over to bring us much of the same. The plot starts out interesting enough, however it soon becomes predictable and derivative. As for our hero, well he just does what's expected of him. Not so swell.Thursday, February 11, 1993 - Video "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry rides again","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is the fifth film in which Clint Eastwood has appeared as Harry Callahan, the San Francisco cop introduced in ''Dirty Harry'' in 1971. Harry is still the sort of guy who believes that if you spare the rod you spoil the psychopath. When in doubt, shoot. The franchise is getting tired and the small movie pales next to the larger that life Eastwood. This is Eastwood all the way.We see Dirty Harry acting so Sean Penn here. I want to be a star, but I want my privacy. You can't have it both ways. ''The Dead Pool'' takes its title from a game being played by the director, cast and crew of ''Hotel Satan.'' This is a sort of lottery that involves a pool of names of people not expected to live out the year. The only really cool sequence is one in which Harry and his partner, riding in their unmarked car, are pursued up and down San Francisco's streets by a remote-controlled toy automobile packed with plastic explosives. It's so ''Bullitt.'' "},{"Title":"nothing in it is particularly original, but it's still entertaining","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Once again, Clint Eastwood is the iconic character of Inspector Dirty Harry Callahan, protecting San Francisco from the threats that just never seem to go away in its midst. While The Dead Pool doesn't really contain anything that hasn't been done before in any of the previous Dirty Harry films, except perhaps one particular scene, it is still a fun ride and a good cop movie.Also in the cast alongside Eastwood is Patricia Clarkson, Jim Carrey, Liam Neeson, Evan C. Kim, and David Hunt. Eastwood also has a new famous quote for this movie, like he has had in all but one other of the Dirty Harry movies. And I find this one to be my personal second-favorite out of them.The Dead Pool contains some fun chase scenes, shootouts, suspense, and a fairly good plot and character development. Once again, this has been done many times before, and it is still done today in other films. But it just comes to show that even an old idea can be reused, it just has to be done the proper way. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry enters The Jungle...","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The Dead Pool was the fifth (and apparently final) Dirty Harry film, a series that began prosperously in 1971 and, by now, was rather out of steam. To be fair, it starts out entertainingly enough &#150; the opening sequence may be far-fetched but it is skillfully executed, and the following scenes provide the sort of familiar dry humor that will please most of Clint Eastwood's fans. (Opinions are like elbows. Everyone's got one. Except he doesn't actually say elbows.)A half-hour into the picture, I was actually surprised to find that The Dead Pool was very entertaining and, above all else, daring. In this time period, we receive a satire of politics, the media's affiliation with the police and some particularly un-PC remarks (Such as one remark about a Chinese-American partner and the motivation behind his promotion.) The movie peaks when it delivers funny humor &#150; there's a sequence with Jim Carrey (before he was famous) playing a rock star named Johnny Squares, and the first time we are introduced to his character is during a scene in which he's filming a music video and lip synching to Guns N' Roses' Welcome to the Jungle. This goes on for roughly two minutes.I suppose back in 1988 this was due to the fact that the GN'R song was a hit &#150; a top ten single, actually &#150; and as such was an efficient way to entice the younger crowds to go see the film.Nowadays, it's a funny scene because we focus on Carrey and realize just how absurd his dancing and Axl Rose impersonations are &#150; perhaps something audiences didn't really get back in '88.Anyway, Carrey's rock star caricature Johnny is a heroin addict who is murdered in his trailer after shooting up again. Inspector Dirty Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) is called to the scene of the crime with his new partner, and they soon realize that there is a strange dead pool list floating around San Francisco &#150; begun by an Irish director (Liam Neeson) who was working with Johnny.The list works like this You name a handful of celebrities who you think may die in the coming months, and whoever's list is the most accurate at the end of this time period wins. The irony of all this is that Johnny Squares' name is on the director's list &#150; which implicates him in the crime. Furthermore, Harry himself is included on the dead pool list, which means he could be the next target.The movie has two plots going on at once &#150; one involves the dead pool list (coupled with the mandatory romantic subplot) and the other is about an incarcerated gangster who wants to seek vengeance on the man who locked him up. That man, of course, is Harry.As its runtime progresses The Dead Pool becomes stupider and stupider, until Harry is diving through fire to save suicide victims in slow-motion, impaling baddies with spear guns and so on and so forth. Buddy Van Horn, who's worked with Eastwood many times and was, ironically, a stunt worker on his latest masterpiece, Million Dollar Baby, directed the movie. And he gets it half right, and then suddenly turns into a hack. It's like he got tired of the effort and midway through filming, handed over the director's chair to an idiot whose training consists of Action Thriller Clichés 101.Then despite the whole wandering nature of the movie, we've got Guns N' Roses. Where to begin? As aforementioned, Jim Carrey imitates band frontman Axl Rose for a couple minutes. It's funny, but out of place in a Dirty Harry film. But it doesn't stop there. Their song plays at least twice in the movie, for a total of over seven minutes. The killer even stops a massacre at one point to slip a cassette tape into his deck and begin playing Welcome to the Jungle, and then resumes slicing his victim. It's a bit odd, to say the least. On top of that, the band's musicians &#150; Axl Rose, Slash, Izzy Stradlin', Duff McKagen and Steven Adler &#150; perform cameos.It's a really odd movie, that kind of hybrid of genres and cross-referential pop culture thriller that isn't really sure what it wants to be. This is worth a look, to be sure, if only for the fact that it's so unusual &#150; especially considering the fact that it's a Dirty Harry sequel. That it was the final in the franchise seems understandable. "},{"Title":"Passably mediocre.","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The fourth and last sequel to Dirty Harry offers more of the same, but at least it's a definite improvement over the repellent Sudden Impact. Eastwood once again demonstrates his acting flair and he manages to transform the poor material into a slick and often entertaining movie. It's action-packed and it has some quotable dialogue (watch for the scene where Harry is reading a fortune cookie), but the story is slim and predictable, and the villain comes across as a complete caricature. "},{"Title":"Worst of the Dirty Harry movies","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I enjoyed most of the Dirty Harry movies, but this one is a clunker. Unless this is your first movie, you will be able to predict what will happen in just about every scene before it happens. Example early in the movie, Harry is being chased in a car by some guys who want to kill him. Harry's car crashes and turns over on its side, and Harry appears to be dead. The assassins walk over to the overturned car to finish him off. As they start to lean over and look through the window, what do you think happens? Exactly what everyone knows is going to happen. Example Harry and the Patricia Clarkson character go out to dinner, and they ascend to the restaurant in a transparent glass walled elevator on the outside of the building. What do you think happens? Exactly what everyone knows is going to happen--just a little later than we think. Example one of the characters we know is on the list of people to be eliminated leaves his house in the morning and walks to his car. What do you think is going to happen? Etc., etc.The movie is made even worse by some of the worst dialogue I have ever heard in a film. Do these people have no imagination. The only change I have seen from the usual Dirty Harry formula is that he gets dressed down by the police brass not for violating the civil liberties of suspects, which is the usual case, but for costing the city money. But as usual, he gets taken off street duty and assigned to a desk, and of course solves the case while he was on desk duty. With this tired piece of hack work, maybe it was time for the series to end. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Did the world really need a fifth Dirty Harry film?","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" When rock star Johnny Squares dies while taking part in a film, the cause of death is initially thought to be a drug overdose, but before long it is discovered that he was actually poisoned. Suspicion falls upon Peter Swan, the director of the film; not only did he and Squares have a very public quarrel on the set just before the singer's death, but it also comes to light that he had been playing a macabre gambling game called Dead Pool. The idea is that each of the participants in the game comes up with a list of eight celebrities who are believed to be likely to die over the coming year; at the end of the year the winner is the participant who has correctly predicted the greatest number of deaths. And Squares just happened to be one of the names on Swan's list. Another of the names is that of Inspector Harry Callahan, the detective assigned to the case.Swan starts to look even more guilty when several other celebrities on his list, including a film critic who had rubbished his works, die in suspicious circumstances and Callahan survives an attempt to kill him using a remote-controlled toy car filled with explosives. Of course, it is a general rule in films like this that if a suspect appears to be obviously guilty, he is almost certainly innocent, and so it proves with Swan. The question then becomes, who is trying to frame him? Clint Eastwood created the character of Harry Callahan in Dirty Harry in 1971. Although the first film ends with Harry throwing away his police badge, the character proved too popular for the series to end there, and over the next seventeen years Eastwood made four sequels of which The Dead Pool was the last. As always, Harry is a controversial figure, arrogant and uncompromising, prepared to bend the rules in order to bring suspected criminals to justice.The Dead Pool is, however, a very different film to Dirty Harry. Although the tough cop formula was becoming over-familiar in the early seventies, Don Siegel was able to use it to ask some difficult questions about law enforcement, civil rights and the nature of justice, which meant that Dirty Harry was not just a cop thriller but also an exploration of moral and philosophical issues. There is none of that in The Dead Pool, which combines thrills not with moral philosophy but with satirical comedy, largely at the expense of the media and the modern cult of public relations. Harry's superiors are worried about the bad PR he seems to be attracting at a time when they are trying to improve their image; he, however, is old-fashioned enough to believe that being a cop is more about fighting crime than talking to the media, even though the film has a sub-plot about his love/hate relationship with an attractive female journalist.There is plenty of satire at the expense of various media figures; the British director of violent exploitation movies (Michael Winner?), the vitriolic female film critic (Pauline Kael?) and the drug-ridden rock star (too many examples to choose from) are all recognisable types. The film even satirises the tough cop genre itself; the scene in which Harry desperately tries to outrun the explosive-laden toy car is an obvious reference to the car chase scene in Bullitt, also set in San Francisco. Although some reviewers have taken exception to this sequence for its lack of realism, it is obvious that this part of the film was never intended to be taken seriously.The problem with the film as a whole is that one is never sure whether it is intended to be taken seriously or not. It is not (unlike, say, the Naked Gun films) a deliberate parody of the cop movie, but rather an unconscious self-parody, an uneasy mixture of thriller and comedy. It is, in places, too serious and violent to work as a comedy, but also too comic to work as a thriller. It is perhaps not surprising that this was the last in the series. Although Eastwood, who was fifty-eight at the time of The Dead Pool, continued making action films in his sixties (Unforgiven, In the Line of Fire, Absolute Power) these are all an older man's films in which the hero's age is an important point in the plot. He clearly realised that the world did not need a sixth Dirty Harry film. Did it really need a fifth? 4/10 "}{"Title":"You Have Got to Be Kidding Me!","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Was Clint Eastwood serious when he agreed to do this movie? Was Buddy van Horn drunk when he did it? This looks like Dirty Harry Saturday morning cartoon style. They start off with a good idea for the story, but then they stretch plot logic to unbelievable limits. Thank God Jim Carrey made an early exit from this movie. I always thought he was a bit of a ham.Anyway, the dead pool idea was a bit different. Don't know if they could get away with that now. But there were too many things that were laughably ridiculous for me to give this movie a decent rating (1) That car chase scene all over San Francisco WITH A TOY CAR, FOR CRYING OUT LOUD! JUST WHAT IN THE HOLY GOOSECRAP WAS THAT ALL ABOUT??? IT WAS RIDICULOUS!!!! Whew! Excuse me. Now that I've got that out of my system...Back to the car chase. Maybe I'm dense, but Harry was pretty quick to figure out what was going on with that car. Does our man Harry now have psychic abilities as well? Another ridiculous flaw in the plot. Harry and his partner's car gets blown to smithereens by that car bomb. Harry's partner has a few crushed ribs and Harry gets out without a scratch? Somebody in the script writing department needs to get just a little bit real. Now, Dirty Harry is Super Cop? I'm surprised somebody didn't bring kryptonite.And finally...he shoots the bad guy with a friggin' harpoon gun. Doesn't it take more than one person to handle something like that? I guess this movie is okay if you're a Clint Eastwood fan and you just polished off a six pack or two. Otherwise, if you're looking for a good cop movie with a realistic plot, you're looking in the wrong place. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Disappointingly by-the-numbers and pedestrian conclusion to the Dirty Harry series.","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The last of the Dirty Harry series is easily the weakest of the five films. It's basically going through the motions. All the Dirty Harry movie elements are there-Harry's wisecracks,Harry's telling offs by his superiors,Harry just happening to come across a 'situation' and dealing with it in his accustomed manner,you name it,it's probably there.However,one feels that the filmmakers didn't really care much about the film,it was an excuse to revive Harry,and that's all. The plotting is poor and worse,there's very little suspense or tension. The final showdown with the killer just comes along,with hardly any prior build up. Along the way are some reasonable bursts of action and a lengthy and superbly staged chase with a model car chasing a real one up and down the famous San Francisco hills in what is kind of a parody of Bullitt-however,it's in the wrong film. It's funny,but a chase scene in a Dirty Harry film should not be funny,the humour of these films is in Harry's lines and attitude,not in the action itself.There are indeed some amusing bits here,such as when Harry beats up a pair of supposed gangsters who are actually his bodyguards. You also have Liam Neeson's weird accent,sort of a combination of Irish,London cockney and American. But this is forgettable stuff,and a poor conclusion to the series. No one seems to have made much of an effort. When Harry spends the night with a journalist and all we see is Harry enter her house before a cut to the next morning,you get the feeling that the reason we were not shown anything is not because it was an artistic decision but because the filmmakers just couldn't be bothered. People in the mood for a reasonable thriller will find enough to enjoy,but fans of the previous four Harry films will feel short changed. "},{"Title":"Desperately Needs Some Mouth-to-Mouth","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Clint Eastwood suits up for his fifth appearance as San Francisco Homicide Detective `Dirty Harry' Callahan, in this final installment of the popular action/crime series that began in 1972.  Those involved with any successful franchise, of course, are usually able to discern when the game has been played out and the end is nigh, and audiences can sense it, too; and at that juncture, it is not out of character for those on either side of the coin to expect something special for that final exit-- a last, grand hurrah, as it were.  And sometimes, it works; T.V.'s `Seinfeld,' for example, did it right.  On the other hand, after the final season of `Remington Steele,' it was obvious even to the casual observer that it was allowed to go on one season too many.  And, unfortunately, `The Dead Pool,' directed by Buddy Van Horn, falls into the latter category.  Since it first hit the big screen in 1988, to the present, even after years of video shelf life, it's obvious that this fifth offering of the `Dirty Harry' chronicles was just one too many.Harry Callahan (Eastwood), after being instrumental in putting away a particularly notorious crime boss, has become something of a `media' star, and the department, naturally, wants to capitalize on some good press.  But Harry, naturally, wants no part of it; the last thing he cares about is an `image' or a `profile.'  In any event, there's real work to be done-- during a murder investigation on a movie set, he's uncovered evidence of a potentially deadly game that's being played in certain circles.  Each of the players has their own list of high profile `celebrities' from all walks of life, and the winner of the game is the one whose celebrities expire first, from natural causes-- or otherwise.  It's a so-called `Dead Pool,' and even more disconcerting to Harry is the fact that his name is on the list.If there is such a thing as a `sure thing,' it would be the next sequel in an already successful series like this one.  Right out of the chute, it has all of the required elements that spell success  One of the most popular actors in the history of the movies (assuring a huge box-office) recreating an established character that has become an icon of the silver screen.  But somebody should have reminded the filmmakers that there would be some legitimately high expectations for this one.  Unfortunately, these `filmmakers' were thinking with their wallets rather than their brains going into this project.  And it shows.One of the major problems is the story itself, credited to Durk Pearson, Sandy Shakioucus and Steve Sharon, with screenplay credit going to Sharon, alone.  It's no surprise that this is the only writing credit on their individual resumes.  What is a surprise, is that Harry Julian Fink and Rita M. Fink, responsible for the character development in all five `Harry' films (Rita M., in fact, did the polished and incisive screenplay for the original `Dirty Harry'), allowed themselves to be credited on this one at all.  This story/plot (such as it is) is weak to begin with, and more over, it's badly written.  Add to that the fact that they've entirely abandoned any and all of the nuances that added so much to the previous `Harry' films  The snappy, expected banter between Harry and his superiors, that so succinctly puts Harry's iconoclastic philosophies into perspective while revealing the inept and illogical bureaucratic leanings of the department, for example (here, in fact, Harry's `superiors' have become little more than caricatures of those who preceded them); and their attempt at a catch phrase that would define this particular `Harry' adventure is so anemic it's not worth mentioning here (suffice to say there is nothing even close to a `You have to ask yourself a question, &#145;do I feel lucky?' or a `Go ahead, make my day--').  And it's a shame.Additionally, this film suffers from absolutely dreadful casting.  Liam Neeson, as director Peter Swann, is barely tolerable; Patricia Clarkson lacks the spunk, looks and charisma needed to bring reporter Samantha Walker to life; Michael Currie, as Captain Donnelly, and Michael Goodwin, as Lt. Ackerman are laughably ineffective; Evan C. Kim, as Harry's new partner, Al Quan, shouldn't have made it past the audition; and David Hunt, as Harlan Rook, is the Woody Allen of cinematic psycho killers.  Rarely will you find a big-budget film that is so miscast.The fate of this film was decided, however, when stuntman Buddy Van Horn was slipped into the director's chair.  Don Siegel, Ted Post and James Fargo were successful with the first three of the series, and Eastwood himself directed and made `Sudden Impact' a success.  And he should have continued on in that capacity for this film.  Van Horn may be a stuntman's stuntman, but being as objective as possible, he simply did not know how to make this material work.  Drawing upon his roots, apparently, the best he could muster was to stage an ersatz `Bullitt' car chase involving a remote controlled toy car, including restaging (intentionally??) the famous Bullitt `spin-out' into the camera-- with the toy car!  Van Horn's real failure, however, is manifested in the way he treats his characters as if they are nothing more than objects around which he can stage his action.  The film lacks any tension or suspense whatsoever, and he creates about as much menace in his `psycho killer' as Bo Peep had amongst her sheep.  And while Eastwood's performance is the high note of the film, Van Horn could have done more to keep his star on task; Callahan is not nearly as `enthusiastic' here, compared to his previous outings.In the final analysis, the most interesting aspect of `The Dead Pool,' is seeing Jim Carrey (billed as `James') in one of his first performances of note, as rock star Johnny Squares.  Aside from that, this one just doesn't have the magic.  3/10.          "},{"Title":"The Dead Pool","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dirty Harry was outstanding, Magnum Force was worth watching, The Enforcer was okay, and Sudden Impact was another worth watching, so I was very interested to see how the last in the series would turn out, from director Buddy Von Horn (Any Which Way You Can, Pink Cadillac), also Clint's stuntman. Basically, in San Francisco, Inspector 'Dirty' Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) hates fame and a celebrity status, but that is exactly he has after giving a court testimony and putting key mafia figure Lou Janero (Anthony Charnota) behind bars, but this also means he is one of the names added to death list by someone. He is partnered with Asian-American martial arts-skilled Inspector Al Quan (Evan C. Kim), and together they are investigating the death of rock star Johnny Squares (Jim Carrey) who has been killed, by forced overdose, during a shoot being directed by famous filmmaker Peter Swan (Liam Neeson). Next to die, by gun shot, is executive producer Dean Madison, and looking through his stuff Harry and Quan come across a list with Madison, Squares and Harry's names on it, it was made by the dead man and Swan. This list is called The Dead Pool, and it is a game played that lists all the names of celebrities predicted to die soon, whether natural or not, and it is not until movie critic Molly Fisher (Ronnie Claire Edwards) on the list is stabbed to death. Harry is told he should co-operate with the press as they could be useful in finding out more about the named people on the list, and hopefully find the one who is following it in whatever order. In particular he gets close to and has a love interest with reporter Samantha Walker (Far from Heaven's Patricia Clarkson), and this also makes up for his earlier encounters with the media which he cannot stand the harassment and limelight of. After surviving an assassination attempt by Janero's men, and after some convincing rough talk he gets the kingpin to have his men leave him alone, but he is not very close to finding the person who is following The Dead Pool list. There is a man, Gus Wheeler (Louis Giambalvo), who covers himself in petrol and threatens to set himself alight as suicide unless he gets on television, he is rumoured as responsible for the deaths, but he is just an attention seeker who narrowly escapes his own death. Harry finds out that Swan has a restraining order against schizophrenic and deranged fan Harlan Rook (David Hunt), and we do see this madman kill next victim, talk show host Nolan Kennard (Bill Wattenburg) with the ingenious device, a bomb in a remote controlled car that explodes under his car. Another remote controlled car with a bomb chases after Harry and Quan, which becomes a chase through the streets, and when it explodes just in front of their car only Harry survives, while his partner gets severe injuries. The final scenes sees Rook tricking and trapping Samantha, and after some chasing Harry gets his opportunity and impales the villain with a harpoon on the pier, and he and the report leave the police to it. Also starring Michael Currie as Capt. Donnelly, Michael Goodwin as Lt. Ackerman, Darwin Gillett as Patrick Snow, Child's Play 3's Justin Whalin as Jason, W. Axl Rose as Musician at Funeral and Slash as Musician at Funeral. Eastwood does still create some good moments as the detective with the aggressive side and rude comebacks, and then pre-fame stars Clarkson, Neeson and Carrey do their parts alright as well, the story is a little off in places, the big highlight is certainly the remote control car chase, it may be a bit same old same old, but it isn't that bad of a crime thriller. Clint Eastwood was number 18 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 61 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and Harry Callahan was number 17 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains. Okay! "},{"Title":"Sure thing to end Dirty Harry Movies","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This film would be OK if it was presented as a spoof film to the previous Dirty Harry Movies. However you can't have it both ways. There was no under current of humor presented in the film, even with the ridiculous car chase. I agree with comments that Mr. Clint may have been taking the proverbial p***, but none the less, as a film this is not implied or suggested. Therefore overall the film is just bad. Film buffs may read into things that will portray Clint as sending up himself, but he or his acting in this film does not entitle him to a get out of jail clause for how bad the film really is. I was shocked that Clint allowed himself get involved with such a dire movie from start to finish, not to mind Liam Neeson. Jim Carey however will earn a get out of jail clause as his form has continued in the same manner. "},{"Title":"The Dead Film","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  ****Excellent***Good**Fair*PoorThis is the worst film in the Dirty Harry franchise and a repulsive way to end the five-picture series. Here Clint Eastwood seems tired in the role that made him a mega superstar and the plot of the film is equally as bad. This film is truly a disappointment to any fan of the Dirty Harry series and/or Clint Eastwood. RATING 1 STAR "},{"Title":"Ugliest Automobiles Ever Seen in a Motion Picture","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  What was Eastwood doing driving around in all these Dodge K-Cars?  The only auto with any style was the toy that chased him around.   As for the movie...Clint  phoned in his performance, which improved upon the gruesome acting of the supporting cast, except for genius Jim Carrey.  See original DIRTY HARRY please.   "},{"Title":"Deadly Dull","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  As soon as the electronic title music starts you know you`re going to be watching a deadly dull 80s film and this is a deadly dull 80s film . Worse it`s a deadly dull 80s film with a 70s screen icon ! . I`m unable to emphasise just how much transporting Dirty Harry Callahan to the 1980s fails to work . Pony tailed punks , smack head heavy metal singers , designer suits and padded shoulders , video nasties, and health clubs do not belong in a DIRTY HARRY  sequel . But by far the worst aspect to THE DEAD POOL is the extremely boring plot brought to us by a poor script which lacks any wit or quasi fascist subtext . If the producers were stuck for ideas - And I`d be shocked if they were - maybe we could have had a story involving Scorpio`s twin brother taking revenge on Harry Callahan . An obvious plot idea perhaps but at least we`d get another memorable performance from Andrew Robinson as a pyscho killer . And I can guarantee Scorpio`s brother would be a better shot than the bad guys in this film   "}]