[{"Title":"Typically Cronenberg but yet accessible as well; a great script and plot is made all the more compelling by the director and two fantastic performances from Jeremy Irons","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"64 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Growing up together as social outcasts with only each other for company, twins Elliot and Beverly Mantle become very close. This closeness becomes more like them both sharing one self in two bodies as they study in the same area and eventually become experts in the field of gynaecology. They share everything and few can tell them apart; an arrangement that works well until Beverly falls for a patient (Claire Niveau) and finds that there are things he doesn't want to share with Elliot. As Bev confronts the idea of them being separate for the first time ever, he starts to fall apart mentally and, when Elliot tries to reach out and help him he too is drawn into confusion over identity and an inability to find where one of them stops and the other starts.Being a Cronenberg film I knew to expect body horror and, shall I say, an 'unusual' theme and in many ways the film delivered in spades but in a much more cerebral fashion. The plot is not easy to explain but it is a totally convincing breakdown of both Elliot and Beverly as they lose contact with the lines between them (if the lines ever really existed). Of course it is rather extreme but it is relentlessly interesting in terms of the script and the characters. The gynaecological part of the film allows Cronenberg to explore his more usual body horror stuff but this all came second to the much more interesting material that exists in the script. Cronenberg appears to be as fascinated as me by the characters and he directs with a cold eye, letting the creepy atmosphere come from not only the story but every shot, every set and every performance; not only this but this is one of his more accessible films without losing much of what makes Cronenberg Cronenberg.Of course a massive part of the film working is two perfect performances from Jeremy Irons, who I have not seen better in any other films. Using special effects as well as the old 'over the shoulder' technique, Irons is able to convincingly be on screen in two characters at the same time, but it is not the shot framing that makes it convincingly two characters, it is Irons' performance that does that. His Beverly is so feeble and has a convincing breakdown; while his Elliot appears much more together but suffers in a different way from the same struggle. Obviously being identical, it is due to Irons that the two characters come across so very different but yet seem just like the same person. In every little scene he manages to stay in character no matter what &#150; it's hard for me to describe, you need to really see it for yourself. Bujold is good in support early on but, as the twins' story gets more complex, her characters feels a bit intrusive and uninteresting, but generally she is good. However, to talk about anyone beyond this is to suggest there is room for them in the film &#150; there isn't. Instead the film is pretty much dominated by two people &#150; and they are both Jeremy Irons, producing two great performances that were vital for the film to work.Overall this may be a little too weird for some viewers but many more will find it to be one of their favourite Cronenberg films on the basis that it has the qualities that makes him him but is also a lot more accessible as well. The body horror is there in the background but it is the psychological scarring and confusion that is of much more interest; the script is great even if the plot goes to the usual Cronenberg excesses but it is two perfect performances by Irons that makes it all come together in a compelling and interesting film.  "},{"Title":"No,  you're right, he's not alone- but he's lonely. Even with me.","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"57 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" While I like The Brood quite a bit, Dead Ringers gets my vote as Cronenberg's best work. Follow along as the twin brothers spiral out of control when they unsuccessfully try to break free from each other. One's more confident, the other more timid. But they depend on each other, and at middle age neither has the psychological strength to be their own person; they still don't have a sense of self. Among many favorite moments, I love the scene where Elliott, the more confident twin, tries to kiss Claire. It's his way of trying to synchronize himself with his brother Beverly, whom Claire has a true connection with. I'm sorry but I can't, she intones. Elliott turns to the mirror, disturbed. Am I really that different from my brother?. He absolutely does not know who he is. Although it's not without some humor, Dead Ringers is very bleak. It has an emotional intensity that most movies can't touch. It is sad AND beautiful.The movie itself *looks* great. Good script, and AWESOME performances from both Irons and Bujold. As another reviewer suggested, watch it twice if you don't like it the first time- it might grow on you. This is my all-time favorite movie. "},{"Title":"Gold instrument intrudes your soul","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"60 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  To date, Cronenberg's deepest film.Jeremy Irons summons a performance of profound complexity, to pull off a double-act so credible that your feelings are divided, twin egg-like, between two characters. The polar-opposite attraction/repulsion of each brother's personality shines through in his every scene - to flesh out two characters so distant yet so deeply intimate, and do it so convincingly, requires more than acting, and this is by far his finest moment.I can't say any more about this film other than that seeing it is a life-enhancing experience. Anyone who has ever taken potent substances with a close friend, as a kind of emotional rite, will be moved beyond words by the twins' climactic scene.Never mind the detractors who say it's cold and clinical and abusive - they just don't understand it. There is love, warmth and beauty in abundance in this film - a horror film? A psychological thriller? A love story? Don't try and give it a name and place, it's just an essential part of understanding us as adults; as children; as weird, fathomless organisms.  "},{"Title":"Separation Can Be A Terrifying Thing","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"42 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Identical twin brothers Beverly and Elly Mantle are successful gynaecologists in Toronto.  Their relationship is intense and very close - perhaps too close.  The Mantles experiment with sex, drugs and personal identity, to the detriment of their practice, and ultimately of their psychological health.This is a David Cronenberg film, so we are in the familiar realm of horror, mind games and perverted science.  The director/producer/writer appears in the credits above the title and even ahead of his stars, Irons and Bujold. Essentially, the 'dead ringers' of the title are the brothers, who regard their mental and emotional oneness as being something more.  They see themselves as siamese twins, bound by their flesh, and fated to share every experience, even unto death.Irons does wonders to play two complex characters in one movie.  A new technique called 'motion control' allows the actor to appear as two people in the same frame, but there is also plenty of the old 'body double' method, filming over a shoulder, then reversing the angle.As teenage boys, the Mantle twins are clearly very bright, and display a precocious interest in surgery and women's reproductive apparatus.  They are also creepy geeks.  By the late 1980's they are handsome forty-somethings, and hailed as brilliant gynaecologists by everyone in the medical profession.The screen actress Claire Niveau becomes Elliot's patient, and the brothers are soon sharing her.  They frequently swap places without her knowledge.  She has a unique uterus, and as Beverly (or is it Elliot?) explores this feature with his fingers, it is difficult to tell whether he is examining her or masturbating her.  Before long, both brothers are doing both to Claire.Elliot is a few minutes older than Beverly, microscopically taller and a nuance darker in colouring, but by nature he and 'baby brother' are utterly different.  While Beverly is shy and diffident, Elliot is a callous, manipulative smoothie.  When Claire, still unaware that she is sleeping with two men, expresses an interest in mild masochism, Beverly recoils but Elly enthusiastically obliges.  He uses surgical tubes and clamps to tie Claire down for sex, and as he releases her after orgasm, we sense that for him the experience has been 'surgical' - almost a dispassionate experiment.If Beverly is Jeckyll and Elliot is Hyde, we are always conscious that both personalities inhabit one awareness.  You haven't had any experience until I've had it too, Elliot tells Beverly, and the twins certainly seem to share everything, treating each other's patients (without telling the patients, of course) and working in tandem on research papers.  The twins have a twin obsession in common - work and sex.  Beverly sums it up with, We do women - that's our speciality.Identity is at the core of this film, and the dualities and ambiguities of personality recur with brain-teasing frequency.  The twins are interested in female genitalia, both professionally and recreationally.  Claire attracts them because of her dualities - she is a big personality who adopts other personas for her work a strong woman who is turned on by being submissive a gynaecological 'star' who happens to be infertile and the French Canadian 'twin' to the English Canadian brothers. Elliot sleeps with two call-girls who are twin sisters, and identifies them by getting each to call him either 'Bev' or 'Elly'.  The film has layer upon layer of these dualities.  Genevieve Bujold is a French Canadian actress playing a French Canadian actress.  We see her being made up for a movie, but when we see her left side, the make-up is of cuts and bruises.  The Mantles prescribe drugs to each other, and each to himself, criss-crossing the doctor/patient demarcation lines.  They take pills to cure their addiction to pills.  Cary is having a relationship with Elliot, but when she gets both brothers at once, she is deeply aroused.  The film, like the brothers, oscillates between oneness and separation.  I want to see you two together, says Claire, confused by their duality.  So do we. "},{"Title":"Deep meaning and stylish art by Cronenberg.","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"33 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Elliot and Beverly Mantle (Jeremy Irons) are identical twins that are top-of-the-class and incredibly well known gynaecologists. They also treat themselves by swapping their identities around, so they can share each other's work commitments and pleasures, like woman. But all of this comes back to destroy them emotionally and physically.An intriguing and rather inventive premise director / co-writer David Cronenberg has come up with here. The worlds Cronenberg creates in his film's are rather fascinating in looking at the human body and technology. This film is no exception. So you can't really call this mainstream, as it's not for everyone's tastes. That's why his films seem to have great impact in the realistic visuals and material context. It's flowing with originality, good psychological elements, erotica and it holds such an artistic feel with its stunning visuals and elegance to show.This thought-provoking drama is rather stimulating and quite downbeat. Though, it's mostly a talkative film; the dialogue is dense on many levels that it's truly captivating. It's more the material context that tries to shock and explore in a subtle way rather than the horrific visuals and shocks that we come to expect from most of Cronenberg's films. It doesn't contain much graphic moments, only about one or two. The sub-plots are drawn up quite well with dabbling in sexual desires and pleasure, technology (instruments and tools of the trade), the twins physical bond, addiction and a rather modernistic world. It's filled with sharp and intense sequences that are entrenched with an effective music score, as it overwhelmingly draws you in. This unsettling aurora builds into paranoia in the last half of the film and it ends rather disturbingly. The stylish production valves are incredibly glossy and professional. With beautifully crafted and slick cinematography. The gloomy colours that fill the screen hold great contrast in the moody and detail backdrop. From their fashionable home to their cold work office.Jeremy Iron gives a tremendously charismatic performance playing both Elliot and Beverly Mantle. Elliot is Beverly's backbone as he's confident and arrogant. Beverly is the opposite as he's more innocent and rather sweet. Beverly wants to break the bond that they share, but Elliot can't let that happen. At first they weren't that likable, but the further the film goes along we see their downfall and there spiral into madness. That's when you start to feel for them and it gets rather emotionally charged. They also live and depend on each other, feeling what the other one feels and that's mostly pain and gloom here. This happens when they start to depend on painkillers and Beverly believing his girlfriend is cheating on him. This portrait shows how fragile they really are and how we really depend and feel when love ones are in pain and sorrow. As we are effected in the same way too. Genevieve Bujold is splendid as Claire Niveau the movie star and Beverly's love interest.Maybe the film was a bit overlong, but this is a shockingly grim and efficient film that plays on many levels of the mind. "},{"Title":"A beautiful Masterpiece","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After a very successful career exploring the physical horrors in a series of excellent films (that culminates in the awesome remake of The Fly), Canadian director David Cronenberg made another step up in the development of his personal style of film-making, by moving to the field of psychology with a suspense/thriller that while less visceral and graphic than his previous films, it's no less horrific and captivating Dead Ringers. While at first sight this film seems like a departure, it's simply the logic evolution of a style that reaches maturity without forgetting its origins. Just as The Fly can be seen as the grandiose closure of an era, Dead Ringers is the glorious beginning of a new stage.Beverly and Elliot Mantle (both played by Jeremy Irons) are identical twins that from birth have been so close. So close that they have studied the same profession, work together as gynecologists and literally share everything (including lovers) between them. This symbiotic relationship begins to shatter when a new patient, actress Claire Niveau (Geneviève Bujold), enters in their life. The problem? Beverly, who has always been the shy, introverted one of the two, has fallen in love with her, and doesn't see to be too happy with the idea of sharing with his brother anymore. As the tag-line reads, Separation Can Be A Terrifying Thing.Loosely based on Bari Wood and Jack Geasland's book Twins (which was also loosely based on a strange, real-life case), the plot at first sounds like something out of a typical made for TV drama; however, Dead Ringers is still a Cronenberg film and so it is still full of the themes that the famed director loves. Taking the themes of identity and the duality of identity as a start point, Cronenberg tells the story of a perfect organism made out of two persons. The Mantle brothers are physically two men, but psychologically they work as one, and the invasion that Claire means in their life is like a viral infection that begins to corrode the brothers from the inside.With a perfectly developed script, Cronenberg details the effects of this infection with surgical precision, and while the film is not as violently graphic as his previous efforts, it is by no means less disturbing. This progression to a more psychological exploration of horror (see first in Videodrome and The Dead Zone) is marked by a subtler cinematography, that with a cold, sterile setting gives life to the horrors unleashed by the breakdown of the brothers. In simple words, Dead Ringers is a movie that mixes perfectly horror, drama and romance in ways that few films dare to attempt. This is the masterpiece that would lead the way to Cronenberg's more psychological projects like M. Butterlfy, Crash or Spider.While Cronenberg's direction is outstanding, the film wouldn't be the same without the talent of Jeremy Irons as the two main characters. In the difficult role of giving life to two different yet similar men, Irons succeeds with amazing results delivering what probably is his best performance in his career. As Beverly he is shy, introverted and almost charming; while as Elliot he becomes this manipulative smooth-talker who feels his balance threatened by the inclusion of Claire in their lives. While certainly is Irons who receives most of the praise, the films is also benefited by Geneviève Bujold's acting as Claire. Her performance is very natural and fresh, showing truly a believable chemistry with Irons as her character enters the private world of the Mantle brothers.Personally, I think Dead Ringers is a flawless job by an artist reaching maturity; however, I can understand why some would have troubles with it. The main problem is definitely that horror fans expecting something like The Brood or The Fly won't find a lot of that graphic horror here, but at the same time, people expecting a normal romance-drama film will find really disturbing scenes. It's really hard to approach Dead Ringers that way, so my best advice would be to go with an open mind to discover one of the most amazing films of the 80s.Dead Ringers has become a new favorite of mine, due to it's interesting complex plot and the subtle classy direction by Cronenberg. It's an unusual film by him, but no less amazing, as it has his trademark all over the place. Probably one of the most beautiful horror films ever made, Dead Ringers is a timeless masterpiece. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Dead Ringers = Separation Anxiety?","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I must admit that I have a bit of a fascination with identical twins, and I don't think I'm alone on this. We often wonder to ourselves about how life must be for those that are, being able to con others by one twin being able to pose as the other or one twin taking the blame for the other's misdeeds.I first encountered a pair of identical twins when I was still in preschool and the concept has stuck with me ever since. So have the questions and the articulate pondering of how they can socialize in an environment as active as something, say, a public high school. How would they function? Normally, I would guess, but that's not enough for some, and director David Cronenberg also explores the concept of twins and has made a delicate and obsessive film that dives deep into its subject matter and doesn't relent in his hunt.Cronenberg is a director with an impeccable track record of nasty, gore-laden and brilliant horror and sci-fi movies that many times serve a greater purpose other than grossing out the audience. To paraphrase his IMDb biography, his works are often metaphors for larger social questions that are left up to the viewer to answer. Hence, this in no way makes his work easy to grasp or understand; it may take repeated viewings, but the pieces will eventually fall into place.Let's reflect Videodrome (1983) explored the notion of reality-morphing television and technology and its fusion with human flesh - as witnessed by a man whose obsession with a strange television signal warps his perceptions of reality and he literally becomes a media assassin, as well as a human VCR with a vagina-like slit in his stomach to which a video cassette could be inserted; The Fly (1986) displayed the agonizing process of slow death and the effect it has on those involved - showcased by a woman having to watch her lover, a brilliant scientist whose DNA is mixed with that of a common housefly, waste away into something more terrifying; Cronenberg's third work of genius at this time, 1988's Dead Ringers, dissected duality, that two separate minds can possibly equal one whole body or personality. Cronenberg explored each of these with graphic special effects and detailed and imaginative storytelling, both of which earned him the love and following of many fans and essayists.Here, in Dead Ringers, Cronenberg explores this issue of duality, and the possibility that two individual personalities, twin gynecologists Elliot and Beverly Mantle (Jeremy Irons, in a hefty and confusing performance), are actually halves of a whole. Elliot is the smooth ladies man - confident, bright, highly sexual. Beverly is the more secretive one - confused, lonely, desperate.Based on supposedly true events and a book called Twins by Bari Wood and Jack Geasland, both men share each other's secrets, lives, patients, and sexual conquests of women. Sex comes up a lot in Cronenberg's film, and he uses it as a joke between the two twins You'd still be a virgin if it weren't for me, quips the extrovert Elliot to the introvert Beverly. Elliot and Beverly live together, but live as each other and can't live without each other; they would rather die than be separate.Things become complicated for them both when Beverly begins romancing a desperate actress named Claire Niveau (Genevieve Bujold), and for once he begins to come out of his shell when he finds that he's falling madly in love with her. She eventually discovers that Elliot and Beverly are twins. Beverly attempts to win her back when she calls it quits to their relationship and eventually does, but where does this leave Elliot, the smoother of the Mantle Brothers?It's not enough that Beverly is also hounded by a rather ghastly dream and he eventually begins down a tragic spiral of drug addiction, as does Elliot, who says that they share the same body and mind. The two brothers then begin attempts to separate, which will have tragic consequences for both of them.Cronenberg has a knack for getting commanding performances from his players and Dead Ringers is no exception. Irons puts on a confusing and masterful performance as both Mantle twins, as the film really makes you believe you're watching two men (when it's actually one man interacting with himself). Cronenberg utilizes extraordinary split-screen technology, body doubles, and editing to make you think Irons has a twin that nobody's ever seen before. (P.S One should also be on the lookout for a real-life pair of twins a young, pre-Law & Order Jill Hennessy and her sister Jacqueline in brief cameo roles as two female escorts.)Hardcore Cronenberg fans will definitely find Dead Ringers rewarding, if not lacking. You know what I'm talking about gore, oh, delicious, explicit carnage and gore. Well, if one is a gorehound, you'll be disappointed but a more observant hound will find their desserts in the psychological gore that makes up for much of what's normally missing in this picture. The graphic gynecological surgical instruments, one particular dream sequence, and the ending surgery will definitely make those thirsty for blood + guts crave for more.Dead Ringers shows David Cronenberg at his artistic best; I've waited a long time to see this movie and I myself was not disappointed in the slightest. If The Fly is considered his greatest film, then Dead Ringers shows him at his most mature as a director. This picture allowed Cronenberg to begin real work in mainstream cinema and also allowed for him to get the respect of other great directors (I've heard that Martin Scorsese has a lot of admiration for him).David Cronenberg's theatrical masterpiece - Dead Ringers.8/10 "},{"Title":"Irons in his two best screen performances!","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A very fine film that challenges and rewards just about equally and somehow has a downbeat ending that manages to be uplifting. I suppose we have been through a lot by the end and although there is an horrific sadness there is an awful inevitability and we like the twin brothers can finally see no other way out. Bujold plays a starlet who comes between two identical twins (Irons in his two best screen performances!) and whilst the tale begins playfully enough we are given enough signals to suggest all will not be well, although we like all three leads do hope so. We see ourselves in the three and if at first we are confounded to discover we are confused by who is who, just when we have got the two under some control, like Bujold indeed, it all goes wrong and the brothers switch personalities before our very eyes. This is all disturbing enough without the gynaecological instruments of torture and the playing with pain and pleasure leading us to some darkened room. "},{"Title":"Twin-terror","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (Small spoilers throughout the entire review)David Cronenberg's Dead Ringers is a thriller that makes the blood chill, but in a completely different way than his previous 'The Fly'. Dead Ringers is an emotionally and psychologically devastating film focusing on the exclusiveness of twins and their (supposable) telepathic interaction skills. Master actor Jeremy Irons stars in a double-role as Beverley and Elliot Mantle. At age nine, they're intelligent kids (the part where they ask the bitchy neighbor girl to have experimental sex with the both of them is great) and they grow to be brilliant med school students. In a further life-stadium, they're brilliant gynecologists with an own clinic. Even though nobody can tell the difference between them physically, the two brothers have a very different personality. Elliot is the dominant, self-confident one while Beverley is the shy one who wouldn't even meet girls if it weren't for Elliot passing his ex-girlfriends to him. But then Beverley falls deeply in love with an actress who came to the clinic with gynecologic problems. After the painful mix-ups between the two brothers (Dead Ringers makes no problem out of exploiting the 'twin-brothers-share-the-same-girlfriends' topic) they form a steady couple, but when the actress hands over some of her showbiz's habits like drugs and kinky sex to Beverley, this seems to unleash mental madness that eventually has its impact on both brothers.Dead Ringers is slow, stone cold and driven by depression and despair. In his typical and brilliant style, David Cronenberg tells the story without any form of emotion or sympathy for the brothers. His directorial approach is detached and it sometimes feels like he's shooting an ordinary scientific documentary. That certainly isn't a bad comment, though. In an unexplainable way, the cold and objective viewpoint is what makes this film so terrifying. Along with the outstanding performance by Irons, that is. He really succeeds in making both of his characters go through a lethal downward spiral of insanity. Dead Ringers is one of those films almost impossible to judge. Half of the time what you see are brilliant and half of the time you're too confused by it, but, in general, it's far too compelling and you refuse to give up understanding what the characters go through. This is psychological terror in its purest form!  "},{"Title":"Horrific, Disgusting, Grotesque, Riveting","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Cronenberg consistently makes technically well crafted films. His subject matter however and the way he displays his subject matter (ie &#150; his love of gore and perverse creations), often divides opinion of his works.I think what makes DR a remarkably strong film is that Cronenberg tones down his use of trademark gore. There is a little, but it's used sparingly and non-gratuitously. This shows that Cronenberg can exercise self-control when he wants to.The overall look of the film is beautiful Ultra modern and austere. The twins apartment looks like the perfect abode for socially detached souls.But the most extraordinary aspect of DR is Jeremy Iron's performance as both Mantle Twins. He shades each of the twin brothers amazingly and makes them both terrifying and sympathetic characters. Geneviève Bujold also delivers a faultless performance, looks fantastic as a more mature woman and proves the fact that women over 40 can be very sexy; a fact which Hollywood (very insultingly) continues to ignore.The film's subject matter is very unsettling and controversial. As a man, I found a lot of scenes difficult to watch. But to be fair, Cronenberg never pushes the film into the cheap and tasteless territories of gratuitousness and exploitation.Overall, DR is a very heavy experience. As one reviewer noted &#145;Do not watch if you are feeling depressed.' I agree totally with this point. But it is a film which is guaranteed to remain in the mind a long, long time afterwards. Ultimately, I like films which I can remember in detail years after I've seen them.7/10  "}{"Title":"difficult to get into, but once it takes hold...","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"20 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  David Cronenberg is a director of great unique vision, and he ranks highly on my list of favorites, not because every film he does is great per se, but because there is a certain level of consistency and quality that infects each bizarre celluloid mutation he comes up with.  David Lynch and Stanley Kubrick have done a few good films, but their track records are generally inconsistent--Cronenberg, while grossly underrated, outshines them all.  And Dead Ringers--probably his most widely-praised film in the mainstream, next to The Fly--is no exception.  The film is quite puzzling on first inspection, and I did have a hard time settling into the mentality that would let me enjoy it, but once I did, I was thoroughly impressed--whether playing the smarmy Elliott or the sensitive Beverly Mantle, Jeremy Irons gives a wonderfully nuanced performance as identical twin gynecologists (the subtleties of difference in personality command multiple viewings to register).  Not only is the film's central theme both compelling and disturbing (one personality split between two people), but the descent into (prescription) drug addiction and botched gynecological procedures (with Cronenberg's trademark insect-like surgical instruments) will make your skin crawl.  It's a bleak, depressing, and tragic tale, but it shows brotherly relations with an intimacy few films ever approach. Anchored by Irons' spectacular dual performance, Dead Ringers is a film that shows a lot of maturity on Cronenberg's part, and though it might be hard to call it 'entertaining,' it does contain harsh imagery with an emotional pulse that will not be easily forgotten.7/10 "},{"Title":"Outstanding Performance of Jeremy Irons Associated to a Great Edition Work","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The twin brothers Beverly and Elliot Mantle are close to each other since they were kids. They are bright students at the medical school were they undergraduate in gynecology. They work in their clinic Mantle Inc. where Beverly (Jeremy Irons) is shy and hard worker and Elliot is eloquent, cynical and daring. When the actress Claire Niveau (Genevieve Bujold) comes to their clinic for a fertilization treatment, Elliot seduces her and they have one night stand. Elliot offers Claire to Beverly and soon he falls in love with her. Claire is addicted in pills and Beverly becomes also addicted. When Claire accidentally discovers that Beverly has an identical twin brother, she finds the truth about her initial affair with Elliot and breaks up with Beverly. He becomes depressed and uses more pills reaching the rock bottom. Elliot decides to use pills to synchronize with his brother leading the Mantle's brothers to a tragic end. Dead Ringers is a strange and mesmerizing film by David Cronenberg. The story of identical twin brothers with different behaviors that are affected by a woman has outstanding performance of Jeremy Irons associated to a great edition work. The film is gruesome in many moments and the conclusion is predictable, with the destruction of both twins. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Gêmeos - Mórbida Semelhança (Twins &#x96; Morbid Ressemblance) "},{"Title":"A deep study of the human behavior","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Known as a director of weird films (unfortunadely unusual means bad for many), Cronenberg is actually a serious studious of the human mind, not unlike Ingmar Bergman, and here he does it better than in any other of his films i have seen (Spider, The Fly and Videodrome- the last one about the influence of TV in society and the least introspective of them). Like in the pictures mentioned above, the very strange premise is a excuse to a deep analysis of the human psychology what is identity? where is the line between love and obsession? how dependent of another person someone can be? where does one ends and the other begins? It can be seen the influence of Bergman, most notably Persona and The Hour of the Wolf, and arguably Hitchcock's Vertigo, and, as the masters, Cronenberg does not provide easy answers, or any answer at all. But no matter how great the director is, the film would not be successful without the talent of Jeremy Irons. An actor capable of very good performances even in bad films, like The Man in the Iron Mask, he delivers here one of the greatest performances of all time, playing two extremely complex characters without being over-the-top or inexpressive in any moment, confusing us of which is Bev and which is Elly when he is supposed to, and making clear who is he playing in the right moment. Dead Ringers is not an ordinary film, so is not for ordinary moviegoers it is very complex, not commercial at all, can be very hard to look at it in some moments, and don't expect to feel good after watching it. But if that does not drives you away, i strongly recommend. "},{"Title":"Book more disturbing than Cronenberg film","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" In the late 1980s, when David Cronenberg announced that he was adapting the novel TWINS by Bari Wood, I was sorta happy about this. I believed then that Cronenberg would make a fine adaptation of the disturbing novel. When I finally saw the film version, it was a letdown. Everything that made the novel shocking and memorable was all but gone in the film and what's left is a dreary drama that's not particularly memorable. I hardly remember anything from it and yet I remember big chunks of novel, even if I read the novel years before seeing the movie. Cronenberg made big changes to the story, certainly in regards to the relationship between the twin brothers. This was a big mistake on Cronenberg's part, who basically chickened out and made something more mainstream, very 1980s while showcasing his usual (by then) boring penchant for fetish. The brothers' descent into madness is not convincing at all in the film version because it's missing the important elements that made the basis of the novel. The end product is more anal retentive than it needed to be. A disappointment. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There are things to like about this film. The double role that Jeremy Irons plays is a tour de force (French for display of strength or skill). The worldly wise yet kittenish performance of Geneviève Bujold is a high point of the film and the story generates a certain twisted interest in the viewer. The direction has its moments of excellence and the script is witty and surprisingly thoughtful. Despite all of this, however, I didn't like this movie.My tastes are fairly wide when it comes to films. I watch anything from foreign to silents to comedy to drama to documentaries and children's films. I am not put off by gore or sex, as long as it has a point, and I somethimes enjoy the off-beat and somewhat twisted. Yet I didn't like this film.Clearly, with the 7+ rating that this film currently has, many people liked the film. However, I can also see many people disliking it. If you liked it, please do not be offended by my review. I like a world that has people who think differently than I do, but I think that there are many people who will not like this film and I would like to warn them. So what is not to like? Perhap that despite its wit, the film predictable. A tale of an obsessive love that destroys the two people who are involved. Yes, it is novel and different and the twin bond is rare in film, but even this novelty could not prevent the film from becoming tedious as it plods that well worn and predictable track of obsession leading to senseless destruction.Perhaps another reason is that I and the people with me didn't felt depressed when the film was over. There was no joy; there was not redemption. There was no sense that they deserved their fate or that something was somehow gained by what happened. There was not even the feeling of release that comes with a tragedy. Perhaps I am too much of an optimist, but I don't like coming out of a movie feeling down or depressed. This is a bleak film. Perhaps another reason is that the ending seemed inconclusive and pointless. If I am going to feel depressed I would at least like a reason for it or some kind of point. The ending resolved their fate but walked away wondering why you needed to know this. You might say that life is sometimes bleak and tedious, that sometimes there is no hope. Well, that is true, but I get enough of that from life without having to pay for it in the theater.I felt mentally an spiritually raped by this film. Obviously there are many people who didn't feel the same way, or if they did, they didn't mind. If you don't like movies of this sort, then I hope you are warned. On the other hand, if you like this type of movie, then this is good and well acted example of the type, and I hope you enjoy it. "},{"Title":"We do women - this is our specialty","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Beverly and Elliot Mantle are identical twins and have shared everything during their entire lives - their interest in the women reproductive system which leads them both to become famous gynecologists, their apartment (they both love Italian furniture), their successful practice in Toronto, and their patients. We do women - this is our specialty says Elliot, more confident and self-assured twin who seduces the women he meets and then passes them on to his shyer brother. Enters Claire, a new patient with an extremely rare condition and soon both brothers are doing her without her knowledge. But Claire feels that the person she is with is sometimes different even if he looks the same - she is an actress and to pretend to be someone else is her specialty. After she finds out that she sleeps with both brothers, the movie becomes a very interesting dissection of the most mysterious connection between two people possible and the intense look at playing with and losing identity. The movie is written and directed by the master of intelligent horror movies, David Cronenberg, and it is very clever, dark, unsettling, and uncomfortable (the main characters are gynecologists, remember?). As with many Cronenberg's films, Dead Ringers fits well into the fatal error of a mad scientist sub-genre Everybody's a mad scientist, and life is their lab. We're all trying to experiment to find a way to live, to solve problems, to fend off madness and chaos (David Cronenberg).Jeremy Irons in a dual role is mesmerizing, giving not just one but two his best performances, so powerful and convincing that I felt a lot of sympathy for the twins instead of disgust and loathing for what they were doing to their patients and to each other. "},{"Title":"What a disturbing movie, and i just loved that!!","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jeremy irons in his best role i ever saw as 2 brothers that share women, till 1 of the brothers falls in love and refuse to share. this story guidelines only has a great potential for further story. Irons work here is so good, that after a short while you forget its 1 person that act as 2 characters in the movie. its so amazing to see the love of 2 brothers acted by 1 person. i even managed to tell the difference between the brothers even when they tried that no one will tell the difference. Dead Ringers is under mainstream disguise, but don't be wrong, its not mainstream, but its also not horror, or sci-fi. i would say undefined genre. just love that Cronenberg. a genius.Enjoy... "},{"Title":"Director David Cronenberg focused his obsession with the grotesque inward with Dead Ringers.","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's an astonishing tour de force, especially for Irons, whose sense of nuance is so refined that one can tell in a matter of seconds which twin he is playing. Identical twin gynaecologists (played by Jeremy Irons) happily share everything, until a beautiful woman (Genevieve Bujold) comes between them.Dead Ringers is a resolutely weird and disturbing psychological chiller which requires effort to sustain suspension of disbelief, though it's based on a true story. Irons' virtuoso double act is what lingers in the memory. Total Film placed Dead Ringers 35th on their list of the 50 Greatest Horror Movies Of All Time. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg Classic!!","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" When it comes to the bizarre and creepy nobody does it quite like David Cronenberg. As I have mentioned before this Canadian director is one of my favorites. I have previously reviewed his other films Rabid, The Fly, and Scanners. This latest entry is for his 1988 drama Dead Ringers. This is the examination of the lives of identical twin gynecologists with a practice in Toronto, Canada.Elliot and Beverly Mantle (both male) operate a very successful practice and are models of professionalism. Jeremy Irons give an absolutely incredible performance in playing both brothers. A new computerized technique allowed the filmmakers to seamlessly show both bothers in the same shot. Hooray for late 80's computer technology! Elliot is the more confident and aggressive of the two. He is the public face of the twins and does all of their speeches and presentations. While Beverly is shyer and withdrawn, always busy with the research. The Mantle brothers, especially Elliot, are quite cold and clinical. They seem to operate as one person, with two distinct personalities. Can they ever establish their own identities even though they are identical? I'm sure this is a real world problem that twins deal with everyday. The brothers share an apartment, patients, and occasionally girlfriends. When Claire Niveau, an actress, visits their practice the brothers' psychological time bomb ignites. They fool Claire into thinking there is only one of them, but she can sense the difference in their personalities. Without knowing it she prefers Beverly over Elliot and this starts a sort of bizarre love triangle. Claire is addicted to prescription drugs and Beverly soon follows close behind. When she finally finds out that she has been duped she is obviously angered and upset, but eventually keeps seeing Beverly. After this the Mantle brother's relationship begins to spiral out of control and descends into a drug addled madness. Most all of Cronenberg's films involve some sort of medical abnormality or anomaly. Like Shivers, Rabid, The Fly, and others, his earlier films were classified as horror and science fiction. Dead Ringers on the other hand is purely drama, but still keeps his trademark eerie creepiness. "},{"Title":"Divided allegiances","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cronenberg is the most surprising and shocking film director I know but he always deals with situations that are out of the ordinary and he pushes them to their extreme end or even beyond. In this film he explores the relation between two real twins who have perfectly identical routes in life to the point of becoming schizophrenic and wanting to get rid of the second half of their individual personality, which is the personality of the other. They become obsessed with separating the Siamese twins they are in a way and yet are not. This derangement develops all by itself and they discover that they cannot survive separately and as soon as one does something that the other does not do both of them are disturbed to the point of having to become morbid, death-obsessed, death-seeking, death-hungry and death-thirsty. Death becomes what they physiologically need, each one of them, and both of them, to survive by compensating the difference that has appeared in their relation. All that sounds crazy and is in fact just extremely natural, natural to the extreme. The death instinct, the other side of the libido, takes over when the slightest difference appears between them and is interpreted, unconsciously, subconsciously and even consciously, as a treason of their libido, or libidos, of their libidinous survival instinct. Their survival instinct calls their death instinct up to regulate the disruption and what has to happen happens one kills the agreeing other and that one let himself die on the body of the one he has killed, the one who has died first. The supreme irony of that film is that these two identical twins are gynecologists by profession and they are giving birth to babies day after day, till they finally and mutually abort their own lives. Amazing. And what's worst in this picture is that it is realistically possible. Cronenberg here reveals the deep fear we feel in front of identical twins, a real vertigo, in Hitchcock's meaning of the word.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "}{"Title":"shocking not just for what is shown but what is implied; it's an act of perverse psychological trickery on the part of Cronenberg and Irons","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Dead Ringers wasn't necessarily a very pleasant film experience, but it's one that did shake me to the core as I watched it, in a way that is slightly comparable to The Fly. As an auteur, which could likely be applied to David Cronenberg, he keeps pressing on with many themes that he's been working through in the bulk of his career- and if not outright themes, general ideas that can draw out the darkest and saddest drama there is in the minds of men. Duality, to be sure, and also the complications that arise through forms of fetishism, or rather a kind of strange obsession with things involving the body, touching, feeling, close to one another in ways that are truly grotesque (in this case there is the quintessential nightmare scene where Bev sees Claire split apart himself from Eliot, his twin, by taking a bite out of the deformed connection with a vein in her mouth), and sometimes having to do with outright criminals (History of Violence and Spider come to mind as those who are just right on the brink all the time). But there's more, probably some things I didn't quite catch on, though I wouldn't put all of it on Cronenberg for making it such a beautiful work where objective perception through the camera- a bit like a documentary in a clinical sense, as many have noted- goes on with the subjectivity that is blurred through the twins.And in typical Cronenberg fashion, there's something of an exploitation catch to start with, that soon dissipates upon a deepening of the characters. In what is one of the very bravest acting challenges, Jeremy Irons plays twin Canadian gynecologists, Bev and Eliot Mantle (Mantle = Mental? obvious perhaps but not too much so). They have some unorthodox methods, though not necessarily related to how they treat patients in the office. It's almost been a game for years, we find out, how they go between having women without them noticing. But actress Claire (the very talented, and maybe not quite on screen enough, Geneviève Bujold) can soon tell the difference after meeting one to see if she can have children, which she can't due to three uterus's, and then getting screwed over (literally) by another. But there is love between her and Bev, who is soon revealed as the more vulnerable and dependent of the two while Eliot is more confident, the ladies man, the one winning awards and getting teaching positions. It soon becomes apart of a breakdown process for Bev as she leaves him to go get work elsewhere, and soon its a spiral into drugs and delirium, including some unorthodox procedures with a 'gold' clamp.The ingredients here could make for some truly wacky cinema, but under the hands of Cronenberg it's done to such a realistic extent that you can't escape the humility of the situations. These brothers, as well as brother-to-lover, are linked in a manner that defies general descriptions. And it's not necessarily in a very fetishistic construct, though it pops up once and again (my favorite was seeing the first sex scene between Claire and Bev- or is it Eliot, maybe it is- when he has her tied up to the bed with hospital equipment, as it's dangerous as anything Cronenberg has done with sex on film but touching in its long takes). But as in Spider, Cronenberg wouldn't have it get done correctly without the proper lead, and in Irons he finds someone who has such a wide range in pure theatricality formal grace, apprehension, embarrassment, cruelty, reckless behavior whilst on drugs, delirium, moments of quiet tension, pain, fear, anger, it's all there up for grabs. Even when some scenes near becoming a little flat almost by Cronenberg's wavering detachment Irons brings it back to something that is profound. This is something unexpected, given that some scenes have to rely on levels of dark depravity (the first 'test' of the new instruments during surgery) and dark comedy even (the question inferred about sex with a dog to a woman is priceless).It might come close to being, oddly enough, a definitive work from the director, even if it isn't perhaps his absolute best film. Yes, it's tone is cold and without the levels of sentimentality that could come had it been someone who went for a lower common denominator. Yet it has what most of his fans come to expect- twisted psychological drama, intense and quick shocks, and high-caliber performances to match the technical aspects achieved. It's not an easy film to love, but damn if one can't look away and not get it out of their heads once it's over. "},{"Title":"one of Cronenberg's best","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers, spoilers, spoilers...In 1974, a young film-maker who before going into cinema studied medicine saw his career taking off with an original horror movie Parasite Murders. It was David Cronenberg. Throughout the years, by making more accessible movies, he has conquered a wider public than the horror movies lovers. After two big critical and public successes, the Dead Zone (1983) and the Fly (1986), the Canadian film-maker persevered in the mainstream with Dead Ringers (1988). As far as I'm concerned, I liked it very much. The movie is partly based on a novel but Cronenberg doesn't keep very much from it (except the death of the two twins very alike to the one that happens at the end of the film) and prefers to let his imagination work from this novel.It wouldn't be very fair to consider Dead Ringers as a fantastic movie and even less as a horror movie. Certain aspects which have made Cronenberg's reputation are largely absent. For example, there are few bloody sequences, no monsters or mutants either. A psychological drama would be closer to the truth. The Canadian film-maker favors here a psychological horror focusing on Beverly Mantle's slow and unstoppable mental disintegration. Loving madly Claire Niveau (a remarkable Genevieve Bujold) is dangerous for him. Gradually, he grows away from his professional and familiar universe and he is destroyed by a nearly deadly madness (he will nearly kill a patient). In the long run, drug and alcohol will get the better of him. More serious, his brother Elliott can't live without him (both form a one person) and has no other solution than to follow him in decline. Very simply, the dramatic progression of the story looks like an efficient escalation in unhealthy and morbid.But Cronenberg has also found room in his screenplay to develop some of his favorite themes which were already present in his previous movies the degradation of the human body and everything harmful that can happen to it from a physical level and a mental level as well. Another subject is the following one to which limit a doctor can exercise his power over his patient? The beginning of the film shows us the Mantle brothers when they were kids. In spite of their young age, they were already full of ambition. Later, as students they invented medicine tools which resemble more to instruments of torture from Middle-Ages. A woman will complain that one of these medicine tools makes her suffer whereas Beverly Mantle assures her that it can't hurt her. So, in a way the Mantle brothers challenge the laws of medicine and almost behave like technocrats .Hats off to Jeremy Irons who manages very well from a difficult double role. He could attribute to each of the two twins, a real identity between the shy Beverly and the confident Elliott. Thanks to him, certain sequences have a strong emotional power (the last shot showing the two dead twins). A last asset of course, the flawless quality of the special effects. Dead Ringers is a movie that uses special effects just like a movie should use them admirable without never giving the impression of being intrusive. In a way, these two qualities will also agree with Harold Ramis in Multiplicity (1996) even if it comes within the province of comedy.Yes, separation can be a terrifying thing but it can sometimes contributing to the success of a film as Dead Ringers testifies. "},{"Title":"Psychosexual parables","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cronenberg's psychosexual parable about twin gynecologists&#x97;both played by Jeremy Irons&#x97;and the personality they share is stunning in its ability to evoke in dialogue and image an almost Manichean sense of duality between two people (the bespectacled Beverly is the ethical, workmanlike one; suave Elliott is the glory hound) who feel, think, and act as one, while offering up a rather cautionary allegory about codependency. If Videodrome was a techno freak-out delineating the loss of corporeal identity in a digital age, then Dead Ringers is his Aquinas-like auto-rebuttal, wherein sensory pleasures (this being a Cronenberg film, ideas of sexual pleasure and pain subjectively intermix) and a desire for connection can result in crippling dependencies in a sterile, dehumanized world.One of Cronenberg's more admirable qualities is how he manipulates clichés&#x97;his protagonists (scientists, television producers, schizophrenics) often play god, not to reverse or correct nature, but often to redress a deformity they see in their circumscribed, self-obsessed universes&#x97;to serve his deceptively humanist leanings. In most cases, I don't think of his characters as mere launching pads for his various preoccupations&#x97;though I think Videodrome is guilty of objectifying somewhat&#x97;but as co-creators (or -conspirators) who know as much as Cronenberg. In this way, they attain a curiously high level of autonomy they become real people, no matter how outré, rather than tracings of light on a screen filling out the conventional steps of a screenplay. They discover and learn as though in real time. Bev and Ellie's separation anxiety, and its tragic consequences, is an ideal illustration of Cronenberg's compassion for thinking people&#x97;or, perhaps more accurately, people whose one-sided intellectualism makes them unable to register matters of the heart. "},{"Title":"Darker than Archetypical Horror","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  POTENTIALLY SPOILING MATERIAL INCLUDED. Often what you don't see is more disturbing than the reality revealed.  Many of the classic horror film directors understood that the suggestion of evil can often be more effective than actual evil act realized on screen.  This is part of Cronenberg's brilliance in this film.  Like a well versed author by leaving certain things to the imagination of the viewer, he makes them more disturbing than if he were to force his images into the picture.  Many females I've seen this movie with have commented that the mere images of the medical equipment and what their own imagination did with those images was the most disturbing part of the movie.  This combined with the identity psychosis that Jeremy Irons portrays brilliantly makes for one of the most disturbing intellectual thrillers I've ever seen. And to call a simple identity psychosis over simplifies it. It is a complex web of twin dependence/competition, god complex, social ingenuousness, human weakness and sexual fetish.  Fortunately the pace of the film is such that you can ponder and dwell on it. And yet that contemplation makes it all the more disturbing.  Perhaps the only thing in the film that could been more disturbing is had the screenwriter decided to keep the psychosis alive and thriving at the end.  This is definitely a 'dark' film that becomes more disturbing with each viewing.Definitely recommend it as a 'date' film. ;  "},{"Title":"I just can't rave enough about this movie.","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  David Cronenberg is (with the possible exception of David Lynch) the creepiest filmmaker alive. The best way I can describe this, my favorite of all his films, is profoundly unsettling ---- last time I watched it, it literally made me lose sleep. Jeremy Irons stars as twin gynecologists Elliot and Beverly, whose personalities are as disparate as their physical appearances are alike; Elliot is smug and outgoing, while Beverly is sensitive and introverted. The genius of Irons's performance is that you can always tell which character is which, even when they're not talking, even when they're not together, simply by the subtleties of posture and gesture with which Irons infuses his characterizations. The twins share everything, from medical duties (my favorite line in the film I slave away over the hot snatches, and he writes the speeches) to women. One such woman is a movie star, played by Genevieve Bujold, whom Elliot seduces and with whom Beverly falls in love. When she goes away to film a movie, Beverly's mental state gradually begins to deteriorate, bringing Elliot into a downward spiral of drugs and madness along with him. Irons tweaks the emotional power of his performance as the twins slowly become more alike in their bizarre descent. Unlike most of Cronenberg's films (with the exceptions of his recent masterpieces, EXISTENZ and SPIDER), in which the horror is usually venereal in nature, this film disturbs and terrifies its viewer on a psychological level. There are some great Cronenberg visual images though, especially the highly disturbing dream sequence and Beverly's creepy Gynecological Instruments for Mutated Women. That phrase alone should tell you that this film is not for everyone, but anyone who appreciates the macabre and unusual should love this film as much as I do.  "},{"Title":"Unpleasant, but not in a good way.","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Tell me about my vagina. To enjoy this film, you'll need to a) turn off your disbelief entirely, as it features a fairly preposterous and exploitative premise b) put up with unpleasant characters and unpleasant happenings, without expecting any thrills or pleasures at all c) be interested in the craft of acting.Jeremy Irons' portrayal of a set of twins is a case study in the art of acting, but unfortunately I found this movie so unpleasant I couldn't keep watching after about an hour. It wasn't anything specific, like scenes of visceral body-related gore that Cronenberg specialises in, and that I usually enjoy, but just that after an hour I couldn't spend time with these unpleasant characters any more, and both their souls and, plainly, their faces, just made me glad to be rid of them.I feel sort of petty to be panning a film based on this kind of thing, but as unpleasant as Jeremy Irons' twins are (though a brilliant technical feat of acting), it was actually Geneviève Bujold I couldn't look at any more. I just couldn't hear another line sounding preposterous in her thick accent any more. Perhaps its my aversion to hearing how unconvincing performances can be when they're combating a thick natural accent, perhaps she's just a very unattractive woman, but I must apologise, I couldn't do it. So, before you assume I'm a bad person and judge me, consider the possibility that you might find a similar problem with this one. "},{"Title":"Dreary Ringers","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Irons is excellent in the dual role of twin gynecologists. Bujold is also good as an actress the twins get involved with. Cronenberg creates an appropriately grim atmosphere, aided by fine cinematography and score (by Shore). However, all of these positive qualities are negated by a bad script (by Cronenberg). After an interesting start, the film goes south and becomes increasingly tedious with scenes of drug use and emotional theatrics. Cronenberg's usual fascination with gore makes matters worse. The relationship between identical twins may be fascinating to psychologists but it makes for a dull movie when there is nothing else in the plot to keep the viewer's interest. "},{"Title":"The nothingness of every thing (including love and sex)","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Set in Toronto 1988 Siamese twin the extrovert Elliot and the introvert Beverly (both played by the brilliant Jeremy Irons) are brilliant gynaecologist. Throughout out there lives the twins have shard homes, jobs and due to the identical physical appearances women. After a short relationship that includes the twins engaging in sado erotic sex with an actress named Claire (Geneviève Bujold). After a short time she discovers that they are two different people. Beverly soon fall in love with her, and after discovering Claire has a deformed womb and is infertile. She leaves for a new film and the twins believe she is sleeping with someone ells, this is the key to the once collated Beverly to fall into a spiral of depression, drugs and a strange belief that all women he sees have deformed wombs.The very opining sequences of the film highlight exactly the films subject matter is, which is sex the cold observation on the life cycle of the human race. This is recognised through the central performances by Jeremy Irons playing the two twins is titanic and operatic, every nuance he places into each twin is impeccable. This role however does have a tendency to ought-way the role of Geneviève Bujold, which in some respects reinforces how fragile her character is at heart. In terms of personal development for director Cronenberg, up to this point Dead Ringers was his most mature film. This is because in previous films such as Scanners, his subtext was directly translated throughout the gore, however Dead Ringers proves to be a more metaphysical representation of themes commonly found in Cronenberg work (such as sex, life, death and flesh). Where the threat of danger and themes are only hinted at. One example is the strange homo-erotic relation that the two twins have. Other examples are all the hinted terrors the film, and the underlining feeling that some thing bad will happen very soon. Over this part of the film may bring a negative element to the film ,where some of the pacing is slow and uneventful, this however works in the films favourer, for the final fifteen minutes are not only painful to watch but are sole destroying. The film has had an obvious influences to Takashi Miike Audition, in respects to the grime ending and all the way to Pascal Laugier Martyrs that has the same clinical view on life. Overall the film is a ner-perfict, with and this proving the be the most mature peace that director David Cronenberg had made at the time. However the minimalist approach to big themes may give people a empty feeling. "},{"Title":"I've often thought that there should be beauty contests for the insides of bodies.","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Dead Ringers is directed by David Cronenberg who also co-adapts the screenplay with Norman Snider from the book Twins written by Bari Wood and Jack Geasland. It stars Jeremy Irons and Genevieve Bujold. Music is by Howard Shore and cinematography by Peter Suschitzky.Identical twin gynaecologists Beverly and Elliott Mantle (Irons) run a high end fertility clinic in the city. Both in tune with each in spite of being different personalities, their world starts to fold inwards when Beverly falls in love with drug dependent actress Claire Niveau (Bujold).Inspired by the real life story of gynaecologist twins Cyril and Steve Marcus (who were both found dead from suicide brought about by drug addiction), Dead Ringers is an amalgamation of unsettling horror and icy cold playfulness; in other words a perfect canvas for auteur Cronenberg to paint some of his peccadilloes. Cronenberg doesn't need to be gory, gimmicky or schlocky, he instead utilises the characters on the page to spin a clinical character study. Themes pulsing throughout involve individuality, identity, misogyny, narcissism, eroticism and addiction, all played out in the mystical world of surgery and in-human metaphysics. The tempo never rises above a steady heart beat, rumbling along ominously, until we enter the home straight and the director delivers a devastating yet deeply moving conclusion.Backed by a stunning dual performance from Irons, and a ballsy one from Bujold, Dead Ringers is a film of genuine greatness and a piece of work that's alive with smart ideas. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Chang and Eng","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's been a long time since I watched for last time a David Cronenberg picture, by checking my IMDb comments I know that was on May and that was the film The Fly, and now Dead Ringers (originally titled Twins yet it was going to be a film with Arnold Racist Scum Schwarzenegger with the same title and with more budget so) was just a great way to return to the work of Cronenberg.Chang and Eng, the original Siamese twins. One of them died first, he was the sickly one, and the other died on the same day when he saw his brother dead. Dead Ringers is about identical twins, the Mantle twins Elliot and Beverly (Jeremy Irons). They are almost inseparable brothers. It's been like that since always, when they were kids, during the 50's, their interest was clear and was the same for both brothers and that never changed. Now they are great and successful gynecologists, certainly famous for what they do, everybody knows the Mantle twins and it's said that you can't identify who is who, certainly they have different personalities but when you don't know that Elliot or Beverly have a brother things can be really and strangely bad. Claire Niveau (Geneviève Bujold) will be a very important character, she will change the life of the Mantle twins. First Claire was just a patient, later a victim of the game of the Mantle twins, she didn't knew about the twins. But Claire will change everything, for the Mantle twins it was no more WE should drop her but YOU should drop her an certainly was a unknown territory and when Claire realize finally about the game of the twins her reaction was as we could expect but this reaction will affect only one of the twins. The dream or better the nightmare of Beverly is such a great scene and it shows simply the fear, Beverly was finally not sharing something or someone with his brother. Certainly Beverly will be sick, the reasons are not really important, what is important is that Elliot will be sick too. Claire was for sure important, as Beverly was afraid of being separated as Elliot was too, Elliot didn't understand or better didn't accept the situation that a woman have a preference for one of them, it was just something unknown. The last section of Dead Ringers is brilliant, for sure is difficult and for sure it ends with something that we could expect however is really impressive. and if you go I wanna go with you and if you die I wanna die with you.One of Cronenberg's best of course considering the ones I have seen (Videodrome, The Dead Zone, The Fly, Naked Lunch, Spider, A History of Violence and Eastern Promises), Jeremy Irons is more than brilliant&#133;what else should I write to make that you really want to watch Dead Ringers? Maybe that it is the favourite Cronenberg film of Chan-wook Park, director of films like Oldboy, JSA and Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance.DVD commentary by Jeremy Irons, interviews with Irons, Cronenberg (short yet interesting), Marc Boyman (producer) and Norman Snider (writer), behind the scenes feaurette, theatrical trailer, psychological profiler, cast and crew. "}{"Title":"An unconventional horror","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie freaked the hell out of me, despite the fact that there's no conventional or even unconventional horror elements in it at all. It's basically just like a dark character tragedy that's elevated by the incredibly chilling performances of Jeremy Irons. Seriously, one of the greatest acting turns ever. Not only does he manage to make each twin into a genuine, believable and distinct character, but he takes each of them down a scary, twisted road that forms the backbone of the film's plot. Incredible that he was barely recognized for this film; it just shows the genre and occasional director bias that unfortunately plagues awards ceremonies. Too bad, because this film is brill. "},{"Title":"Disturbing tale of twin brothers","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Dead Ringers is Jeremy Irons film all the way. He plays two identical twin brothers running a clinic in Toronto. Beverly Mantle is the shy, studious, hard-working one. Eliot is the more extrovert and immoral one but a far better communicator. The brothers share the same profession, flat and women (without the women's knowledge).Eliot loosens the women up and beds them first, then gives them to his less assertive 'baby brother'. Nice arrangement but it begins to unwind when Beverly falls in love with Genevieve Bujold, a successful actress.The film is based 'very loosely' on actual twins found dead in their flat from an overdose of barbiturates.This is an intelligent, disturbing film with a tour de force performance by Irons as the two twins. There are several memorable scenes, but this is not an easy film to watch, its not commercial and it certainly does not belong in the horror section of Blockbuster. "},{"Title":"Pain creates character distortion..","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Dead Ringers stands as one of the most morbid, relentlessly bleak films ever made. It also represents a turning point for director David Cronenberg. Prior to that, Cronenberg's films had all visionary ideas, but were held down by an emphasis on horror b-movie elements monsters, killers, gore, suspense. With Dead Ringers, Cronenberg turned to a different kind of horror, an existential one. He also directed with more precision, more style, more charisma. His prevailing fascination, the mutation, takes center stage once again, but this time it's an interior mutation, a mutation of the human psyche.The film spares no one, it's deformed (but crystal clear in their precision) lenses depicting the darkest shades of reality. And first of all, the relationship between the two brothers they have distinctly different personalities, but it is unclear where one ends and the other begins. It is a symbiotic, as well as parasitic relationship, where one feeds off the other. Identical in appearance, as soon as Beverly's personal crisis develops (depression, a drug habit, paranoia), it leads to a violent schism between them. But in truth, the schism is in their own personality. The sequence where Elliot is having sex with two twin prostitutes and asks that one calls him Bev and the other Elly, so that he could tell them apart, is a masterpiece of black humour.And then there is everything else. Sex is violent, fetishist, a mirror of the soul's darkest secrets, a personal exorcism. Love affairs are obsessive, power struggles, where one takes the place of the master, the other of the slave. Depending on the individual's personality, they are either emotional breakdowns, or sexually based escapades. As Beverly's paranoia develops, the film follows. People mutate internally. Their appearance looks normal on the outside, but their organs are deformed. The gynaecologist Beverly assures us that the insides can be just as beautiful as the outside. He creates surgical tools for mutated people, which later on transform to surgical-tools meant for separating siamese twins.In the end, one can see it like that. The Mantle twins represent the whole, Beverly is the romantic introvert, Elliot is the manipulative extrovert. Claire Niveau is the catalyst that disrupts the whole, makes one of the two forces prevail over the other. The attempted separation of the two brothers is disastrous, these two forces can only exist harmoniously together, one balancing the other. It is merely circumstance leads to this painful schism. "},{"Title":"abjection....","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Cronenberg is a director who deals with subjectivity and the ones who are not capable to accept the borders of the unified body and the borders between the other(s). For Lacan and Freud formation of subjectivity requires expelling certain things which corrupts the unified body. Imagination of coherent body is a pure condition of subjectivity which separates inside and outside. In this sense abject, which disturbs identity and border like body fluids, threatens the order of the body.In this context, choosing gynecology as a sub-story of the film isn't a coincidence. Because the female body and maternal body refers to abject.Source of abjection in a female body, uncontrollable monthly courses, milking the child and most important is giving birth, an ultimate experience of abjection in which inside and outside can't be identified easily. Like in other Cronenberg films, The Fly, Naked Lunch, M. Butterfly, Crash, eXistenZ and Spider(the protagonists couldn't draw the line between themselves and animals, machines, outside and the other gender)in Dead Ringers we see this time identical twins transgressing borders of themselves in a very uncanny way. Their obsession to female vagina, and the beauty of it as Elliot expressed, and inventing new tools for it is referring female body as an abject, like in many other horror films. I think this film goes far beyond the classical horror films because of its brilliantly structured plot and stunning performances of Jeremy Irons. This is not a clean-cut and easy subject to deal with. But the result is outstanding and for me the BEST of Cronenberg.  "},{"Title":"Rings Disturbingly for Long Afterwards","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Possible Spoilers...Not a horror film but one of the most disturbing and unsettling films from Canadian genius, David Cronenberg, Dead Ringers lingers in your mind long after viewing. For me it is still one of the most saddening and distressing films of the eighties.The film opens with a red canvas displaying gynaecological instruments we later learn are for performing internal surgery on &#145;mutant women'. Then we are introduced to the prepubescent Mantle twins and already they are interested in sexuality and female anatomy; they ask a young girl to have sex with them in their bath to prove results for an experiment. Then, years later, we see them receiving the Nobel Prize for the creation of a gynaecological instrument. They begin their own business and soon become the best gynaecologists in Canada. Success seems to be going very well for Elliot and Beverly Mantle (Jeremy Irons in a brilliant double role) who share everything, home, glory, emotions, experiences and women, until an actress client, Claire (Genevieve Bujold) sleeps with Elliot. Unaware there are twins she is oblivious to also having a relationship with Beverly, the timid twin. Unfortunately Beverly falls madly in love with Claire and when she discovers the deceit, she ousts Beverly leaving him a shivering, emotional wreck. After more turmoil in the trios' relationship, Beverly falls into a world of drugs and insanity, but as the twins share everything, Elliot slowly collapses into an identical state until it becomes difficult to distinguish them apart. The nightmarish and depressing conclusion has them trying to &#145;separate' via self-surgery.With some of the most underrated special effects ever, it is literally impossible to notice that there are effects when they twins share the frame togather. A film not for all tastes, but a must for fans of Cronenberg and the macabre, Dead Ringers is a supremely unnerving psychological drama.  "},{"Title":"Difficult to Watch","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Like all of Cronenberg's work, this film is technically brilliant. Dark, deliberate, and haunting, it follows the descent of two brilliant gynaecologists - twin brothers - into drug addiction and madness. Based loosely on a true story, this film is relentless and claustrophobic. Forcing oneself to watch is rewarding, in an odd way, but is very hard to do.Not a 'horror' movie in the classic sense, but still a frightening film about the thin line between sanity and madness - as are many of Cronenberg's movies. Jeremy Irons is compelling as the twin brothers.Don't watch it when you're depressed, though.  "},{"Title":"True to classic definition of horror","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  By far and wide, one of the MOST disturbing films I have ever seen. All I wanted to do after watching this film was watch something happy, like cartoons. It still gives me the chills when I think about it. It's not a typical horror film, like Nightmare on Elm Street or Psycho, but it does leave you feeling horrified. "},{"Title":"Riveting and intense; incredible performance by Jeremy Irons","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  DEAD RINGERS is one of the most intense and riveting psychological dramas ever made.  It is the story of identical twin gynecologists who share everything, even women. When an aging temperamental actress comes between them, their descent into depression, drug abuse, and insanity ultimately has deadly consequences.  DEAD RINGERS is simultaneously engrossing and painful to watch. The score by Howard Shore is beautiful and haunting, and Jeremy Irons' performance as the twins has to be seen to be believed. This is director David Cronenberg's finest film. 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Fine case study on Cronenberg's part","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Thoroughly creepy film. I don't know if I would classify this as a horror movie, but it does bug you out- slowly getting under your skin. Of course the original premise- 2 identical twin gynecologists (both played by Jeremy Irons) who share every experience sometimes in actuality and sometimes as a part of their psychic bond- like tomax and xamot on GI Joe.  Jeremey Irons is terrific as the more sensitive Beverly (who does not want to continue their lifelong bond (could the name possibly signify the anima of the singular psyche?) and the more forthright Elliot.  Some of it is kind of tedious, but for the most part this is genuinely unnerving fire. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg at his chilling, thrilling best.","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After watching Dead Ringers, I was re-confirmed in my belief that David Cronenberg is one of the greatest film directors of all time. He is (avoiding all hyperbole) a genius; a visionary who takes snippets from every walk of life and sticks them together in strange, sometimes difficult, always unforgettable films. Dead Ringers is a definite Cronenberg film, but it is often difficult to give a precise definition of such an experience. Films like Scanners, Crash, The Fly, Dead Ringers, and the new eXistenZ differ in story and structure, but there seems to be one common thread running through all of them Cronenberg's vision.Jeremy Irons gives the most fully realized performance of his stunning career as twin gynecologists joined at the mind. These are Siamese twins of the spirit, not of the body. His portrayal of the two twins is so fully realized, it is often difficult to realize the same man is playing both roles.While watching the film, it was hard to pinpoint the single moment that I went from trying to get into the story to killing anyone who turned off the VCR. This film kept me engrossed until the very end, and I definitely recommend this film to anyone who likes their films with a twist. "}{"Title":"Dead Ringers Medicine for the masses.","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the most disturbing movies that I have ever seen, but what do expect from director David Cronenberg. The story deals with twin brothers who have grown too close and have a difficult time separating their individual thoughts and perspectives. They run a successful medical practice and explore other relationships with their patients. One such patient is a movie star named Claire Niveau played by Canadian actress Geneviève Bujold. The two brothers, both played by Jeremy Irons, have sexual relations with Mme Niveau, Bev falls in love with her whereas Elliot simply has fun with her. Claire Niveau does not realize that she has been sleeping with two different men, when she does find out the movie takes on psychological questions that are both confusing and emotionally intense.This is not a movie to take your date to, it requires some thought and a thirst for understanding human nature. It is difficult to relax and enjoy the movie, I had a knot in my stomach through the entire two hours. However, I do feel that a film like this is worth seeing at least once because it tackles dangerous subject matter that should be investigated and discussed nowadays.      "},{"Title":"Cronenberg and Irons in top form.","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jeremy Irons has turned in some great performances, but this easily tops the list of his work.  Set in a cold, bitterly sterile environment by Cronenberg, Irons is able to work his mastery in dual roles as two brothers whose ties are deeper than anyone can imagine.Dead Ringers is so eerily put together, that the viewer at once feels trapped into a claustrophobic life with the Mantle brothers, and there is no outlet.  The film delves into a few themes, the two most interesting being the relationship between two identical twins, and where people go where there is no way out.  The Mantles are so close that they suffocate one another, and communication and caring with anyone else is not only much less in comparison, but it feels so 'other' that it can't ever seem to work. This leads to the feeling that they are so self-contained that there is almost no point in exploring the outside world, if not to feel pain...and pain they do find.The movie can be difficult to watch at times, as it puts the viewer in an unpleasant state through much of the story, however, it does not overwhelm the positives put in place by a strong script and a meticulous directing job.  That in mind, what makes Dead Ringers so worthy, and so hard to step away from--even after its conclusion--is Irons, who gives one of the great acting performances in all film. "},{"Title":"Dead Ringers is not dead on","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" David Cronenberg has never made a bad movie, and I don't think he ever will, but Dead Ringers, despite some great ideas, did not impress me. Dead Ringers is convoluted and seemingly pointless. The premise starts off simple, but the screenplay makes it more complex than necessary.Dead Ringers focuses on twin brothers Bev and Elliot who are rich and renowned gynaecologists. Their success and popularity comes from working closely together, but things go south when they meet the young actress Claire Niveau which whom they each have an affair. The emotional aftermath, messes up not only their work, but their mindset and mental stability. The movie starts off quite well actually, It's interesting to see Jeremy Irons play two different characters in the same scenes. Good acting and pacing keeps Dead Ringers stable for the first hour but around the half way point, it starts to deteriorate, eventually collapsing under the weight of its complexity. The dialog gets weak, character development becomes unclear, And the ending is abrupt and silly.I suppose the fact that the movie is adapted from a novel explains some of the complexity. As I've noticed, good filmmakers usually try to be loyal to the novels or literary works they adapt from, when they do so. Adapted or not, I think Dead Ringers is occasionally thought provoking and clever but not an especially competent film. "},{"Title":"Chilling Masterpiece From Cronenberg","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Now it's been quite a while since I first saw David Cronenbergs 'Dead Ringers', but somehow, for some reason, it's still haunting me. I'm actually getting the chills as I'm writing this. I can never watch it again, and maybe that's because of Jeremy Irons' fantastic performance(s), maybe Cronenberg's tight and tasteful direction and feel for the genre, or maybe just the mere fact that this sick story is based on true events.Of caurse, the fact that a movie-script is based on a true story does not make it true in itself. But all that is so much easier to buy in cases such as 'Ali', 'Veronica Guerin', 'Summer Of Sam' and so on and so forth. Stories of ordinary people living in extraordinary times (bla bla bla) or stories of serial killers, war, etcetera. You've seen it! Here, anyway, is a story of seemingly ordinary people (or are they? They are identical twins...), just as you and me, that put themselves in a position impossible to control, inside a wicked game of passion, betrayal and... death! And like life itself, some might say, when you first realize you're going down a very slippery slope, it's already too late to act. This is the same for both the Mantle Brothers of the movie, and for the viewer. Again, I can never watch this movie again.But it's not, per definition, a horror movie. It really is not. But even so, I can hardly write this - that's how disturbed (but never the less amazed) I was by the final minutes of 'Dead Ringers'. David Cronenberg here demonstrates how to make horror like you have never(!) seen it before.And afterwards it becomes something like a traumatic childhood memory, that comes back to haunt you at the most curious occasions. "},{"Title":"The New DVD Release, with Irons' commentary, is SUPERB","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you're into this movie, and even more importantly, if you are a fan of Jeremy Irons, you need to get your hands on the newly-released DVD version of Dead Ringers, which features, among other things, a stunning commentary by Irons himself, where he talks about the challenges of successfully creating the illusion of twins, his feelings about the movie in general, his feelings about working with Cronenberg and Bujold, the subtle shifts in energy he employs in making Beverly and Elly different, the musical score, the importance of the camera man in the film process, the thrill of doing scenes that include both drama and humor (like the 'separation' scene near the end), and much more. This is an eloquent, sublime, supremely intelligent and satisfying commentary, well worth the price of the DVD in itself. Also includes a very funny interactive psychological profiling feature, brilliantly executed as well. (8 out of 10 for the actual movie, 10 for the DVD, 11 for Irons.) "},{"Title":"Fascinating","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There are a handful of movies so original you have no idea what's coming next--the latter half of 'Vertigo', the ending of 'The Wicker Man', or my favorite Lynch movie 'Mullholland Drive'. And this movie.When the nuttier of twin brothers steals his surgical-steel-molded set of 'gynecoligcal tools for mutant women' from an art store, and--draped in a kkk-sytle red robe--proceeds to operate on a woman both he and his brother were taking turns with...well that's just jaw-dropping.Zillions of movies define genre, dozens have the guts to operate against it---Cronenberg and few others walk their own path.Spelling out Cronenberg's point would take ages and would never capture the visceral immediacy of his images. In my opinion, you could add together a hundred 'The Hours'-type quasi-hi-brow Oscar attempts and not even approach the level of artistry on display here. "},{"Title":"a MASTERPIECE!!!!!! WARNING!!!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  a true masterpiece in every sense of the word and one of the best horror films ever made in my opinion and possibly  one of the greatest films ever made period it is touching haunting and heartbreaking all at the same time i was just totally engrossed with what was going on it is exceptionally well made stylishly directed by Cronenberg he is a mastermind for the horror genre every single film i see of his just keeps getting better he is always unique original thats what i like about him.This movie is full of drugs and sexual situations some scenes are not for the squeamish quite frankly now Halloween will always be my favorite movie but still this is now in my top 5 for sure. if your weak hearted do not watch this also if your depressed do not watch this!!! i must say Jeremy Iron's Performance is simply AMAZING and quite STUNNING  it may be one of the best performances i have ever seen well maybe not the best it is pretty damn close in my opinion what a groundbreaking performance he is sympathetic very likable and i cared for both the characters he is great as both Beverley and Elliot although both are very different from each other one is more obsessed then the other but both are very likable WARNING !!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!! i almost had tears in my eyes in the finale after Beverley kills Elliot next day he keeps saying Ellie Ellie Ellie it was very touching and did actually make my eyes water a bit as Beverley said separation can be a terrible thing i thought many moments in the film were creepy like the dream sequence where they are both stuck together and she bites that sticky thing on them and boom he wakes up! the ending is extremely sad but i won't spoil it for you don't worry Genevieve Bujold is also quite good in her role i liked her lots Overall a true masterpiece now on my favorite movie list GO SEE THIS NOW!!!!!!!!!!!! DON'T WALK RUN TO THE VIDEO STORE rent it buy it i don't care just see it!!!! "},{"Title":"Another masterpiece from Cronenberg","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I wonder, whether I will ever see a film from Cronenberg that will disappoint me. I have not - so far although eXistenZ hasn't lived up to expectations. Dead Ringers is another fine example of what Cronenberg can do. While the film is quite typical of his style, at the same time it's very different.Whether Cronenberg takes on science-fiction as in The Fly, psychological drama as in Dead Ringers, low-budget horror as in Shivers, it ends up with a similar spiraling-downwards plot. Although I have not seen all of his movies yet, all the ones I've seen, perhaps except eXistenZ, seem to go in this direction. Dead Ringers is no exception.Although my favorite film from Cronenberg so far is Videodrome, Dead Ringers is in the top league along with Dead Zone and Naked Lunch. However, be warned, this might not be what you expect if you've seen many other Cronenberg films. The element of gross-out and body modifications is there, but it's not prevailing, it just complements the story. The key to this movie is the psychological play between the two main characters, both played exceptionally by Jeremy Irons. In many respects the movie is similar to Dead Zone, where the key to the plot seems to be self-acceptance of the main character's new abilities and the fictional element of near-future visionsis only a tool.While I've never perceived Irons as a good actor, after viewing this movie I've changed my mind completely. I don't think many actors would be able to play the roles of the twins equally well. The only other actor I could now see in this role is Christopher Walken who was definitely the best possible selection for Dead Zone. I would definitely like to see Walken in this role, although Irons was indeed exceptional.If you've not yet seen this movie, make sure you have plenty of time and quiet when you see it, and, as other reviewers noticed, this is not really a film to watch with your girlfriend or friends on an easy-going evening.*ATTN SPOILERS* One thing that I've not noticed in the reviews though is the fact, that drugs play a very important role in this movie. To me it was just as scary as Requiem for a Dream - by showing the downside of drug addiction. And the last scenes, with the demolished office, reminded me a bit of Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. Decadence created by the twins' psychological problems combined with heavy drug use is quite intense.Although for me it's hard to understand why others may perceive this movie as boring or dull, it is indeed quite demanding - not for your average viewer. If you're looking for a cheap shocker - skip it. If you're renting this movie because it's in the top 10 of most shocking films - definitely skip it.I wouldn't recommend it as the first Cronenberg film to see either - although it's different than most of his works I've seen so far, I think it's useful to get the feel of what this director likes to do in the movies by watching some more direct shockers with hallucinogenic elements such as Videodrome or Naked Lunch.In general - I definitely recommend it but only to those that like ambitious, demanding cinema and are prepared for a difficult ride.  "},{"Title":"A stunning, defining masterpiece by David Cronenberg; a clinical, discomforting film like no other.","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There's so much mastery here that, so far, DEAD RINGERS is arguably Cronenberg's best work to date.  It's a magnificent performance highpoint for Irons, who dominates the film playing twins as distinct counterparts of a disturbing whole.  It's a flawlessly realized study of destructive relationships, familial and sexual, explored with a directness and sophistication that few films dare.  Bujold's gifts as an actress are showcased along with Irons; her range is dynamic as both victim and victimizer and she manages to deliver a complex sexual personality with penetrating ease.  It's a complicated film for adults, exquisitely stylized by a major filmmaking talent.  Doctor, you've cured me!  "},{"Title":"One of Cronenberg's Best.","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  During the 1980's David Cronenberg came into his own as a director. Following the interesting (though amateurish) film SCANNERS, his dark visions exploded onto the scene with THE DEAD ZONE and THE FLY.  These films, in particular, brought Cronenberg's twisted themes to a more mainstream audience - with mixed results.  Nearing the end of the decade he presented one of his most disturbing and challenging films DEAD RINGERS (1988). DEAD RINGERS follows the exploits of the Mantle brothers, twin gynecologists who use their practice for somewhat unethical purposes. Elliot, the playboy, instigates an affair with Claire Niveau (Genevieve Bujold), a washed up actress who happens to be something of a gynecological anomaly.  Beverly, the introverted and sensitive half of the pair, falls in love with this woman.  However, she turns out to be a negative influence, and Beverly finds himself slipping into drug use and insanity.  Elliot tries to recuse his wayward brother, but feeling that he cannot until they are both synchronized, loses his way and suffers the same fate as his twin.  This is best demonstrated in the scene where the brothers recite the story of the Siamese twins Ang and Chang, in a lilting nursery rhyme, which adds a dark foreboding to the exchange (Poor Ellie...Poor Bev).  The viewer can feel the brothers slipping inch by inch into unchartered domain, each twin personally, and both, as an inextirpable whole.  The psychological tension continues to build until the haunting resolution, which lingers with the viewer as few endings do. I do not wish to labor the point that Jeremy Irons is brilliant in this film, but I am going to.  His performances (he plays both twins) are the reason that this film is as successful as it is.  I have not seen any other actor do what Irons does in DEAD RINGERS.  There is no good twin/evil twin here, both of the brothers are fully developed characters, each with their own unique personalities.  Watch the subtle differences between each one, or how at certain times Beverly imitates Elliot during early scenes with Bujold.  Even when both brothers are dressed the same, the viewer still knows which one is which, just by the way Irons carries himself or by his facial expressions.  He is pitch perfect in both roles and it remains one of the most impressive pieces of film acting to date. Irons is helped considerably by the production crew.  The twinning effect and motion control techniques are ground-breaking.  More importantly, these amazing effects are seemless and do not call attention to themselves.  The photography, by Peter Suschitzky, produces creative ways of handling the doubles and stand-ins so as not to break the spell when the motion control is not being used.  The editing, costume design, the music all help this difficult process along, and each adds an element that helps DEAD RINGERS become a realistic cinematic world.  David Cronenberg, like a shepherd, wrangles all these different factions together and in combining them with his own sensibilities, gives the film a truly unique and doomed atmosphere as the Mantle brothers' lives spiral into the depths of depravity. DEAD RINGERS is based on the true life accounts detailed in the book Twins by Bari Wood and Jack Geasland.  I have not read this book as of yet, and am not sure how much of DEAD RINGERS is based on fact. However, if only 10% of the situations shown in DEAD RINGERS are true, than it is sure to be a surreal tale.  Warning Woman will more than likely be uncomfortable viewing this film, particularly the scenes that involve the instruments for operating on mutant woman and the Mantle retractor.  Anyway, if you get the chance, pick up the Crierion Collection DVD edition which includes commentary, designs and twinning effect techniques, amongst other features.  DEAD RINGERS is a forgotten gem and should continue to be rediscovered by each generation of audiences that are drawn into the strange, ethereal world of David Cronenberg.  10/10  "}{"Title":"Truly unique, disturbing, haunting and great","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw Dead Ringers, I was about twelve years old. All I can say about that first viewing is that it really gave me shivers...years later (five days ago), I got the Criterion DVD by mail, which I ordered from Ebay. I watched it and was really disturbed. Then, I listened to the audio commentary by the director, David Cronenberg, which also directed pretty great films such as Crash, Naked Lunch, and eXistenZ. The commentary itself is worth the DVD's price (even though it can be hard to find because it is out of print). It really helps understanding Cronenberg's vision of every scene, and believe me, he brings many nuances and psychological details, even though Jeremy Irons' acting is awesome and really eloquent and meaningful. The film is about two twins, Elliott and Beverly (both played by the fantastic Jeremy Irons) who are gynecologists and discover that some women suffer from mutations in their uterus. Besides their work, these two twins are pretty much the same person...at least, on the outside (they live in the same apartment, they have the same job, they even share the same women!)...on the inside, it's different, and that's what we discover when the disturbing mind of Beverly unfolds before our eyes and hearts.Cronenberg is ambitious. Like he said, most of the films that feature twins are comedies or thrillers in which one of the twins is good and fights his evil brother. He takes a very different approach and focuses on the complexes and psychological flaws that having a twin could create. Personally, if I had a twin and saw this film, it would completely change my life. This film goes deep. From the introduction where you see them when they're just young boys to the heartbreaking and disturbing ending, you see Elliott, the one that gets the honors, the one that had a lot of women in his life, the one that manipulates people, the one that is strong, briefly said. In the other hand, you've got Beverly, the drug addict, the one that gets his first real relationship, the one that somehow follows his brother, without ever being number one. Cronenberg exploits this complex trouble and analyzes the competition that can occur between twins, the incredibly fundamental union between the two brothers. Also, Cronenberg shows us Beverly turning completely insane, and explores the very deep faces of his deranged mind. Cronenberg is a good director, saying the opposite would be a lie. This film probably isn't considered his best, but in my opinion, it is, or at least, it is equal to his best films. His directing is creepy and moody, while not very slow-paced. He really delivers a disturbing and terrifying film, with such a deep exploration of the mind. The acting is exceptional, especially from Jeremy Irons. I mean, these roles were not easy at all, and he plays two at the same time...in many scenes he has to talk to himself, and he uses completely different and appropriate facial expressions and tones for every line one of the twins says, without ever exaggerating. When I was twelve, I didn't know this actor, and I would have never been able to tell you there was only one actor playing these two. Genevieve Bujold is good, not perfect, but good enough. But Irons is really a great actor. Many sequences of this film are haunting, especially the dream sequence, which is obviously very symbolic, but also very intense. The whole scenes in which Beverly falls into insanity are handled with genius by Cronenberg and Irons. Also, the scene where Elliott dances with his girlfriend and invites his brother to dance with them. It shows how influential and seductive Elliott is to his twin. The music is haunting too. It is beautiful and scary and really fits with the atmosphere of the film. Overall, Cronenberg made a beautiful yet extremely disturbing study of the twins phenomenon and the psychological impact on them. Also, he put in images the idea he has about the link between them. With Irons as the twins, he made a very good film, that I would describe as touching, disturbing, haunting, beautiful, complex, deep, psychological, and finally, great.9/10  "},{"Title":"Great performance by Jeremy Irons.","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I´ve only seen three of all Cronenberg´s films, though I´ll most probably see others in the next few days, but this is certainly the best I´ve seen. Jeremy Irons is great. The story´s great. And Cronenberg doesn´t distract with sick and meaningless obsessions like in eXistenZ or The Naked Lunch. The gynecologycal instruments are really sick, but this is meaningful to the story, and it fits well. Very good movie. I give it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Irons' double performance is a doozy","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Disturbing atmospheric psychodrama about twins who either are each schizophrenic or really both one person, or..... something.  Given that Irons plays both roles brilliantly, the film pulls it off.  Since both brothers are insane gynecologists, there's something in this film to offend virtually anyone.  Creepy and effective, but also cold and somewhat removed from reality. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg in top form.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Typically creepy Cronenberg.  Twin gynecologists go off the deep end.  Dark, moody, and full of despair.  Not the kind of movie you can easily enjoy, but the kind that haunts you for some time after watching it.  Stars Jeremy Irons as the twins, and Genevieve Bujold as their favorite patient. "},{"Title":"a masterpiece from Cronenberg","Date":"26 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Based on the book Twins by Bari Wood and Jack Geasland, Jeremy Irons plays twins Gynecologists Elliot and Beverly Mantle, the film starts of with the Mantle twins in their youth, Then college/university graduating, then having their own clinic Mantle Inc, Elliot is more charismatic, suave and confident, Beverly is more shy and quiet. one day movie actress Claire Niveau (Genevieve Bujold) turns up at their clinic for treatment, Elliot seduces Claire then tells Beverly he should try her as they both are Identical. Beverly falls for her then develops a drug habit which could ruin everything they have worked for.This movie is more Drama than David Cronenberg's earlier movies in the horror genre, the film does start of slow but once you settle into it, its very much enjoyable, Jeremy Irons is amazing in this film under the guidance of a brilliant director. "},{"Title":"Dull and Dreary","Date":"14 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is about two identical twins named Elliott Mantle and his brother Beverly Mantle (both played by Jeremy Irons) who have shared an interest in medicine all of their lives. But that's not all they share as the slightly older twin, Elliott, is less shy and typically initiates a sexual relationship with a woman and then when he gets tired of her passes her off to Beverly who takes it from there. Although this has worked like a charm for years, one day Elliott just so happens to hand a woman named Claire Niveau (Genevieve Bujold) to Beverly who then falls deeply in love with her. To make matters worse, when Claire finds out what has happened she gets angry with both brothers which throws Beverly into an emotional tailspin that results in dramatic consequences for everyone involved. Now from what I understand this movie has apparently garnered both critical and popular approval. That's fine. However, rather than following the proverbial crowd I happen to demur from the overall consensus as I found this movie to be a bit too dark and dreary for my tastes. Admittedly, Jeremy Irons performed in an excellent manner and he deserves whatever praise is offered. But even so I still thought the movie was too slow and boring and as a result I have rated it accordingly. Slightly below average. "},{"Title":"Creepy.....is what it is...","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have seen some creepy movies in my life but this gave me goosebumps. Two brothers, looking alike, acting alike and living their life in a pattern, which is off course alike. Dead ringers deals with the effect these twin brothers had on each other's life. It surely is a nice movie to a point, not a very entertaining though. We can say that a good story and acting almost covers for the entertainment factor also. Jeremy Irons has done a great job as both Beverly and Elliot. Dead ringers is a watchable movie, if you do not get frightened by new concepts which are little different and deals with characters who are not your typical nice guy, good girl type but have very dark, sinister secrets. "},{"Title":"Great twin performance from Irons","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Identical Mantle twins Elliot and Beverly (Jeremy Irons) grew up in Toronto, studied in Cambridge and practice gynecology back in Toronto. They make their own instruments and create a popular retractor. Famous actress Claire Niveau (Geneviève Bujold) comes to them with an unique infertility problem. Elliot is the more confident of the brothers. Sometimes he passes women to Beverly without them knowing it. Beverly falls for Claire. Elliot seduces Claire but she is abusing prescription drugs. Elliot would rather drop her for trying to scam pills from him but Beverly takes over. Claire is shocked that they are twins taking advantage of her.Jeremy Irons is amazing at making slight differentiation between the twins. He makes the two characters live. It's a much needed aspect of the movie unless the movie puts name tags on these guys or people keep calling out their names. Their difference matters to the plot. The movie has a cold sterile feel that only adds to the creepiness. It has a callous disturbing mood that is unlike any other horrors. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Dead RingersThe easiest way to tell twins apart is to horribly scar one of them across the cheek.And while incisions are central to this psychological thriller, professional doctors perform them all.Twin Torontonian gynecologists, Beverly and Elliot Mantle (Jeremy Irons), have made a name for themselves fixing female fertility problems.When an infertile and drug-addled actress, Claire (Geneviève Bujold) asks for their assistance, Elliot encourages his reserved brother to seduce her.But their relationship is jeopardized when she learns that Elliot has been impersonating his brother to have sex with her.Meanwhile, Beverly has sunk into a delusional world where he is haunted by disfigured female organs.Adapted from the book by Canadian director David Cronenberg, Dead Ringers delivers two outstanding performances from Irons, along with eerie imagery and an enigmatic ending that will leave heads scratching.Unfortunately, identical twin gynecologists mean you're gonna have four hands up your vagina.Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"A film that is unnerving in dealing with identity and separation.","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" When you combine Cronenberg and Jeremy Irons and a great screenplay, you get a fantastic, superbly made film. I was going to say a genre but I don't think you can quite pinpoint a specific genre. It is drama mixed with horror and thriller. I've noticed Cronenberg likes to gradually suck you into the story with a delicate pace so when absurd, shocking, and unconventional scenes come you are left disabled, mouth open from the shock and awe of it. This is one of the best double performances I've ever seen. Very early on you can detect their different personalities despite that identical twinship. Claire, the love interest that is in danger of separating them, asks Beverly (Jeremy Irons)in one particular intimate scene, Are you guys the same psychologically? and Beverly says no, of course not if I'm not mistaken. It is fascinating to watch how each brother deals with their other half while simultaneously becoming each other throughout the film. Sometimes it's not easy to distinguish the difference. This can be considered a study on identity and maybe consciousness, the fact that we think of ourselves as individuals but maybe history has shaped us in a way that we cant control? Beverly ends up depending on drugs to feel sane after an emotional breakdown that is perfectly captured and commits a sinful act as a gynecologist. it is up to his twin to take care of his ailing brother but at what cost? Nevertheless it's a film that makes you think a lot "}{"Title":"A movie about a special couple of brothers and the cold and stylish environment they created","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Recommendable. A movie about a special couple of brothers, who transformed themselves from geeky children interested in medical sciences to forty something gynecologists at the top of their field. They have a special emotional bond that makes them play with their identities, without other people being aware of it, because they look exactly the same. Different, but completely dependable, the sex games they play are bound to spiral out of control, and so they do, completely changing the look of both the brothers and their environments. The aesthetics of the movie are extremely thoroughly done, and you wont find a scene that doesn't fit the cold upper class 80's corporate theme. Marble covered walls, steel elevators, tall ornamented wooden doors and wide open spaces with a 80's futuristic and almost dysphoric noir feel going on. Doctors are dressed like members of secret cults, and the brothers lives and the work they do play out like elaborate rituals. And as the movie progresses their super organized apartment becomes a messy wasteland mirroring the state they are in. This is a multilayered movie that definitely will reveal itself even more on a second watching, even though psychological involvement is sometimes a little hard, maybe because of the movies lack of warmth. "},{"Title":"Two Irons for Price of One...","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" You can't really go wrong with 80's David Cronnenberg film, especially if it stars not one but two Jeremy Irons. Gynecology and twin fetish is the major theme of this psychological thriller with all your classic Cronnenbergian elements in place. But just like Videodrome, Dead Ringers is very messy and has some severe problems with the narrative, which can frustrating to more simple minded viewers.The main attraction in Dead Ringers is the performance by Jeremy Irons. He plays two identical twins perfectly and he is driving force of the film. Sadly, none of the supporting actors manage to come close to his level of acting and are pretty much a flat lines. Geneviève Bujold was by far the worst with her wooden performance. They should have gotten Jessica Lange, Joan Allen or Ellen Barkin for the part...Another huge problem was the narrative. Just like most of Cronnenberg films, Dead Ringers is a huge mess of a story and might end up confusing people in a wrong way. It's not that a big of a deal with me, because I really like his films, even if they are not very easy to follow or understand. In other words, Dead Ringers encompasses all what's really good and bad about David Cronnenberg films in general.Dead Ringers is less accessible than The Fly or his more recent work like History of Violence, Eastern Promises or not as surreal as Videodrome but it stands on it's own as a classic example of Cronnenberg's best work. If you happen to enjoy David Cronnenberg films or are a huge Jeremy Irons fan, Dead Ringers is a must see. "},{"Title":"Bleak, sad and brilliant.","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Inseparable since childhood, Identical twin gynaecologists Elliot and Beverly Mantle (Jeremy Irons) have developed a strong symbiotic relationship, sharing both the work at their exclusive private practice and their sexual partners. Although the twins' latest conquest, actress Claire Niveau (Geneviève Bujold), is initially shocked by the revelation that she has been sleeping with both brothers, she eventually decides that she prefers introvert Beverly over the more confident Elliot, putting the twins' life-long relationship under threat as a result.As Bev struggles with the concept of a life without his brother permanently at his side, he turns to drugs to cope, causing his sanity to slip; unable to prevent Bev's ever worsening madness, and with their brotherly bond still too strong to resist, Elliot also succumbs to narcotics and insanity. Eventually, the pair conclude that the only way to ensure permanent separation is by taking extreme measures...Lacking the outrageously gory shock tactics of director David Cronenberg's earlier horror movies, Dead Ringers might seem like something of a departure for the Canadian auteur; however, although the focus here is much more psychological than physiological, its 'horror' stemming from the gut-wrenching tragedy of the Mantle twins' inextricably intertwined existence rather than an excess of blood and guts, the film still proves to be an immensely disturbing experience.With a superb dual performance from Irons as both Mantle twins, and flawless direction from Cronenberg, who employs a combination of split screen special effects, body doubles and clever editing to convince the viewer that they are watching two actors rather than just the one, Dead Ringers is a tragic masterpiece of the bizarre (it might not be that bloody, but it's still damn freaky!), one that should be considered essential viewing for any serious horror fan. "},{"Title":"twin journeys into the darkest depths of the human soul","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Knowing that David Cronenberg directed Dead Ringers, it's obvious that the film is going to have at least one really nasty scene. But beyond that, the movie seems to be a look at the darkest reaches of human capabilities. Jeremy Irons -- always one to play tortured characters -- plays twin gynecologists, one of whom gets maniacally obsessed with an actress (Geneviève Bujold). What follows is essentially a descent into the savage depths of the human soul.It's not the easiest movie to describe. More psychological than most of Cronenberg's movies, the real shocking scene comes at the end. The terror throughout most of the is basically the terror and delusions that the insecure brother feels. And Jeremy Irons plays the role so that you REALLY feel as though you're going as crazy as the character is.So, this isn't really a masterpiece, but I recommend it. Just know what kind of movie you're watching (this is NOT for everyone). Also starring Shirley Douglas (the daughter of Tommy Douglas, who brought Medicare to Canada, and the mother of Kiefer Sutherland). "},{"Title":"Bizarre But Enjoyable Film","Date":"22 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Twin gynecologists (both played by Jeremy Irons) take full advantage of the fact that nobody can tell them apart, until their relationship begins to deteriorate over a woman.How to describe this film and fit it into Cronenberg's canon? Surely it has some of the flesh of earlier films and a bit of the horror element. This film is unlike any other, and unlike his other work, but this may well be because he was not the writer and it was (very loosely) based on a true story.What must be said is how incredible the special effects are, especially for 1988. Those who do not know Jeremy Irons may really believe that the twins are, in fact, twins. That those involved decided to push technology rather than hire twins really says something about the bold ambition -- and they succeeded, which is remarkable.Mike Mayo says of Cronenberg, this is perhaps his most accomplished and frightening film. Up to this point, that might be true. Not so much frightening as accomplished, but this is whole new level of slick. The unease of the film comes from a lack of a sympathetic protagonist, which is true. Who can we side with? No one, leaving us utterly alone.Mayo also claims the film has pervasive religious imagery, but I simply did not notice this. Maybe I should watch it again, baring this in mind. But, really, nothing comes to mind... hmmm... "},{"Title":"Two bodies, one soul","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Dead Ringers is the point in the filmography of David Cronenberg where he started to move away from sci-fi horror films. But be under no illusion's this is still an unmistakably Cronenbergian work. It shares the same preoccupation with body-horror that his previous films had, except in this film the emphasis is very much on the psychological state of his protagonist's minds, as opposed to the results of perverted science. Although, the two principal characters in this film, the Mantle twins, are a fairly perverse couple of siblings to begin with. The horror of Dead Ringers comes from the inability of these two brothers to function apart from one another and how this manifests itself. In the story they grow up to be internationally famous gynaecologists. From this platform they exploit their situation and share women patients between themselves; both sleeping with the same women, with the women completely unaware of the deceit. The film's plot hinges on this set-up being blown apart when the more sensitive of the brothers Beverley, starts to develop true feelings for the latest female conquest in their secret game &#x96; Claire Niveau (Genevieve Bujold), a past-her-prime screen actress. The psychological make-up in the twin's relationship is simply not capable of allowing a third person in to their orbit, so the fall-out of this intrusion is devastating.This is a very clinical and cold film. It's certainly one of Cronenberg's most complex and difficult. It isn't a horror film but it is horrific. The gradual breakdown of the twins is fairly intense, while you only have to see the 'instruments for operating on mutant women' to shudder in revulsion. This is a film that certainly makes you feel very uncomfortable at times. Then there is Jeremy Irons double performance. Much has been said already about this, so I won't repeat the obvious, however, I will say that it's a very unique thing to see. Irons puts in the most perfectly realized and complex pair of acting performances you could ever hope for. The fact he wasn't even nominated for an Academy Award is just ridiculous, and shows the foolishness of the Oscars.Dead Ringers is, to say the least, not a roller-coaster ride. It's a dark psychological drama that will not be to everybody's taste. It may not be among my favourite of the director's work but that doesn't change the fact that it's a powerful and daring work that is well worth viewing if you don't mind something quite challenging. "},{"Title":"Addiction,addiction, addiction - A Study David Cronenberg","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Although I have seen this movie four or five times in the last 22 years - I still find it riveting each time I give it another look - I even read the book Twins on which it is based in order to deepen the experience. Cronenberg kept close to Bari Woods fictional retelling of the lives of two society gynecologists the Twins  who lived in Manhattan and ended their lives tragically from barbiturate poisoning in 1977.The movie illustrates the precocity of the pubescent twins and their early sexual obsessions - and it signals the isolated , reclusive addiction of the unrelenting intimacy, fascination with each other, and hermetic completeness of their unfolding lives - their high IQ's combined with their addiction for each others world allows them to develop into a formidable team. Although they are identical - the first born by a few minutes is dominant, outgoing, confident, a theoretical academic, a flagrant satyriasist - his other reflection younger by a few minutes is practical, inventive, a surgeon on whose research his older brother prospers. This seemingly perfect symbiotic relationship has found its structure and the twins live a life of self-contained idyllic fulfillment.The tales denouement with the some thing that comes between us element, in the love interest of Genevieve Bujold, is convincing in the unraveling of the twins paradisical existence as the sex addiction becomes A Journey into the Inferno of drugs, love of someone else, and surgical equipment fetischism, - a lifelong obsession with the fact of their twinship, and the love/hate psychological burden of their figurative joint feelings. The tragic climax is as good as anything Sophocles or Euripides ever concocted. Jeremy Irons is formidable and completely right for this role. Cronenberg is a great story-teller who visualizes a rich highly resolved chimaera Thank you Sir. "},{"Title":"twisted, but compelling","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Shock merchant David Cronenberg trades the world of the supernatural for a nightmare of a more human kind, and in doing so creates his most mature and disturbing work to date a slow, sinister exploration into the darker corners of the human psyche. In a challenging dual role Jeremy Irons portrays Elliott and Beverly Mantle, identical twin brothers who share everything together work, women, and eventually drug addiction and death. Cronenberg's trademark shock effects are missing, but he knows more than one way to make flesh crawl, most effectively through the mysterious psychic link between the Mantle brothers and their twin fixation with sex and reproduction (both are employed as gynecologists; use your imagination). The deliberate pace and relentlessly grim storyline match the cool, almost impersonal design of the film, colored in hues of neon blue and chrome, with an occasional, unsettling shock of vivid red. It's a more demanding and thus more rewarding film than anything Cronenberg has done before, and despite the subdued approach is definitely not for the squeamish. "},{"Title":"You've got me vibrating all over!","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILER*** It took some 10 year for director David Cornenberg to get the story of the whacked out yet brilliant, in the field of gynecology,Marcus, Stewart & Cyril, Brothers on the screen but it was well worth the effort. In the movie Jeremy Irons as both, subbing for the Marcus boys, Doctors Beverly & Elliot Mantle gives one of the greatest and most difficult acting performances of all, both in film and on stage, time! So good in fact that it's a crime that he didn't win the Acadamy Award as best actor hands down for it!Brilliant yes but crazy without a doubt the Mantle's undoubtedly advanced the practice of treating women's health and fertility problems years ahead of what it was before they came on the scene but at a terrible price on their part. Being identical twins the Mantle's took on identical lifestyles which in fact just about obliterated their individual identities! It wasn't until they ran into, as one of their patients, movie and TV actress Caire Niveau, Genevieve Bojold, that they slowly started to come apart at the seams. Desperately wanting to have children Claire has done everything possible, even being promiscuous and taking illegal drugs, to get herself pregnant. With only the Mantle's in them being the most respected and renowned men in the field of gynecology did Claire feel that she had at least a chance to finally, in or out of wedlock, conceive a child.As brilliant as they are the Mantle's still wren't God and just couldn't get Claire to be able to get into the family way no matter how hard they tried. It was Beverly the other, and more sensitive, half of the Mantle Twins who fell in love with the beautiful, in a Plain Jane sort of way, actress which caused his more aggressive and confident brother Elliot to come to his aid. Elliot rescued Beverly from his relationship with Claire by starting up a relationship with her himself! It's when Claire realized that she was having a sexual affair with two, not one, men that she completely freaked out! As things turned out it was Claire who unwittingly in the end broke the bond between the two brothers that they cemented with each other, like Siamese Twins, since childhood.Beverly in seeing that he's not up to snuff in hanging on to Claire, whom his brother Elliot stole from him, soon started to hit the bottle as well as become hooked on drugs. Beverly's addiction because so acute that it effected his work as a gynecologist that almost had, in his drugged up state, him kill a number of his woman patients while he was operating on them! Elliot realizing what he did in getting his brother addicted to drugs, which he took daily by the handful, tried to have him detoxified but in the end, in total frustration, became hook on drugs himself!***SPOILERS*** In the end the two brothers slowly descended into the hell that they unknowingly got themselves into with Elliot, the more normal of the two, succumbing to his drug addiction first. It wasn't long after Elliot left the scene that Beverly, now for the first time in his life along in the world, without his brother to care and look after him was soon to follow in his footsteps or better yet grave.P.S The film Dead Ringers is actually based on the true and shocking story of the Marcus Brothers who accidentally or on purpose drugged themselves to death back in 1975. The bothers-who were 45 years old at the time of their death-were found dead and decomposing, they were dead for at least a week until their bodies were discovered, in their luxury Upper East Side Manhattan apartment on July 17, 1975 by the building's handyman. It was the terrible and nauseating smell, with the bodies decomposing in the broiling summer heat, that finally alerted the building maintenance staff, together with the local police, to check the place-or stink- out. What was discovered in that chamber of horrors-the Marcus' apartment-was something that they'll, the cops and maintenance people who broke the door down, never forget to their dying day! "},{"Title":"The Operation Was a Success But the Doctors Died.","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" What a gripping film this is. I've usually found David Cronenberg's work revolting. Who needs the gory special effects? So James Woods can slowly tear open his own belly with his bare hands and then hide a pistol in his abdomen. So what? But in Dead Ringers, Cronenberg not only comes down to earth but manages to tell a horrifying but poignant story of identical twin gynecologists undone in the end by their complementary weaknesses.Jeremy Irons plays the roles of both Elliot and Beverly Mantle. Both are brilliant and radically innovative doctors, running a profitable clinic and prominent in their field because of their research. It's a tough part to play, involving, as it does, what might be called minimal contrast. The contrast in character is believable enough because identical twins may be of the same genotype but one is usually dominant because of placental rivalry. The dominant twin is a little bigger and is usually born first. In this case, that's Elliot. Elliot is a little reckless, selfish, gregarious, and manipulative. Beverly is the bookish one. He's shy. He does the research the results of which Elliot delivers at conventions. Beverly is weak, emotional, and suffers from a touch of psychoticism.But the film begins with them both as normal -- well, relatively speaking -- and at the height of their success. Then, cherchez la femme, pardieu! Enter Genevieve Bujold as a patient with three os uteri, a statistical rarity. The outgoing, confident Elliot finds it so exciting that he probes the anatomical feature under less formal circumstances than an exam in the clinic. He also finesses the shy Beverly into taking a stab at it. After all, neither Bujold nor anyone else can tell them apart.Beverly falls for Bujold and vice versa, even after she discovers they've been trading her back and forth. To her, Beverly is the sweet one. Unfortunately he's also the more troubled of the two and he begins to gobble the various pills he's been giving her. This leads to Beverly's being torn like Buridan's ass between two equally attractive but mutually exclusive desires. Poor Bev would like to live forever with the woman he loves but can't bring himself to separate himself from the twin to whom he's so unremittingly bound.Have you seen any of the three versions of A Star is Born? The wife's fame eclipses the husband's and, in a climactic scene, the drunken husband climbs the stage at the Academy Awards, gives a self-abusive speech, and ends with a sweeping gesture that accidentally backhands his wife across the cheek. The audience gasps.Well, that's nothing compared to the ultimate humiliation of these two world-famous gynecologists. First, they begin to drink too much. Bev shows up sloshed, falling-down at a formal awards ceremony, which seriously impairs their joint dignity. I see Beverly has been celebrating, explains the suave Elliot, and he has good reason to. Bujold loses out to the fraternal bond and things get truly twisted for both the twins. Bev goes frankly nuts and invents a grotesque and terrifying set of gynecological instruments for operating on mutant women. (They'll make you think twice about that nose job, or even your appendectomy.) In their clinic -- before the receptionist walks out on them -- they adopt crimson gowns, masks, and Ku Kux Klan caps to be worn during operations. They progress from booze to pills to heroin and to doctors-only euphorics. At first, Elliot does it for pep and Bev for relief, but they're both soon in the same bag -- locked away by themselves in their junk-cluttered clinic, tousle-haired, bloodless, red-eyed, dressed alike in socks, undershorts, and sports jackets. They shoot up continuously. They move like zombies and talk like toddlers. The end is tragic by any definition.I don't know what the original novel was like but the screenplay is intelligent and adult. (There is even an occasional humorous exchange. One involves the possibility of a patient's having had sex with a Laborador Retriever.) Jeremy Irons is phenomenal in the challenging role. It must have been tempting to make his job a little easier by giving one of the twins a mole or a scar or a distinctive imprecation, but no. It's all left up to the actor to merely SUGGEST which twin we're watching, and Irons pulls it off with his body language and slight vocal quirks.I don't know if I'd want to watch this too often. I might slit my wrists. But as a story of infinite degradation, of a long long fall from grace, this one can't be beat. "}{"Title":"A Very Emotional Experience","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A lot of the strange power between twins, the strange source to which those of us without a twin are alien, is perhaps in our mind's eye. We observe a concurrence or a precisely fulfilled expectation of some sort from one twin to another, and we perceive a certain sort of extrasensory interaction happening, when actually the entire exchange is most likely merely regular physical expression. Twins themselves constantly look as if to hold some secretive space for their being twins. They don't really talk much about it, even in interviews about twins. They start sentences that one way or another don't seem to go anywhere, as if it is not quite doable to articulate what this special bond signifies to them. I would like to have a twin. There is something tremendously superior in the idea. And I want to know what that transcendental feeling is.David Cronenberg's unique film about twins, Dead Ringers, stars Jeremy Irons in a dual role as Beverly and Elliot Mantle, gifted identicals who grow up to be exceptionally accomplished gynecologists. They are extraordinarily intimate, to the degree that they regularly pose as each other. We learn that Elliot has all the time been the dominant twin, and that it is his routine to seduce a woman and subsequently rotate her onto the submissive Beverly without the woman having any idea.Naturally the whole thing is reliant upon on Irons's performances as the twins. He is a completely discerning, subtle and intellectually sharp actor, and he truly does well in composing the twins into significantly different people. By means so discreet we are sometimes not even particularly alert to them, he makes it cloudless as a rule whether we are watching one twin or the other. He ripens them individually, in order that the madness in the last part is genuinely dramatic.Cronenberg's story is probably the only movie about twins that I have ever seen aside from the Polish brothers' Twin Falls, Idaho that doesn't just rest on the leverage given by identical twins but actually explores the truly fascinating relationship. As always with Cronenberg, his emotional portrayal is so deep that it is almost indescribable. When awkward, insecure Beverly grows emotionally involved with the troubled actress played by Geneviève Bujold, it disorganizes the stability between the twins. It transpires that Bujold has an abnormal reproductive system. Her rejection of Beverly propels him into clinical depression, drug abuse and hallucinations about mutant women with malformed genitalia. Beverly is put on administrative leave by the hospital board after some demented behavior that is much more effect without being disclosed. Because of the twins' codependent bond, Beverly's loss of control sooner or later causes Elliot to follow him like a reflection in a mirror. It could be the indescribable pace of Cronenberg's script or it could be his melancholy cinematography. One can never quite be sure of Cronenberg's technique. We only see its effect. He minds great detail, but not like completing a jigsaw puzzle and more like a single breath of air. The most noticeable drive of his way to our feelings and sense of ambiance is his dark, brooding, lovely orchestral compositions of Howard Shore. We only know the outcome of Cronenberg's style. "},{"Title":"The talent shines, but it's also the reserve shown that adds to its depth","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jeremy Irons plays Beverly Mantle. Jeremy Irons also plays Bev's brother, Elliot Mantle. Pre-Multiplicity, Irons is given double-duty with split screens and stand-ins to create two characters, subtly different, subtly similar, with two different minds but, as the tag line states, a single soul. Irons acting is immaculate. Whereas emphasis is stressed visually and narratively on the twins' similarities, Bev and Elly definitely come off as different people... Bev is the emotional and invested one, Elly is the womanizing but practical one. The two of them are something like a binary star system the events of their lives revolve around the two of them while they revolve around themselves. And yes, this provides a lot of foreshadowing as to what is going to happen to them when Claire (Genevieve Bujold) starts to get between them.Cronenberg is an amazingly straight-forward director, especially in the way he builds horror films and psychological studies. His interiors are often open and minimalistic, but dusty and foreboding. He is not one for large chiaroscuro, the typical meat on horror bones, but his sense of shadow is quite compelling. Here, his approach fits into the story very genuinely. There is no hidden values to the character's actions, their worries, and their dreams. As a technophiliac/technophobe, Cronenberg sets Irons' performances into the basis of scientific ingenuity as Irons is required to get ever more abstractly visceral. The whole weight of the film lies on these things.As Cronenberg's movies go, it's not really the best. It doesn't hold very many surprises (many people have hyped this movie up to me because of it's ending, but I found it a little lacking), it's not as deeply involved in a sense of technocracy (where Cronenberg's biggest talents lie), but it showcases amazing talent, and best of all, the ability to use reserve. However, Cronenberg isn't entirely interested in techno-horror--his more recent films are moving him more towards the dramatic. This movie falls directly into the center of his sensibilities, so in a way is the perfect representation of the attraction of his career.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"One of Cronenberg's best works","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm a huge fan of director David Cronenberg, but I know that novices could risk picking the wrong entrance to his work and being put off forever. While I wouldn't call it his best work by any mean, if you're interested in the unique output of Cronenberg, Dead Ringers is possibly the best starting place. Up until A History of Violence, it was his most accessible work. All his normal themes of body horror and disintegration of the human mind are present, but the package itself is much less graphic and easier for first timers. However, despite being a more presentable picture, Cronenberg doesn't sacrifice any of his edge. Its just as powerful as his more horror-inclined classics such as Videodrome and The Fly.In addition to the skilled direction and engrossing screenplay from Cronenberg, the acting is fantastic. Jeremy Irons plays not one but two roles, and invests each one with equal care and nuance. Hes so good and varied that often the viewer forgets its the same actor in two different roles. The rest of the cast, including Geneviève Bujold as the woman who comes between the twins, is quite skilled as well, but this is Irons' show through and through. Hes an underrated performer who's often stuck in dull Hollywood tripe, but hes at his absolute best here. Dead Ringers isn't quite a masterpiece (in the end, it lacks the impact that Cronenberg's best has), but its still highly recommended. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Slightly more terrifying (and funnier) than I had anticipated...","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Having overcome my general squeamishness around gore and mutilation to sit through David Cronenburg's two most recent films, A History of Violence and Eastern Promises, I was drawn towards Dead Ringers on the understanding that it constituted one of the least graphic films in his oeuvre. Certainly in terms of gore there are worse (or better?) films, but the gradual descent of the twin brothers (played by Jeremy Irons) into the depths of madness is genuinely disturbing. The final scene is really something else though, and the nightmare experienced by Beverly around halfway through the film provides a stomach-churning premonition of this tragic and truly gruesome end. In spite of my aversion to such graphic scenes I felt that this was a very well made film, with two superb performances by Irons as the brothers Beverly and Elliott. Due to a fine script there is considerable amusement amidst the mounting sense of dread, as when Beverly, asked by Claire why he is still living with his brother as a full-grown man, weakly explains '...we both like Italian furniture.' "},{"Title":"A multi-layered masterpiece","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I know this is a controversial assertion, but Dead Ringers is the greatest movie of all time. Cronenberg's skillful technical realisation of a complex concept and witty, knowing script make for a wonderfully multi-layered movie about the tensions of love, sexuality and family; science, irrationality and madness.But what exalts Dead Ringers, at least in my eyes, is Jeremy Irons, who gives two of his greatest performances, disturbed and disturbing, yet beautiful and emotive as the Mantle twins (for which he should have won both best actor and best supporting actor Oscars). Perhaps the greatest compliment I can pay is that, even after multiple viewings, I still see him, on the screen, as two separate but intimately linked persons. Bujold also gives a brave, adult performance as the actress Claire Niveau.One more thing needs to be mentioned is Howard Shore's dark, affecting score "},{"Title":"Strange but good","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Quite strange but extremely interesting. I found it so exciting i couldn't switch off till the end.The reason i mention this is because it was 1am and I was tired but i kept watching until 3. Its almost like the movie plays tricks on you as you don't know which brother is which. This is especially evident at the start and the end. But this makes it even better. The story with Claire at the start is excellent as you do not expect it to unfold as it does. Although its a little unrealistic its worth watching. At the start I was a little unsure. But don't give up as it gets much better. Jeremy Irons was never in my favorite actors list but I must say he is now. He was just excellent in it. In fact I'm going to buy it on DVD. "},{"Title":"identity crisis","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Beverly and Elliot Mantle are the best gynecologist, specializing in female anatomy. They have always been seen as radicals, using at time unorthodox methods in their practice. But what makes them real unique is that they are twins; identical twins. When Claire, an actress asks for help about fertility, she seeks there help. Elliot starts to have a sexual relationship with her, the twins start a game. They interchange roles, but she soon finds out. But Claire and Beverly start go date on a serious level.Claire is addicted to prescription drugs, and soon Beverly follows suit. When Elliot finds out, he sets to help Beverly, but this isn't the normal detox. Elliot believes he can only help Beverly when they are 'sync', so he starts to abuse drugs, to reach Beverly's level, but Beverly was rising out of this abuse, so he needs to drop back down into the drugs and make an ultimate sacrifice.David Cronenberg has a great eye for the weird and perverse. He creates a very detached world that is very foreboding. The twins though identical are so different, that they don't realise this. Elliot is so confident yet Beverly is more recluse. But they are one person, torn in two, needing to become one.Just like a lot of Croneberg movies, this does require more than one viewing. Its not that its a complex story, it quite simple, but the information is scattered everywhere and needs to be put together once the initial foundation is set on the first view.Its not David Cronenberg's best work, but its still deserves viewing. "},{"Title":"Rise and Mental Fall of The Mantle Brothers","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Dead Ringers(1988) is the pennicle high in the filmmaking of David Cronenberg.  Filled with every idea from his first few films.  Jeremy Irons gives a standout performance in the dual role of Beverly and Eliot Mantle. The direction is excellent and the story is gripping and tight.  Dead Ringers(1988) is outstanding from the weird opening scene to the shocking ending. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie.  It is a successful blend of humor and horror that kept me captivated all the way through.  It is so creepy, yet so satirical that it is often easy to laugh at times.  Even if one does not find the plot interesting, the outstanding performance of Jeremy Irons playing two identical twins is enough to keep one fascinated up until the end.  Dead Ringers has to be one of the most memorable movies I have ever seen.  It would be a shame for anyone to overlook it.   "},{"Title":"Superb psychological thriller from the master Cronenberg","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Dead Ringers is a genuinely chilling true story(!) about two twin gynaecologists who are identical in every sense (Whatever goes into ones bloodstream goes into anothers'). This fascinating, if sometimes confusing script, is handled with unmatched brilliance by the master of macabre, David Cronenberg. A thought provoking, challenging piece of first-rate filmmaking. Worth seeing, but not after a meal. 8/10. "}{"Title":"This is one of those films that should certainly be watched in the early hours of the forthcoming Sunday.","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those films that should certainly be watched in the early hours of the forthcoming Sunday. As all the lights are shut off you'll find yourself comfortably seated in an armchair with only a polka dot blanket to keep you company.Set in a high-class society, not one, but two of a kind are launched on a journey of both self-discovery and self-destruction. The beautifully developed characters of the Mantle identical twins are played by the excellent Jeremy Irons, who vividly portrays the demise of their emotional and social lives. Elliot and Beverly will shock, astonish and lure tears from the public's eye. The exquisite Elli's line What ever is in his blood stream goes directly into mine shows the so closely developed, tender, but dangerous relationship between the brothers.The film is gruesomely horrid, yet, at the same time astonishing, beautiful, even sad and surely bears an original Cronenberg's signature. At one point this brilliant director introduces the all-known, story of the original Siamese twins, Cheng and Eng, which I thought gave a really special feel to the movie.All the scenes are beautifully done in a kind of a modern ambient of the clinic (that almost resembles a space ship), apartments, restaurants. The costumes are suitable for the handsome Jeremy Irons in this extremely difficult role, where he again proves to be one of the greatest actors of his time.The very last scene is especially dear to me, for when the camera freezes it has something of Odd Nerdrum's paintings in it.This is a story about exceptional characters that live in the realms of an exceptional world that's above water. By the end of the movie you will have wept a river and your handkerchief will be soaked in your tears. "},{"Title":"Dead Ringers","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cronenberg's unsettling denuding of an identical twins' inseparability wreaks controversy in its in-depth protrusion of psychiatric delusion and drug abuse, Jeremy Irons, plays the Mantle twins, both gynecologists and live together, even perversely share the same woman. Albeit their mirror-image resemblance, Beverly is the shy boffin while Elliot is the gregarious mouthpiece who is astute and dedicative in taking care of his younger brother's every need, after meeting a sterile actress (Claire) who has a mutant vagina, Beverly irrationally falls for her and slowly he becomes drug-addictive and paranoid (cause and effect), and even Elliot couldn't rescue him, a finally unhinged Beverly slips into the abyss and tragedy is irrevocable. Irons offers a tour-de-force engagement by splitting himself into two disparate roles, initially one wonders how could we tell them separately, and 5 minutes later, one will realize how distinguishable they are, Beverly is a meek soul, his life orbit is dominated and regulated by Elliot, who is sensible enough to admit they are an entity since neither of them could live without each other, nonetheless, the equilibrium has fatefully been violated by the interloper Claire, Bujold is feisty and emanates a cocktail of Independence and vulnerability which fatally enchants Beverly and triggers his downhill of the separation procedure. The midstream of the film deals with the decomposition of Beverly's mental stability has damped down by a slightly tedious script, which is wanting some explicable introductions to the mayhem it has caused, but the coda does save the pathos and it is mesmerizing and gives a sucker punch to the gut. Cronenberg's films often leave me some bitter aftertaste, last year's COSMOPOLIS (2012, 4/10) is beyond my interpretation, but DEAD RINGERS has its integral breakdown of a psychosexual drama, and fan-boys will be exulted to indulge in Cronenberg's signature chimerical shots (sundering the umbilical cord, the surgery ceremony in vermilion with a set of eerie apparatus) and there are magical contrivances to put two Jeremy Irons present in the same frames (deeming its pre-computer era), accolades should be also awarded to the film's steadfast emotion liberation, which encroaches inches by inches into the subliminal conscious of its protagonists, a compelling piece of work rests higher on the shelf than Cronenberg's other lesser creations. "},{"Title":"Just Strange","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" David Cronenberg's Siamese-twin freak show with Jeremy Irons playing two gynecologists at the peak of their profession. One brother, the more manipulative of the two, seduces women and then passes them off to his brother when he grows bored.However, they encounter a woman who manages to captivate them both; sounds conventional from here right? Come now, it's Cronenberg.The film progresses into a totally bizarre pastiche of self-mutilation, deception, and murder, all set to the tone of the invasive nature of gynecology.Jeremy Irons is absolutely excellent as the twin brothers as he is able to convey which brother is which in every scene of the film despite their identical looks and voice. The subject matter however, is simply too creepy for most tastes. "},{"Title":"An fascinating drama is notable for a pair of superb performances by Irons.","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Two successful twin gynecologists (Both played by Jeremy Irons) have all the fame, fortune, drugs and any woman they want. When the sensitive one starts to fall in love with a once-famous actress (Genevieve Bujold). Then the relationship between the twins starts to fall apart and descent into a world of madness. Which they cannot handle their reputation any longer.Directed by David Cronenberg (A History of Violence, Naked Lunch, Rabid) made a disturbing drama. Which believe or not, it is actually based on fact. Irons is perfectly effectively cast in the two roles. This is one of Cronenberg's best work as a filmmaker. This is the winner of eleven Genie Awards (Which is the Canadian Oscar). It won for Best Motion Picture, Best Director, Best Adapated Screenplay, Best Actor and more. Bujold was also received an Genie Nomination for Best Performance by an actress.The Criterion Collection has an fine digital transfer. DVD has an clean non-anamorphic Widescreen (1.661) transfer and an good-Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound. DVD has an commentary track by the filmmakers and actorIrons, behind the scenes featurette, trailers and more. This upsetting picture is one of a kind. Cronenberg returns to the independent cinema after his hugely popular film The Fly. This movie is based on a novel by Bari Wood (In Dreams) and Jack Geasland. Which the book is titled Twins. Written by the director and Norman Snider (Body Parts, Rated X). (**** 1/2 out of *****). "},{"Title":"Double your perverted fun","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Two doctors are identical twins and use this visual mélange to sleep with the same women and manipulate others.  This is not completely central to the film, but it's where Cronenberg effectively raises to the top of his creepiness that explores our own dual consciences. If you're not a fan of his regular concentration on venereal horror, this might be the best introduction film to the world of Cron, but it does contain some of that aswell.   I really liked this film and I think Irons perfomance(s) is amazing, you're never confused about who's who despite the fact that there are no regular visual clues.  Typical Canadian ending, but would you really want anything else in a film like this?    "},{"Title":"Cronenberg's Best","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It would be unfair to react to Dead Ringers' with a single response. This is a complex story. Like The Dead Zone and The Fly, Cronenberg has given us a meditation on a horrifying idea taken to it's logical conclusion. With Dead Ringers however the idea operates less as science-fiction than as a psychological drama. The story plays-out with such understatement that the context itself develops a frightening significance. Gynecology serves as the backdrop against which the characters play, providing a rich source of potential terrors both physically and emotionally. The fragile thread holding together the Mantle twins' complex relationship disintegrates when a famous (though somewhat unstable) actress (played with great subtlety by Genevieve Bujold) enters the Mantle clinic and threatens to upset their carefully balanced dynamic. The effect on their relationship, namely throwing its vulnerability into harsh relief, is the core of the story. Claire Niveau's (Bujold) need for an honest, genuine response triggers Beverly Mantle's vulnerabilities, while Elliot Mantle's controlled and measured character struggles to maintain their habitual balance. What Jeremy Irons brings to the role of the twins lifts the film out of any genre and above the camera-technology which would traditionally be the novelty.It is an astonishing performance of two very slightly different people struggling to either increase or eliminate that difference. Their attempts lead through emotional and chemical dependency, rational breakdown and ultimately into madness.   Peter Suschitzky's cinematography is a rich and chilly balance, uniting the stylistic chic of Elliot's surface tastes and the warmth sought by Beverly. Howard Shore's haunting score underlines the frail, human quality of characters wrestling with pathological attempts to connect and disconnect with others. I believe this is his simplest, yet finest score.I like this film enormously, yet I understand that it aims its creepiest material at women; the Mantle twins run a female only practice. But from a genderless perspective, the sensation of physical separation from mothers at birth, and subsequently from all other people through life and the often ill-developed skills to handle it, resonate powerfully and clearly from this film. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Morbid, dark, grotesque film ..... Great Music!","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can see why this film would appeal to those who believe the medium to be a vehicle of art vs. entertainment. I really liked the music and the acting by Irons was superb. The downward spiral of drug addition was portrayed well here also. On the other hand, it was very disturbing to watch and I find it hard to believe it was based ion a true story. If it was, THANK GOD they weren't pediatricians! "},{"Title":"awesome !!!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Cant really call this horror or thriller. It is intense and creepy, though, in a way that most hollywood crap-psyko-thrillers fail to be. Jeremy Irons is really great and convincing playing a double role of two identical twins. In general If you like Cronenberg films and you were slightly disappointed by early works like Rabid or Shivers (like I was, as a matter of fact) then go on and see this one! A film in the way true art HAS to be made... "},{"Title":"Cronenberg's chilling masterpiece","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  David Cronenberg is one of my favourite directors of all time and this is one of my favourite films of all time. Eschewing his usual stomach-churning special effects (save for one memorable sequence -- sometimes less *is* more), Cronenberg creates a chilling atmosphere and crafts a story of devastating power.Some call his films cold and clinical, but there is a deep emotional undercurrent to this one, carried over from his previous features, The Fly and The Dead Zone. Naturally, it helps that he gets career-best performances out of Jeremy Irons and Genevieve Bujold (a criminally underrated actress). And Howard Shore's score is the perfect complement to the claustrophobic visuals.This is a film that gets better with every viewing, so if you don't like it the first time, give it another chance. It might surprise you. "},{"Title":"Not fun to watch, but brilliant nonetheless","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is an outstanding, but very weird movie.  Jeremy Irons perfectly plays the part(s)  of twin gynecologists who own a gynecology practice, share lovers, and ultimately realize that they are inextricably connected.The movie is quite depressing, as it spends a great deal of time focusing on the brothers' descent into barbituate use and their mental deterioration.  However, many scenes in the film (particularly the siamese twin dream sequence) are quite interesting and make Dead Ringers worth seeing. Even if you're not a fan of strange films like this, all movie fans can appreciate Jeremy Irons'  brilliant performance.  You can always tell which twin you're seeing on screen, even though they look exactly alike and are played by the same person, because Irons does a great job of creating different personalities for them.  However, if you're really bothered by disturbing images, you might want to stay away from this film. "}{"Title":"It's sick, It's twisted, It's Cronenberg.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  David Cronenberg has done it again.  Dead Ringers is a truly horrific account of twin brothers who get into a drug filled world because of a girl.  The movie is truly one of the eeriest films I have ever seen.Jeremy Irons pulls off playing twin brothers so well it's as if there are twoof him.  The rest of the acting is superb as with the effects and story. One of the years best.RATING = 10 of 10 "},{"Title":"I'm actually a few millimetre's taller. Either an absolute masterpiece or a boring mess, I'm not too sure which.","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Dead Ringers starts in 'Toronto, Canada 1954' where two 9 year old identical twins named Beverly (Jonathan Haley) & Elliot Mantle (Nicholas Haley) are geeky bespectacled nerds who everyone think are weird as they conduct dissection experiments on plastic toy human anatomy kits... Then Dead Ringers jumps forward to 'Cambridge, Massachusettes 1967' where the now 23 year old Beverly & Elliot (both superbly played by Jeremy Irons from here on in) are brilliant medical students who win an award for the piece of medical equipment they have developed, the film then finally settles in 'Toronto, Canada 1988' where the Elliot brothers are both highly respected & successful gynaecologist's. Their latest patient is actress Claire Niveau (Genevieve Bujold) who the confident Elliot quickly beds & thereafter Elliot & his brother the withdrawn Beverly take turns with her pretending to be one person. That is until Beverly develops strong feelings for Claire who finds out what has happened through one of her friends Laura (Shirley Douglas), Beverly is torn between his domineering brother & Claire. Eventually Beverly becomes addicted to drugs, his career suffers, his mental state deteriorates & becomes dangerously unstable...Co-written & directed by David Cronenberg Dead Ringers is an intriguing film & one which I'm in two minds over. The script by Cronenberg & Norman Snider is based on the novel Twins by Bari Wood & Jack Geasland & Dead Ringers is for the most part a deep & intellectual character study of the mental & personal breakdown of the relationship of two close twins. Anyone looking for Cronenberg's typical gore & outlandish imagery will be somewhat disappointed here with a few serious looking medical instruments, a dream sequence in which Elliot & Beverly are joined together & Beverly bites through the skin & some shots with a few drops of blood here & there plus a couple of sex scenes being just about as graphic as Dead Ringers gets. Instead Cronenberg goes for psychological horror rather than visual, the relationship between Elliot & Beverly starts normal if a little creepy & the film goes into great detail as we witness the twins drift apart & subsequently their lives falling to pieces, in fact I can't remember a single scene that doesn't feature at least one of the twins. It's quite strong stuff & will keep most people engaged & gripped although having said that at almost 2 hours it's a long film which has a slow pace & is dialogue driven, however Dead Ringers should reward those patient enough to put the effort in & watch it just don't expect lots of special effects & explosions, in fact don't expect any. You will have to concentrate though as I sometimes found it difficult to know which twin was which at certain points as they are literally identical. Technically Dead Ringers is superb, the production design is great with lots of sleek shiny surfaces & modern interiors & just look at those red surgical gowns that they wear that look like something out of a religious ceremony. The quite classical sounding music, the simple yet highly effective cinematography, the special computer effects that you won't know are there that let two Jeremy Irons appear in the same scene & Cronenberg's fantastic direction that will make you care for these character's & the situation they find themselves in add up to make Dead Ringers a first class production. The acting by Irons is brilliant, he makes this film so watchable as he is in just about every scene as either Elliot or Beverly, I was feeling sorry for both of them by the end. Basically Dead Ringers is a fantastic drama with a few scenes of typical Cronenberg that pushes it into borderline horror territory, however Dead Ringers is not for everyone as it can be very slow at times I suppose you could say not that much actually happens & I'm not sure I would want to watch it again anytime soon. Definitely worth a watch for Cronenberg fans & those with the patience. A challenging film. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant First Half, Ho-Hum Second Half","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was in a Cronenberg kick when I picked up Dead Ringers. I had just seen The Fly and eXistenZ, both of which I loved, and I was bent on renting Crash, but the idiotic Puritanical video store (Hollywood Video) only had the R rated, edited for content version. So I saw this video, so I rented it. And boy was I impressed for an hour. I was utterly interested in all the characters. The cast was flawless, and it was a masterpiece. I was absolutely fascinated.And then, about an hour through, every single character gets addicted on prescription drugs. It becomes so completely run-of-the-mill that I felt robbed. Also, some of the characters' decisions seem completely unbelievable. For instance, one twin, to understand his brother's drug habit, gets himself hooked on drugs. I realize this is based on a true story, but I doubt that that was the reason the second brother got hooked on drugs. I found myself not caring about the characters anymore. I felt bored. I even thought the ending, which many find amazing, unsatisfying. It was very difficult to understand what was going on, and even when the film ended, I was confused. But by that point, I didn't care enough to figure it out.This film is surely worth seeing for its amazing first half. I loved it. But when the characters all get hooked on drugs, just shut it down. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A bit of a sick film with a great performance by Jeremy Irons","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)Jeremy Irons has a penchant for playing bizarre sorts of men. He played Humbert Humbert in Adrian Lyne's Lolita (1997) and the creepy Dr. Claus Von Bulow in Reversal of Fortune (1990). Here he gets to play two creepy guys. One is named Beverly. Now I ask you, if you had twins boys and you named one of them Elliot and the other Beverly, what did you have in mind? Dead Ringer is an old title. There are a number of movies by that name (IMDb lists four; this one of course is Dead Ringers), and clearly the titles suggest twins. Genevieve Bujold plays Claire Niveau, a celebrated actress who has a fertility problem and a great desire to have children. Elly and Bev are gynecologists who work with barren women in more ways than one. She becomes Elliot's or Beverly's patient. She has an extraordinary uterus, which they explore--I know, I know, this is pretty funny in a sick sort of way. The movie in fact is sort of sick but not funny--at least not intentionally. But it is interesting--appalling but interesting.Anyway, Claire has the obligatory affair with both of them without realizing that there are two of them. They do the doctor thing with kinky sex and pills. At one point she begins to get the idea that Dr. Mantle is a bit--she calls him schizophrenic, which is, of course, for all you shrinks out there, a bit of a misnomer for what she means. Yes, one is nice and one is not so nice, one is slick with woman and the other isn't, one is commanding and the other isn't, and yes it gets more complex than that by quite a bit. They are like siamese twins joined with a long umbilical cord.The problem for our boys, who have played this game with women many times before, is that Bev, who is always taking (you know what kind of) seconds actually falls in love with Claire. And she with him. And she knows the difference, once she finds out that there are two of them. And she is not pleased.I've already perhaps said too much, but this is the setup, and it is familiar. How it works out is really the key to this movie. Irons is very good and so is Bujold of course. Both are professional actors with a lot of experience. Claire is a feisty kind of character, primitive in some ways, but ultra sophisticated in others. And very vulnerable, pathetically so it would seem. However, she is also strong. A nice contrast that gives Bujold ample range to show off her talent.David Cronenberg, AKA the King of Venereal Horror, directs. He has a history of serving up violence as a means of seducing the mass audience. Here he foreshadows something to come with something like forceps and other scary-looking steel instruments illustrated on the screen as the opening credits roll. Frankly I feel the pain and I don't even have a uterus.I was able to watch until Bev, now a pill-popping menace, about 95 minutes in, grabs the surgical steel instruments that he designed for use on a mutant woman's body, jabs them into his coat and pants pockets on his way to a rendezvous with his beloved Claire, she of the triple uterus. That was enough. Knowing Cronenberg's love of blood-splattered violence, I ejected the DVD.But you might, at your own risk, watch the ending. I've got a feeling that the title Dead Ringers involves a pun. You can send me a note telling me happens. Or not. Preferably not.Jeremy Irons gets to exceed the range of most actors even over their lifetime in this one film, and he does it very well. If you're a big Jeremy Irons fan, you wouldn't want to miss this. Otherwise, I suggest the Disney channel, quickly. "},{"Title":"All you really need to know about Dead Ringers.","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There isn't much more to be said about Dead Ringers that hasn't already been said on this comment board. All I really want to add is an expurgated version of what others have saidIf you're looking for a Cronenberg creature fest, you haven't found it. Though if you like Cronenberg's movies and enjoy his take on the body politic than you will like this movie. The transition from The Fly to Dead Ringers is a very interesting one. Good conversation starter with anyone who is really into horror films or film students (the ones who aren't stuck up buttholes). Though the movie does contain some humor, this is not a movie for the light-hearted. This is one of Cronenberg's most disturbing and dark films.Dead Ringers is the direct opposite of a fast paced thriller. It's also not the best date movie ever filmed either. If you are even a little bit of a fan of Jeremy Irons, you are going to want to watch this film. Top of his game here. That's about it. I would recommend this movie, but not to anyone. This isn't exactly an Everyman movie. I suggest that you see one of his other films before watching Dead Ringers to get a feel for Cronenberg's style. I think, had I seen DR first, I wouldn't have understood it as much. I say get The Brood and/or Videodrome under your belt first. I really liked the movie, but I think that it does tend to drag and the theme begins to really beat you over the head. However, that's just one man's opinion. That's one of the great things about Cronenberg movies; everyone has their own take on it. Being so character driven everyone relates and reacts to certain aspects differently. "},{"Title":"Easily Cronenberg's best film","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not to take anything away from The Fly (and CERTAINLY not to take anything away from Jeff Goldblum's UNBELIEVABLE performance in that film), Dead Ringers shows Cronenberg finally growing up (though that did not seem to last past this film unfortunately).  Jeremy Irons is simply STUNNING in this film, and it's important to remember that, a couple of years later, while he was awarded the BEST ACTOR Academy Award for Reversal Of Fortune, he actually won the Oscar for THIS role.  Yes, a classic case of a make-up Oscar (see Cher, snubbed for Mask and then tragically given an Oscar for Moonstruck).  Those who doubt this statement need only to listen to Irons' acceptance speech at the Academy Awards ceremony (... and, for those of you who understand, thank you, David Cronenberg... - AWESOME).  So rare to see that kind of thing happen. "},{"Title":"Dead Ringers","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I should start by saying that I dozed off somewhere in this film, and even though I couldn't be bothered to rewind back and see what I missed, hat I did see was enough for me, from director David Cronenberg (Videodrome, The Fly). Basically identical twins Beverly and Elliot Mantle (both Jeremy Irons) are both doctors, gynaecologists, personality wise however they are most different, one is more confident than the other with women, and often manages to seduce them. When of them is bored of his current partner, Claire Niveau (Geneviève Bujold), she passes to the other brother, without her knowing that he had a brother, especially an identical twin brother. It is when Claire visits the clinic after finding out they are twins that everything starts going wrong, starting with the shy brother falling for her, and she of course can't choose between them, well, you can't when you don't know which one's which. It should be said that this film is based on a true story where in New York, Upper East Side, two twin gynaecologists were found dead, and while this story is set in Toronto, Canada, that is exactly what happens in the end. Also starring Heidi Von Palleske as Cary, Barbara Gordon as Danuta, Shirley Douglas as Laura, Stephen Lack as Anders Wolleck and Nick Nichols as Leo. Irons is pretty good playing the two twins, even if the over the should shots are a bit of an obvious cheat, I don't think me staying awake would make any difference to my opinion, it is certainly a worthwhile psychological thriller. Good! "},{"Title":"powerful and well acted, but far too slow","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS The King of Venereal Horror. An interesting description for David Cronenberg certainly. The creator of some of the most unnerving films of all time (Videodrome being a personal favourite), Cronenberg has been scaring and freaking people out for decades now. In 1988 it was time for him to ponder the question of self. Telling the story of two identical twins who are a bit too closely linked, he brought two amazing performances out of Jeremy Irons, but simultaneously managed to create a bit of a mundane affair which never really clicked. Slow and at times incredibly turgid, Dead Ringers is a massive disappointment. Irons is out of this world, but sadly the plot isn't.Beverly and Elliot Mantle (both Irons) are legendary Gynocologist brothers who share a popular practise. At the same time though, they also share women. When Beverly falls for one of their conquests (Genevieve Bujold) however, events begin to take a unique course.First and foremost, this is an impressive performance by Irons. To play two characters is hard enough, but to play two identical twins who have slight mental differences, is amazing. It's a breathtaking turn really as both characters begin such a steady decline and yet simultaneously talk to each other. How Irons survived such a role is surely a question which needs answering.In terms of Cronenberg's direction, the director is again on top form. Giving us some truly powerful moments, although nothing excessively gory, he manages to shock and disturb the audience in a way only he can.Yet, there are major problems. Most notably, the story is a turgid affair. Starting promisingly, it soon descends into confusion, only to decline into a monotonous tale of drug abuse. As both of the brothers fold in on themselves, so does the story. It becomes a one man band almost and by the end you really start to loose interest. Yes the final ten minutes are a recovery of sorts, but by this point you've given up caring and are just keen for it to end. Which in itself is a shame since more often than not the works of Cronenberg are superbly constructed. All in all, this one is a disappointment.Well acted and occasionally powerful, Dead Ringers should be another Cronenberg hit. Unfortunately though, it is a turgid affair and really doesn't have any drive. Declining at the same speed as it's main characters, it quickly fails to live up to the Cronenberg hype, and as a result is a crashing disappointment. Worth watching for Jeremy Irons' outstanding performance, but that's about it. "},{"Title":"A good Cronenberg-film","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Elliot and Beverly Mantle are twins. They are brilliant when they are young and they grow up to be brilliant gynecologists. Both of the twins are played by Jeremy Irons (yes, Beverly is a man) and they live in the same apartment. They pretend to be each other from time to time. They switch appointments and things like that and they even share women. They share experiences.Elliot Mantle is the dominant of the twins, he seems to be more like the boss and the controller. Elliot as Beverly seduces a movie star, who went to Beverly because she is unable to get pregnant, and for the next day Elliot 'gives' her to Beverly (this is, as we learn, how it has gone in the past). Beverly starts a relationship with the actress. she is a drug addict and makes Beverly a drug addict as well. Elliot tries to cover for him but things don't work out as planned and the lives of both the twins are going the wrong way.The story starts as a drama, and stays a drama, but the further we go into the film the creepier it gets. Beverly is a gynecologist and he is going crazy, you can imagine what kind of things might happen. Irons has two great performances as the twins and they are very often together in the screen and it is very well made. You look at two very different people. Almost always you know who is Elliot and who is Beverly. Cronenberg has made a good film, sometimes a little hard to sit through, but most of the time very good, interesting and creepy. "},{"Title":"Cold, warm, touching.....excellent!!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The film is a terrible and frightening story about the problems, the very realistic problems, twins could have. But more then the story itself it's David Cronenberg's film-making and the photography that is incredibly well done! It's difficult to explain what I feel for this movie with only words. I think I've never seen a movie before that includes so many and different sensations than this one! You feel the coldness of the operating-instruments (and the coldness of the wonderful acting of Jeremy Irons), the warmness of both twins heart (again mixed with the coldness/warmness of Jeremy Irons), the so touching, but in the same time horrifying,(that's a mixture that only Cronenberg can succeed with!!) final scene in which you feel your heart is dragged, wrapped away buy the cruelty of the action but also from the wonderful music of Howard Shore. Anyway, that's a film you just HAVE to see and I bet you will not go out of the cinema in the same way you entered. "}{"Title":"Probably his best","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Admittedly I have not seen all of Cronenberg's work, but of the films I have seen this is the best. Irons, who has turned into a hack the last few years, gives a masterful performance here as spaced-out twin brothers who happen to be GYN doctors to boot. It is an uneasy movie to sit through, made all the more so by the fact that it was based on a true story.  "},{"Title":"I loved it the first time...","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I remember this movie being fantastic, Jeremy Irons as incredibly sexy and the ending being very well done. I never should have rented this movie for a second go-round, as it hasn't held up well at all. I was disappointed at the predictability of the plot and the lack of character development throughout the film. What I remembered as a terrifying decent into madness revealed itself as lack of depth in the plot combined with lack of interest on the part of the director in having the viewer really care about the characters he is creating on screen - it seemed to be the easiest way for Cronenberg to end the film. If you loved this movie the first time you saw it, I strongly recommend refraining from a second viewing, as it will prove to be a disappointment. "},{"Title":"David Cronenberg's one and only bomb.","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's been a while since i've seen this movie, and as far as i can remember, i was greatly disappointed. With a director like David Cronenberg, who besides great scares also makes great MOVIES, an actor like Jeremy Irons and a story like this, you'd expect more suspense and more interesting characters than this.Although as a film, it's craftilly made, as a horrorfilm it's pretty dire. The photography is depressing and murky when there seems to be something going on. The characters range from pathetic to unlikable to silly, these people i did NOT care for in the least. I have a tendency not to care for financially and socially established people hooked on drugs anyway. Even the character played by Genevieve Bujold, who started out fine, had me bored and irritated after an hour. Some people may like this incomprehensible mire, but i didn't feel any need to see it again. Too bad. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sometimes compelling, off putting the rest of the time. This tale of two identical twins that share the same business and lovers, but eventually fall prey to drug use, insanity, and even twisted sexual obessions features good turns by Jeremy Irons and Bujold as the woman that comes between the twins, but it is also virtually pointless. "},{"Title":"Too many mixed messages.","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Does anyone else find this film dull? Dead Ringers appears to have a great many admirers, but I'm not one of them. The premise is intriguing, and the novelty of seeing one actor in two roles simultaneously (before sophisticated computerized special effects) is enticing. But the end result is so slow and tedious that even a gory payoff fails to redeem it. Jeremy Irons' performances are calculated to subtly confuse us, and that they do. In fact, the whole film is confusing - it's hard to tell where this one's going, even after it's over. Genevieve Bujold discards much of her sex appeal, which is essential to her character, in favor of cold hard intelligence. There's little to identify with here, and the overall tone is uneven. Is the viewer watching a horror movie, a clinical case study, or what? Too bad. The filmmakers get high marks for tackling a serious and challenging subject, but it just doesn't come off. Too many mixed messages. "},{"Title":"Deeply meaningless","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Hardly seen a movie with such flat characters. Everything is surface, not a single glimpse of animation and one cliché follows another. That said, Jeremy Irons does his best to bring this flick to life, which can not be said about Cronenberg. Although his other films don't actually bubble of vividness this one could easily represent his Marvel comic picturization - and its gone bad. Pathetic and ludicrous - For more meaningful character analyzations refer to X-Men and Spiderman and Hulk. Of course i, too, would have thought 'what a deep film' if i had seen this one as a teen, it strokes a lot of pseudo-taboos like drugs, mental disease or machine-likeness of the human body but every aspect and momentum of the film heads for effects rather than extension of horizons, a thrill only to those with biased minds. Maybe i expected too much but i feel betrayed for my attention. For a better rental check out your latest Marvel flick or some Tarantino for the 16th time, at least they don't need 60+ minutes until they finally develop something like a tension curve and don't come with such a plumb orchestration. But maybe then again, you could actually have a chance to enjoy this movie after being warned by this rant of one disappointed person. "},{"Title":"Terrible.  You will know you wasted your time within the first 15 minutes","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"     The whole feel of this film is dead wrong.  It is at once phony and trashy.  Bujold is one of the least attractive actresses I have ever seen, and she has never looked worse.  At least in good material--Tight Rope with Eastwood, for example--she is tolerable. Here, she is not.    I did not finish watching this movie.  I rarely ever stop like that, but I was completely sure by the halfway point that it was terrible.  I  know, many of you will rent the film despite my advice.  I rented it, despite a few warnings, because it had this critical buzz around it. It was supposed to be controversial and special.  All that it really is is Bad.    I have only seen one other Cronenberg film, The Dead Zone.  I liked that one a great deal.  I still want to see Scanners.  For now, I will just chalk this one up as one that got away.         "},{"Title":"Hanging up on Dead Ringers","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" David Cronenberg, who gave (or should I say, inflicted-on) us such pleasures as Scanners and The Fly shows us once again why dark, edgy Canadian movies should stay just that--dark, as in, don't turn the power on. In Dead Ringers, Jeremy Irons portrays two OB/GYN's, twins who are not exactly identical, and Genevieve Bujold as their mutual love interest. The movie, as psychological thriller, has an interesting premise, and you get to see the creepy and irritating good work of Irons along with the beauty of Bujold, but, alas, it's in Cronenberg's hands (or claws, here).As usual, Cronenberg's trademark bloodiness and incoherence, wrapped in stylishness, turns one's attention to other, more important tasks, such as cleaning the toilet and not vomiting. I suspect that if you are told by someone that Dead Ringers is a great movie to rent, you are being talked to by your friend's evil twin. "},{"Title":"Crank Yankers","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For some reason I confuse these two. Don't ask me why, since one is a television show featuring puppets; the other a movie featuring twin gynecologists.Speaking of which, I also confuse Lynch and Cronenberg. Why? David, and David, and they both make odd movies, I suppose. But at least Lynch's tend to be a bit more fascinating.Dead Ringers is basically just a low-grade exploitation flick with some OK performances by Jeremy Iron (playing twins; first time trick photography had been done like this before) and typical Cronenberg weirdness. The movie relies on sex and bizarre dreamlike sequences to compensate for lack of cohesiveness.I am at a loss for words. This movie is neither bad nor good -- it's just OK. It was controversial when released, but now...it just seems sort of pointless.  "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  Never, I mean never, watch this horrible film.  I rented it as it was one of CDNows top 10 shocking movies of all time, and I could write a more shocking film.  It has poor acting, terrible accents, and is almost unbearable to watch. "}]