[{"Title":"Terribly underrated","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"37 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Terribly underrated, this little comic jewel may rank with 'Clue' and 'Noises Off!' as one of the greatest film farces ever. Repeat viewings reveal an attention to detail one wouldn't expect from a big-budget comedy of this period, and most of the jokes work very well indeed. As others have pointed out, the film resists the temptation to stereotype its characters, and the script is wonderfully quotable. If the resolution seems a little silly, well, what did you expect? As for the performances, I know Pauline Kael said this was Midler's movie, but for my money there's no question that Lily Tomlin's the star of the show, especially as country Rose. Her delivery of such simple lines as 'Boy, are you bossy' and 'I am gonna kick yer ass' are priceless. Highly recommended; it gets funnier every time. 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Strangely overlooked cerebral farce.","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  That this 1988 movie contains 2 sympathetic, non-stereotypical gay characters says a lot about the movie makers. There seems to have been some real care taken over what could've ended up a cheaply made throwaway farce.Lily Tomlin and Bette Midler are simply superb in their roles as separated twins and in my view out-do Jeremy Irons in that year's other twin movie `Dead Ringers' - and he was fantastic.This film has been criticised for not delivering laughs where you would predict them based on the film's premise. But is that a fault? Big Business builds comedic tension early on and sustains it throughout by clever use of supporting characters and the subtle way that from their scenes with them we learn about the 4 leads.The eternal dilemma of nature v nurture is portrayed in a fairly non-preachy way coupled with a similar approach to town v country. To do this in a farce containing 4 romances plus all the rest is a tall order for any moviemaker but this rich premise is cleverly negotiated by Jim Abrahams & the writers with only a handful of misfires.Now I'm not one for romances but the studly Fred Ward, who was unbelievably 46 years old at the time, as the whiter than white Roone Dimmick, manages an amazing feat - his meeting and courting of Lily Tomlin in the space of a few minutes is carried off quite plausibly by this accomplished and underrated actor and is a joy to behold.10 out of 10 and a real shame that there is no more from these 2 writers.  "},{"Title":"Situational Humor, Strong Point of View","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I rushed right out and located the DVD of Big Business, even though I knew that Disney had a bad reputation for minimal value in extras on their DVD releases. That situation has improved over time, and seeing BB in wide screen made it all worthwhile. This movie started out funny for me and has gotten better with repeated viewings. It has an excellent pedigree with Jim Abrahams directing and Dean Cundey manning the camera, and the leads are definitely up to the challenge of dualie roles.It is unusual for a comedy to have the strong viewpoint and values expressed in this movie. Fred Ward's Rune talks about the simple pleasures of living in the rural country and you know that somebody involved with the script knew those pleasures personally. The characters rarely become stereotypes. Even the secondary characters are treated with respect.Dean Cundey, Director of Photography, must have been specializing in trick photography as he went on to shoot Back to the Future 2 and 3 with even better results. The effects budget for BB was high enough to keep the believability intact.To me this is an all-around enjoyable light comedy. "},{"Title":"The Big Mix Up","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The 1988 film Big Business, directed by Jim Abrahams, stars two well-known actresses, Bette Midler and Lily Tomlin, who both play duel roles of twins mixed up at birth in the 1940s. The names chosen for both sets of twins were Rose and Sadie. The Shelton twins were born to a wealthy couple from New York; the Ratliff twins are from a low-income family that lived in Jupiter Hollow. One of the Shelton twins was given to the Ratliff family and vice-versa. Jump forty plus years to the 1980s. The Shelton twins inherited their father's corporation Moramax in New York City, and the Ratliff twins work at the Hollow-Made Factory in Jupiter Hollow, the town in which they were born. Moramax is planning to shut down the factory and to strip-mine Jupiter Hollow. The Ratliff's come to New York City to save the factory and town from the Shelton's corporation. Both the Ratliff's and Shelton's stay in the Plaza Hotel in NYC, not knowing their real twins were also there. They end up meeting each other right before Moramax's big meeting, and Rose Shelton agrees with Sadie and Rose Ratliff to save the factory and Jupiter Hollow. Big Business presents two central ideas. One idea is that two sets of twins can be born on the same night in the same hospital can be switched at birth and can meet one another later in life. Another idea would be that the big guy doesn't always win. The big guy in this movie would be the Moramax corporation and the little guy would be the Hollow-Made Factory. I say this because at the end of the movie the Ratliff's end up saving their town and factory from the Shelton's large corporation. I thought that this movie was hilarious; it receives five stars. I watch this movie over and over and never seem to get tired of it. I loved how both Midler and Tomlin play two completely opposite roles, redneck and snobbish. The southern accents (in my opinion) were excellent. This movie is similar to the Green Acres television show, only the rednecks end up in New York City. I wish that the director would make a sequel to see how Jupiter Hollow, the factory, and Moramax are doing. "},{"Title":"A hilarious, stylish comedy.","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Big Business is a hilarious, stylish comedy starring Bette Midler and Lily Tomlin as two sets of twins mixed at birth. One mixed set has a successful company in New York City. The other mixed set lives a simpler life in the country. The Sadie twins (Bette Midler) desire the highlife of the city; with its glitz and glamour. So, the Sadie living in the country jumps at the chance to go to New York City when her sister Rose needs to travel there to save their local place of employment. The Rose twins (Lily Tomlin) desire a slower way of life, and the Rose living in New York City has never felt like she belonged there. What happens next is a comedy of errors and mixed identity as the Rose and Sadie from the country prepare to do battle with the company run by the Sadie and Rose of the city. Bette Midler and Lily Tomlin both shine in their roles. The finely acted supporting cast includes Fred Ward, Edward Herrmann, and Michael Gross. The movie was very well written and filmed. The use of the trick photography when both sets of twins are together looks great. The comedy in Big Business is constant with its sight gags and humor ranging from cheery and campy to slick and nicely sophisticated. Big Business is delightful, and a comedy that's hard to outsnake when it comes to laughter.   "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is a real must-see, especially if you are a fan of either Bette Midler or Lily Tomlin. Throughout the story you're either smiling, laughing or having a good old giggle, it's an original storyline (how often do we see that!), with subtle themes of strong, wholesome values - not so much so that its offensive or boring though. If you want to smile and spend a fun evening in, then this is the movie for you - watch out for the mirror scene with Bette Midler, silly but very funny. Two great actresses with style, a sense of fun and a lot of talent, pull this movie off to make it one of my all time, favourite DVD's. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Old fashioned entertainment","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" WARNING I advise anyone who has not seen the film yet to not read this comment.Big Business has always been a movie I love watching from time to time. I will say that Lily Tomlin and Bette Midler never let me down as they got into their completely ludicrous, wacky antics that pay tribute to the old slapstick humor without being too in your face. Bette Midler came out to be the strongest of the two this time though and her performance is again what makes a film. Her character(s) were just so lovable, and Bette Midler's yodel scene was my favorite scene of the movie. One humongous personal problem I found with the movie, and practically this was the only thing wrong with the film, was I think they should have let more time in for the final meeting scene between all 4 of them. I mean, they finally find their twins, and then it has like 4 minutes for them to talk to each other and then goes off. Uh? They could have let us see more, you know? Anyway, I found Big Business to be good, and was just a nice, quaint film to watch indeed. "},{"Title":"If you enjoy a good laugh...","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...watch this movie!Two newborn sets of identical twins are mixed up at the hospital - one pair from a rich family from New York, the other pair from a poor family of farmers from a small town called Jupiter Hollow. Raised in very different society classes, 30 years later they're coincidentally about to cross paths, as they're all staying at the Plaza Hotel in New York..This is probably the most amusing movie I've ever seen - lots of funny remarks, scenes and situations - and Bette Midler is playing the role as the hotheaded Sadie (well, the two Sadies..) sooo good! One of those movies you can watch again and again! "},{"Title":"Two Bettes are better than one","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Why doesn't Bette Midler make movies like this anymore? This is the second most watched film that I own (Death Becomes Her being the first). Lily Tomlin and Bette Midler are on top form here (watch Bette's sudden change of expression as she orders a Campari and soda) and work wonderfully together.Aside from the mini-golf tournament scene (which I would shorten) there isn't a thing that I would change about this movie.It ranks up there with Ruthless People and Outrageous Fortune as Bette's best work. "},{"Title":"North and South","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Two pairs of mismatched identical twins (you'll understand this term when you see this movie) grow up in different American cities.  One pair (Midler and Tomlin) grow up in Manhattan, the other pair (played by the same actresses) grow up in their Southern hillbilly birthplace, Jupiter Hollow. Although this comedy lacks in some departments, it's still worth a viewing. Midler and Tomlin do an admirable job switching personalities... the rich-bungling Tomlin is a perfect match, personality wise, for the podunk Midler; and the rich-snobby Midler is the worthy challenge for the podunk-spunk of Tomlin (again, you'll understand this when you see it).  "}{"Title":"Better and Better every time","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie! It is one of the most quotable, re-watchable movies I have ever seen.I constantly find people who not only love this movie, but like me couldquote it in it's entirety! Bette Midler and Lily Tomlin are perfect, as is the  entire ensemble! So many little jokes that only multiple viewings can pick out! For me, Big Business is a guilty pleasure that I feel no guilt in watching...in  excess! "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"6 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love this movie. It's joyful and funny and always makes me laugh. The supporting male characters are perfect. They're the comic foil for the four ladies and their confusion over mistaken identities is priceless. One of the funniest scenes is near the end, when the four men are waiting in the hotel lobby for the sisters to finish their board meeting. Each sister walks out of the hotel with the guy who seems best suited for her! And the other characters---limousine driver, bellhops, desk clerks, office employees---are also funny. Even the homeless guy is hilarious as he keeps seeing doubles of Sadie and Rose walk in and out of the hotel. This is the best comedy that Bette Midler and Lily Tomlin ever did. It's a wonderful 1980's film....you don't see these kind of movies made nowadays. "},{"Title":"Bette and Lily, Times Two","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's possible I may be a dim bulb, since I'm probably one of few people who love movies who find a lot to like in Jim Abrahams' screwball comedy BIG BUSINESS starring Bette Midler and Lily Tomlin. I love build-ups to a climactic scene and this movie is pregnant with it -- of course, being screwball, the situation/premise is way out there on a flimsy limb but who cares? Seeing these two extremely funny women with distinctive comedic styles playing against each other, gravitating towards a final showdown at the Plaza Hotel which delivers on every level, strung along by a plot that just gets crazier and crazier, is really a stroke of genius. I loved this movie, I still do, and truth be damned, I think it's hilarious to the nth degree. "},{"Title":"Big Business is a must for any Midler/Tomlin fan","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The script. The Direction. The camp performance from both Tomlin & Midler is pure genius. Every inch of this film is delectable. Very few films are made like this anymore, and this was one of the last of the '80s of this genre - where the script and the direction was paramount. It's as fresh as when it was first released. Midler manages to be three character in this film, the City Saide, the Country Sadie, and then the Country Sadie pretending to be the City Sadie! Tomlin is subtle but wonderful as the neurotic City Rose and the feisty Country Rose, and is able to balance the act with panache. The dialogue is wonderful, and at every point of the film you think the characters are going to be caught out - the dialogue saves it for another time. You start rooting for the girls not to get caught, then realise, they're not doing anything wrong! It's Fate twisting itself in a knot the whole time. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedy from 80s!!!","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Big Business is one of my favorite comedy from my childhood but to really understand its humor I could just today. Superstars of comedies from 80s Bette Midler and Lily Tomlin on the screen played several characters and done it perfect and very laughable. They were changing their images literally every second and looked very naturally. I like in this movie what everything happens very fast and dynamically and you don't boring no one minute. It's very important what humor in Big Business is very kind and not vulgar and therefore it's a perfect movie for evening watching with family. By the way I was nice surprised seen in this film an Italian actor Michele Placido, who I remember as Commissario Corrado Cattani from excellent old TV show La piovra. He was a hero for me and my friends in my childhood. Then he was very serious and brutal but in Big Business he is incredibly funny and it's stunningly. "},{"Title":"A real admirer of this really funny film","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie again last night and I laughed at it all over again.It is so much more funnier than so many comedies today, I think its unfair, the lack of repect it gets.the idea is obviously very silly and was probably used before back in the 50's but that does'nt take from the film at all.The two main actresses play two very different characters (each!!), and the fact that you see all four as completely different people show how brilliantly Bette Midler and Lily Tomlin have pulled it off.Lily Tomlin seems to have loads of fun with her outrageous country girl character.Its just ridiculous and unbelieveably funny at the same time.The plot is well thought out and it is clever the idea they have for the way the girls managed to end up staying in the same hotel at the same time.Better Midler is fantastic aswell, both as a superb**ch and a a little miss fancy from the country.Look, just don't put too much thought into this movie just watch it and suspend reality for a while.Let yourself get into the confusion and the mad situations the characters get themselves into and it'll just be sheer fun all the way.In the scene where the country Rose came into the Morromax offices for the first time, I nearly laughes myself silly. "},{"Title":"Bette Shines","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bette Midler, queen of the live show, does not shine as much in movie comedies (although she's outstanding in dramas).  Maybe she doesn't thrive with a set script with multiple retakes or with interactions with other comedians, I don't know, but she hits her movie comedy stride in Big Business.  Maybe she's allowed to be herself more than in other disappointing attempts.  If this is not an outstanding comedy, it is funny all the way through, with the bathroom scene a classic.  If you like Bette Midler, see this movie, now out on DVD. "},{"Title":"My all time number one feel-good movie!","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Big business may not be pure genius as movies go, but it is a light-hearted comedy so full of charm that has made it my all time number one feel-good movie!The story may be a bit naff and unrealistic at times (especially the ending!), but haven't you ever watched a naff movie that you found you loved?!  Made in 1988, there are tons of 80's comedies that are far worse than this one!People who do criticise this film take comedies too seriously!  Enjoy this film for what it is light-hearted entertainment! "},{"Title":"My all-time favorite comedy","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Most people have a comedy they like to see again and again, to make them laugh, and this is that movie for me. Bette Midler and Lily Tomlin are hilarious as they play country gals/city gals to perfection. They are fun to watch, like the way Bette walks, shoulders thrust out, cutting a swath amongst the common people. I can't go to a boring office meeting without having a little thought balloon above my head, imitating Lily's meet'n. Too funny! "},{"Title":"Some very funny moments","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mistaken identity comedy has always been something that really cracks me up. (TV's Three's Company comes to mind) Plots that revolve around scenes with two people thinking two completely different things is just FUNNY. Big Business has a couple of truly hysterical scenes (The one in the elevator nearly killed me). Maybe it helps to be in the mood, but either way, it's an enjoyable little movie with some great performances.Forget the fact that this situation would never happen. Just have a laugh. "}{"Title":"Goofy, but entertaining","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a goofy movie (two sets of identical twins are separated at birth), but I liked it. It's a fun movie to pass away the time with if it ever airs on cable.  "},{"Title":"Critics hated, viewers loved it. (Minor spoiler)","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Big Business is one of the best examples of a movie that the critics hated, and the viewers loved. Such is the academic elitism of some critics. If a movie doesn't meet their rarefied standards of whatever it's a bad movie. Roger Ebert's review, for one, which is wrong headed on just about every count.My point Lighten up! No it is not the most original or classic comedy ever made. It is the talents of Bette and Lilly that make the movie. What might have been clichéd with anyone else is just priceless with them.  Never funny when two people just miss each other? It is, when the two people are Bette and Lilly! And nothing happens when they finally meet each other? Is he watching the same movie? When the four finally meet in the Plaza Hotel bathroom, I almost fell off the sofa laughing! I have no idea what he is talking about.The script is more than decent - a work of art, no - but WHO CARES?If you are in the mood for a light weight, but very funny comedy, I highly recommend Big Business. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was hilarious. I have four children and we all watched this movie over and over.  Bette Midler and Lillie Tomlin were great especially in the bathroom scene when they first discovered each other. The various boyfriends and husbands were also very funny.  The scenes with the doorman also added a little extra amusement to the movie.  We also enjoyed Bette Midler in Beaches a great deal even though this movie has a sad part to it. "},{"Title":"Guaranteed Laughs!","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just love this movie - I've seen it several times and it makes me laugh each time. The two lead actresses are wonderful, and perform their roles perfectly. Bette Midler is especially wonderful as the rich bitch. "},{"Title":"Severely Underrated Comedy","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Big Business had received very mixed reviews upon its release. Perhaps the critics did not anticipate how lousy many mainstream comedies would get as the decades went on. The film is so well executed in plot, comic timing, performances and visuals. Bette Midler actually should have won the Oscar for Best Actress for Big Business, but the Academy never takes comic roles seriously when it comes to such an honor. Midler's energy and her comedy are expert in Big Business. The movie is entirely charming and consistently entertaining. Supporting roles are terrifically performed. The comedy and the satire has endured. There are few mainstream movies as underrated as Big Business. "},{"Title":"Country bumpkin twins Bette and Lily give their city slicker counterparts a run for their money.","Date":"21 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" An overworked country nurse makes the mistake of a lifetime, and for poor country folk having a set of twins at the same time as a pair of wealthy social butterflies, it results in the mix-up to end all mix-ups. 30 something years go by and years later, Bette Midler is the Alexis Carrington like rich bitch who runs a conglomerate. Is this how you dress for the office? You look like a blood clot!, she tells the receptionist upon entering her conglomerate. Twin Lily Tomlin is the shy sort who has much more scruples than her hard-nosed sister, but there's another set of identical twins in Jupiter Hollow where ironically all four were born within minutes of each other. Jupiter Hollow's Bette yodels as she milks a cow and the tougher Tomlin is out to prevent a big city corporation from tearing down the small community in order to put their own sinister, money making plans in order.Learning of a big meeting in New York City, the small-town Midler and Tomlin arrive with the intention of interrupting it to prevent the strip mining of their community. Lovers of all four all gather together where all is revealed after a brilliantly staged repeat of the Groucho/Harpo mirror sequence from Duck Soup. Each actress adds different qualities to each of their roles, so other than wearing the same outfits in one sequence, it is easy to see who is who, which one is the poorly raised one and which one is the wealthilly raised one. The result is a farce of hysterical proportions that is worth seeing over and over again. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and Tacky 80s","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Big Business is a brisk late 80s comedy that has some genuine charm and targeted humor. It doesn't really dive deeply into anything but isn't slap stick by any means. The writing and script is better than standard fare, and the Lily Tomlin and Bette Midler as well support acting lift the material higher than worth. Recall enjoying it a lot more on initial viewing partially for the added special effects at the time were somewhat remarkable considering being used on a comedy. The storyline focusing on class friction and country vs city-life is chucklingly and snickeringly funny though belly-laughs are almost non-existent. There are lots of smiles and giggles though. Fluff that's worth a watch for the cast. "},{"Title":"Amusing, and not as illogical as one might expect","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is not a movie which I would have gone to see by my own choice when it was originally issued, but at that time, my great aunt was visiting us. She was a terrific lady, and liked both Bette Midler and Lily Tomlin, so I took her to see it early in its first-run at a theater.Surprisingly, I enjoyed it, I suppose partially because she did so thoroughly. It was run on a local channel recently, and I saw it for the second time, and still found it amusing and enjoyable.Twin stories have long been a staple on stage and screen. They have provided the opportunity for for performers to run the gamut of their acting range, and to chew the scenery like a horde of beavers. In most of these dramas, the evil twin represents the most reprehensible of society's creatures - often counterbalanced by the opposite good one. Or we're treated, say, to a pair of young girls performing sophomoric jokes on everyone in sight. (I always get the mental image that the writers were sitting around one day, and were devoid of story ideas. Finally one say, Ah, hell. Let's just make the story about some twins; we can do all the usual identity mix-up stuff while we come up with the plot.)In this drama, two sets of twin girls are mixed at birth - the issues of two expectant couples at the same hick-town hospital a bumpkin local couple; and a couple from New York, passing through in their limo, the father apparently among New York City's most powerful, wealthy elite.Naturally when grown, these pair of far from identical siblings are different in similar ways in their completely opposite circumstances. Timlin represents the naturally bumpkin family, and Midler the elite. Lily is, of course, the more considerate, benevolent, unselfish and thoughtful in the wealthy setting, the more forcefully outgoing for the rights of her fellow townspeople in the sticks. Bette is the one who runs the family business empire, and her country version wants something more than the seedy hometown.The necessary coincidence of both pairs having the same first names is not a stretch - the unimaginative bumpkin papa simply overhears his counterpoint's expressed choices, and opts for the same.The other many occurrences necessary to this plot before the four personally encounter one another, require, of course, a veritable host of coincidences. But (again surprisingly) these are for the most part quite amusing, and not nearly as unbelievable or illogical as one would expect. And there are clever juxtapositions, such as when NYC Midler's country-girl doppelgänger disciplines the spoiled brat son to his father's delight (his mother has indulged the urchin to the father's despair).Besides, the writers and producers seem to have answered the question posed by psychologists from Freud to-date. In the classic genes-versus-environment quandary, this film would seem to be society's answer that the former have to prevail. "},{"Title":"Tomlin and Midler In Top Form","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of my guilty pleasures. I've seen it 10 or more times(I own it). It never fails to make me laugh. The pace is comic perfection and the supporting cast (one of my favorites is Deborah Rush in the opening sequence)obviously enjoyed making this film. It's a  ridiculous story with a heart of gold that will never fail to brighten your day. "},{"Title":"This is just TOO funny!","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I LOVE this movie.....have seen it so many times, I think I have it memorized. It is one of those movies that you can watch and never tire of. This was made back in the 80's when we were learning about identical twins seperated at birth and how the genetics and environment played into the make-up as a whole. The funny thing in this movie is that the twins were switched at birth accidently and both sets shared the same name at that.......great stuff! "}{"Title":"Simple and predictable, but entertaining.","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The plot two women have twins the same day and their babies are interchanged.Simple but entertaining. If you have watched other twins separated at birht type of movies there is not much new in this movie.I found it to be entertaining mostly because of the contrast shown between the non twins raised together and the simmilarities of the twins even after having been raised apart. "},{"Title":"Super Duper Middle of the Road","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those movies that has a lot of jokes and a lot of different relationships going on (two sets of identical twins with their significant others).  I actually watch this film whenever it is on television and it just comes across as a no-brainer type movie without much to say.  Just watch it and say Ho-Hum.  The backup actors to Tomlin and Midler actually have better lines to work with.  Maybe the character of rich Midler needed to be super mean to make this more than a seven out of ten.  But the show really never went anywhere but it had a candy bar ending which probably saved it for the rerun mill on television. "},{"Title":"Business as Usual","Date":"11 May 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Big Business reminds me of some of the great comedy teams from Hollywood's Golden Age. A total laugh feast from start to finish this film strangely doesn't seem to have a high profile as comedies go however it is recommended viewing for anyone wanting a good old fashioned belly laugh and to see a comedy with probably the highest number of side splitting one liners in living memory. The premise of identical twins being mixed up at birth and meeting years later creating amusing complications is a tried and try formula for comedy however in Big Business, it is given a new freshness by the two leads who literally fly away with the material here. It's got a really simple plot, In a small town of Jupiter Hollow, two sets of identical twins are born in the same hospital on the same night. One set to a poor local family and the other to a rich family just passing through. Then the story flashes forward to the 1980's where the mismatched sets of twins are about to cross paths following a big business deal to close-down the Jupiter Hollow factory. The film is shot in New York.Overall, I had a great time revisiting the film. 'Big Business' is just as funny the first time I saw it. The film will certainly have plenty of critics, but the film was never meant to be taken seriously. The film is harmless fun and makes for a very funny experience even today. Built on a solid script the films hilarious humor performance delivery was spot on, special effects were flawless and the music sets the scenes perfectly, in this must revisited 1980's comedy classic.Overall rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"strip mining has in fact severely harmed West Virginia","Date":"6 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the best examples of what comedy can be casts Bette Midler and Lily Tomlin as two sets of identical twins who got switched at birth, only to see their lives cross paths some decades later. I nearly died laughing at how people would carry on conversations with the wrong woman, totally convinced that she was the correct woman! One part of the movie that makes it seem a little less innocent are the discussions of strip mining, a type of surface mining that involves removing a long strip of overlaying soil and rock. Bobby Kennedy was going after coal companies that were doing this. More recently, the coal companies have been blowing the tops off of mountains, destroying communities in West Virginia.But anyway, it's a riot to hear the WV sisters debating the businessmen with their folksy talk. This is a movie for the ages! Also starring Fred Ward, Edward Herrmann, Seth Green (Scott in the Austin Powers movies) and financial journalist Louis Rukeyser in a cameo.So yes, is a frog's ass watertight? "},{"Title":"I hate men who smell of beer and bean dip....","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In a small town, two sets of identical twins are born in the same hospital on the same night. One pair to a poor local family and the other pair to a rich family passing through the small town . The nurse on duty mixes the twins by mistake unbeknown to the parents. Flash forward to the eighties, and the twins are about to cross paths following a business deal to close down a factory that has mutual connotations the both pairs of twins.....Its a Bette Midler vehicle for sure, and the back end of the eighties were just hit after hit for her. But the quality wasn't always there, and despite Midler and Tom,in being really good, it's not got the venom that her other films had, a really dark streak was needed in this.What we get is a running joke of the nice Tomlin/Midler talking to someone, and then the not so nice Tomlin/Midler talking to the same person, leaving the camera on said person looking highly confused.Its funny the first couple of times, but then the film begins to rely on that one joke.It's typically eighties fodder, high heels, big hair, and shoulder pads, featuring a brilliant song during the end credits.It would probably hold some nostalgia value to someone who saw it when it first came out, but for me, it's pretty average stuff. "},{"Title":"Midler and Tomlin are mismatched in more ways than two...","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Reworking of the main gag in 1970's Start the Revolution Without Me has a rich couple from New York City, driving through a small Southern town, checking into a country-bumpkin hospital where the wife delivers twins--two girls; at the same time, in the same befuddled hospital, a local woman also delivers twins--two girls. The joke, of course, is one city baby is accidentally switched with one of the local girls; years later, they all meet up at the Plaza Hotel. One of Bette Midler's better comedies for Touchstone, although this one does take an agonizingly long time to get started (and once the action moves to the Plaza, it becomes less a vehicle for the ladies than a visual effects-driven comedy with overtures to the farces of the 1930s). Lily Tomlin's small town fussbudget is colorful, but her big city counterpart never takes shape (and she doesn't quite click with Midler; one may argue their characters are not related and, therefore, shouldn't click, but Tomlin's style is so different from her co-star's, and she doesn't segue smoothly into slapstick). There's a great deal of incidental plotting revolving around the main action, with nutty characters continually popping up, but the jokes are freshest and funniest when director Jim Abrahams simply sets the camera on Bette Midler and lets her go. The editing is sloppy and abbreviates some of Midler's liveliest moments, yet Bette is very amusing when she's allowed to take charge. Fred Ward also appealing as a country rube who loves one or both of the Tomlins--although this pairing, too, lacks charisma (it's a plot device, like much of the rest of Big Business). **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"The rant about the pant","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a fun film for a rainy day. It is nice to hang out at the Plaza Hotel for an hour or so. Bette Midler steals the show, but with the full cooperation of Lily Tomlin, who is extremely annoying. Miss Tomlin pants her way through the New York character and hicks her way through the other. Neither is anywhere near believable, and the viewer needs a remote to fast forward through her scenes. The more I watch this film, the more and more grating is Lily Tomlin's voice. She seems to want to convey stress by panting and panting and panting, only relieved by flapping her hands and losing her shoulder pad before panting and flapping some more.If I were the New York City Sadie, I would have dumped this this nails-on-the-chalkboard Sis long before she inherited. "},{"Title":"A Comedy of Errors that didn't make me laugh............","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I know farce is supposed to be fast and furious but it is also supposed to be funny and unfortunately Big Business(absolutely no connection with the Laurel and Hardy masterpiece of the same name)isn't.Miss Midler and Miss Tomlin squeal,shout,wriggle and giggle to very little effect indeed. Whether playing country gals from Jupiter Holler or Manhattan sophisticates they merely go into their respective schticks no matter if it helps or hinders the creaking plot that was old when Shakespeare gave it a lick of paint. Both ladies have large vociferous followings whom I would hate to offend but I must in all honesty say that I find them an acquired taste.Perhaps it's me. The whole ragbag of identity jokes is ravaged without shame but Big Business brings nothing new to the party. However,if you are amongst the Midler/Tomlin fanbase you will already be ignoring me and settling down in front of your DVD with your cans of Stella and Indian Takeaway ready to belch and burp your way through it.Er,sorry,did I get that bit wrong? "},{"Title":"Really predicable attempt at screwball comedy","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When a big city businessman and his wife go into labour during a journey through a small country town they enter a country practise at the same time as a hick family.  The end result is twins &#150; both sets called Sadie and Rose.  However a short sighted midwife mixes up the sets and both family's get one half each.  Years later one set owns a major New York company who are looking to shut down a small subsidiary of their company &#150; run by the other two.  The hick Rose and Sadie come to the Plaza where the other pair are, unwittingly, staying.  Hilarity ensues (we're told).Although this type of plot can work in a well pace screwball type comedy it doesn't work if the laughs aren't there &#150; and they aren't here.  The plot is simply an excuse to get the four protagonists into the same hotel for some mistaken identity `comedy'.  However it fails to really work &#150; simply because it lacks spark, wit and invention.  The situations are all lazy and predictable and more importantly, THEY'RE NOT VERY FUNNY.I smiled a few times and only laughed out loud once.  The comedy is just so darn ordinary that you can see the supposed `jokes' coming a mile off.  Midler is particularly bad in this film &#150; in both roles, she just grates on me no matter what she does, she seems unable to be anything but brash and vulgar.  Tomlin is much better and is good in both roles despite the material.  The star for me is Fred Ward's miniature golf playing working man who is amusing even when he gets involved in the hotel shenanigans.  Special mention should be given to the gay couple here &#150; it is quite refreshing to have such a couple not portrayed as flaming queens or sissy marys as is the way with many films and TV shows.Overall this is popcorn dumb.  If you have lost your mind then it may amuse you but really it felt like someone pulling my eyelashes for 90 minutes.  The odd smile and the even rarer laugh do not make a comedy &#150; the screwball comedy pretty much had it's 40's and 50's heyday.  If the genre wasn't pretty much dead already `Big Business' put the nail in the coffin. "}]