[{"Title":"Not enough gratuitous content.","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A great title leads you to great expectations.  Surf Nazis Must Die is a title that DEMANDS a movie overflowing with needless sex and unnecessary violence.  Characters should be killing and dying and stripping and screwing ceaselessly and pointlessly from beginning to end.  It should be filled with bizarreness, crammed with oddities that were included not because they make sense, but because somebody in the cast or crew thought it was a good idea at the time.  Surf Nazis Must Die should have been the cinematic equivalent of 'found art.'  Alas, it isn't.  Rather the filmmakers told a largely conventional story of revenge in a largely conventional manner.  And when there wasn't enough content to fill out the movie, instead of throwing in some irrelevant bits of sex, violence or weirdness, they fluffed up the scenes carrying the main storyline, making them slow and dull, instead of quick and sharp.  Even the sex and violence that IS in the movie is dull and forgettable.  But this is common enough in the low budget world - and not a sin - where high quality is expected to be beyond the means and talent of the filmmakers.  But they should remember that quantity is also a quality and that a pile of low-grade industrial diamonds can be worth more than a few gemstones.   "},{"Title":"A Misunderstood Work Of Genius","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"27 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Surf Nazis Must Die is one of the best films to be distributed by Troma and sadly, one of the least appreciated. The IMDb voters who briefly put the film in the bottom 100 should be strapped down and forced to watch Driving Miss Daisy until they come to their senses. I even disagree with the reviewers who lump the film in the so bad it's good category. I think Surf Nazis Must Die is simply good.In comparison to many of its low budget contemporaries, the writing in SNMD is positively Shakespearian. The film has some semblance of a plot, the jokes are actually funny and the action is well paced. Most surprisingly, the film has a bizarre feel-good quality, which could almost be described as wholesome (if you look past the violence, sex and foul language). This is largely due to film's sympathetic heroine, the awesome Eleanor Washington, who vows to single-handedly take out the members of an evil beach gang (the titular surf Nazis) after they kill her beloved son.In addition to Eleanor, the film's minor characters also have a lot to offer. Smeg's relationship with his mother is hilarious and the surf Nazis are wonderfully tasteless, with members being named after Nazi luminaries. The director makes several very obvious references to A Clockwork Orange, but despite their eye make-up and swastikas, these gang members are about as chilling as the Goonies.The inevitable bloodshed is rather low key and the gore effects are simplistic at best. However, the innovative use of hooks and speedboats more than makes up for any lack of carnage. Unlike many zero budget action films, SNMD does not rely on blood splatter or gratuitous sex to pass the time - which under normal circumstances I would consider to be a huge failing. However, SNMD is generally in such poor taste and overflows with sardonic humour to the point where the film becomes utterly irresistible.Surf Nazis Must Die is a brilliantly conceived beach holocaust drama/revenge thriller that you can enjoy with the entire family. Forget about the low IMDb rating and brace yourself for this evocative masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Possibly the best title ever...","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...but the film fails to live up to it, unfortunately. No, not for the reasons that most other reviewers have stated. It's Troma...so I EXPECTED bad acting, thin plot, hilariously bad dialogue, etc. That's why I watch Troma flicks in the first place. No, the reason that Surf Nazis doesn't live up to its brilliant title is that it isn't outrageous enough. It's far too tame for a Troma film, as far as I'm concerned. When I first heard about this movie, I was psyched up to see it. Why? Because when you think Surf Nazis Must Die, in conjunction with the name Troma Films, you just expect something completely twisted...full of sex, gore, and sick humor. You know...a TROMA movie. But the bulk of this movie just doesn't live up to the expectation that I had.This is atypical Troma, and not even all Troma fans will appreciate it. But hey, I guess it's not that bad. But with a title like Surf Nazis Must Die, Troma should have done better. "},{"Title":"Classic 1980's Troma Rubbish!!!","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" For, amongst other things, the excellent soundtrack, for having a character called smeg,for the lush shots of the sky and the bunker area, and for the immortal line taste some of mommas home cooking Adolf, this films deserves 10 out of 10.I think the films worst enemies were Troma themselves for the misleading cover art and hyping up the title by adding the must die part. I think many people will be disappointed because they are taken in by the cover and blurb. Here in Britain the film was originally released simply as Surf Nazis and featured a less sensational cover, you knew more what to expect, although the a clockwork orange for the 1980's tag line was a bit of a joke. "},{"Title":"How did they manage to make this movie suck?","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I first heard about this movie, I thought it would be the greatest movie ever made. First of all, it's called Surf Nazis Must Die. Second of all, it's about an old fat black lady seeking revenge against a gang called the surf Nazis who killed her son. Third of all, it was released by Troma. It seems nearly impossible for somebody to screw this movie up, but they did. It was just one big boring scene after another and Momma Washington didn't do too much fighting with the surf Nazis. Somebody with talent needs to remake this would be tromasterpiece. This would be the end of my review but I need at least 10 lines. I don't understand why they think you can only describe a movie in 10 or more lines. And I have seen reviews that have been far less the 10 lines. How did they do that? "},{"Title":"Underrated Flick","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although the title, combined with the Troma label, will make most people go into this film with low expectations, I feel the need to say that Surf Nazi's Must Die is definitely worth seeing. A lot of the acting is sub-par, sure, and the writing isn't exactly fantastic, but it manages to be very entertaining throughout; the soundtrack, in particular, is fantastic. Certain scenes nicely incorporate off-key humor, yet the filmmakers didn't intend to make a comedy; in fact, they take themselves rather seriously, a decision which I'm sure is one of the reasons this film is so maligned. It seems like those involved in the making of this film were enjoying what they were doing, for the most part, and I think they made a well-paced, consistently interesting B-movie. Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Great but loose","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you don't like this film, it is because you don't really understand. Go pay your seven or fifteen bucks and plop down at the local cinemark, because if you don't stuff like this, it just isn't for you.But if you can take a joke, then the thing is interesting. I haven't seen a bunch of Troma's catalogue, but I think it is one of the more memorable flicks there; it certainly isn't Tromeo and Juliet or Terror Firmer, but I don't understand the claim that it isn't a typical Troma film. At least it wasn't something like Outlaw Prophet (which put Troma on a blacklist with my wife). It was a genuine trash film, and taken as such seems as good as any other work of trash.What makes this movie good is the fact that the kids have all given themselves new names, a fact that comes up when Smeg is talking to his mom (who claims he shouldn't call her mom). That is just choice.Or the fact that the Nazis are all queens in hiding. I like the not so subtle homo-eroticism.Of course, not only could both of these elements been mobilized more effectively, but there are other things it could have hit on. The apocalyptic oil pumping could have been used better, along with placing Leroy as part of the energy company pumping the beach dry. I was hoping that the fact that there is a big disjunction between the bourgeoisie expectations of Leroy and the ludicrous turf wars of the surf gangs could have been put to better use.So to all you people who didn't like this because of the film making-- you are just wrong. This is what good ol' not so Hollywood film looks like. Like all real films, it's flaws are that it doesn't exploit everything that it could. "},{"Title":"Surf Nazis must....find a plot","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" OK, OK, first of all, I love Troma. Lloyd Kaufman is a brilliant man, creating a company that is entirely based around camp horror with humor, most of them with talented actors (or untalented ones, just for old time's sake) and distributed them out to filmfans. You can tell a film is a Troma film if it includes the following 1) B-movie actors (although, they do have SOME well known celebs in their films 2) Over-the-top gore and violence, not disturbing, more nasty and disgusting, but for humorous purposes.3) Kinky sex scenes, filled with soft-corn porn, Lesbian interaction, outrageous sex-jokes 4) Virtually no plot. But a hilarious title for the film.When I heard about Surf Nazis Must Die, I probably jumped three feet in the air for joy. I mean, what else do you want? Surfing, Nazis, a angry Black woman, TROMA?!? It should be the PERFECT Troma film! Unfortunately, this particular film makes you wonder why Kaufman didn't kick director Peter George in the teeth after seeing the final cut of the film. In the end, the only thing the film succeeds in being a good Troma movie is the title...thats it.Well, where do we start? There's virtually no plot. I know, I know, I wasn't expecting On the Waterfront, but come on...even The Toxic Revenger had somewhat of a plot, and if not, over the top violence...this had nothing. The story set somewhere in the future (at least the 80's/early 90's version of the future, where tie-dye shirts are still in style apparently), where an Earthquake has destroyed most of the California coast line (ummm...ooook). Out of the chaos, surfing gangs begin a war to stake claim over the beach. One of the most ruthless gangs is....OK, is that obvious? The surf Nazis. The Nazis are really just a bunch of scraggly lookin' white supremacists who wear tethered clothing with poorly drawn swastikas written on them. Adolf is the leader...hmm, clever. He looks like he's about 40 years old, but hangs out with high school kids. The others are Eva, Sneg, Gangdala and Hook, and none of them have any back story (althought for some odd reason, they try to portray Sneg as being some dumb, naive teenager with a mother who is worried about him, in some pointless subplot). Adolf tries to unite all the gangs on the beach so they can rule the coastline (a plot line ripped off of the far-more superior film, The Warriors), but none of them want to be under the command of the Nazis, so one by one, they turn on them and are killed...end of that story. Now, there's a young man named Leroy with his tough-as-nails mother who live near the beach. Leroy, being black, is attacked by the Nazis and killed. This leads Leroy's Momma to escape from her retirement home and seek revenge against the murderers.I basically told you the entire flick. It's that basic and small. You probably get more out of watching the trailer for the film than watching the actual film. The violence is surprisingly toned down, with virtually no gore, which makes it look like a film made over the weekend at a budget of $75 dollars. The fight scenes are poorly choreographed, looking like they improvised it at the set. The acting...eh, it's alright. One thing I noticed is that they tried to make this film look more serious than campy...which is the kiss of death, being that the film is called....SURF Nazis MUST DIE!!! Oh, thats another thing...it's called SURF Nazis MUST DIE, but in the film, only three of them are actually killed (out of a gang of about 7, not including the youth punks). Scenes were long and boring, with very little pay off. The surfing scenes were nice, though. Obviously, it was footage of professionals surfing in Hawaii (California does NOT have that nice of waves) and most of the film was shot in my home town of Huntington Beach.It you wanna watch a good Troma movie, watch Tromeo & Juliet or Cannibal! The Musical! instead. Leave this one to wipe-out, and hang to dry. "},{"Title":"Amazing Title............Really Boring Film","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm a pretty big fan of Troma films and b movies in general but i found this movie very difficult to watch all the way through. The first hour or so was just so dull, nothing remotely interesting happens at all. The action gets a little more exciting towards the end but its nothing to write home about.I expected outrageous, over the top violence, sex and randomness but it just never really happened. The ridiculous plot had the potential to make a classic troma flick so its a shame that it was so poorly executed.One of the only parts of the film i really liked was the main musical theme, the crazy synth really went well with the bizarre movie idea. "},{"Title":"Missing sharks","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's because of films like these, which serve as the reason why Troma rules. OK. So Troma's got some stinkers out there after 30+ yrs of experience, but not many. They are, by far, the best low budget schlock makers in the world! The only ones who can hold a candle to them might be say Full Moon & Roger Corman. If ya like Troma's stuff, then check them out too.But one thing where were the sharks in this one? I would've loved to see one of those surf Nazis or various other chomped by a shark. And while although it's been a while since I've seen this, I don't recall even seeing a fin's tip.The scene where the n word was used just conjures up memories of my own personal experiences as a boy nicely. Of course I didn't murder anybody and brag about it in the wide open in front of two girls before. What a jackass! In nearly 30 years, now *damn where did the time go?* there unfortunately hasn't been a sequel to its name. And I would love to see one more ridiculously good time w/ the surf Nazis. At least this film, along w/ most other troma films, doesn't take itself near as seriously as the blockbusters who just come off as stupid.And yes, if you will read my review carefully, I'm pretty much agreeing w/ another commenter who also called it, ridiculously good. That much it is. I gave this a 7, which is the highest I gave a movie of its kind so far. "}{"Title":"Thank god for 'Mama' Washington!","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Troma movies are supposed to be bad. Well, I mean, they're supposed to be cheap and kind of stupid, but there always seems to be some element of fun in there...somewhere. But Surf Nazi's Must Die was just plain awful, even for Troma. The movie plot is simple--a gang of homicidal surf nazi's run the beach. They meet their doom when they kill a young black man. His mama, Eleanor Washington, not a feeble woman at all despite their treatment of her in the nursing home, is going to take revenge on the gang who took her boy from her. And man, is she one awesome hero out to put an end to those dreadful fashion victims, the surf nazi's. The whole movie is stupid, but the end is the real cheeser with surf nazi's battling Mama Washington in actions scene on the water on a half chopped motor boat. I think I partly cheered on Mama Washington because she was the only one to serve up a slice of revenge on some of the most annoying characters ever to be burned into film. If it weren't for her, this movie would just be pure pain on the eyes. "},{"Title":"Troma matures with a dystopic vision of the future of gang culture","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film unashamedly attempts to replicate Kubrick's 'A clockwork Orange' and is also similar to other youth gang movies such as 'Romper Stomper' and 'Suburbia' The issues of radical politics, racism, disillusioned youth, vengeance and gang violence are all addressed, but there is nothing original about this film. There is excellent cinematography and an interesting synth score which seems appropriate. The story focuses around a the 'surf Nazis' the dominant surfer gang in California, they kill a young African American, but things go wrong for the gang when the victim's Mother seeks a bloody revenge. The story is simple and the acting pretty abysmal, but if you're a fan of the amateur charm of Troma movies then this probably won't bother you, as long as you accept there are a lot less laughs and a lot less tits than other Troma classics such as 'Class of Nuke 'em High' "},{"Title":"As bad as it gets","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, I did not expect a good movie, but what I expected was at least somehow a funny and entertaining movie. However, I saw the worst movie ever. This movie is so boring and dumb, I do not know how you could excel it in terms of boringness and stupidity. Such kinds of movies only work with some self-irony, but this movie is lacking any kind of irony. When there is no sign of humor, are there at least some good splatter and gore effects? No, not at all. There should be a law against such movies and I can only warn everybody not to watch this movie otherwise you will have the worst 75 minutes of your life. "},{"Title":"Troma, Surfing and Nazis","Date":"6 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When the grandson of a gun wielding woman is murdered by neo-nazi surf punks in the post-apocalyptic future, this grandma hunts them down for some bloodthirsty revenge.There is not really all that much surfing, at least not with the Nazis. Seems like mostly stock footage. I wanted to see gun battles on the water, but maybe I forgot that Troma could not afford such awesome things. The movie could just as easily been called Beach Nazis.What I like about this movie is that it makes no attempt to provide social commentary. It does not have a serious view of racism, or of white supremacist groups, or even of children leaving their families for gangs. It just has an angry woman trying to get revenge. Thanks, Troma, for just making a quick, fun, silly film and avoiding any attempt at depth. "},{"Title":"Beneath Teeth?","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Folks, eat your heart out. I know Rand Hogen, who plays Teeth. His death-scream still resonates throughout Hollywood &#x97; and Bollywood, for that matter &#x97; as the model scream for all on-screen dust-biting. As for Rand himself, I know that from his incomparable acting you'd expect him to be a glitzy, world-traveling, supercilious snob, but he's actually quite a nice guy. (Thought the same can't be said about his brother, Rory, who, while no actor himself, fancies himself God's gift to the unevolved.) The rumor through the grapevine is that two rainmaking produces in Hollywood are bruiting about a project called Surf Nazis Are Fixin' to Die II, but it hasn't got enough funding yet. It seems to be a prequel filmed in the South on the Gulf of Mexico. I think they need to raise about $200. I sure hope that Rand gets the opportunity to reprise his role as Teeth, though by now he'll probably go by the sobriquet Dentures, which more befits a superannuated man. An Oscar awaits him, no doubt. Or at least a Reynaldo. "},{"Title":"What A Title!","Date":"22 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Surf Nazis Must Die - What A Title! Generally speaking, I am a (moderate) fan of Troma flicks. Their films are certainly no masterpieces, but some (such as Blood Sucking Freaks or Mother's Day) are genuinely nasty and others (such as The Toxic Avenger) are downright hilarious. While Surf Nazis Must Die is certainly not one of the worst movies from Troma Entertainment, however, it is sadly one of the lesser Troma flicks I've seen. Granted, the film is entertaining in a very dumb manner, but the focus lies on the 'dumb' here. I am fine with that, but I was somehwhat disappointed by the comparatively low level of disgusting gore and tastelessness for a Troma flick.A California beach is ruled by different criminal gangs, the most ruthless being the Surf Nazis, a gang lead by a guy who calls himself 'Adolf'. When a young black man named Leroy keeps a gang member from stealing an old lady's bag, he is brutally murdered by the Surf Nazis. Leroy's Mama, however, is one tough lady, and she is determined to avenge her son's death...The film has its moments, but it is often just too stupid to really be enjoyed. The performances are incredibly awful, of course, but then that's what Troma usually stands for, and I do not take this as a flaw in a film like this. I did expect lots of gore, sleaze and toilet humor, however, and these elements were not really present to the extent that I wished for. The film is merely a revenge story with some (very) low-key humor. The fact that an elderly lady wipes out an entire gang of Nazis is quite amusing, however, and the last 15 minutes, especially the gory and hilarious showdown are fun enough to make the whole film worthwhile. Still, I would have wished for a higher level of tastelessness in the film. It is fun to watch for Troma fans, but I'd definitely recommend many other Troma flicks over this one. "},{"Title":"The Endless Reich","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Peter George is almost too talented, in a sense, to have made Surf Nazis Must Die for a Troma audience. As a regular low-budget piece, it uses its thousands of dollars reasonably well. Unlike a whole lot of other films made by Troma, this one isn't shot by incompetent simians throwing crap up onto a wedgie board to decide the next shot. Hell, the actors even kind of try to give some decent performances. The only problem happens when George and his co-writer try and make a solid story out of their material surfing Nazis taking over the territory from rival ethnic gangs. Maybe there shouldn't be much of a story to expect, but there could be more, either as an actual deranged work of real craft and structure, or as a go-for-broke guilty pleasure.On the latter part, the filmmakers don't even live up to the cheesy promise of the poster; the only time one sees some death on the waves occurs in the climax, and it's more like a much better version of the climax of I Spit on Your Grave (saying much better is indeed a compliment in any regard as it's the worst film ever made). Mostly it's just shots of regular surfing (mostly in what looks like so-so stock footage), and then the action (which isn't quite as much as you might expect) taking place in other areas between the Nazis and other gang members. This isn't to say the filmmakers disappoint with camp value all the way, far from it; the highlight is Gail Neely as the Mama of Leroy, a black youth killed by the Nazis, who goes to exact her revenge on a motorcycle after going through a gun shop like Tuco in GB&U. Seeing her is almost worth the price of the DVD.But at the same time there isn't quite enough crazy action to justify the sloppy storyline. There's some interest in the power games between Mengele and Adolph (and seeing one of the Nazis, Smeg, being harranged by his mother at home like a typical nag), and a few other things, yet most of the plot doesn't hinge on the Nazis or gangs as much as the Mama in her Punisher mode. It's almost the kind of flick that could make an ambitious remake- maybe with actual hardcore surf kills and with a plot out of the Warriors- but as it is a curiosity veering on being an actual good movie. "},{"Title":"The greatest disappointment..........","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" With a title like this, Surf Nazis Must Die had to be brilliant, hilarious and very low-taste. Boy was I wrong. This was just plain boring. No other word but boring. Almost NOTHING (I mean nothing) happened in the first half hour. All it included was some scenes of surfing and random conversations (some of which were mildly amusing). There is VERY little gore in this, which was extremely disappointing. Of course, many say that this is a so bad it's good movie or if you don't like this movie, you are to serious. Well, I think this is a so bad that it is downright appalling movie. Troma really let themselves down with this one. If you want a good Troma movie, I suggest The Toxic Avenger or Tromeo and Juliet.½/5. "},{"Title":"Just a shite movie, nothing more","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Because many people wrote about how cult this movie was, I rented it one time at the video store. I don't care if its made by Troma or not, it is just a whole load of sh*t... The basic story may be great, a surfer gang of Nazis trying to invade Californian beaches. But the outcome - forget about it. The whole movie shows only the inability of the makers, especially in the ridiculous fighting scenes. They could not even make the Nazis look like real Nazis, with Uniforms and so on or at least in Skinhead Style. Despite some senseless dialog, the movie has not much to offer. No sex, no gory violence, except for the basic idea a very conventional story - Surf Nazis take over the beaches, the oppressed other surf gangs take revenge. There are lot B- and C-Movies of the 80ies which are much better. "},{"Title":"Can movies get worse than this?","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fugitive Rage was the worse movie I'd ever seen. After watching Surf Nazis Must Die, Fugitive Rage is no longer the worse movie I've ever seen. This had everything wrong with it, acting, script, directing, score, make up, it all sucked. And the ending was so unbelievable I started to laugh it was so corny and poorly done. I rented this because I was in the mood for stupidity. Well, I got what I wanted. But with a lot of dull moments,and I mean a lot, like about 99.9% of the movie. This is a Troma film to skip. I give it a 1 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Just don't","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a total waste of one-plus hours that I will never ever get back. I am considering divorcing my formerly beloved partner, who forced me to watch this. How could she? I thought she loved me.Even though I often love B movies, this one is a mess. Not an entertaining mess, just a mess. Somebody spent more than $100 on this -- there is more than one set, there is a full cast, there are costumes. The shots are generally clean and well set up. There may even be a plot, although it's a bit difficult to tell. But the editing is inexplicable. Troma is usually gloriously B, and full of deliciously unconvincing gore. In this case, they should have saved a couple of gallons of fake blood.Be happy. Live long and prosper. Don't rent this. "},{"Title":"A real disappointment from Troma","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Bad acting, writing, and directing sinks this garbage from Troma about a group of fascist punks who have taken over a beach.  One by one, they are picked off by a vengeful black woman (Gail Neely) whom she holds responsible for her son's death.  My evaluation (no stars).  "},{"Title":"Fascinating post-apocalypse feature","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think most people hate Surf Nazis Must Die because of the whole Troma label. This is more of an interesting experimental feature closer to The Bedsitting Room than Mad Max. It's very well shot and the synth 80's music is interesting for a film of this type. This film should have been marketed to the Art House Crowd.  It's a slow moving odd and unique film. It's a shame it fell into the hands of Troma. "},{"Title":"Fun trash from Troma.","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Surf Nazis Must Die is an enjoyable piece of funny trash from Troma.The gang war erupts between several groups on a California beach.The Surf Nazis,naturally led by some guy named Adolf,are the agressors and they start killing the members of other beach gangs one by one.There is also a black woman who becomes an angel of vengeance,after her son is killed.The acting is horrible,but the film is fun to watch.There is enough sex and violence to satisfy Troma lovers.Give this one a look,if you're a fan of exploitation.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"what can I say...adventure and gunfire on the waves","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film at times had some dramatic quality to it. The films great strength is that it takes plot conventions used by ROAD WARRIOR and DEATH WISH and does them as the exact opposite while yet at other times falling directly in line with genre. At times beautifully filmed, this film also slightly smirks at standard movie plot devices. The film is the tale of a future where the beaches are ruled by armed gangs and the quest of a black woman to avenge her dead son. Done with a sly sense of humor and at times tastless; it also dares to break a few movie molds (ie. who is in the love scene etc.). A interesting film to say the least. Along the lines of COMBAT SHOCK but by no means a social commentary. Not as humorous as the TOXIC AVENGER but if you like TROMAS line up worth a view. "},{"Title":"Man, was this rad!","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ugh. I had seen bad movies. I had seen really bad movies. I wanted to watch something atrocious, hence, I rented Surf Nazis Must Die, and those really bad movies looked like Oscar-winning material in comparison.Surf Nazis Must Die is simply the worst movie I have ever seen. There is not much to add, except for the fact that it is the first time that I see an actor (the guy playing Adolf) growing a mustache while shooting a film. Pretty arty, if you ask me. It gives the audience a sense of the order in which the scenes were shot.I noticed the lengthy credits at the beginning of the film. (By the way, that was a great way of committing a professional suicide for all the poor souls that were listed in there.) I believe this is all part of a conspiracy there is obviously no script, so I think some people were credited as writers just because the producers had a grudge against them. The actors are laughable (what do you expect when the cast member who had the most accomplished career only landed a walk-in part in Santa Barbara?), the dialog is, well, profound, and the directing is quite lame, except for the surf scenes. Paraphrasing Roger Ebert, I would qualify this movie as hilariously bad. It is still not clear to me why these guys are Nazis. Except for having swastiskas (loosely) painted all over their possessions, they don't have much in common with the real Nazis. In fact, they are just psychos with a taste for questionable decorum.** Spoiler warning (as if it mattered) ** You'll notice that the movie was well thought-out. The Nazis are a group of six people. Other clans include only three members. Of course, instead of teaming up to kick some Nazi butt, these other clans come in one by one, and get thrashed. Why three and not twelve, or square-root of two? Go figure.I would have given this movie a 2, because of the pretty decent surf scenes, but I think it's high time this movie regain its place in IMDb's hall of shame. (I think it used to be ranked as high as 5th worst-movie ever.) Hence, it gets a 1. But don't get me wrong. It's really fun to watch that movie, especially if you are drunk. There is actually a common point shared by Surf Nazis and the Godfather. I got to pay a late return fee to my video store in both cases.I can't wait to get my hands of Manos, to see what the hype is all about. I am not sure that one can do worse than Surf Nazis, but I'll have to see for myself. I don't think that some one who deliberately wants to write/film the worst movie ever can do a job half as bad as Surf Nazis. "},{"Title":"come on people","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why would anybody watch a movie called 'surf nazis must die' for any reason other than it sux hard?  Nobody would expect oscar material, just so bad it's good garbage, myself included.The director seems to think otherwise.For some reason, he thinks that a decent movie can come of this, and tries way too hard.  What was needed was super violence, terrible acting, and perhaps a few scenes which had no relation to the plot.  But the acting wasn't bad, there was no violence, and barely any irrelevant scenes.  The only high point was the opening few seconds where there are some kids yelling about nazi-ism.  Still, it's not worth getting if you're looking for a laugh, and if you weren't why would you be reading this? "},{"Title":"WARNING Watching this film WILL turn your brain to mush!","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was a $1.00 blind VHS purchase from Hollywood Video (mainly because Iam such a fan of Troma's Monster in the Closet) & to be frank....IWANT MY DOLLAR BACK!! What an utterly banal, stupid & nonsensical film this truly is. Hell, I don't even really know where to begin in describing this putrid film which looks like it was shot on a $99.00 budget(complete with ultra amateurish 'acting'). And what's worse, it's not even funny bad either! SNMD takes place in the future sometime after the great California earthquake. Supposedly the police force is all tied up with restoring order in Los Angles and that leaves the beaches free for roaming gangs of surfer thugs . Let's see..we have, the Samuri gang, the pipe fitters (or whatever their dumb names were) & of course the Surf Nazis. The Surf Nazis all have names like Adolph (the leader-o'vey!) & Eva (his nasty bitch of a whore), Menglea..well you get the picture. We get plenty of surfing scenes, some terribly choreographed fight scenes, lots of meaningless filler scenes & very little T & A or sex (the gore is also minimal). The Surf Nazi's allegedly own the waves & the beaches & shakedown the local businesses. So one would think that these lunkheads would be armed with something a tad bit better than knifes & stabbing weapons-NOPE! Anyway, the Surf Nazi's kill a son of a very cantankerous middle-age, overweight, black woman. And so (naturally) we have a Troma-ized re-enactment of Big Bad Mamma & her subsequent revenge. She also happens to be the only one in the film smart enough to buy a gun & grenades (get this) from one of the Surf Nazi's main suppliers . The rest of the film continues to wallow in the swamps of absurdity as the viewer logically asks if these Surf Nazi's are so bad ass, how come they can't dispose of one lone, over-weight, middle age black woman? and How come none of these boneheads ever heard of a gun?Bloodstone's Recommendation Watch Surf Nazis Must Die ONLY if you're suffering from insomnia or you want to lower your IQ ten points.Bloodstone's Rating 2.0 "},{"Title":"Sometimes you can judge a film by it's cover","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I bought this movie only because the fact that it had the worst titles I have ever heard. I laughed a lot at the cover and the title until I actually watched it.This is the worst movie I have ever seen with just junk piled up on top of more junk. Not only does this movie has lousy actors, pointless scenes and pathetic lines, it also has this weird phaser-effect over the sound through out the whole movie. After about 20 minutes of that wave sound you just want to turn the rubbish off. The probability of you watching the whole movie is very small.I think it is supposed to be some kind of reproduction of WWII; the evil leader of the gang is called Adolf (and his girlfriend Eva) and he and his friends allies with some Asian gang. Besides that, nothing in this movie makes sense. They didn't even manage to do a good splatter scene in the end. "},{"Title":"Great title, lousy movie","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think I've discovered why Troma Studios has never had a major hit. They're clearly aiming for the straight faced comedy of movies like Airplane!, but they end up not even on par with the unintentional comedy of movies like Plan 9 From Outer Space. Surf Nazis Must Die is an excellent example of this, it's a movie that could have been so much more than it is. The set up is promising Los Angeles, in the not to distant future, immediately after a devastating earthquake, is overrun by gangs who are fighting between themselves for control of the beaches. The Nazis, run by a guy named Adolf (Barry Brenner) and his psycho girlfriend Eva, are in position to win the battle, until they kill the son of Eleanor Washington (Gail Neely). She just lost her house in the earthquake and is living in a home with the world's most irritating nurse, and this is the last straw. Like all Troma films, Surf Nazis has a lot of violence and cruelty, most of which is completely gratuitous, and things are going along swimmingly until you realize that this movie isn't funny at all. They aren't even trying. With these characters and situations, the movie could have been a classic comedy, but as it is it's just a cool title. But maybe Troma is happy with that. "}{"Title":"This movie Sucks!","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I Love Troma and most of their movies, but this one sucks!!  I wouldn't give some one a bucket of horse p*** for this movie!!!  Come on, I know this is TROMA, but something went terribly wrong.  The acting wasn't too bad and the story wasn't that bad neither.  It was just not a good movie.  Saying its a bad movie is too good for this one.  The best thing about the movie was the old black lady who kicked some serious butt.  My advice to you is  If you like Troma movies and plan on liking them, then stay the hell away from this one.  You'll thank me. "},{"Title":"Watch it if for no other reason than Why not","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Low budget, poor acting, and just about everything else a movie could have POOR in it. Yet it will give you at least a couple of laughs. This is one of those pictures you'll want to get if a local video store has a special of Rent three for (blank  amount)get two more for a penny a piece type deals. So just say Why not and see it for yourself.       "},{"Title":"Beautiful soundtrack, I enjoyed so much...","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is no better or worse than others have described. It's silly, its corny, we know that already, I mean I knew before even pressing play button..... I have had my fair in strange, extreme, original , unconventinal movies - nevertheless I was never a bad-film fan, I like b-films through the passion of the independent anti-artist, but i haven't done much research in the legendary 'best' bad films...I have to add that I have only seen Toxic avenger 1 from Troma... not much else, but i plan to! I really can't describe the emotions and vibe this films awoke! The perfect musical theme, some kind of early post-electro , pre-techno tune stuck in my mind, this piece of 'art' is not easily labeled as comedy, nor horror. I liked the fact that it doesn't want to be anything much, and it knows its values... Little talking & meanings, lots of wanna-be (?)style , lots of amateurish passion, lots of great synthesizer music (i happen to be one of the hugest fans of them all!) and cheesy (?) editing ....Easily my best bad film, not that I have seen a lot of them, and for what it is worth, it's because of the music ....If you have a somewhat strange humour and happen to like electronic music and 90s synthesizers, give this a try... quite a different take on praising this piece of trash, isn't it?? "},{"Title":"Wow, what a piece of crap!...I want to see it again","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All right, All right, this movie isn't great, but like many have said before it is a minor distraction.  Much like DEATH RACE 2000 and DEEP STAR SIX, this film is one you can fall asleep to after a night of bingeing on cocaine and booze.  While the film just takes from a few black exploitation plot devices -Mama's character is great, a throwback to 70's backtalkin' Mammys- and films like THE WARRIORS and possibly THE LAST WARRIOR, and don't forget THE ROAD WARRIOR; it makes them more digestible, what I mean by that is SURF NAZIS MUST DIE is popcorn, while those other movies, in this critic's personal opinion (with the exception of the LAST WARRIOR) are true, complex, thoughtful art. It should be stated that this film isn't really Troma, it was actually directed by Peter George who let Troma release it.  This make it completely different from Toxie and Kabukiman, because Lloyd Kauffman didn't make it, and is more along the lines of the Buddy Giovinazzo flick, COMBAT SHOCK. In closing the film is a mediocre trip into the world of 1980's post-apocolyptica(CREEPAZOIDS and even HELL COMES TO FROGTOWN did a much better job) and while I don't think it should win anything other than a Turkey Award, I think this film is a great party film and a nice pass out flick. 3 stars "},{"Title":"Wrong vehicle, bad film.","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm going to preface this review with this disclaimer I am not a racist. I do not believe that any variation of humankind ultimately has any strong advantages or weaknesses over another, and I would neither advocate discrimination against somebody because of their race or religion, nor would I suggest hate and violence towards them would be a good idea.Now, that having been said, I actually do think National Socialism--as a political ideology--has a lot of good points. It pains me that American film makers always seems to dwell on the one significant historical blemish on the party the racism. Our nation has been brainwashed to associate the Nazis and the terrible things they did to the Jewish people and other minorities while they were in power in WWII era Germany and, to a lesser extent, Italy. So the question the title of Surf Nazis Must Die begs, which is Why, exactly, must they die?, is instantly rhetorical. Of course they must die because they're Nazis and by extension, we can assume they're racist.I don't disapprove of Troma trying to tackle the problem of race relations in one of their pictures. It's a tender subject, yet one that should be explored over and over again, lest the horrors of past transgressions against race be repeated. But when forming your canvas on which your work will be created, why immediately pick out Nazis to be the bad guys? Because of a historical association? During the bulk of the 19th century, the terrible practice of slavery was a key feature in the democratic party's platform in the U.S. If you're going to use political affiliation as a reason to justify the need for death of someone, it would seem Surf Democrats Must Die would be a far more appropriate vehicle for American audiences.It came as very little a surprise, then, when I discovered the Surf Nazis resembled real Nazis in no significant way other then single dimensional racism. What became more disturbing is, the film draws the gang of surf punks so poorly, and makes all of the characters so instantly unlikeable, that the desire to see them die because they were annoying quickly overshadows wanting to see them die because they're racist. They could be the Charitable Order of Really Friendly Surf Monks, and go out of their way to help anyone in a disadvantaged situation in life, and you'd still end up wanting to see them die because, well, they're just really stupid people.When you seem to go out of your way to make characters which have no redeeming qualities, and who become noteworthy for the single fact that they cause audiences physical and mental distress by just watching them on the screen, employing something like race as a backdrop becomes counterproductive. In other words, the producers of this film actually ended up making people who are against racists look bad. Had this been intentional, the film would be worthy of praise under some convoluted perspective simply because it's just so hard to pull something like that off. Though I'm going to stick with my guess that this was not by design.I should note that there is a single gem in this train wreck of a film. Not a shining gem worth a lot of money; more of a semi-shiny rock found in a septic tank. And that is Gail Neely, who actually manages to give a performance worthy of a B movie. It's not a great performance, but she manages to take it with enough self awareness to consider Ok, this is all really stupid, so why not just ham it up and have fun with it? And it looks like she legitimately is enjoying herself. As opposed to the actors portraying the Surf Nazis, who seem more like extraordinarily bad actors that are so dumb they're taking the roles seriously.All in all, this is a pretty crummy movie. It's not a so bad it's good movie, it's just a crummy movie. If they managed to change the title to something like Stupid Surfers vs. Large Older Woman, it might fare a little better, if only because the working title they ended up with promises that a fun amount of kitsch could be contained in the film, which it doesn't. A more bland title would at the very least not build up an small expectation which never remotely was satisfied. "},{"Title":"This is one lame film","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've seen many a bad film, and a few Troma releases, but this one just doesn't have the so-bad-its-good format of most of the other Troma videos, mainly because it tries to take itself and it's subject too seriously. Because of that, we don't get a feel of them making fun of film conventions, or at themselves of the really out-there concept of the film, and instead we get a feel that they honestly believe that gangs of four or five teens can rule a city into the ground, and try to be neo-nazis. This really could have been as good as Sgt. Kabukiman NYPD, but instead falls quite short. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen.","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have only walked out on two movies (I should have walked out on Election, too), and this was one of them. The other one was Nightfall. I love a good bad movie, but this one is REALLY bad! "},{"Title":"A moving remix of Rocky Horror and A Clockwork Orange","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you like your movies with twang, this is one for you. This is a very carefully made film for the budget and doesn't disappoint. Surf Nazis are traditionally folks that hog the waves and are willing to fight you if you don't like that. This film takes that paradigm back in time to the real Nazi's, who, now that the big earthquake has finally hit and put the police out of control, has ushered in a beach world ruled by Surf Nazi's led by Adolf himself! The director spends lots of time developing and getting you attached to the Surf Nazi characters, and the dominating mother of the youngest Nazi, Smeg, as played by Bobby Bresee, is the icing on the cake. The Eleanor Washington role, Excellently played by Gail Neely, was a moving though humorous tribute of anyone harmed by brutality being willing to fight back. In all it was a very well thought out statement. "},{"Title":"Cult movie - period","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've rented that movie back in the 80s, surely being animated by the hype around TROMA and the title which striked me as utter hilarious (I'm still imaging Adolf on a surfboard whenever I think of the title...).Maybe it's my own weirdness which allows me to find that flick entertaining, at least to a certain extent. Okay, the acting is lousy, the score is causing massive diarrhea, the amount of senseless sex and violence is poor for this movie and a company which had definitely set some new standards within this genre (the reason why I had given only 6/10)...but it's the plot which is making up for some of the aforementioned lacks.Come on...Surf Nazis? I won't deny that even the one or another surfer doesn't only hang on to the waves but also to right-extremist positions; but if you're taking a movie coming from TROMA serious, you've already lost. It's not even meant as a parody on Neofaschism. It's just 80 minutes of - absolutely enjoyable - trash. No more and no less, the only real disappointment is the musical score which is just abysmally bad.If the title disturbs you, change it to Surf Rednecks Must Die, Surf Chevy-drivers Must Die, Surf Icecream-lickers Must Die...it's up to your imagination. Otherwise, grab whatever you need to get in the right mood for entertainment of the special no-think kind. "},{"Title":"They don't get any worse...maybe in a good way","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film can be watched in 2 different ways, in my eyes.The first way is the technical approach, that would be purely shocking acting, an appalling script (and idea for that matter), erratic and shocking timing of the music, oncompus direction and camera work, and the overall crappiness of this film.But than there is another approach that I have more taken, which is the same as the above, but realize how funny this movie is. This movie can make you laugh, accidentally or deliberately, (i'm not sure yet) in so many ways. The fact that a homo sexual 40 year old surf nazi who has a festive new age approach to the nazi salute cracked me up every time. The extravagant fight scenes, where master samurais and tanked up surfers lose to 3 weedie little nazis. But most of all, the grandma who takes on the nazis at the end.All in all it is possibly the crappest movie I've seen, but in saying so, is one of the funniest, and is strangely entertaining, but I still can't go past it's general crapness, that is why I'm awarding it a 2/10.But I do recommend it to everyone to watch.  "}{"Title":"I may be the only person who really likes this movie","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Surf Nazis Must Die is not a beautiful work of art. It is an enjoyable distraction. What I liked most about this movie is that it was not like any other movies I can think of. The plot is simple and outrageous, but not entirely unbelievable. The movie was filmed, edited, scored and acted proficiently and at times very well, but only if you aren't assuming the worst of it and actually giving it a chance. Truly enough Troma fans are the people most likely to enjoy this film but I think given a chance many other people may enjoy it too.  "},{"Title":"A true TROMA fan might see some good in this...","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Surf Nazis are mean and they're out to get you.  One good thing about this movie (and there is only one good thing about it) is the concept.Unfortunately the soundtrack, dialogue and acting are extremely poor, and a remake might see this become a believable, even interesting movie. But for now, it really, really stinks. "},{"Title":"This is baaad!","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What can you say after having watched this very poor piece of filmmaking. Wasn't expecting much from this one, but the title sort of appealed to me, as in this must at least have a bit of humour and self irony and a few good laughs. But sadly it doesn't. I have seen worse than this, but it certainly is no picnic. Well if you want to waste 75 mins. on some good old good bad movie skip this one. I give it 2 out of 10, if it wasn't for that silly ending i'd only given it 1.   "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've been a fan of the IMDb for a really long time now. Probably about 6 years. And I've found that its site is loaded with tons of informative, interesting, and credible content. Until I saw the page for Surf Nazis Must Die. Granted, the IMDb itself doesn't do these reviews; the users do. But for this film to be on the IMDb bottom 100 is quite telling. This film is hands down and without any question a masterpiece. Anyone that fails to see that just flat-out does not understand film.This isn't a so bad it's good film. This is straight-up an amazing film, filled with awesome cinematography, great action, and some straight-up weirdness that propels the story along. The story itself is very simple nazi gang wants to own the beaches, they fight gangs, and a black woman gets her revenge on them. VERY simple. A less talented director would've wrapped up the whole story in 30 minutes or filled it the brim with boring filler. However, what the talented Peter George does is tell the story in a very slow and deliberate fashion. Instead of focusing on intense action sequences for the whole film, the movie slowly builds to them. He usually packs the events up until then with surf nazi propaganda and shots of surfing (surfing from the actual actors; this is not stock footage!). And believe it or not, it's all hugely entertaining. He fills the film with very little dialogue, so what is there leaves a huge impression on the audience.It's a difficult film to understand completely, especially as I'm not a surfer. Mr. George took a very simple concept and decided to play it up like it's this amazing event surfers who actually would kill over their beaches. The acting is very underrated, and there actually is very little comedy, deliberate or otherwise, here. The only real comedy is the fat black woman who is the hero of the film; she is so ridiculous yet I am guessing this is some kind of social satire (a fat black woman going after Adolf, leader of the Nazis, who said that skinny blonde-haired blue-eyed men were the master race). The film is beautifully-shot with tons of footage of the skies and the beaches, and the pacing is very good. Not too much action, not too much mindless chatter. Another good point is the music. The score really fits the film.This is a straight-up good film. My girlfriend, who typically dislikes B-Movies, even thought this film was gorgeous and awesome. In a lot of ways, this reminds me of Six String Samurai a very simple (and kind of ridiculous) story told through the use of overacting, vibrant colors, gorgeous cinematography, amazing editing/directing, and lots of good music. Absolutely an art film and a well-made one at that. Anyone that dislikes this film just flat-out doesn't understand what makes movies great. "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasure!","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the near future, a Californian beach has been taken over by a ruthless gang called the Surf Nazis led by Adolph who literally surf sometime and would hurt anyone who comes in their way. When an African American fellow named Leroy gets murdered by them, his mother buys weapons and wants revenge for her son's death and against those maniacs.Silly if entertaining and action-packed futuristic Sci-fi action comedy that's not as bad as everybody says, well what can you expect from Troma? bad acting, cheesy special effects, violence and nudity abound. If you can really suspend your disbelief then you'll enjoy this movie if your into low budget flicks and Troma movies.Also recommended Battle Royale 1 & 2,  Escape from New York, The Warriors, Terminator Trilogy,  Troma's War,  Rock & Rule,  Mad Max, The Road Warrior,  Escape 2000,  Combat Shock,  Shaft ( 1971),  The Toxic Avenger Series,  They Live, The Running Man,  Cannibal! The Musical,  Natural Born Killers, Tromeo and Juliet,  Leon The Professional,  Sin City, Waterworld, Sgt. Kabukiman NYPD, American History X, Menace II Society, I Spit on Your Grave, Akira, Fist of the North Star (Anime),  Riki-Oh The Story of Ricky,  Total Recall,  Robocop, Tank Girl,  Wizards, Blade Runner, Barefoot Gen, and A Clockwork Orange. "},{"Title":"Taste some of Mamma's home cooking, ADOLF!","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Man this movie is great. I know I only gave it a 6, but that is basically what it deserves. This is a very entertaining, funny, and has some cool scenes. Smeg's mom and Leroy's mamma are the BEST characters! Smeg's mom is so awesome, so is Smeg. Hook is pretty awesome too, and then Adolf...what a character. Should of been more nudity though...It IS from Troma. But hey, who cares. THe gore was okay, not much but some okay gore. This film starts out pretty slow, but it does get better. At the end you say to yourself, Wow...that was great! You may have to watch this more than once to enjoy it. Also, the score of the movie is great...just the music alone makes this film worthwhile! See it today! Not Troma's best but a fun film! WHO RULES THE BEACHES? SURFERS RULE! WHO RULES THE SURFERS? SURF Nazis! 6/10 "},{"Title":"The best Troma movie, bar none.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is actually a decent film.  Much better than Waterworld, Escape from L.A., or a lot of other similar-themed garbage from major studios.  Sure, it's tongue-in-cheek, campy, and ludicrous.  But then, it wouldn't feel right as a Troma movie if it weren't, now would it? Although I'm almost a little embarrassed to admit it, I'm very glad I purchased the DVD.  Having seen it several times, it holds up well to repeated viewings and there are some genuinely funny moments.  The synthesizer-heavy main theme as well as the instrumentals during surf scenes are terrific.  I wish the soundtrack were available.   Overall, Surf Nazis Must Die is recommended.  Don't believe the low ratings it has received.   "},{"Title":"COME ON!  IT'S NOT THAT BAD!","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I mean, anyone with lofty expectations for a film like Surf Nazis Must Die is fooling themselves.  What do you expect from a Troma film like this? Something like Chinatown?  The Godfather?  Citizen Kane?  Given their early to mid 90's garbage like Class of Nuke 'Em High 2 - Subhumanoid Meltdown, Toxic Avenger II and III, etc., this movie showed promise.  The premise is interesting and I kind of like the fact that it takes itself halfway serious.  Others from Troma (like those in which Sgt. Kabukiman or Toxie make cameo appearances) are so full of in-jokes and so self-referential as TROMA FLICKS that get old very fast.  Surf Nazis is arguably the best movie to come from this studio, and it's inexplicable that it's rated so low here.  Genuine laughs, solid character development, intriguing plot, surprising plot twists, and everyone has understandable motivations for their actions.  All this plus a truly excellent soundtrack that I wish I could purchase.  Recommended. "},{"Title":"Definitely for acquired tastes","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had to see this movie several times before I could really appreciate it. The things that people complain about (bad acting, underdeveloped story, etc) are the things I like about it. It's campy and ludicrous, but can be emotionally stirring and exciting if you allow it to be.Besides, the acting's not that bad, it's just not exactly on par with DeNiro or Rooker. Try to have an open mind when you see Surf Nazis. "}]