[{"Title":"A modern classic","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"48 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When people nowadays think of Chucky, the living doll, they think of the foul mouthed psycho doll complete with body modifications and a punky bride in a movie filled with funny one liners and black humor. However, when Chucky came to life almost 20 years ago, he was a real thrill that redefined the horror genre of the late 80s and spawned a series of imitators (some better than others).Director Tom Holland crafts this very original tale written by Don Mancini, where a dying sociopath (Brad Douriff) uses voodoo to transplant his soul to an inanimate toy. Catherine Hicks plays Karen Barclay, a single mother who gets the possessed toy for her little son Andy (Alex Vincent), not knowing what is hidden deep inside the doll.Despite its apparent cheesiness, Holland truly creates a haunting atmosphere filled with suspense by following the trick Steven Spielberg used in Jaws. While we know from the very beginning that the toy is haunted, we never get a glimpse of what he can do and neither does the characters; only the young Andy knows the truth, but nobody believes him.Unlike its current MTV-inspired incarnations, Child's Play starts a bit slow, but suddenly it turns into a suspense-filled roller-coaster with enough thrills to keep you at the edge of the seat. Holland directions truly makes the difference between a cheap B-movie and the classy film this one has become.Brad Dourif makes a superb job and this movie started his now-legendary career in the genre. Catherine Hicks is a very good lead character, surprisingly realistic, thanks in part to the very well-written dialog. Chris Sarandon completes the cast as the detective investigating the mysterious murders surrounding Chucky and Andy.The movie moves at a very good pace, despite its slow start; it has that 80s feeling and it is surprisingly violent for its time (it was released when rules were turning a bit stricter). It has great special effects and a very creepy atmosphere inside it's urban landscape.While many reviewers consider a flaw the fact that Chucky's possession is not a mystery, I believe that a lot of the suspense is in the fact that we know that, but the characters don't. It is a very well constructed film in the end, and definitely better than its current sequels. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Original and scary.","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"62 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've seen this brilliant horror movie over twenty times so far and it is still great.Child's Play is wonderfully original-a great concept(the soul of a serial killer in the puppet)and villain(Chucky!)are perhaps the keys to it all.Plenty of shocks and scares,pretty good acting and lots of violence.The direction and editing are so tight and carefully done.Now I can see why this movie was such a huge success in 1988.Managing to be both frightening and classy,this is a nerve-wracking experience.I actually found Child's Play to be a very scary film.I did not find it too gory,but what gore there is it was done to heighten intensity levels to the extreme.All in all,I wholeheartedly recommend it to any open-minded viewer,who likes to watch horror movies.The hammer in the head scene still gives me goosebumps. "},{"Title":"Not very scary, but entertaining nonetheless","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"60 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Child's Play was billed as a horror movie, but it's hard to categorize it as such. Especially by 1980s standards. There's no brainless teenage cattle, no gratuitous nudity, and no ridiculously high body count. If anything, Child's Play runs like an episode of Rod Serling's The Twilight Zone. It's creepy, but ultimately not shocking. This is no coincidence. An episode of The Twilight Zone called Living Doll used a similar premise.Child's Play is done very well, considering it's about a serial killer who uses voodoo magic to transfer his soul into a doll. The acting is way above average for a horror movie and the momentum builds nicely. The viewer is forced to wait quite awhile before they actually see Chucky kill anyone. If anyone has seen VH1's I Love the 80s then you've probably seen Dee Snider mock the movie It's a doll! Step on it! It's over!. If Chucky tried to go on a killing rampage, this would work. But he doesn't. He uses stealth and cunning to make up for the failings of his diminutive body. He reveals his true self only to young Andy, the boy who gets him as a birthday present. He kills all his hapless victims without much trouble. After all, who would suspect an innocent little doll could kill you when you're not looking?Perhaps the biggest problem with Child's Play is that it was billed as an evil doll movie. Chucky was on all the posters and commercials, knife in hand. It would have worked much better as a suspense thriller, where you suspect that little Andy Barclay is the murderer.Despite it's failings as a horror movie, Child's Play is still a great movie because it paints a dismal and accurate picture of the 80s the frustration of single parenthood, the dark dangerous inner cities, and trying to get your kid that overpriced toy that they just *have* to have. Child's Play also came at a time when dolls were really popular Teddy Ruxpin, Cabbage Patch Kids, My Buddy, and Kid Sister were all hot items. Little kids loved these things, but there's something inherently sinister about dolls. Those glassy eyes and perma-smiles seem insincere.Overall, Child's Play is a movie that probably succeeded because it was in the right place at the right time. Nonetheless, it's worth at least a few viewings. Chucky is easily one of the top 3 horror movie villains of the 1980s along with Freddie Krueger and the Gremlins.Rating 4 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"This is what a bad movie looks like when it's well made.","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"44 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is built upon a pretty laughable premise &#150; some hardened criminal finds himself wounded and cornered by the police, so he chants some mystical words, lightning clouds form in the sky, and he transports his soul into the body of a kid's doll of the My Buddy variety. But the movie is so well made that it is able to remain effective despite its questionable premise, kind of like Darkman, another movie with something of a goofy plot but that still manages to come off as a great action horror film.Some of the best moments in the film come early on, before anyone but Andy realizes that Chucky is alive. Kind of like what Steven Spielberg did in Jaws, director Tom Holland leaves Chucky as a lifeless doll for a good portion of the beginning of the film. As is to be expected, it's much more difficult to show a living, running, stabbing, screaming doll than it is to show a regular doll, which itself manages to stare blankly in such a way that you know there's something going on in its head.There's nothing worse than hearing someone criticize the acting skills of a little kid, but I have to admit that I found Alex Vincent's performance as Andy a little trying at times. Granted, the kid deserves a lot of credit for performing reasonably well in a horror film at the age of 7, which is certainly more than I could have done at that age, but for every time that he effectively portrayed a scared little kid, which happened often, there were at least as many times when he spoke with the wooden monotone generally associated with reading a cue card.That being said, the effects in the movie are very impressive. There are a few goofs in there, but you have to look pretty hard to find them, and the doll itself was very well done. Brad Dourif makes one of his earlier appearances, showing up in Child's Play just long enough to get shot and then transfer his body into the doll, and then spend the rest of what is now a total of five movies trying to get out of it, which may have something to do with the fact that his voice is more famous than his face. He was mostly known as the timid Billy Bibbit from One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest before he did Child's Play, and the success of this movie clearly had a significant impact on the rest of his career, since so many of his later performances were in decidedly dark roles.Note watch for the only funny scene in the movie, which my itself is so funny that any other comic relief isn't even necessary. As Chucky ascends in an elevator, and elderly woman notices him, but her husband tells her to just leave it, whoever forgot it is bound to come back for it. When she exits the elevator, she looks back with a grimace and says, 'Ugly doll&#133;' Chucky's response is one of the funniest things I've ever seen in a horror film. "},{"Title":"No Baby Doll Eyes Here","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Director Tom Holland does quite a good job scaring us with this cliche-ridden, unoriginal story of a serial killer transferring his soul to a toy store doll.  The doll is incredibly eerie with its red hair and deep eyes, and goes by the name of Chucky saying things like, My name's Chucky...wanna play?  Although much of the plot is very predictable(especially the ending), the execution of the plot is first-rate.  Add to this some earnest acting from CatherineHicks, Chris Sarandon, and especially Alex Vincent playing a six-year old, and you have a pretty entertaining feature.  The special effects are also first-rate, and the doll seems to actually be alive.  Brad Douriff adds his voice to the demented Chucky, and his voice is evil personified.  Dinah Manoff has a small role, but it is an important role which she plays very well.  The atmosphere is definitely set on suspense and it is a rollercoaster of a ride as we see the doll slowly become human and seek out his only murderous hope for salvation.  Good scares! "},{"Title":"A horror film that has stuck with me since I first saw it as a child **** out of 5","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It was always the films where a child is in peril that stuck with me the most. Child's Play was probably the top of the crop.The film taps into all those things you remember as a child like those colorful commercials that would promote the cereal you were eating. And those big dolls like 'My Buddy', that even as a kid I knew were creepy.Script, acting, music, mood, atmosphere, direction, scares, everything works and that's why I give it the high rating it deserves.Brad Dourif was the perfect choice for the voice of the Chucky doll. It's sinister and angry and darkly sarcastic. He is what I consider to be one of the all time great underrated actors.The film is bleak. There's nothing happy about it although the good guy doll commercials insist it's playtime.After this film, the only sequel I highly recommend is Child's Play 2, which I love just about as much as this one. Part 3 wasn't bad. Bride of Chucky was an interesting new direction to go in, but the feeling of the first couple of films is long gone by then, and Seed of Chucky was about the same. "},{"Title":"holy crap","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I really don't care what anyone says about this movie. I am a horror movie fanatic and i first saw this film at the age of 7. Out of all the horror movies i've ever seen, child's play ( the first one , to ME, is the scariest movie i've seen. A CREEPY looking doll, a CREEPY voice, eerie music because it's not even music its like chimes and a combination of creepy sounds, suspense and of course barely any comedy, just pure horror. Out of all the horror movies I've seen, the scariest movies would have to be the following Child's Play, Pet Semetary, The Exorcist 3, Evil Dead is pretty creepy at times, The Others, Saw ( not a quite scary just a damn good movie, Texas Chainsaw Massacre (original), April Fool's Day is kinda creepy, Sleepaway camp ( music and that ENDING ) there are a few more but i cant quite think, however, the tops are Child's Play and Pet Semetary. Oh, and High Tension is a VERY good horror/suspense. So if u wanna wanna be creeped out, go home, turn off the light, put the TV on loud or surround sound if u have it, and watch by yourself. It's a scary movie, well at least to me it is. I'm not scared of the movie now at the age of 25 but it is one the only ones that no matter how many times i watch it, still creep me out a bit. "},{"Title":"Chucky is made of EXTRA COOL Nightmares on Wax!!","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw the commercials of the very first Child's play Movie and I remember them completely - the stunning special effects of the doll creeping with the mechanical head turning right around and the isolated kid, was later called Andy hollering for his Mother. I was nine years old at that time.I saw that movie on tape at 13 (under aged- naughty me!!) but could not wait to see it. Chucky was now the first Boogyman I ever watched.Brad Dourif whom I known from One Flew Over the Cuckoo's nest, Blue Velvet, Fatal Beauty, Dune and many countless films - he is one of the most finest performers I have ever seen, with his magnetic charisma and those huge wildly intense blue eyes to match. Dourif hits the big time as Charles 'chucky' Lee Ray, the Voodoo practising Serial killer of Chicago who was gunned down in a toy store by bewildered Detective Norris (Sarandon)and betrayed by his partner-in-crime Eddie Caputo.Charles made a promise that he will get revenge on the ones that 'done him in' and found a Good Guy doll to exchange his soul whispered a Voodoo incantation in the name of 'Damballah Wedo' (a west African, and Haitian Snake God), lighting struck the toy shop and the police found Ray dead - bet they thought it was over and celebrated by munching on Bear claws and donuts collections- RIGHT? Nope Wrong.In comes along little Andy Barclay - sweet Darling' angel, but he whines about wanting the latest craze - em yes! you guessed it - and you know that he is gonna get what he wants alright! unfortunately Karen Barclay (Hicks) buys the 'special' doll at cheapo bargain from a Homeless Guy. At least she does not have to worry about batteries because the doll is 'more alive' than expected, with a diminutive height and Brad Dourif's inimitable Booming voice. And ratty Auntie Maggie (Peterson) gets it, and takes a dive from the forty storey building. and then it is Eddie's turn to be shish kabab in a exploding House!The body count's are rising, and the truth about Charles Lee Ray is mounting but more unbelievers are added to the equation. Until they see Chucky 'is alive' and eat their words (or die so to speak).It is a Scary movie, with great scenes of Chicago, and Chucky has a vehement vengeance and will not stop at nothing with its perished body ashed from flames and blue eyes peering out creeping towards Andy makes you feel like a kid wanting to cry out to your Ma. what a Nightmarish Film, this cool movie deserves praise.Hail Chucky! "},{"Title":"The Original ''Chucky'' Still The Best","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"25 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a truly interesting horror flick that was so popular that sequels have been coming out ever since, none of course matching this one the original.The film builds up suspense in the beginning and then takes off once Chucky comes to life. It almost takes half the movie for that to happen. It stays intense from that point and certainly keeps your attention. The only change I would have made was to the end the movie five minutes earlier, but they tacked on something that wasn't needed.The doll's owner Andy, (Alex Vincent) is a cute little kid and Alex does a decent job of acting while Catherine Hicks is fine as his mom. A familiar face in the '80s, Chris Sarandon, adds his talents as a detective.Instead of all the stupid sequels, I would have preferred to see a remake done, now that special-effects have made such great advances. For instance, at least with the VHS I have, Chuckie's lips aren't even in sync with the dialog! He walks a little too wooden-like but the other special-effects were just fine. Nothing is to be taken seriously, anyway. It's just a silly voodoo-type story (you should hear the explanation of who Chuckie is) and just played for a scary horror film. On that level, it works because it IS scary. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well made thriller about a dying serial killer (Brad Doriff) transplanting his soul into a child's play doll. Fast forward now and a mother buys the doll for his son's birthday. Doriff then goes on a killing spree, but after a cop wounds him he finds out that if he stays in the doll's body for too long, he and the doll will become one forever. So he goes after his owner so that he can transfer souls. Highly original premise highlighted by terrific special effects and lots of good one liners and humor.Rated R; Extreme Violence & Profanity. "}{"Title":"Child's Play 7/10","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Child's Play is usually categorized with other definitive horror films of the 70's and 80's, such as Friday the 13th, Halloween, and A Nightmare on Elm Street, while it's a lot different, in ways I'll get into later.Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif) is a serial killer who is finally killed by Mike Norris (Chris Sarandon). However, he performs a chant right before he dies. Karen Barclay (Catherine Hicks) is a single mother who works in a jewelry department in a department store. She lives in an apartment with her six-year-old son Andy (Alex Vincent), who is like any normal six-year-old. He loves the television show `Good Guys', and they have lots of toys and dolls that you can buy. When his birthday comes around, he doesn't get a $100 Good Guy, but Karen buys one from a peddler off the street for $30. However, that doll, whose name is Chucky, is actually filled with the spirit of Ray, who tries to kill everyone.At times this can be pretty effective, even scary, even when they add to it with predictable, cheap scares. When Maggie (Dinah Manoff, who overacts throughout the entire movie) is slowly walking through the kitchen with no music, with the phone in plain sight, do you think it's going to ring? Thankfully, there aren't too many of them. The entire plot is pretty clever, not just a `Craven' or `De Palma' theme. Also, the puppetry of Chucky was pretty good, for it being 15 years ago. The cinematography was good, with many first person shots, which were effective.Dourif, who played a gentle man in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, was very good, especially in the beginning, when we actually saw him. Why he isn't a big name now is beyond me. Hicks was good for what she was required to be panicky and caring to Andy. Sarandon didn't do anything for me, as the obligatory police officer. Vincent talked like stereotypical movie children did, enunciating every syllable.The music really helped, with it booming to prove its point of being a horror movie. It could have had some humor, like other horror movies do, to help it out some. Since it's less than 90 minutes and a horror films, they didn't worry about anything like plot holes or continuity errors. A few I noticed how DID he go into Chucky, besides the chant, why would the Chucky doll be burned up, the dates continuously change. That scene with voodoo was very cool. That's about all I can say, so I won't say any more.My rating 7/10Rated R for language and violent situations. "},{"Title":"I'm Chucky ,Wanna Play","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I liked the whole series of Chucky,but this was the first and greatest Child's Play movie that I like for a killer doll,but this time it's not a girl.In this movie not so many died,but couldn't ask a better way for them to die in the film.I really loved when Andys' mom threatened Chucky in the fire,then he cursed her,everyone laughed at that part.This is were Chucky started to spread the news of there's a new killer doll and his name is Chucky.This is were I started to know Brad Dourif and to identify him,by his creepy Chucky laugh or talking like his voice.This movie really deserve 3 stars and needs to be in the top 250.It was a new and better 80's killer doll movie.It was something fun to see with the family and/or friends.The part the stood out for his humor is the elevator scene.Where the part of the old people was in the elevator when they got of, the lady said Ulgy doll'and Chucky said F**k you.That was so funny. "},{"Title":"The beginning of the most iconic killer doll ever","Date":"5 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie starts out pretty slow with a killer named Charles Lee Ray doing voodoo magic to put his soul into a kid's doll. After that it starts to get slow and generic even with the killer doll with things not making much sense (and I am not talking about the Chucky doll thing either). But when Chucky starts his sinister cacklying and cursing that he is known for the movie does pick up. The build up to that point isn't that bad though and I can understand why they had to go in that direction at first. It does add a sense of mystery even if the audiences does know what is going on from the start. The trademark Chucky voice really does add flavor to this slasher. As a matter of fact I wouldn't be shocked if Heath Ledger was inspired by Chucky for his role in The Dark Knight now that I think about it. It's cool to see Chucky not going on that unstoppable killer slasher direction, he uses stealth and pulls tricks to kill someone. Plus whenever found, he could just act like a regular doll. Which actually does adds to making him quite a dangerous and sinister killer. This does not have a lot of blood and gore, nor does it have a lot of body count but it does have entertainment value for a horror slasher movie. Overall this is a slasher movie that had a lot of cool and new elements to work with when it came to the direction at the time. And it's understandable how Chucky became one of the most memorable killer villain from the 80's. Thanks to Brad Dourif signature voice as Chucky.8/10 "},{"Title":"A Doll's House","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1985, Hasbro introduced the world to the My Buddy doll. It had reddish-brown hair, blue overalls, and a cheery, striped shirt. It also looked exactly like Chucky, the serial killer plaything featured in Tom Holland's 1988 film Child's Play.As one of the little tykes who was ever-so-proud of his My Buddy, the release of this movie was devastating. I didn't watch it until I was much older, but simply seeing the trailer on TV was enough to make me petrified of the notion that an otherwise innocent amalgam of plastic and synthetic fiber lurked on the other side of my bedroom closet door while I slept.Fast forward to 2010. I'm nearing age 30 (yikes), and I've just given the tale about a murdering psychopath who transfers his soul into the body of a toy via some sort of intangible voodoo another chance. Even though the exposition for this one is amazingly idiotic, it's clear that screenwriter Don Mancini was onto something. In the most superficial sense, there is something eerie about dolls. Their fixed expressions, when viewed in the right context, can make our blood run cold. As irrational as this notion is, it nevertheless has some merit, and this is what makes Child's Play the unlikely success that it is.What's even more disturbing about the movie is that it has our six year- old protagonist&#x97;Andy&#x97;exploring the seedy underbelly of Chicago in an effort to aid his newly acquired companion. Despite his initial naivety, the kid eventually wises up and realizes the danger he's in. What follows is a comically grotesque battle that sees Chucky take on a police officer, a psychiatrist, a witchdoctor, and a babysitter (among others).What's especially great about Child's Play is the final act, where our indestructible villain is shot, torched, and dismembered. He's basically the terminator of dolls; as soon as he seems to be vanquished, he reappears, oozing pus and stuffing, ready to slice and dice anyone who interrupts his perpetual mission of spiritual transferal.As one would hope, no one involved with Child's Play takes things too seriously (it would have been an utter disaster had this not been the case). Because of the lighthearted nature of the movie and how downright silly it is, there's no reason not to call it a box-full of harebrained fun.It's also the quintessential killer doll movie. That's got to be worth something. "},{"Title":"Fun and creepy when it works....corny when it doesn't","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A classic cult horror film that is as well known as the heavyweights of horror like the Michael Myers films or the Freddy films. But is it as revered or loved as the other horror classics? Well, no. It is, however the quintessential toys coming to life to kill people movie. Also, For what it's worth it's a pretty good horror movie considering the subject matter. If any story about a doll killing people is going to have a chance to be believable or scary, it's the story of Child's Play, the first installment in the Chucky series. The reason for this is the surprisingly well written back story and origin of Chucky. I won't give spoilers but I was actually interested in how Chucky came to be an evil doll that murdered people. I mean, they at-least attempted to give a valid reason of how this could possibly exist which was fun. Chucky does a decent job being menacing and almost believable until he begins to really speak. There are some freaky scenes of short dialog that really get you going, but when he speaks too much, it becomes kind of hokey and laughable (as you would imagine, it's a doll). I enjoyed Brad Dourif in the beginning of the film but as Chucky's voice, I would rather have everything said in that creepy doll voice than the voice that actually comes from the doll. The less human the doll was the creepier it was. I felt they kind of lost that as the film moved along. Also, there are a few death scenes that were shot poorly and completely un-believable. That being said, to pull of ANY believable and creepy scenes at all using a doll as the murdering villain, is impressive, and they made a handful of scenes really well. Ultimately, it's a pretty creepy and fun movie when it works.Mike Holtz, We Watched a Movie Check out some funny video reviews and movie news at our youtube channel here http//www.youtube.com/wewatchedamovie "},{"Title":"Original Horror Classic","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  'Child's Play' is a fairly original horror story. A kid's doll gets possessed by a serial killer and the doll terrorizes his family and others while trying to get into the boy's body through voo-doo magic.I remember an old Twilight Zone episode with the Talking Tina doll that was fairly similar. It was good because we never actually saw the doll DO anything except talk and threaten. 'Child's Play' does the same for a good chunk of the movie. The suspense is excellent, and Chucky is terrifying even when not active! We start to see Chucky move and talk, and curse and chase people but it does not ruin the movie. The effects are pretty good, and as a child, this movie is traumatizing. Of course now at 21, I laugh at this movie as do most critics, but I remember renting it when it first came out on video years ago and it changed my sleeping habits. Chucky gave me nightmares well into high school (i'll admit!). I could barely look at my sister's dolls alone in the dark. The sequels are silly and unnessecary, but the original Chuck is worth a friday night alone when you have nothing else to do. As a horror film fan, this ranks in my top 5, as a movie fan in general is won't even crack my top 50. But like I said, keep it away from off-beat dreamy children. This is the end...friend. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i would have to say Childs Play was one of the best horror flicks out of all movies of the 70's-80's horror boom. i think it is also one of the most fun to watch. i don't think it really compares to John Carpenter's Halloween ,Phantasm, or a Nightmare on Elm st., but it rates up there. the acting was in my opinion, above average. at times i think the little boy (Andy Barclay) could be a little annoying but overall it was good. I love how stealth and quick Chucky is and how creepy they made him. this movie was also leaning towards being a comedy also. Many people don't even think its a horror movie because of the comments Chucky has to say.even though there isn't much to say about this movie in my point of view, i definitely recommend it because it is very entertaining.*10/10* "},{"Title":"This Movie Just Makes me Sad","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is, as one user previously commented, a bad movie done well. For example, when the batteries fall out of the box, we can see the wheels start turning in Karen's head and everything starting to fall into place. It's not a bad little scene, but it could have been better. Apparently, the original script called for a period of time in which the audience would be unsure whether Andy or Chuckie were committing the murders, and the battery scene would have been the first real evidence that Chuckie was actually alive and a killer. That would have been a wiser move and made for a better movie. Another example of *Child's Play* as bad-movie-done-well is the car scene in which Chuckie tries to kill Mike; this thing goes from patently ridiculous (he had a chance to stop the car in the time between getting out of Chuckie's choke-hold and when Chuckie pushes the accelerator) to genuinely scary when Chuckie is scrambling around outside the car while Mike is trapped inside. That's good stuff.But it's just sad that all of the human actors--including Chris Sarandon--get upstaged by a foul-mouthed doll. The sardonic and sharp-tongued best friend Maggie is a tired stereotype (even in 1988). By the time the 9 o'clock news rolls around, I didn't really care if she survived or not, which is not a good thing. And Alex Vincent, the kid who plays Andy, is not good at all. His lines are often delivered with what I can only call bewilderment--as if he has no idea what's going on in the scene or in the story. That's not surprising since he was about six years old at the time, so he can't be faulted for it. The movie, however, can (and should be). In the end, there are a lot of horror movies I'd rather watch than this one, but I'd rather watch this than *Jaws 3-D* or *Hellraiser Bloodlines*. "},{"Title":"Never really worked for me","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Killer Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif) is shot and killed by policeman Mike Norris (Chris Sarandon) in a toy store. Before he dies he transfers his soul into a Good Guy doll named Chucky. Mom Karen Barclay (Catherine Hicks) buys the doll for her son Andy (Alex Vincent) and Chucky sets out to settle the score with a few people. Andy knows Chucky is alive and dangerous...but nobody believes him.OK--this movie does have its fans. Its led to four sequels (so far) and does have two great sequences--when Hicks slowly realizes the doll is alive and when Sarandon is attacked in his car. But this movie never really worked for me. I personally never found the doll scary and had a hard time taking some of the attack sequences seriously. It DOES look pretty stupid when the doll attacks Hicks. The special effects making the doll talk and move are impressive (no CGI used here) but I found the movie slow--even at 88 minutes. Also Vincent was a TERRIBLE actor--but he was only 7 when he did this. Surprisingly even Sarandon (a VERY good actor) sleepwalks through this.On the plus side it has the few neat killings, Hicks is actually very good, Dourifs lines are pretty cool coming out of the doll and (again) the lifelike movements of the doll are impressive. But I was basically pretty bored--and I'm a big horror movie fan. Director Tom Holland did much better a few years earlier with Fright Night. Rent that instead.I should mention I find one of the sequels Bride of Chucky a lot of fun but the rest are pretty terrible. Personally I can only give this a 4. "},{"Title":"Glad I finally watched it.","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well after years of the movie scaring me(I first saw parts when I was 3) I finally sat down and watched a little movie called Child's Play Boy am I glad I did. I watched #1 straight through to Bride, and can't wait for Seed. I will do this in a typical review format.Story 10/10An original concept!?! Yes it is. A rarity these days. Serial killer Charles Lee Ray is being chased, after being mortally wounded he uses voodoo to transfer his spirit into the most populare child's toy on the market, the Good Guy's doll. He is purchased for young Andy Barclay, and soon after his baby sitter dies, and is Chucky his doll accused, of course not, Andy swears it was his doll. Chucky soon discovers that he is becoming human and has to transfer his soul to the body of the person he first told his true identity to, Andy!Violence 8/10I liked the violence in the movie, but it didn't have enough in my taste, but don't get me wrong I love the movie enough to not care.Language 10/10Horror movies should keep then language at about this level, and save the excessive swearing for comedies.Main Villain 11/10Seriously, Chucky is the man. Both voices fit, and the effects used on him are perfect. Effects 10/10Great effects, even by today's standards.Overall 10/10I love this movie.Buy or Rent BUY!!  "}{"Title":"Outlandish Horror Fun","Date":"19 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I liked it! I really liked it! Much to my own surprise!I know this movie has quite a following, but for all these years I have never watched it. Never. It just all seemed too outlandish to be bothered with. The spirit of a vicious killer somehow transferred into a child's doll. Uh ... Yeah ... Right. Frankly, it sounded dumb. So I ignored its existence. But, every now and then you just have nothing to do, and a movie you really aren't interested in pops up. And there was Child's Play. So, I watched it. And I liked it! I really liked it!Sure it's a dumb premise, but it actually works. I liked the performances. Young Alex Vincent did well as Andy, the boy who unfortunately comes into possession of Chucky the doll. Catherine Hicks was fine as his mother Karen, and Chris Sarandon worked well as the disbelieving police detective who happens to be Chucky's real target.Really, the worst thing you can say about this is that it's outlandish - but surely that's the point. In the end, by the time it's over, you realize that you haven't watched a masterpiece, but you have watched a movie that's outlandish fun and that every now and then even manages to be scary. Really - you can't ask for much more. (8/10) "},{"Title":"I'm sure I would have loved this at 15","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is in many ways exactly what you'd expect from a late 80s horror movie with a talking murderous doll. Only in a couple of instances does it go beyondThe technical aspects of the doll are well executed. Animatronics and costumes blended well into an realistic doll that still holds up.The kid. While, like most child actors, the acting itself is nothing too much - the kid seemed to have had to work pretty hard. Many scenes with lots of action in them. I was actually the most afraid in the one scene where the kid is walking backwards and falling while holding a knife. Scary stuff! Other than that, the movie is a run of the mill 80s horror movie, but one that holds up enough that I think teens today will still enjoy it. I wish someone who have slipped a copy of this in my hands when I was technically not old enough to watch it. I would have loved it! "},{"Title":"A Classic!","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was first introduced to this movie as a kid sometime in the 90s. Out of all the horror films this one is amongst the best. The 80s were notorious for having some of the best and most renown horror characters of all time. Chucky is amongst them. In my opinion it's not corny like most modern horror flicks. We should split up is not a phrase here. If anyone did split up they had a solid reason. Now yeah there are some downfalls to the movie. For instance like many horror films. Because I'm trying to avoid a spoiler it has a typical horror film ending. If you don't know what I mean you will once you watch it. So it may feel a little drawn out by the end. Anyways if you haven't seen it I highly recommend you give it a try. There are psychological elements and plot which makes it so good. It's not all about slash slash I'm a psycho killer blah blah. Their are clear and strong motives.In conclusion... If you did not see the movie give it a go. If you have Netflix you can watch it their. I saw it 2 days ago on Netflix hence the reason I write about it now. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"A great horror classic.","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Though it may sound sorta goofy, Child's Play is a very good film. It's smart, creepy, and plays the killer doll strait enough to be taken seriously as a smart slasher film. There are some goofy moments, but just try to get over these, you'll be surprised by how subtlety creepy this movie is. The characters are decent, and more sympathetic than in most slasher flicks, especially Andy and his mother. On the FX, Chucky's face movements look great, but some of his larger movements (Arm movements, mostly) look wooden. His design is very creepy. The plot of the film moves very well, with new twists and new locations at every turn, doing a great job of hooking you in. I also thought the cinematography was very effective, with long, panning, cuts from a lower to the ground than usual. These camera angles provide a very creepy feel to the film. In all I thought Child's Play was a great horror flick. "},{"Title":"Moments of genuine fear, instances of quirky humor and a very solid foundation make Child's Play stand as a good example of 80's horror done right.","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ahh. Good ole' Chucky. Our friend till the end.I was born the year Child's Play crept into theaters and began of legacy of horror for audiences around the world. And I grew up in the heyday of Chucky- the end of the 80's and early-to-mid 90's. I remember seeing that doll everywhere for the first 15 years of my life. And it terrified me, as someone with an older sister that owned a number of Cabbage Patch dolls that fairly closely resembled him. When I was a young child, I was even convinced her dolls were actually Chucky in disguise, coming to get me. It also didn't help that she used to prank me with them as well, further solidifying the FACT that Chucky was going to get me in my mind.I have a lot of wonderful memories of the fear that Chucky used to instill into me. (It's funny how memories of childhood fear can eventually turn into nostalgia.) But oddly enough, I didn't see the films themselves until I was quite a bit older. And by that time, I was over my childhood fear, and ready to see the films for what they really were.And I was surprised to discover how very decent, solid and well- structured the original Child's Play is. And how truly creepy it actually was at times.The film opens with the death of serial killer Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif), who is gunned down in a toy-store by officer Mike Norris. (Chris Sarandon) With his dying breath, Ray is able to choke out a slew of magical words, and transfer his soul into the last thing he touched- a Good Guy- the most popular, trendy of children's dolls. Eventually, the doll finds itself in the hand of young Andy Barclay (Alex Vincent), and soon after, mysterious events begin to plague the life of he and his mother Karen. (Catherine Hicks) What could it be? It surely can't be the doll, Chucky, despite Andy's insistence that it is... could it? (Well, obviously it is, and this fact was spoiled for audiences through all the advertising.)Directed by Tom Holland, the film is based on a story by first-time screenwriter Don Mancini. There's a lot of lore about Mancini's original script (a darker satire about how advertising and consumerism can negatively affect children), and how Holland and the other writers radically altered it. And I do think it's a shame. Even though the final film is quite solid, hearing the stories of just what was in the original script has left me wishing we could have seen the intended original vision. ...but I digress.Holland gives some fairly expert direction to the story. While I'm not really a fan of Holland (his other work being mainly comprised of projects I feel were misses), he guides the narrative with competence and style, building a rather good sense of dread and wonder through key camera-work and composition. His work is slick and lends itself well to the material, and I also enjoyed his ability to nail a few really good gags in addition to delivering the thrills.The performances are uniformly quite good, and do much to ground the otherwise sort-of silly storyline, making it hit home and giving a sense of believability. Hicks and Sarandon in particular knock it out of the park. You really buy Hicks as a mother desperate to figure out what is happening, and doing her best to protect her child. Brad Dourif is also a revelation as not only serial killer Charles Lee Ray, but also the voice of the possessed doll Chucky. This truly is Dourif's franchise when it comes to on screen presence. He's menacing. He's amusing. And while others may have phoned in their performance, Dourif approaches the material seriously, as though he's getting ready to get up on stage and deliver Shakespeare. It helps a lot that he treats the script with respect.Frankly, there isn't much I can say against the film, as it seems to fundamentally succeed (if not completely excel at) what it sets out to accomplish. Though I will comment that I feel I cannot give the film a higher score, due to what I feel is a concept made shallow through rewrites. And I feel that Holland tips his hat too much when it comes to the scare sequences. The film almost seems to be going for an angle that tries to suggest Andy may be responsible for what is happening (which was evidently a large element of Mancini's original script), but Holland's construction contradicts this, by making Chucky the only possible cause. (And I'm not spoiling anything by saying that.)Still, I feel this is quite a good little horror film of yester-year. It's one of those rare slashers that feels like it has some thought and heart put into its production. And it emerges as one of the finer examples of 80's Horror done right.Child's Play easily earns a quite good 8 out of 10 from me. And it's a classic that is definitely worth checking out for fans of horror and suspense. (Or people who, like me, grew up afraid of that darned doll!) "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's pretty damn creepy. The film builds up suspense in the beginning and then takes off. Brad Dourif was the best choice for the voice of Chucky. Child's Play is done very well, all in all. Director Tom Holland does a good job scaring the audience. The atmosphere is definitely big on suspense. Without Dourif, I am terrified of contemplating what this film would look like. In the end, the audience gets a casserole of film elements. In other ways, this movie was a thrill ride. The cinematography is stark and bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. This might all sound corny, like a bad B-movie, but that is not the case! "},{"Title":"Batteries not included","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Then again, you don't need batteries to interject yet more life into 'Child's Play,' aka 'the first Chucky film.' Like most horror films, the first one will always be considered the best. It's currently spawned five sequels and they're all an acquired taste, either too horrific, too similar, or too comedic to appeal to everyone. However - like the Three Bears' porridge - was just right.It's mainly horror - about a serial killer who, on his death bed, puts his soul into a child's doll, only for it to be bought by an innocent family. However, there's a decent amount of black comedy thrown into the mix. You can't really have a three foot high, plastic baddie without making it just a little bit humorous (and the humour comes from the devilishly brilliant delivery from (voice artist) Brad Dourif. However, he's just a voice - the real actors all play their parts, too. You could say that the main star is a six year old boy and, child actors can be hit and miss at the best of times. If he was incorrectly cast then you may end up rooting for the evil doll. Plus there's his mum - strong, but never over the top so, but the real bonus points go to the long-suffering cop, charged with investigating this family's crack-pot tale about killer dolls with souls of serial killers inside them.If you like horror then you should have already seen this. If you haven't been introduced to the Child's Play/Chucky franchise then this is the best place to start. Just bear in mind that it was released in 1988, so it's a bit dated, but still able to hold its own when compared to today's horror offerings.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"The start of Chucky...","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is the first movie of Cucky and in this movie we watch a mother who gives to her only son a doll that he wanted so much for his birthday. After that she discovers that this doll possessed by a doll of a bad man who is also a serial killer.I liked this movie because of the plot and because of the storyline. I believe that the direction of Tom Holland was really nice and I think that he did a great job. I liked the interpretations of Catherine Hicks who played as Karen Barclay the mother of Andy Barclay played by the little one Alex Vincent. I also liked the voice of Brad Dourif as Charles Lee Ray and Chucky.Finally I believe that this movie starts a new series of thriller which will keep us in tense since now days. "},{"Title":"Wanna   Play?","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Before sampling the delights of the latest Chucky The Possessed Doll extravaganza, which I've just bought on DVD, I decided to relive the original. Subsequent entries got jokier and gorier, but this one was crafted with a little more suspense, and saved all the REALLY nasty stuff for the final reel.Chucky is a truly malevolent creation, and it's easy to see the appeal of a homicidal midget running around killing people... just ask Donald Sutherland in Don't Look Now. Your initial scepticism over the premise will soon wear off once you witness the skilled puppetry and model work, while Brad Dourif's guttural voice-over is the epitome of evil.So, a bit of a classic then... Quickly followed by two undistinguished sequels... aside from the third one being implicated in the furore over the death of a certain little British boy. The next two follow ups that were released later on (Bride Of Chucky and Seed Of Chucky) took the series in a far more humorous direction, and it remains to be seen what course number 6 Curse Of Chucky will sail.There's only one way to find out... 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good original thrilling horror","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Serial killer Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif) gets shot by detective Norris (Chris Sarandon). As he struggles with his last breath, he transfers his soul into a Good Guys doll. Meanwhile Karen Barclay (Catherine Hicks) is a cash strapped single mom. Her kid is desperate for the doll, and she could only afford one from a shady homeless guy. It turns out that the doll has Charles Lee Ray's soul in it, and he wants to transfer to the kid.This is a well made horror. The general idea of a killer doll may be an old one. But this is done with some fun freshness. Director Tom Holland is definitely a good study of horror. He's able to inject a lot of good old fashion scares into this film. He hides Chucky in the act of killing until late in the movie. This allows the tension to build. And the reveal is great. The whole thing works. The only thing holding it back is a little bit of unintentionally camp. The F/X needs improvements. These are all forgivable. Catherine Hicks and Chris Sarandon are both good character actors. At its core, this is a good film. "}{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I actually enjoyed this movie. what happens is a mother gives her son a doll for his birthday only to find out that the doll has been possessed by Charles lee ray a murderer. I know a lot of people don't like this movie i think that's because they were maybe expecting a little too much out of it. I think they definitely got the right voice actor for chucky and all the other actors they got for the characters were good choices too. I have to say though that i didn't find this movie scary i found it more funny i think it had more comedy than horror in it. I have watched this movie a couple of times but i cant really watch it anymore than that because its kind of boring when you know whats going to happen in every scene. Childs play is definitely better than some killer doll/toy movies i have seen. I give it a 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"It's no classic but it's quite enjoyable","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This daft horror flick has the good sense not to take itself too seriously. Catherine Hicks buys a Chucky doll for her son; unbeknownst to her the doll has been inhabited by the soul of a dead killer, voiced by Brad Dourif. If she'd kept the receipt she could have taken him back to the shop, but instead Chucky goes on a murderous rampage, targeting investigating copper Chris Sarandon and a couple of old cronies.There aren't as many scares as there could be because the plot is so predictable, but this is a semi-enjoyable experience thanks to Tom Holland's brisk direction, a few genuinely creepy moments, a few laughs, some clever puppet effects, and Dourif seemingly having a great time. "},{"Title":"Child's Play","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Incredible 1980's Horror Classic About Serial Killer Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif) who was mortally wounded in a police shoot-out, he uses a voodoo spell to transfer his soul into Chucky, a Good Guys doll. Andy (Alex Vincent) receives the doll as a birthday gift, and Chucky soon resumes his killing spree. However, Charles doesn't want to be trapped in the body of a doll forever. His only escape would be to transfer into the first human he revealed his true identity to... which places Andy in mortal danger.Amazing performance by Alex Vincent who starred as Andy. Amazing performance by Brad Dourif who played the voice of Chucky. Also great performance by Catherine Hicks and the entire cast. Chucky was funny and horrifying dangerous. I recommend Child's Play to all audiences. The child's play series are great and it would be amazing to see more and more made. I recommend them. GREAT THRILLER! "},{"Title":"Every horror fan should play with Chucky at least once","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you can get past the charmingly silly proposition of a serial killer transferring his soul into a doll to perpetuate his murderous ways, Tom Holland's Child's Play offers up a tremendously entertaining mix of humor and horror and puts a novel twist on the relatively uncrowded toys gone bad sub-genre.The events in the film revolve around six year-old Andy Barclay, whose mom gives him a coveted animatronic Good Guy doll for his birthday. Unfortunately for him, his new prize is possessed by the spirit of infamous mass strangler Charles Lee Ray, and when the repackaged slayer gets up to his old tricks again, no one believes Andy's insistent claims that Chucky did it. The most effective aspect of Holland's execution of the material is how he's able to wring some genuine scares out of a premise that automatically lends itself to unintentional comedy. Though the film wisely acknowledges its own goofiness by peppering the slasher elements with some keenly rendered zingers, the story itself is played fairly straight and the overtly sadistic nature of Chucky's homicidal rampage ensures that the tone remains as dark as the circumstances will allow. We pretty much know going in what this flick will have in store, but the excellently crafted pace generates an admirable amount of tension, and the way each propulsive layer of the plot unfolds makes for an engrossingly taut experience which belies the basic fact that our villain here is a four foot tall plastic plaything.Holland certainly deserves credit for much of the film's impact, but his accomplishments are handily eclipsed by FX whiz Kevin Yagher, who created the chillingly cherubic Chucky doll and brought him to life. Yagher's orchestration of the mechanical effects that allow Chucky to switch from beaming best friend to snarling psychopath remain captivating even in the modern CGI era, and the level of realism presented with this decidedly unreal character is startling and magical. Though later installments of the Child's Play franchise would replace Yagher's puppetry with whatever technological trickery was available at the time, the Chucky icon would never again be this frightening and primally savage, or look nearly as impressive.The limited capabilities of the the era actually augment the illusion rather than hindering it, and since the focus of the film is a plastic creation with limited jointing instead of a human being with full articulation, the doll's somewhat stiff and mechanical movements are more fitting than the sort of fluid animated motions you'll see in, say, Seed Of Chucky. The scenes of our blade-wielding antagonist methodically stalking down the hallway of the apartment where much of the action takes place are fearsome and indelible, and the sudden expletive-laden shift which occurs the first time Chucky reveals himself to the disbelieving mother of his friend till the end still packs a whopper of a jolt no matter how many times I've seen it. Despite Holland's sure-handed direction, this flick simply wouldn't work as well as it does without the efficiency of Chucky's menacing mien, and even if the notion of a killer doll strikes you as silly, there's no denying how powerfully that device is brought to fruition here.Our non-robotic cast does an excellent job as well, particularly the always welcome Chris Sarandon, who portrays skeptical homicide detective-turned-intervening hero Mike Norris. Young Alex Vincent is a bit over his head tackling the wide range of emotions his role as Andy requires, but he does a great job considering his age, and the final bitter punchline he delivers to Chucky is a true gem. Brad Dourif seems to relish the excesses he's allowed to indulge as the voice of Chucky, and his witty, mirthfully malicious banter adds as much nuance and actual character to the doll he inhabits as Kevin Yagher's machinery does.There isn't a ton of gore to be had here, but that dearth is actually pretty crucial to the plot since the initial killings are staged to look like accidents. Things get slightly more gruesome as the film proceeds, but the emphasis here is decidedly on suspense rather than splatter, so bloodthirsty viewers should probably be aware of that before they start imagining what nasty uses Chucky will concoct for the butcher knife he's grasping in most of Child's Play's promotional art.Some slippery mythology hampers the storyline a bit, and while the introduction of an inner city voodoo shaman responsible for teaching Chucky his Dambala trick is essential to our understanding of the film's rules, the wisdom he dispenses ends up being the lone befuddling portion of this caper. You see, the impetus for Chucky's climactic pursuit of Andy is the necessity of shifting his essence into the body of the first person he revealed himself to, otherwise he'll be trapped forever in the doll vessel he occupies throughout the film. I get that, and I suppose it makes some sort of sense in the realm of Child's Play, but the fact that Chucky's black magic mentor even knows this does not. I'm not intimately familiar with sorcery, but it strikes me as odd that the transference of human souls into talking toys apparently happens with enough frequency for there to be an established course of conduct when that occurs.This is ultimately a minor complaint, and taken as a whole Child's Play is a thoroughly enjoyable thriller. Though the rest of the extended franchise, with the lone exception of the surprisingly sharp Bride Of Chucky, is essentially useless, this inaugural outing has enough strong moments to make it readily apparent why subsequent film-makers were eager to get more mileage out of the concept (sadly, the foreboding finale suggested by the exit frame here was never explored). Even if the sequels have left a sour taste in your mouth, do the original the justice of giving it another look. Hi-de-ho, ha ha ha. "},{"Title":"Got myself a swearing, walking, sleeping, stalking living doll.","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pale face, blank eyes, fixed grin let's face it, even the most basic of dolls is inherently creepy; whoever thought of making the things talk and move, thereby making them even more sinister, is one seriously warped individual.Little Andy's mother in Child's Play should have taken one look at the fugly interactive Good Guy doll offered to her by a manky-toothed peddler and realised it could only mean trouble; instead, she happily hands over her dosh and takes the flipping thing home, as if positively encouraging her son to grow up psychologically disturbed. Sure enough, Andy (Alex Vincent) soon starts to show signs of mental issues, but in this case, it's not just the fact that the thing is seriously freaky to look at that is messing with his mind this particular doll is inhabited by the spirit of mass murderer Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif) and it's been telling him all sorts of weird stuff. Of course, no-one believes the lad, not even when people start to die...The idea of a scary 'living doll' was nothing new to the horror genre, even back in 1988, but although Child's Play's basic premise was already fairly well-worn, director Tom Holland proved there was still much more mileage to be had (five film's worth in total so far!). Don Mancini's script injects just the right amount of fun into proceedings, Holland's direction is slick and classy, successfully wringing tension and scares from material that might easily have ended up as laughable, Dourif gives a brilliant vocal performance as the doll, Chucky, and the special effects are all top notch; it all adds up to one hell of an entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"The Doll From Hell","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Watching this film was like watching the original Dead Silence (2007). I say this because for the beginning of this movie, Chucky is silent and creates the fear and has us wonder what really lurks inside the good guy doll. Even for its time it can scare the living crap out of anyone. So what if it's dated, Chucky is a terrifying creation and no matter what, it will give the desired scares.So how does this good guy doll become such a horrific killer? Well it is almost like possession except it's not with a real body. Catherine Hicks plays the mother of her son Andy played by Alex Vincent. Andy is the sweetest kid you could find; innocent and although he acts just like a normal kid, he has respect for his mother and what she does for him and that's what gives him his cuteness. I feel that Alex Vincent is the best actor in this film. For the most part Andy keeps his cool but even when he started to cry, I felt like crying, he was that good.Although the effects in this film are dated, I feel that they work really well. Everything from the way Chucky walks, his facial expressions, his eye movement, they all make him look very life-like. What's even more interesting is that as Chucky is more and more on screen, the more human he becomes; and not just because he is told that, but by his looks. Look at him closely as the film progresses to its finale. You'll understand what I mean. I'll say this as a clue, if you were to compare the differences between the good guy version and Chucky's end result, they are nothing alike.What I like most about this movie is the whole atmosphere. The way the story is set up is just too good to set aside. The dialog is memorable and so is the musical score by Joe Renzetti. Almost each moment carries the emotions of fear and dread. Those kinds of soundtracks can really freak people out. I feel that if this were to be left out, this movie would not as scary. Adding to the effect is how no one believes Andy that Chucky is alive. This creates even more fear because how is this little kid going to convince everyone he's not crazy? They will soon find out.This film has a lot really great moments that makes it hard to comprehend that this was made in the 1980s. With director Tom Holland at the wheel, Child's Play is considered a classic horror film. "},{"Title":"Child's Play A Great Movie For Everyone","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I first thought of Child's Play, I thought it was too childish and boring. However, I was proved wrong. This movie was great, especially the great imagination of using a man trapped as doll killer. This movie was very funny, yet not scary. It was, nevertheless very interesting. I had no moments during the movie, where I felt like nodding off. This is a must see film for everyone. Goods Introduction, General storyline, the acting, characters and also most of the special effects. Bads Maybe a bit scarier, but nothing bad. Might have been better if it was a bit longer. Overall, this was a great film for everyone. You should try this one out, its one of the better horror films. "},{"Title":"Wanna play?......","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Andy Barclay sees a commercial for a 'Good Guy' doll on TV, and asks his mother for one for his birthday. At work, Andy's mom and her friend discover a peddler selling one for a low price, and she buys it.What she doesn't know is that the particular doll contains the spirit of Charles Lee Ray, aka 'The Lakeshore Strangler', who died at the hands of police the night before and had transferred his spirit to the doll by voodoo.That night, Andy's babysitter is pushed from their 5th-floor window to her death, and only young Andy knows that 'Chucky' - the doll - is responsible for that a death and a series of murders that follow....What a great idea for a movie, a doll possessed by a killer, so why isn't this series of movies as memorable or as cult as other franchises? This film standalone is entertaining, scary, and importantly sadistically funny. The rest of the movies (bar the second one) are notorious for more than one reason.Dourif excels as the voice of chucky, and provides some much needed wit into the film, because to be fair, it wouldn't work without the wit. The rest of the cast are merely cannon fodder for chucky, and id they get in his way, they are toast.It's such a shame that a good first two movies and a potential franchise, were ruined by the media and their scapegoat tactics. "},{"Title":"Child's Play","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is a great horror/thriller made in 1986. It starts off with a serial killer (Brad Dourif) being hunted by a cop. After being fatally wounded, he becomes a good guy doll using a voodoo chant. As the doll, he goes on a killing spree seeking revenge against his enemies which include the officer who killed him and his crime partner that ditched him during a heist. The doll ends up being purchased by a woman played by Catherine Hicks, who gives it to her young son as a birthday present not knowing the doll is possessed by a murderer.Catherine Hicks and Chris Sarandon did a remarkable job in this, Alex Vincent who played young Andy Barclay was convincing and Brad Dourif originates the legendary Chucky voice. The movie didn't really scare me all that much, except for the first kill where the babysitter gets hit with the hammer and falls out the apartment window. Good creepy atmosphere in those scenes. It's a great roller coaster ride of a film as we learn about how Chucky must capture the boy and take over his body before he is trapped in the doll forever.Many sequels were made, but this was definitely the best one. I've read a remake is in the works. I hope that if/when it's remade, Catherine Hicks comes back to play the mom. She could still pull it off.8/10 "},{"Title":"And I call myself a horror fan? Finally saw this 23 yrs. after...","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It is with great shame that I admit that 23 years after it's original release, I FINALLY see Child's Play. The basic premise of the movie sounded so stupid and absurd I always automatically avoided it. Then, when the umpteenth sequels came pouring out, I thought that belief was confirmed. Boy, was I wrong.It takes a director with a very deft touch and steel-like confidence to pull something like this off, but Tom Holland does it, and he manages to make it creepy and scary and funny and wildly entertaining all at once. I now understand the large fan base, and my hat is off.See, Holland KNOWS how potentially ridiculous this story is, and he effectively puts you in the seat of the non-believer (personified by Catherine Hicks, who turns in an impressive rendition of slightly-befuddled, but earnest mom Karen Barclay). Holland plays it smart by keeping the Chucky-antics almost off camera for about 30-45 minutes of the film. It's kind of the same effect Spielberg got by hiding the shark in the first half of Jaws. And when he DOES give you a glimpse, it's freakishly mind-blowing. The scene where you see Chucky dart from a hallway opening behind unsuspecting Dinah Manoff is jaw-dropping in both it's fright-factor and it's outlandishness. Because it DOES look REAL.The special effects, especially for this time period in horror films, are impressive to say the least. The acting is solid and well-done, with just a hint of irony by all involved.And as for Alex Vincent, who played little Andy, I'm sure hard-core fans know the answer to this, but how he got through this one without suffering severe trauma and permanent nightmares is beyond me. It's a little beyond the role of Danny in The Shining! "}{"Title":"Here's Chucky!","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For such a laughable premise, Child's Play emerges far better than one expects. Everyone knows the story. A serial killer, the Lake Shore Strangler (Brad Dourif) is mortally wounded by a Chicago cop Mike Norris (Chris Sarandon). He manages to break into a toyshop, and with his dying breath, says a voodoo chant that transfers his soul into the body of a doll.I wouldn't be too surprised if after reading that paragraph, you might think Child's Play was an idiotic film. But thanks to Tom Holland's confident direction and the taut editing, what we have instead is a very effective horror film, not to mention satisfying because the sheer amount of enjoyment to be had is so unexpected.Chucky has become quite an infamous figure since his origin in 1988. As the sequels progressed, he has skirted the waters of controversy with the Jamie Bulger murder, and eventually evolved into black comedy when Bride of Chucky was created in 1998. But with the original film, no-one had ever heard of him, and didn't know what to expect.Child's Play is a horror film through and through. But it also has traces of light humour, elements that would be further expanded upon in the future. Holland shows a style of horror-film directing similar to Wes Craven. The scene where Maggie is babysitting Andy (Alex Vincent), the lad who ends up with Chucky, she is being stalked by Chucky. In the background, the TV is showing a horror film, almost acting as an internal commentary of the events.Holland's direction is truly excellent, allowing Child's Play to transcend it's admittedly slender plot, into a gripping, suspenseful horror show. This is a film that doesn't insult the intelligence of it's audience. It toys with our expectations, giving us enough subtle hints to tip us off of what's going on, but not too much that it doesn't give the game away.For the first forty minutes, we don't even see Chucky moving around. Except for the occasional blinking, head turning, and mumbling the dialogue the doll has been programmed with. These are all things the doll can do anyway, and they're incorporated into the plot whenever it demands it.But as Chucky plots revenge on those who betrayed him, we realise there will come a time when we will see him in all his glory. And that time comes when Karen Barclay (fiestily played by Catherine Hicks), Andy's mum, threatens to torch Chucky, and he comes to life right in her hands. This is when the puppetry comes into play. And for 1988, they're not half bad.Some of the facial expressions they get on Chucky are alarmingly sinister. And some of the movements Chucky makes took me by surprise. In one single continuous shot Chucky walks from one end of a room to another, and we actually see him climb up onto a bed. Or another one where he is in a fireplace, and kicks the grate away. This goes to show what puppetry can be capable of when given the chance.Brad Dourif lends his voice to the character, making Chucky into a frightening presence, complete with put-downs, puns and maniacal cackle. There are times when his voice isn't always synchronised with his mouth like it should be, but the effects are well above average for the time.Some of the plot elements concerning Chucky possessing Andy's body before he becomes trapped in the doll permanently are a bit hard to swallow, just because he was the first person he told his secret to. I don't see why that should be true, but the events are kept moving at a fast enough pace that you really won't care.Child's Play is a very entertaining horror film, with a bit more originality than you might expect. It all builds to a suspenseful climax with Chucky being slowly destroyed before he can possess Andy. It does occasionally lapse into unintentional amusement at the events, but I still believe this is a reasonably diverting motion picture.I love the ironic gag Holland adds at the end, with the final shot of an open door. Symbolising that the door has been left open for many sequels to follow. "},{"Title":"Not impressed-- not 100%, anyway","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Catherine Hicks, you're killing me like Chucky (SPOILER HERE) killed Maggie! I loved your turn in Star Trek 4. Then, I saw an episode of Seventh Heaven and, by all the forces in heaven and hell, I hated it! So I hoped Child's Play would be the happy middle ground (well, not too happy, I guess, but good) between the two. Well, it wasn't. The movie was okay, but it had very few redeeming points. First, the movie wasn't nearly long enough to sustain an enjoyable horror flick. Second, Chris Sarandon, as a detective/reluctant believer, gives a worse performance than he did in the much more rinky-dink thriller Fright Night (which was still better). The film's redeeming moments (TWO SPOILERS) Aunt Maggie was a real b*tch and got what she deserved, and Chucky's final demise-- which wasn't really his final, I'm guessing from the sequels. About those sequels... thanks, I'll pass. "},{"Title":"Which death would you rather have?","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Maggie (getting hit on the head with a hammer and plummeting 8 stories to her death on a station wagon). Eddie Caputo (exploding along with your house). John (getting your leg and arm broke before getting stabbed in the heart and laying there for about an hour). Looney bin guy giving Andy a shot (Getting stabbed in the leg before getting fried to a crisp with the electric shock machine).Personally. I would rather go like Eddie Caputo did and just explode. It was painless and instant. All the other deaths would be really scary. I mean, I really don't want to go any other way except dying in my sleep but we should all be so lucky "},{"Title":"A surprisingly scary and fun horror show!","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A dying serial killer transfers his should into the body of a doll,and continuous his murderous ways from there.Isent it rare to find a scary slasher movie?Especially one about a killer toy?Childs Play succeeds.The scene with Karen discovering Chucky is really alive is truly terrifying,and Chucky is of course as creepy as a killer toy can be.He's very different from the comedian from the latter flicks(which most people know him by).The script writers even pull a Jaws by not showing the doll in action until about forty minutes in the flick.Not to worry though,Chucky still has some excellent scenes,especially the conclusion,which is one of the best I've seen.And of course crashing Chris Sarandon's police car!The acting is your standard horror fare Catherine Hicks and Chris Sarandon do equally good jobs,but Alex Vincent is the real star.He gives a powerful performance all while maintaining the cute that audiences love.And of course Brad Dourif shines in his roll as Chucky.Tom Holland does an excellent directing job.The atmosphere is very playful yet very 1940's vintage,and Holland serves us some of the greatest killer POV shots ever.The special effects are also quite good considering the time it was made.Highly recommend8/10 "},{"Title":"Great Atmoshpere, a classic horror film","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When serial killer Charles Lee Ray is mortally wounded in a police shoot-out, he uses a voodoo spell to transfer his soul into Chucky, a Good Guys doll. Young Andy Barclay sees a commercial for a 'Good Guy' doll on TV, and asks his mother for one for his birthday. At work, Andy's mom and her friend discover a peddler selling one for a low price, and she buys it. What she doesn't know is that the particular doll contains the spirit of Charles Lee Ray, aka 'The Lakeshore Strangler', who died at the hands of police the night before and had transferred his spirit to the doll by voodoo. That night, Andy's babysitter is pushed from their 5th-floor window to her death, and only young Andy knows that 'Chucky' - the doll - is responsible for that a death and a series of murders that follow. Worse than that, the soul of Charles Lee Ray is trying to get out of the doll's body - and take over Andy's! An average horror film that builds a good atmosphere 7/10. "},{"Title":"Great film best of the series","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This has to be the best film of the series for a number of reasons.Brilliant direction by Tom Holland. The main reason why the child play films are so brilliant is Brad Dourif as Chucky. He has the voice completely nailed on.This has got to be the best voice-over for a character in a movie ever. (Spoiler) The best parts of this film is where Chucky is setting up Andy for the murders absolutely hilarious. Also Chris Sarandon is great as always (See Bordello of blood and Fright night) as the cop chasing the Chuck. Must see film for fans of the slasher genre.The best killer toy film out there by a long way so forget about Puppet Master, Dolls and Dolly Dearest and have a night in with the chuckster. trebor dnalob rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Sorry Andy...","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Let's face it, Child's Play is one of the best movies of the eightie's. Why? Because a freakin doll kills people! I own this one, and thats why my mom is really mad at me. CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!!!Andy Barclay really wants a good guy doll for his birthday, so his mom finds a homeless guy and buys one from him. Little did she know the doll has the soul of a mass murderer! She brings it home to him, and he plays with it a lot. But, odd things are happening. Chucky(The Doll) has been doing odd things! Soon the whole city is on an uproar, and no one believes Andy that Chucky is alive! Even though this is R, that doesn't stop me. There is rarely any blood at all, and there is only 3 F-words in the whole thing!Deaths1.Chucky's death(Gets toasted on fire)2.Dr.Ardmore(Gets electrocuted)3.Dr.Death(Gets murdered by voodoo)4.Maggie(Gets hammered in the head, and falls out of a window.5.Eddie(Gts blown up) "},{"Title":"Extremely brilliant","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was about 4 years old when I first saw Child's Play. My ma said to me I looked exactly like Andy Barclay. I think this film is clearly a clever movie, although all of it is a fantasy and might not happen in real life, but still it stands as an excellent movie. The performances all around are brilliant, especially little Alex Vincent (who plays Andy). Chucky is sure a horror icon, and has been scarifying for audiences around the world, but now I think its safe to say that Chucky is a bit of a comic icon now. For me, I think, Child's Play is the best chilling thriller movie ever made. "},{"Title":"The film that gave us CHUCKY!!!!","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"      You have to admit after seeing this film that every time you walk past a doll,you check twice to see if it move.That's the effect this flick had on me.Director Tom Holland and writer Don Mancini(who wrote the another CHUCKY films and the upcoming SEED OF CHUCKY)did a great job to a film some people consider a joke and a lot consider a masterpiece in it's own right of horror films.    After serial killer Charles Lee Ray(Brad Dourif)is shot down by police officer Mick Norris(Chris Sarandon),before he dies he transfered his soul into a famous Good Guy Doll using his knowledge of the occult. A year or so later,Andy Barclay(Alex Vincent)is about to get the ultimate toy,a Good Guy Doll from his loving mother,Kara Barclay(Catherine Hicks).But when strange things start to happen like Andy talking to his doll and people dying.Kara learns that her son and his doll,CHUCKY is linked to the murders.    This is a great horror flick and as I said before it had an effect on me.Now I don't even look at my little sister's doll's funny anymore. And Don Mancini is a genius for thinking of dolls killing people in the most realistic ways and bringing one of the most memorable villians to the big screen....CHUCKY!!!! "},{"Title":"exciting & thrilling, and scary!","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  CHILD'S PLAY(1988) Catherine Hicks. In this exciting thriller, a mom(catherine hicks) buys a doll, named Chucky, for her son. But little do they know that the doll is possessed by the spirit of a dead killer.    I have to say that I enjoyed this. I watched it on TV on a saturday night, and it chilled me during the night. It was exciting, thrilling, and occasionally scary. Even Chucky's face is creepy. I liked this.)CHILD'S PLAY- ***/****R contains some evil doll-related violence, scary themes and some language.   "}{"Title":"A killer doll tries to take control of a little boy.","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a perfect movie. Every thing about it was really well done. Especially since Andy is the only one who knows that Chucky is a serial killer.  Every aspect about this movie was good.  The suspense the horror. Basically the only problem was you didn't see Chucky that much.  Overall, I would rate this movie 9 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"A great movie all around!","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  contains spoilersThis is an often over looked gem.  The original Child's Play is one of the best horror movies of the 1980's and it really does stand the test of time.  It has a tight and well written script with an interesting take on the classic killer doll idea.  For those who have not seen it, I'll give a brief overview of the film.  Charles Lee Ray, a serial killer on the run from the police, is cornered in a toy store.  Before he dies he uses voodoo to transfer his soul into a Good Guy doll.  Good Guy dolls are basically talking Cabbage Patch Kids and the hot toy for that point in time. Andy Barclay desperately wants one for his birthday, but his single mother working at a department store beauty counter (portrayed by Cathrine Hicks of 7th Heaven fame) can't afford one.  It seems luck is on her side when a homeless man is selling one in a back alley.  This is, of course, the doll housing the soul of Charles Lee Ray, or Chucky as his friends call him. Chucky plays the part of a regular doll, only exposing his real self to Andy.  Chucky discovers the only way to regain a human body is to take possession of the body of the first person he told his secret to.  So he must kill Andy and mayhem ensues.  There is no nudity, and very little graphic violence in this movie.  It gets it's R rating mostly from language. But don't let that put you off it's still a very suspenseful and wonderfully engrossing movie, in fact, I'd recommend it for a family movie night (even with young children).  The kids will love seeing toys come to life and the plot should be too difficult for them to follow and the police drama subplot will keep adults entertained as well.   "},{"Title":"classic","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Child's Play is better than the high 5 rating it got this film is a classic horror film. Chucky is a legendary character in the movie world, this movie was very entertaining, funny, and scary and spawned some sequels that didn't come close to this original. Alex Vincent quit acting, but he can live off Andy Barclay and Chucky. Brad Doriff's voice work was excellent, I think anyone who likes horror should not just watch, but own this. "},{"Title":"A definite Cult classic","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Child's play was one of my favorite horror movies. It seemed a little unrealistic. As the band member of Twisted sister said on the VH1 special I love the 80s 1988 Its a doll step on it.  Thats what made this movie very unique and different from the other horror monsters like Freddy, Jason, or Michael Myers. This was a toy that had an evil spirit in it. I think they should of stopped making Chucky movies after the 2nd one. The 3rd and the Bride of Chucky were a disgrace. It will be interesting to see if they do come out with a new movie because they didn't kill him as bad as in his other movies, you know being burnt, being shot apart and his heart shot. Or like in the 2nd one where he had his head explode and in the 3rd one being chopped up in a fan. The bride of chucky he got shot multiple times which is nowhere near as bad as the other movies. Alex Vincent played the perfect role as Andy Barcley. I'm surprised they didn't use someone like Maculey Culkin or Elijah Wood but Alex worked out very well. It would be cool to bring Alex back in the new movie if they make it. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST HORROR MOVIES EVER!","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is great!  They have some great scenes with the Chucky doll. I'd say one of the best scene's is the crazy car scene with Chris Sarandon and I bet no other, could replace Brad Dourifs voice for chucky.  The graphics of the doll were pretty good and Catherine Hicks acted very well. They should of changed the plot a little bit in the sequel so she could of been in Child's Play 2. I suggest for you to see this movie and if you have some spare time on your hands watch the second and third but don't be surprised if you dont like them but now you will be able to understand Bride of Chucky which isn't a bad movie at all.  I give Child's Play a 7.5 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Passable killer doll film","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After a serial killer (Brad Dourif) transfers his soul into Chucky, a Good Guy Doll, a single mother (Catherine Hicks) purchases it for his son (Alex Vincent) as a gift.  The young boy discovers that it walks, talks, and stalks.  Nothing great, but it does have some suspense and is good for a few laughs.  My evaluation ** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Extremely silly... but see it and get hooked on it.","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I must be honest. This is a silly and pretty bad movie. But it's also good when you are bored because it's a bit funny too. Chucky is cool but otherwise this ain't not an extremely good movie. And it surely won't scare you a bit!But if you will see it you won't be able to turn your video to STOP. Because you'll get hooked on it. It is a perfect movie that you can watch in a dark room with a few friends. But the sequels only repeat the same story again and again and again. Childs play is an OK movie but don't have too high expectations.  "},{"Title":"I guess I can see why for some people it's scary - sorry but for me - this is hilarious!","Date":"12 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay so here is my review for yet another slasher series Child's Play. While I can safely say it was better than Friday The 13th I just found myself laughing at this movie more than I was feeling creeped out or scared. Now to be fair I can see where some people were scared by this movie, it's just that it is (either intentionally or not) goofy.The premise is that Charles Lee Ray is a serial killer that one night gets shot by the cops and as he's dying and they're searching he recites a voodoo incantation that transfers his soul into that of a children's toy. The next day a kid named Andy has a birthday coming up and his mother does a very last minute shop for a toy that was recently added to the market that he wants. Then the talking toy that calls himself Chucky and Andy begin to attach immediately and soon the bodies start piling up.Okay first of all I am going to elaborate how I can see people being scared by this. The directing for some of the scenes are actually suspenseful in places, and the argument can be made that when something inanimate is trying to kill a character of course nobody is going to believe them and therefore nobody will help them. So when this movie is looked at from that point of view it's not a bad idea.Okay onto why I think this movie is more goofy than scary. Some of the line deliveries are just hilarious. I mean the way Brad Dourif says Oh god I'm dying as if it's a minor annoyance, then only a nanosecond later he says in the most cartoonishly over-the-top way YOU LISTEN HERE YOU SON OF A BITCH I'M GONNA GET YOU AND I'M GONNA GET EDDIE NO MATTER WHAT! with line deliveries like that and... It's a killer doll among other things I can't help but raise a few chuckles at this movie.Other than that it's pretty much generic slasher. The acting either ranges from overacting to underacting, the killer survives being burnt, decapitated, arm and leg wiped clean off only to then die by getting shot in the heart (Which is a complaint that the scene goes on for too long at least in my opinion). I'd say check it out either for it's goofiness (which doesn't come around often but when it does - it's worth it!) or in some cases the actual suspense. For me however it's just too goofy to take as a legit horror movie. "},{"Title":"it was OK","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It was a pretty good movie. I liked the effects. But some of the scenes were just plain dumb. Seriously who gets hit hard enough by a toy hammer in the hands of a doll, to go flying out the window. Why doesn't someone just grab the doll and shoot him. I mean come on hes a frigging doll it shouldn't be that hard to take him down. I just don't see how a doll could kill a whole lot of people and no one notices. Are these people stupid? To think they think a little kid killed all those people. They are all idiots. Anyway at the end they burn him to a crisp and hes still not dead, then the mom who can't fire a gun to save her life, has the officer finally kill him. "},{"Title":"A Cult Classic","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this movie when I was just 6 years old and that very night it gave me nightmares. This was definitely not a movie for children but I saw it anyway. Since then, I have been a fan of the Child's Play franchise and I watch every installment. This one is definitely a classic. I'd advise you to watch this one alone at night with the doors locked. Any Chucky movie is a timeless classic that I think not only I like but the entire community of hardcore Chucky fans will love to death. There are many deaths in this movie and I won't give anything away if you haven't seen it already. Must watch on Blue-Ray disc or DVD. This one will have you scaring your little sister by asking her Wanna play? "}{"Title":"Not a film to watch for the first time when you're 30. I missed out.","Date":"25 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was 4 years old when Child's Play was released, and I remember seeing a trailer for the VHS release in a videotape we rented (which was obviously more children friendly). Since I became a Horror fan during my late teens, I simply missed out on the authentic experience of Chucky's mischief.Today, with terrifying puppets as seen in films like The Conjuring, Annabel and Dead Silence, the fear of puppets and dolls has been taken to extreme levels. However, one must consider the fact that in 1988 the entire concept had been fairly new, and people around the world had been terrified with the concept of a kids' doll possessed by psychopath serial killer and targeting their them or their children.Watching this in 2016 after a couple hundred other Horror features, I must say I felt like I was watching Comedy Horror (which is one of my least favorite genres). Chucky is not scary, he's ridiculous. The acting might have been considered superb during the late 80's, but is unauthentic and unconvincing in today's standards. Much respect to Alex Vincent (playing Andy) for starring in a film at the age of 7, but his performance makes suspension of disbelief impossible.All I can say is that Child's Play is an excellent film for children who are not young and timid enough to become paranoid and prevent the house from sleeping at night 2 months after watching. Anyone else would find it amusingly ridiculous at best. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In Child's Play, a sadist named Charles Lee Ray (or Chucky, a nick-name of his), after running from police, breaks into a toy store and possesses a doll as he's dying so his soul can continue to live. This doll gets stolen by a homeless man and sold to a woman who gives it to her son who was wanting that kind of doll. Chucky, while inside the doll, tries to kill the cop who mortally shot his human form and is shot by him causing pain and bleeding. After that, he goes to the man who taught him how to move his soul into other things and tells him he was shot and it hurt and bled to his surprise and asked him why. He tells him it's because he's turning human and the more time he spends in the doll the more human he will become which Chucky interprets as meaning after long enough he'll be trapped in the doll for the rest of his life. So he asks him how to get out of the doll. The man tells him he won't tell him because he is evil, so Chucky forces him to by torture of a voodoo doll of him and a threat to kill him. The man tells him he can only leave the doll by getting into the first person he tells that he's alive and that is the boy so he tries to get into him. He's stopped by the boy's mom, the cop who shot his human form, and the boy. He's burned, shot to pieces, and shot through the heart which kills him for good. Or does it? This is a very scary and good movie. Chucky is an icon of horror. Child's Play 2, Child's Play 3, and Bride of Chucky are all great too. Seed of Chucky is so so. It has one great scene. Curse of Chucky is terrible. "},{"Title":"Meet Chucky, the killer doll.","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Chucky has become a horror icon over the years. Directed by horror contributor Tom Holland who also directed Fright Night. Another horror regular Brad Dourif and that voice, he makes Chucky a doll version of Samuel L. Jackson's, Jules, from Pulp Fiction. Most notably his response to being thrown in the fire. Dourif along with the Fx team helped create one of the best doll horror movies. Other good one's that come to mind are the Zuni fetish doll from Trilogy of Terror and Stuart Gordon's Dolls. Okay, it's a cheesy premise. The fact that Chucky is a killer doll might intrigue some, might make most laugh. But, really, if you watch it, you'll see that it's a very stylish horror film. I always believe that its strong point was how it obscured Chucky for a good enough portion of the film, revealing him in full motion at the height of intensity. Now that is what I call masterful directing on behalf of a horror film.Overall i will recommend this movies to all horror fans out there!My Ratings 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Only chucky movie worth watching","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Childs play (1988) starring Catherine Hicks from 7th Heaven is actually a pretty entertaining classic horror film. I really enjoyed Catherine in her role, I thought she did a great job, she was likable, smart, and intelligent. I also really loved how this movie was scary and violent but not overly gory or gruesome, that was very refreshing to see. The special effects in child's play are pretty cool looking and too and don't look cheap or fake. I also really liked the child actor, he was impressive for his age, and Chucky was scary and creepy but not too overly disturbing, that was another refreshing thing. This movie features good acting, scary scenes, good effects and it's not gruesome or disgusting about it, 8/10 for child's play. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but an acceptable example of '80s horror","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So here we have it, the first film that spawned a long-running and controversial film franchise about a possessed killer doll. Back in the late '80s and early '90s, a whole shed load of 'killer toy' movies hit the video shelves &#x96; I'm thinking the likes of PUPPET MASTER, DOLLY DEAREST, et al &#x96; and this is the one that spawned that briefly popular surfeit of miniature killers. However, CHILD'S PLAY is nothing new and indeed what it most recalled to me was the Karen Black segment of the '70s TV horror movie TRILOGY OF TERROR, in which a woman is menaced in her apartment by a voodoo fetish doll. The last twenty minutes of this movie are particularly reminiscent of that one.Anyway, CHILD'S PLAY isn't a bad film, pretty much par for the course for an '80s horror. It's not as cheesy as you might imagine and it showcases an excellent turn from Brad Dourif as both a killer and a killer doll. He's really having a ball here and his enthusiasm is infectious. The rest of the cast don't match him &#x96; heroine Catherine Hicks is adequate but sometimes bland, FRIGHT NIGHT's Chris Sarandon is wooden and child actor Alex Vincent is far too cute &#x96; but it could be worse.My biggest complaint is that the first half of this flick is far too slow. It's a kind of guessing game, leaving us in suspense as to the identity of the killer, wondering whether the kid is responsible after all. The problem is that EVERYBODY &#x96; even people who haven't seen any of these films &#x96; knows that the Chucky doll is indeed the bad guy; it's on the advertising after all! The whole of this mystery guessing-game could have been done away with in favour of more scares. Still, once the film gets going it's not bad, and the string of murders are fairly inventive (the electrocution death is particularly gruesome). I did really enjoy the climax, which reduces things to the classic situation of 'characters trapped and hunted by killer' and manages to be pretty exciting. Props too for the great special effects work, Chucky is indeed a demonic looking toy and quite frightening if you're of a nervous disposition. "},{"Title":"Laughable 80s fare","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The 80s produced some good horror flicks, like Nightmare on Elm Street, but the epos of Chucky the doll possessed by a killer, is not one of them. The film suffers from the usual shortcomings off most horror fare, for example the fallacy of location Why do they keep throwing the doll down and then get down on all fours so it can attack them easily? Why do they slouch around inside cars while the doll is after them with a knife? Really good horror films solve the fallacy of location in Alien, they're stuck on a spaceship in a vacuum. In Elm Street, the ghoul comes into your dreams; in The Shining, a hotel is snowed in 20 feet deep in the winter; in The Thing, we are stuck on a desolate Antarctic base. In Final Destination, the horror in everyday things that malfunction around you. It's not child's play to do it right, and Chucky fails miserably where all these horror movies succeed.As the killer in Chucky tries to kill the detective who nailed him, and then tries to transfer his spirit to the doll's child owner so as not to become a doll forever, we move from one laughably inane situation to the next. What makes it even weirder is that the special effects are OK. The level of unintentional humor in this movie needed cheesier special effects to work!This movie might get a chuckle from those who saw it as pre-teens in the 80s and feel a bit nostalgic. It might also get a chuckle if you watch it in a Mystery Theater 3000 mood with some friends and brewskis in hand. But I'm afraid it won't do much more. If you want to see some good 80s horror, see The Thing or Nightmare instead. Or Reanimator if you need some cheesy fun. Or The Shining. Or Cronenberg's The Fly. I could think of many more that would be a step up from Child's Play. Only Killer Klowns from Outer Space comes to my mind immediately as definitely more mediocre. "},{"Title":"Still good fun, after all these years.","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When this was released on VHS long, long ago, I watched this in awe. Even if the story was never credible in any way, the atmosphere and Chucky himself were pretty convincing. A lot of dialogues and actions are rather simplistic and none too convincing, but somehow 'Child's play' had its charm. Yesternight, I watched it again, and I wasn't in awe as much, but it's still a fun cult thing.The cast do their jobs quite adequately, with Catherine Hicks, Dinah Manoff and Alex Vincent deserving a special mention. And Brad Dourif, of course.The horror element (some say this is a slasher, and I'll agree up to a point) has to compete with the thriller side of things, as well as some comedic elements - because Chucky is pretty funny at times.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":" No, Andy, No ! We're Friends Til The End, Remember!?  This Is The End, Friend!","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play directed by Tom Holland, the film that created the killer doll concept. One night, A serial killer named Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif ) is shot to death in a toy store by Officer Mike Norris ( Chris Sarandon ). Before he dies, Charles transfers his soul into a doll using voodoo magic. He is soon bought by Karen Barclay, (Catherine Hicks) a single mother who gives it to her son, Andy (Alex Vincent) who has just turned six. Most people would probably remember Chucky as that wise-cracking, ridiculous slasher villain, but that is not the case in this movie. For the first half of the movie Chucky is not seen walking or talking, but there are killings that are happening. This is quite suspenseful for the first half while Chucky just sits there and only kills by sneak attacks. These killings are blamed on Andy as he happens to be at all the crime scenes.Andy is an alright character. He is likable enough and never becomes too annoying, but he just does not have any personality traits that are interesting. Andy does have this one liner near the end of the film that is just hilarious.Andy's mother (Karen) and the cop Mike Norris are also just okay. They are also not annoying or badly acted, but they also lack any real personality. They play the role of the adults not believing the kid and that's all for the first half. Chucky is the most notable character in the film. The doll special effects are done pretty good, not as good as they were in later films, but not bad. Brad Dourif's Chucky voice is really memorable and really makes the character of Chucky come to life. Now that Chucky is a doll he believes that he is invincible, and so he plans get revenge on the people who have wronged him. With Andy's help getting him there; he goes into his partner's house to kill him because his partner left him for dead. After doing this and Andy is sent to a mental hospital, Chucky goes to see his old voodoo master so that he can find out how to get out of the dolls body. After Chucky voodoo's his teacher into submission, Chucky learns that he will have to transfer himself into Andy's body. That is his goal for the last half of the movie. Although Chucky is a slasher villain, the movie does not follow the slasher formula that was established by Halloween. It is not about a man in a mask stalking people or the body count, but about Chucky's journey as a man, then as a doll, then revenge and finally becoming human again. The body count is not very high, but the kills that they do have are spread out throughout the movie, so it never feels like the film goes to long without a murder or attempted murder. Unfortunately, most of the kills are a little too ridiculous, even for the 80's. A babysitter is killed (familiar?) early on by getting hit by a plastic hammer and she comically reels backwards and JUMPS out a window. Just Silly. These stupid kills are made up for with the scene where Chucky is in the backseat trying to strangle Mike Norris while stabbing though the seat. Mike keeps stepping on the gas and the whole scene just gets intense. The music is a haunting score, especially the opening music. The theme fits the film and makes the still doll seem more sinister then he is. While the score sounds great, it's just not as an iconic or recognizable as the Halloween or Friday The 13th theme. The movie ends with Chucky being set on fire and getting some of his limbs shot off, Chucky is shot in the heart killing him. But what's this? Andy looks back at the served parts of Chucky and sees&#x85;. That he is still there. Ambiguous ending that is not that ambiguous&#x85; Whoa. This might be one of the few slasher films I have seen that did not beg of a sequel. Did not stop them, though. Child's play does have a nice feeling of suspense and the killer is really entertaining to watch. The kills could have been improved, but it does not stop the movie from being enjoyable and at times scary. A Must See For Horror Fans 7.2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Not a child's play thing!","Date":"28 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In a not-so-innocent movie about a child's doll, Catherine Hicks stars as single mother Karen Barclay gives her son Andy (Alex Vincent) a talking doll named Chucky for his birthday. But, they later discover that it is possessed by the demon of serial killer Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif). It goes on a rampage, trying to bring down his enemies, with Karen and her son caught in his wrath.The plot's pacing, script, and music score work fine in this movie, with good direction by Tom Holland, sending the dark mood and freaky atmosphere where appropriate - especially during scenes where Chucky creeps up on people. Joe Renzetti's music score blends in well with the movie and the cinematography was good, especially letting the dreary Chicago streets match the dark mood of the film.The acting was pretty good for the most part. Brad Dourif gave a sinister, dark, yet sometimes sarcastic portrayal of Chucky; Catherine Hicks gave a fine performance as the mom; and Chris Sarandon was a little emotionless and mundane at times as the cop, Mike Norris. Lastly, Alex Vincent gave what I thought was the best acting performance, giving Andy a very innocent, adorable, yet sharp and witty portrayal.A very good horror film to watch during Halloween time or to get some scares in.Grade A- "},{"Title":"One of the genre's undisputed classics","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Managing to find a popular toy for her son, a woman gradually comes to believe he's inhabited by the soul of a serial killer and tries to get a policeman to believe her in order to stop the doll from putting his soul into her son.Overall this one turned out to be quite impressive and truly enjoyable effort her. One of the film's best features here is the fact that there's just so much done here to make it questionable whether or not he's really possessed or whether the whole thing is in his imagination, a fine product here that carries itself for the whole first half. By focusing so nicely on the these elements, the scenes of the two blatantly disobeying parental instructions in order to follow his directions instead, the constant appearing around the scenes of many of the accidents all innocently and never believing anything he tells them sets this up rather nicely here into her investigation of the whole affair which is where this one really picks up here by letting this here carry the main part of the film. While the revelation sequence is truly legendary here as the earlier investigations give it some intriguing possibilities about what's going on, the battery discovery of all kinds of chilling, the initial reaction is priceless and then the ensuing attack after being threatened makes for a superb, stand-out sequence. Even along these other scenes, there's plenty of other fun to be had here in the film's fun action which are highly enjoyable and make for quite a thrilling time here, from the opening stalking scenes in the toy-store before finally getting to the transfer ceremony as the lightning bolt destroys the store in a giant fireball, a alter stalking scene at the friends' house where he sets the explosive trap that blows up the building and the absolutely fun car chase as another trap inside the car provides some thrills while making a fine set-up for the stalking within the flipped car at the end getting some fine suspense in. As well, there' an absolutely ton of positives to like here with the final stalking in the apartment being the true highlight that features a ton of high-energy action as he charges after them continuously despite being set on fire and having his limbs blown off, the different brawls and overpowering attempts make for quite a nice time and the whole thing comes off flawlessly. Lastly, the film gets an absolute ton of positives from the stellar special effects work for the doll, as this is an absolutely amazing part of the film. Given that this one spends as much time as it does here showcasing him on-screen, it needed to come off flawlessly and he manages to come across as a realistic doll, and the puppets achieving this throughout here are marvelous due to these perfectly conceived creations. These here manage to hold this up incredibly well here as there's not too many flaws here. About the only thing really wrong here is the fact that her investigations take up a lot of time here and somewhat stalls the killing done by keeping the doll off-screen here, though none of this is really boring even detrimental. This one is quite fun regardless.Rated R Graphic Violence, Language, an Attempted Rape and children-in- jeopardy. "}{"Title":"This probably would've scared the life outta me when I was younger.","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was ten years old when I first saw Chucky. It was the poster for Child's Play 2 hanging in the video store, and that image of the possessed doll with the scissors did enough of a number on my fragile mind to steel me clear for a very long time (no pretense here, I'm a puss as it is when it comes to horror movies). Which explains why I didn't get around to the original movie til my mid-30s. And it turns out I completely missed the boat on Child's Play because this movie is far more silly than it is scary. It never gets beyond creepy and that's mainly because of the doll's animatronic face (and Brad Dourif's voice behind it). The character's strength is as a mischief-maker, but that doesn't make up for those stale scenes when he's inert. I felt sad for the little kid more than anything. This is one of those movies where, having finally seen it, I can close the book on this one. Although even I have to admit that it did get a bit better in the last ten minutes when Chucky went all Terminator. That was entertaining.Meh/10 "},{"Title":"Great Horror from The Director of 'Fright Night'.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is a film with a seemingly stupid storyline. A child's doll comes alive and kills. This sounds like a dud, right? This film is surprising good. Director Tom Holland had a hit with 1985's vampire flick, 'Fright Night'. This time Holland has directed a film about a doll that gets possessed by the spirit of a notorious murderer. The film tells the story of Karen Barclay (Catherine Hicks) who works hard to buy a doll for her son, Andy. She buys her son a My Buddy doll named Chucky. The doll seems cute until Andy's babysitter (played by Dinah Manoff) is pushed out of a window while watching Andy. A detective (Chris Sarandon) begins investigating the death and he and Karen come to a terrifying conclusion.This is a very well made horror film despite the somewhat stupid storyline. Little Alex Vincent is great as Andy and Catherine Hicks is brilliant as a mother desperately trying to save her son and herself from a murderer. "},{"Title":"A lot scarier then people give it credit for","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is inspired by a true story about doll passed by an evil ghost. There have bet many story before this one about true and fiction about evil toys. This is one of the more famous stories about evil toys. A serial killer this killed by a cop. He p.r.a.c.t.i.s voodoo. Just before he dies he puts his soul in to a doll. This is a very scary movie. I can think of scarier movies. Child's play 2 is scarier. Child's play 3 is also scarier. But this is one of scariest movie made before 1990. I have seen people laugh at it but I don't why? If you are scared by A nightmare on elm street or Silence of the lambs then this should give you good scary. "},{"Title":"Excellent Classic!","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Spoiler Alert! This is an absolute awesome film from my childhood, I'd always use to rent from Blockbuster! I loved it from beginning to end! It's got like 4 kills which are a bit ridiculous like for instants when Eddie Caputo is about to die he kicks open the door and just blindly fires while the oven's gas is released. I guess they couldn't choose a more creative death then that because in all seriousness I just laughed at how pathetically lame it is. Although it does have a rather odd ending the music always gives me goosebumps on the back of my neck like I just saw a demon with red eyes stare at me from the foot of my bed. The music for this movie is just excellent! I love this movie so much if they remake it I will literally join a boycott to seeing it in theaters. Overall I give the film a 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Good movie. (light spoilers)","Date":"2 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is the only Chucky movie I'd consider good, but even just good is an impressive accomplishment for most movies in the horror genre. In this movie we get a full, fresh, coherent story because like with many horror movies, the debut could have very well been a stand alone. Andy is a boy who is unlucky enough to get a doll which is possessed by a voodoo serial killer, and Andy is key for the serial killer Charles to transfer his soul out of a lousy doll's body and into a human's again (this actually sums up the Child's Play series). The four main characters we have are Chucky, Andy, Andy's mom, and a detective, and this much is enough to drive the story. Through the film we see the three protagonist characters slowly come to realizations around Chucky, Andy gradually understands that the doll's evil and that he should be combating him rather than complying with him, and the two adults each realize that Andy isn't crazy or imaginative and that his doll is in fact possessed. What's also good about this film is that the audience has reason to believe that Chucky, despite being a doll, is a powerful and capable entity more threatening than even a human. This is a point which will probably become lost on you through the course of the series as his voodoo skills only serve as a method of attempting to transfer his soul in future films.Despite my 6/10 rating (I aim to be objective with my ratings), this movie is a personal favorite of mine (we can attribute that to my teenage fanboy years) and I have watched it multiple times. If a horror movie about a killer doll with a wicked sense of humor sounds appealing to you, then you'll like this movie. "},{"Title":"A doll possessed by the soul of a murderer continues his killing spree and wants to become alive.","Date":"12 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Having watched it years ago as a boy, I can still enjoy it as much as I used to. Some of the seems still look cool, especially Chucky's death in the end. Of course being an adult now, Chucky does not seem as scary as he used to be when I was a child but considering the glut of gory movies, and torture porn out there nowadays, Child's Play still holds up well. Of course, movies in the 80s are more slow paced than movies nowadays, but there are many recently made movies that are terrible compared to Child's Play. This movie features the things that make 80s horror great explosions, reciting spells under lightning, scary images, and clean language. Brad Dourif is perfect as Chucky. I can't imagine anyone else playing Chucky. He is good behind the mask, almost like Andy Serkis. "},{"Title":"Dolls are best when they do least.","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dolls creep me out. Their jovial faces stare into space and you swear that when you turn your back, they are looking right at you.The movie begins with a dying serial killer named Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif) being pursued by a police detective (Chris Sarandon). He practices voodoo and has perfected a way to transport his soul into anyone or anything he chooses just by chanting the right spell. With his last ounce of strength he grabs a doll off the shelf and chants, lightening strikes, the store catches fire and he resides inside the body of the doll.Meanwhile a young Andy is about to celebrate his birthday and asks his mother for a 'Good Guy Doll'. But Karen is widowed, the budget is tight and she can't afford the doll which is over $100. So, a friend informs her that there is a peddler in the ally who has one for sale and no points for guessing where he found it.Almost immediately, the doll, now named Chucky, begins talking to Andy, telling him to change the channel to the news so he can see his story. When Andy's babysitter suspects something, Chucky sends her out the window to her death.At one point Chucky tells Andy to take him to an abandoned house outside of town. He exacts revenge on a former colleague and the blame falls on the kid.The trick to the movie is that when Chucky causes chaos, it automatically makes Andy look guilty. No one will believe that Chucky is talking to the boy but eventually Andy's mother that police detective starts to suspect something is up.There are a lot of tense moments in this movie. I especially got a thrill out of a scene, in which Karen is alone at home with the doll, which was reminiscent of the scene with the clown in 'Poltergeist'. She hears something, turns to the living room and sees nothing but the doll on the couch. She turns again hears another noise turns back to the living room and the doll is gone. Some of the scariest moments are always the quiet ones.'Child's Play' has a lot of thrills and a lot of energy. It goes on my list of effective if not brilliant horror films like 'A Nightmare on Elm Street', 'The Relic' and 'Near Dark'. These films serve their purpose and do their job with a lot of imagination. "},{"Title":"The original film that spawned one of the most popular horror franchises ever!","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First off, let just start by saying that this is one of the best films I've ever seen. Chuck is a classic horror icon! The 80's and 90's were some of the best decades for horror movies, Child's Play/Chucky included. This movie has a slow build up, but most 80's horror movies did, but it's worth it because it builds up to an epic climax which ends with Chucky being caught on fire, then shot to pieces only to finally die by being shot in in the heart of his body (his head and body were torn apart). I must say, the ending was very creepy, it ended with Andy slowly walking out the door and looking back at Chucky's remains. As Andy walks out the door, it does a freeze frame and then fades to black. It is easily one the best Chucky film, although I haven't seen Curse of Chucky and I've heard that's pretty good. But anyways guys, that's my review. See ya later! "},{"Title":"This Movie Is Child's Play","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Film is art.If you remember this while watching this movie, what the people say and what they do start to make more sense.I mean, in what world would it be possible for a tenant to kick out crime scene investigators after a woman had been pushed out of the window and fallen to her death? Only in a world of art.With movies like this, I try not to take it literally. I like to think the director is trying to tell you something about the characters, or is trying to achieve a mood.The scene with the cop and Chucky in the car is a good illustration of this. It's a wild ride, literally and figuratively. Chucky first tries to choke the officer, then tries to stab him through the seat. The car continues to careen out of control, bashing into things and scattering sparks.Why doesn't he just stop the car and radio for help? Well, because we are watching art, and not real life.Help yourself to enjoy movies like this by ignoring what people would REALLY do, and understand what the makers are trying to tell you, or trying to achieve. "},{"Title":"Aday, Dooey, Dumbalar, give me the power I beg of you","Date":"15 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Charles Lee Ray gets gunned down in a hot pursuit by detective Mike Norris (Chris Sarandon) in order to have life after death Charles transports his soul into a good guy doll. Karen Barclay is unable to give her son Andy a good guy doll, so she gets one at half-price from a creepy looking homeless man. Andy is quite pleased with his new friend. Chucky is everything Andy wanted, but people start turning up dead, and everyone begins to think if Andy is committing the murders, and nobody realizes Chucky is Charles Lee Ray, wreaking havoc.I enjoy a couple of the sequels, but Chucky began to suffer from Freddy syndrome. Chucky became too popular for his own good, and Chucky started making wisecracks all the time, in lieu of being scary. People keep saying Chucky is back to his creepy ways in Curse of Chucky, but I've yet to see that, so I can't comment on it. If you wanna see Chucky without many wisecracks this movie will satisfy you. Unlike many of the sequels, the jokey tone isn't quite as prominent. Chucky does have one liners, but this is fueled with tension, and it knows how to get under your skin. It has some carefully orchestrated suspense with a slow build to it, which works very well. Don Mancini claims he wanted to wait a bit longer before revealing the doll was killing people, and make people wonder if Andy was crazy. I actually would have dug that, but what they did was awesome as well. It takes about 40 minutes before Chucky reveals who he really is. And let me just say. There is nothing funny about it. If you're a first time viewer, you may find Charles's first real words (I'm discounting the Hi. I'm Chucky. Wanna play?) startling. This movie isn't filled with gore, nor does it need much of it. It relies much more on very effective psychology. When blood does commence, it's fairly nasty. We get a couple of stabbings, gunshot wounds, heads and limbs are shot off, and a little bit more. Gore is not this movie's forte. Alex Vincent is actually quite solid as little Andy. I usually find kids grating at his age, as far as acting goes. Alex thoroughly impressed me with his range at his age. If he had been even slightly annoying, I'm not sure this movie would have been as memorable as it was. Alex is one of the more endearing child actors. I have one request though, sir. Please don't make me breakfast, ever! If the mess he caused is any indication by making his mom breakfast in this movie, he'd burn my place down. I digress. Catherine Hicks is great as Andy's Mom. She's everything you want in a Mother. Vulnerable, strong when it counts, and believable; her relationship with Andy was genuine, and it's easy to root for them. She can be on my side any day. Chris Sarandon plays one of the coolest detectives you'll ever see. I relished every scene he was in. Why isn't this guy recognized more? He's such a great actor. Brad Douriff is legendary, of course. I doubt anyone could do Chucky like he can. I have only one complaint about this movie. The ending felt a bit contrived. It got to be a bit over the top, and it didn't know when to quit. I still enjoyed it, but it felt out of place in this film. Final Thoughts This is the original, and by far the best. It's very suspenseful, entertaining, and just a well made chiller. Chucky wasn't always funny. He was scary at one point. Now let's see if Curse of Chucky kicks ass like people claim it does8.4/10 "}{"Title":"I'm Chucky, do you want to play my movie? OK, but just for a little while, your movie isn't that good. Evil does comes in Small Packages","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" No, really. Child's Play is a bit over the top, corny, and silly, but it's one of my favorite horror movies of all time. I wouldn't say the same for the sequels that came after this Tom Holland's movie. The movie met moderate success, when it came out to the point, it became to have a cult following with horror fans. The story is about a boy name Andy Barclay (Alex Vincent) who gets a doll possession by a serial killer/ voodoo practitioner Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif). Charles AKA 'Chucky', was killed in a pursued at local toy store by Chicago police man Mike Norris (Chris Sarandon). Before dying, Charles swears revenge on him by transferring his soul by voodoo into a Good-Guy doll. Chucky find himself limited with his new body, and searches for a new body to take over. The catch is that, he has to take the body of the first person he revealed that he was alive to, which happens to be Andy. It's a race against time, as both Andy Barclay's mother, Karen (Catherine Hicks) and Mike Norris try to save Andy, before Chucky get a hold with him. The movie does have some over the top stuff in it. I find the lightning storm hitting the store, in the beginning of the film is be a bit unrealistic. How on earth, did Mike survive that? The deaths scenes were pretty bad like the over dramatic clumsy fall from a woman to the electric shock death of the doctor. How did he get burns on his face? I would had thought they would had test these products before sending it out to be work on patients. The movie has a lot of jump scares that are hit or miss for me. I do think the movie has some really cool scenes that I love. I can't help re-watching the fireplace scene with the iconic words badass phrase 'this is the end, friend'. Probably the best part of the movie. Without spoiling too much about it, it was a pretty good movie at the time. More laughable, than scary. It's a bit laughable now when you think about how outdated the effects are. The movie does a great use of puppets, and little people to make Chucky look like he is coming alive. In one scene, Chucky is play a child with Chucky make up on. How bizarre is that! I just have to complain about how meaningless the plot goes on. The concept of Chucky turning more human, the longer he spent in the doll is meaningless. Even without a head in one scene and badly burn, Chucky is still trying to kill Andy. I don't know any headless human, badly burn people still running around. Plus, it seems like Chucky doesn't understand, pain. Some bullet shots hurt him, while other doesn't. It doesn't make any sense. This concept would had made more sense if they kept the original idea of having Good Guys Dolls have blood and latex skin. The idea of the latex skin, is that if the Dolls get a cut, the kid's parent could go out and buy an Official 'Good Guy band-aid. There was going to be a scene, where Andy makes a Blood-brothers pact with Chucky. Thus, when Andy mixed his blood with Chucky, it cause Chucky to come alive. Last, its takes Chucky forever to capture Andy. This plot device becomes really drawn out in the sequels to the point, it seems like Chucky has no sense of time. The movie has this cohesive story, but its Chucky personality that keeps us interested in the film. A lot of dumb silly puns, and comedy jokes that come out of left field to keep you watching. I can't see, John Lithgrow voicing Chucky as he was the producers original wanted actor to play Chucky. I have to say, Brad Dourif does a great job. Child's Play was pretty original idea at the time. It's rare to see a 'killer doll' movie at the time. The movie could had toyed with the audience a bit more longer making them wonder if Andy was indeed the killer rather than Chucky. Sadly, this was executed badly on the film, by not only the first few minutes of the film, but 2/4 in the film where Chucky in doll form comes alive. By then, the badly needed suspense was gone, and we all are left with a predictive ending. I think a lot of people hate the film to the point that they wanted it banned due to the subject matter of it incite violence to children. First off, yes it does, but to defend the film. Any movies in genre, can incite violence in anybody, if they are truly wanted to. A lot of kid's movies at the time had violent acts on their shows, but you don't see people protesting about them. This movie wasn't made for children with its harsh R rating. Plus, it's clearly shown that bullying is more like to result in violent outburst than watching violence movies. Still, it's pretty dumb for any parent to allow a child to watch a horror movie without first thinking of how it will affect the kid. I think it was pretty dumb for MGM/United Artist to dis owned the film rights due to the subject matter when other United Artist's movies are a bit more violent than this. They lost a lot of money for themselves, as Universal would be pick the film franchise and make millions off of it with its license. Overall, it's a bit dumb, the concept had promise and could had been more believable. Watch it, if you into cheesy 1980's over the top horror flicks. At less, Chucky isn't a killer Cabbage Patch kid's movie. Now that's laughable. "},{"Title":"Long before the shitfest that was Seed, we had Child's Play.","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember when I was about seven and I was in a charity shop, I was looking at the Pokemon video cassettes and where one video was missing, a completely different type of film took its place. When I took that film down from the shelf I saw on the front cover a pair of blue eyes looking down on a large building with the title Child's playwritten across the top, I certainly was intrigued so I turned to look at the back. There, in the top right corner, just above the description was a picture of a ginger doll wearing dungarees and a stripey, colorful top. He was standing in the rain waving at me. I have to say, as a child I was pretty shaken, well, I was rather petrified if I'm honest, however this made me want to buy it right there and then. But of course, no parent, never mind grandparent, is going to buy a seven year old a horror film all about a killer doll that becomes conscious, especially when my grandmother herself had a collection of dolls all around her house. So finally, about five years later I caught it on the TV and watched it, and it certainly did live up to my expectations, so much so that I was overjoyed to find out that each of the sequels would be played each week at the same time. I think there are so many factors that contribute to my overgrown love for this franchise and this very film, but I think the biggest factor is Brad Dourif himself. Acting as Charles Lee Ray at the start of the film and voicing the supernaturally possessed doll throughout, Brad Dourif gives an intense, unforgettable performance. His eerie voice delivers the full character, he can go from a playful Chucky that's toying around with a cop to a rather enraged one that's effing and blinding his heart out, no matter what the line is, Brad Dourif can deliver it. Who would I say is the second best cast member? If I'm honest, Alex Vincent, hands down. Despite him being under ten years old when this was being filmed he's still to me the best child actor to star in a horror film to merely be chased by the antagonist. Why do I think this? Because he was a child, who could get into the shoes of another child, and not ruin it along the way. He was believable and you instantly feel some sort of sympathy for him, and no, it isn't because he's being chased by a doll that's been possessed by a murderer, it's because he genuinely gives an emotional performance. About thirty five minutes into the film I found myself frustrated for him when no one believes him that Chucky is real, this is because you can see it in his eyes. You can see that deep down he doesn't want to be in trouble and that he's being tricked, for a child actor to do this is simply astonishing. I've discussed how Chucky as a character is thanks to the voice talents of Brad Dourif, but what about the other 40% of the film before you actually hear Chucky speak and can confirm he is actually alive? How do they keep you on the edge of your seat? Very simple, with two things; simple yet exceptional camera work and top notch animatronics that's very surprising to have been around in 1988. Firstly, I'll discuss just what it is that the camera itself does for you as a viewer. There's a scene around twenty minutes into the film where 'Aunt Maggie' becomes the first character on Chucky's kill list, however, the audience hasn't seen Chucky in full attack mode yet and Don Mancini certainly wanted to keep them waiting. So with a little bit of back and forth from Chucky's eyesight and the eyesight of Aunt Maggie, you see it all without seeing anything at all. The audience is placed into first person view of the doll itself, running around the corners of the room taunting Maggie, however when you think you're safe and inside the monster's mind itself, you switch back to Maggie's viewpoint on it all. With a few jump-scares here and there and the eerie background score completely stopped, you see a Good Guy hammer hit Maggie's head, sending her tripping out of the window to her expected death. This all done with beautifully handled close up angles and first person views. I think this film could have been quite the disaster if a few decisions were to be pointed in a different direction at the time, what I mean by this is imagine if Chucky was created by CGI? We all know judging by films such as Jaws 3 that CGI wasn't exactly the smoothest thing around during the eighties and early nineties, so imagine how disastrous it could have been? But luckily for us, they decided to go fully animatronic (well, excluding a few scenes where you can clearly see a little person was put in a costume). The idea for an animatronic Chucky came from Don Mancini's total shock of how successful it turned out in Gremlins which came out a few years before. To me, the animatronic Chucky was the best way to go, I feel as if I appreciate it more that they put so much time and effort into making it work. In the end I suppose it all comes down to opinion and your taste in movies, some may say this is a total cheese-fest, others may say it's an 80's horror masterpiece, but I suppose I can just say, I'm certainly glad that Pokemon video was missing and this was there in its place, if it wasn't then I probably wouldn't be writing this now. "},{"Title":"Classic Horror Movie","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" SPOILERS Child's Play came out when I was three years old and, though I never had permission to even see it, gave me nightmares. It wasn't until a little while ago that I saw it for the first time. The many pitfalls of this movie simply do not hold a candle to the shear horror of a living malicious doll, nor the amazing animatronic special fx of this film. It's a great film that stands the test of time for all horror fans.People can complain all they want about the poor child acting, but I'm mesmerized by the mythology of the voodoo that is explored. I always find this religion so mysterious that I can't help but be riveted. I also like the grungy inner city setting of the '80s that seems to be found in other films as well, namely Ghostbusters. It this mixture of mysterious incantations and those dark alleys that we always avoid that help me to get lost in the supernatural and ignore the fact that Prince Humperdink (Chris Sarandon) is now our hero.I heard comment too that the mother (Catherine Hicks) was a little off. She was referenced to her role in Star Trek IV. If anything I thought of her from Seventh Heaven, which helped to make her role in this more twisted, but I thought it was great. My only real complaint would be that it wasn't dark enough. There could have easily been a child murder scene through a playmate that came with the babysitter. The complaints that I hear about acting seem just moot.Certainly today the special effects could be better, but what was done with tricks of the camera helped build the mise-en-scne. Perhaps it was necessity that forced us to see simply a hand light a gas stove, but it really helped to build the nightmare setting. What if doll does come to life? Nobody would believe us, and this is what magnifies the horror.It was a great horror movie &#x96; no doubt, but certainly not in the pantheon of best movies of all time.SPOILERS "},{"Title":"Excellent Jumpy Horror Movie!! Will make you check the toy-box before you go to bed!","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The beginning of a cult classic was born when Child's Play was released.. Starting with a shootout some supernatural spells a casting and a exploding toy-shop instantly grabbing your attention. And so it begin's Andy an only child and obsessed with the Good Guy range of toys on his birthday not receiving the GOOD GUY doll the main toy in there range, a little disheartened his mother goes all out to get one in the end buying a knock-down priced one from a vagrant at the back of the department store where she works.. Lots of thrills,spills and chills a plenty including a rather gruesome first murder!!! Excellent movie and one of my favourites HIGHLY RECOMMENDED! "},{"Title":"Hi I'm Chucky, Wanna Play? (**** Out Of ****).","Date":"10 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am deciding to rewrite my reviews on the Chucky movies because my opinion has changed of them but only a little bit, and since that it is the holiday season I could review something revolving around the Holiday. Yes this movie does count because of a couple of scenes featuring snow. Anyway this film remains to be one of my favorite films of all time and I know it sounds weird but I can explain.The films story follows little Andy Barclay played by Alex Vincent who is celebrating his 6th birthday with his mom Karen Barclay played by Catherine Hicks. However, Andy is disappointed because he did not get the gift he wanted; a Good Guy doll which is the new craze for Andy. Karen feels bad that she could not get the doll because it costs a whopping $100(which is the most expensive doll I have ever seen) and, during work, buys one off a bum in an alley for $35. Later that Night Andy is being babysat by his Aunt Maggie played by Dinah Mannoff who starts hearing strange noises after Andy goes to bed and soon enough Aunt Maggie is killed by falling out of a window. The police possibly target Andy but claims it his Chucky Doll. They think it mighty have something to do with serial killer Charles Lee Ray played by Brad Dourif who was killed by Detective Mike Norris played by Chris Sarandon. The mother realizes that the doll is alive and contains soul of Charles Lee Ray. Chucky voiced by Brad Dourif has to transfer his soul into the first person he revealed his secret to, or else he will be stuck in the doll body forever. The first person he revealed his secret to was Andy.The first thing that I want to praise the story which is original and is very reminiscent of The Talking Tina episode of The Twilight Zone. Also the film wants to make you think Is this all real or just inside little Andys head? Although sequels came along and demolished this thought. Introducing black magic in a horror film was something not done in horror films back then and not very much today so it is interesting to see it here.The next thing are the special effects which are some of the best, if not the best I have ever seen. The doll effects are creepy and when Charles Lee Ray gets transferred into the doll, as the film progresses the doll goes form a squeaky clean look to a dirty, gritty look and I thought that that was very clever. Also (Spoiler) but the effects at the end where Chucky Gets burned alive are great.The next are the performances which are fantastic. Alex Vincent is convincing as the plucky yet frightened Andy, Catherine Hicks is great as the disbelieving mom and of course Chucky would not be what he is today without the terrific voice work of Brad Dourif who takes the little boy cute and safe voice of the good guy doll and turns it into a menacing and dark beast.The final topic is the music and suspense factor. The theme that they use at the end of the film is a bunch of bells and angellic tones. This makes the music very spooky, but what is even creepier is the angellic choir. This makes it haunting and gives me chills every time I listen to it. They were going to use a Chucky theme song but cut it out due to it not being scary enough, and after listening to it I can see why. Thats like putting Eye Of The Tiger in the middle of Saving Private Ryan. The suspense of the film is phenomenal especially the fact that this movie is 87 minutes long and you don't see Chucky come alive until 45 minutes in to the movie. the sequels brought him n quicker but this one wants to toy (no pun intended) with its audience whether it is Chucky committimg these crimes or if it is all inside of little Andys head. The Final Verdict for the 1988 film Child's Play is a 4 Out Of 4 Stars and earns my Seal Of Approval meaning I say go out and not only see but buy this movie. This movie not only has a great and original story but also fantastic special effects, terrific acting and awesome voice work by Brad Dourif, this is a must see.I also like the suspense how you do not see the doll come alive until 45 minutes into the film. This is one doll you do not want to mess with.Rated R For Horror Violence Including Terror And Disturbing Images And For Language.1hr 27min/87min.3 uses of the F-word.Cost $9,000,000.Box Office $44,196,684.IMDb Rating 6.4/10.Rotten Tomatoes Rating 68% Fresh.My Rating ****/**** "},{"Title":"Scary, original, and an all out classic!","Date":"3 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's play is a movie that is without a doubt a classic. The scariness of the movie is done with care. The suspense and music pack a punch. The doll is very scary looking. Brad Dourif does an amazing job flawlessly voicing the killer doll Chucky. The climax is very dark and scary. Chucky is very angry and very violent in the climax. The deaths can by disturbing to some. The electrocution scene is very disturbing. The animatronics for the Chucky doll are good. The movie has everything are horror movie should have. Such as scares, jump scares, suspense, memorable moments, and disturbing scenes. The movie scores a 10/10 for me. Classic. "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have to say, I was never into the whole killer doll concept. Based on the front cover, I assumed that it was just another cheap slasher film about a doll that is possessed goes on a murder spree. But I watched it. And I have to say, It is my favorite film ever! Usually the doll comes alive by saying some sort of magic spell. But not with Chucky! Instead, it's a serial killer who gets gunned in a toy store and uses voodoo to possess a doll so he doesn't's have to die. He is also my favorite notorious slasher. I highly recommend this film for horror fans. It is a horror classic. It intrigued me in a lot of ways. He is Chucky. Watch him KILL! "},{"Title":"Good 80's Horror Film!","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Catherine Hicks, Chris Sarandon, Alex Vincent, Dinah Manoff and Brad Dourif star in this 1988 horror film. This begins with a shootout at a toy store between killer, Charles Lee Ray (Dourif) and homicide detective, Mike Norris (Sarandon). When Ray gets shot and starts dying, he decides to pass his soul onto a doll using voodoo. We then meet, Andy Barclay (Vincent), a young boy who lives with his widow mother, Karen (Hicks) who decides to get him a Good Guy doll since he's a fan. Andy gets a doll named, Chucky and soon learns he's not such a good guy when Chucky begins a killing spree starting with Karen's friend, Maggie (Manoff). Norris thinks Andy is involved, but Andy tries convincing him and his mom that Chucky is responsible for the murders. They eventually learn he's telling the truth and that Ray possesses the doll. This is a good 80's horror film with a good cast, eerie score and neat effects. I recommend this for any horror/slasher fan. "},{"Title":"An 80's Classic","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is a Playful and Fast-Paced Thriller with great Realistic effects by MGM/UA, a robber gets shot down and before he dies he cast some black magic, transferring his soul into the doll. Andy Barclay, a 6-year old kid gets a present from his mother, a Good Guy Doll and things have never been better, did i say better i meant BAD! In the middle of the night, Andy's Babysitter is violently pushed out the window, and a snoopy detective is after the same robber from the start of the film, and the doll has plans for Andy!My rating 9 out of 10Child's Play is a Horror Classic that will give you chills! - John Bartus "},{"Title":"Awesome 1988 Classic","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i liked this one it's a good way to start a trilogy. a serial killer uses voodoo to transfer his soul into one cute Good Guys'' Doll and a little kid named Andy Barclay who is a big fan of Good Guys'' wants to get one doll for his Birthday today and that doll he wanted is actually the same serial killer from earlier in the movie and as things were getting cute later on as Karen Barclay's friend Maggie Peterson is Babysitting little Andy she dies from falling out a window by an unsuspecting killer. later on Karen Barclay returns home to see if her son Andy was okay but she sees cops outside the hotel building and she goes to the apartment room to see if Andy's okay but he is and a Detective is there too investigating the case he wonders who the killer was but he thinks it might be Andy but it's not as Andy keeps saying Chucky his doll Did it'' but nobody believes it and the next morning as his mom drops him off to school right as she leaves Andy sneaks out of school and heads to a guy's house named Eddie Caputo'' an ex-partner of Charles Lee Ray who ditched him the night he was killed as Andy leaves Chucky on the chair to take a tinkle Chucky is off the chair unknown where he is at but we see a person inside Eddie's house turning up the stove and as Eddie wakes up from his nap and heads to see where the noise was he heads in the room where the stove's at fires his gun at it and BOOM! goes his house barley only half of it. at the Chicago police department Andy and Chucky are there and the Detective and his Partner are wondering why was the kid near the crime scene and Andy is going to be taken away to the hospital unless the doll answers Andy tries to make him talk but the doll only says his good guy doll line and Andy is taken away for a while. later that night as Karen is throwing away the good guys doll box, batteries were in the box the whole time and Chucky has been talking the whole time with no batteries Karen goes and checks the battery spot on the back of the doll when she opens SURPRISE! NO BATTERIES! and Chucky turns his head backwards to Karen and says Hi, i'm Chucky wanna play!'' and Karen drops him and falls under the couch she then takes him out from under and forces him to talk she lites up the fireplace for a last result and Chucky comes to life and attacks her and runs and the rest you'll have to see for yourself. "}{"Title":"Chucky is another slasher icon","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is one of those horror movies where you expect a hilarious villain and bad actors dealing with him. It's a comedy-horror, but it cannot be defined as B-Horror since you could smell the movie's ambitions from a hundred miles. It could hardly be considered typical 80s horror movie. The whole atmosphere is some kind of a experimental transfer into the early 90s.The story centers on a child called Andy who wants a doll that is pretty popular in the society, the character live in. The only problem is that Andy is not familiar with the fact that the doll is alive and something much worse - it's evil.Before viewing Child's Play, I had seen bits of pieces from Bride of Chucky. That was my only connection with the series. As for my expectations - I wouldn't call them high. After all, this is a movie about a little doll that stalks and kills naive, badly developed characters incapable of dealing with any kind of danger. Child's Play turned out to be a positive surprise and the weirdest thing is that all characters are indeed brainless and uninteresting. The acting is average at best and the dialog is more than ridiculous. But who cares about dialog when a funny, small toy curses and uses knives with the mission of killing an annoying child. The movie's best plus is its simplicity. The only thing you are supposed to enjoy is Chucky and his ability to kill. You don't see a living doll every day. Since the movie is full of clichs, average horror fan should be prepared for usual stuff like bad ending or as I mentioned above - characters with low I.Q.Child's Play doesn't include gore. Something that is out of big importance since those who have not seen it, might suggest the movie follows the typical formula. Not at all. Really disappointing, but it makes sense. After all, the main character is a kid and I can't imagine tones of blood covering up the screen. I've noticed one thing about comedy-horror movies. They are either funnier or gorier. Child's Play deducts to the first group. Analyzing the quality of humor is a very stupid thing to do. Chucky's franchise has been famous for 20 years, mainly because of Chucky's humorous lines rather than impressive storytelling. Other than that, nothing about Child's Play could be considered hilarious. If you read a description like the following Child's Play is a hilarious horror movie, stay away from the person who has written it.Tom Holland's directing is beyond average, but it can't be compared to his achievement in Fright Night.Overall - memorable flick that started a successful series. Every self-respecting horror fan should watch it and appreciate it for what it has brought to the genre. Of course it's not perfect, but very few horror movies date as good as Child's Play does. "},{"Title":"One Of The Most Original Horror Films Of The Late '80s.","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play has become somewhat of a horror classic over the years, and has gained more and more popularity (probably due to the large number of sequels). The movie is about a single mother, Karen (Catherine Hicks, most popular for her long-running role on the television series 7th Heaven), who has a young son named Andy (Alex Vincent). Andy's birthday is coming up, and he wants a Good Guy doll - an interactive, talking doll that is really popular at the time. Karen is short on money and is working at a department store, but manages to get one of the dolls from a peddler on the streets. Little does she know, the doll has been possessed by the spirit of a recently-killed serial killer, Charles Lee Ray (voiced by Brad Dourif). Soon after Andy has the doll, people who come near it begin to die mysteriously, and Andy says he sees his doll, whom he's named Chucky, come to life. His mother doesn't believe him, but soon enough she will...Probably one of the most original horror movies of the late '80s, Child's Play is a unique and well-done horror/thriller that is very fun to view. Unlike most slasher films, the villain in this movie is in the form of a possessed doll - and a creepy looking little doll at that. A wise choice by director Tom Holland, the audience never really gets to see Chucky completely in motion for the majority of the film. We mainly see things from the doll's point of view, which is a lot more effective and much creepier than seeing an animatronic doll running around killing people. As the film progresses though, we do see more of Chucky in motion (talking, moving, etc.), but for a good amount of time leading up to that, we see him in his lifeless form, as everyone else seems to see him. And I think his presence is much better because of that.I liked the cast in the film. Nobody performed badly, and Catherine Hicks is a really likable actress. I haven't seen her in much, but she's a good actress and her characters are always very likable (from what I've seen, anyway). Alex Vincent, the young performer playing Andy isn't bad either, and Brad Dourif provides an appropriate voice for the murdering doll. As I've said before, I don't like dolls and I never have. They've always kind of weirded me out. In fact, when I was a young kid (maybe six or seven years old), my mom worked at a video store and the owners of the store received a little promotional Chucky doll when they got Child's Play in, and they displayed it behind a glass window in the office with suction cups. And boy, I remember being literally terrified of that thing! It wasn't until later on when I was older that I finally saw this movie, but that little doll was one of my distinct childhood fears.Bottom line - Child's Play is a really good horror movie with an original plot and some good camera-work (plus a few very creepy moments). Horror fans will definitely want to check this movie out - even though the premise can be looked at as laughable, it's still a very good little scary movie. If you like this film, you may also want to check out Dolls, which was made a few years before this, and is also a very spooky killer-doll movie. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Doll brings terror in the Windy City","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is the first and best of this series of movies.In Chicago, murderer Charles Lee-Ray is shot dead in a police shoot-out, but not before he transfers his soul into a Good-Guys doll, Chucky (which is also his nickname). A child, Andy then ends up with this particular doll as a birthday present. Nobody believes him at first when he says Chucky is alive. He starts to murder people and his first victim is Andy's babysitter, who gos through a window after Chucky throws a hammer at her. He then kills a man with a voodoo doll of himself. More murders follow until Chucky is burned to death. But he will most certainly be back...A good cast which includes Catherine Hicks, Chris Sarandon, Alex Vincent as Andy and Brad Dourif who appears briefly at the beginning and also voices Chucky.Childs Play is worth watching if you haven't seen it, but certainly not for children.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"A scary horror that seems to be more defined by it's sequels","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The original Child's Play film, is a classic for the genre, however, while the film is excellent, it seems that the Chucky Franchise is more defined for the sequels, as they are more violent, gory, and Chucky's foul-mouth becomes a lot more present! That said, the original Child's Play is a terrific film from which the sequels take their basis - a doll possessed by the spirit of a serial killer trying to get back to life by transferring his soul into a new body, and in this case, the body of a young boy, Andy Barclay (Alex Vincent). The troubles begin after Andy has been given the doll, and his babysitter, Maggie seemingly falls to her doom from the high-level apartment window. Of course, no one believes Andy when he tells them that it was Chucky, and it is only when it is mentioned Chucky is really Charles Lee Ray, that Detective Mike Norris (Chris Sarandon) begins to believe what is going on. Of course Andy's mother, Karen Barclay (played by the fabulous Catherine Hicks) doesn't believe her son at first, until she discovers that Chucky is moving without batteries.However, while the film is very fun, it is also lacking. While the interaction between Sarandon and Hicks is terrific, it would have been nice to see more of a romantic twist to their relationship. There is also a serious lack of supporting characters - the only one of real note is Maggie, but she is killed off in the first half hour, which is a shame, because she is played by Dinah Manoff - a.k.a. Marty from Grease. Dinah was spectacular, it is a shame her film career never really went anywhere. Of course, Brad Douriff appears as Charles Lee Ray, and then does the voice of Chucky.While a great film overall, it is easy to see why the franchise has gained so much popularity from the sequels. "},{"Title":"Great suspense/horror film","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is of course the first film to feature the infamous and legendary Chucky, the doll possessed by a killer's spirit. This movie has great special and visual effects. The Chucky doll is frighteningly real thanks to some great puppeteer work.The story is that Charles Lee Ray, the notorious Lakeshore Strangler has finally been caught. Detective Mike Norris chases him into a toy store in the wee hours of the morning. Norris shoots Ray a few times and he is dying. He lumbers around the toy store and knocks over a bunch of dolls. He takes one out of the box and uses a voodoo spell to transfer his soul into the doll. Norris thinks he killed him and everything is now a OK, right? WRONG! Young Andy Barcely wants a Good Guy doll, and his mother buys one from a peddler behind her work place. Everything now goes to hell because of course, the doll she buys is Chucky. Aunt Maggie is killed, and soon after Eddie Caputo, Chucky's partner in crime, is killed too.You don't see Chucky come alive until about 45 minutes into the movie. This doesn't take anything away from it though, as the suspense builds nicely throughout. At first, it seems as if Andy is the killer. Chucky later finds out that he must transfer his soul into the first human being he revealed himself too. Chucky now tries to get into Andy, using the voodoo incantation.Well as you can guess, Chucky's plan is foiled, thanks to Detective Norris, Andy's mom, and Andy himself. Chucky is burned, then has his head shot off, then is shot in the heart, finally killing him. Or so we think...All in all, Child's Play came out at the right time. Any earlier and it would have been ignored. Any later and it would have been called cheesy and too 80's. It's a great film if you like horror movies, but don't go expecting a huge body count and tons of nudity. There are neither present here, just a fun, stylish horror/thriller about the problems a family faces in Chicago and then some.Hell, even Rogert Ebert gave this 3 stars. It must be worth something. Check it out and enjoy. "},{"Title":"A entertaining scary movie that is smart and suspenseful","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw Child's Play when I was pretty young. I remember how freaked I was after just seeing the cover. I was glad to find out that the movie was not really about the gore and death but about the mystery and fast-paced story. Catherine Hicks as well as the other actors nicely give the characters layers and dimension. Brad Dourif is a true talent as a killer trapped in a doll. A clever, edgy and hip script gives the movie a unique feel and for a movie about a killer doll, this is nowhere near being a dumb, childish horror flick. The end of the film loses a lot of steam and gets way too silly(even for this story), but overall, this is worth a watch. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Child's Play (Chucky 1)","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is a classic movie and the beginning to the five (so far) movies starring Chucky...voiced by Brad Dourif. In this movie various characters are met...which I will not go into, cautioned by the spoiler...but mainly our two main characters Charles Lee Ray (the soul of Chucky) and Andy Barcley (Alex Vincent). Chucky is well...a doll, and Andy is a rather young boy (5 or 6.. forget) who comes into contact with his new Good Guy doll. I rate this movie a 9 out of 10, with 10 being the best, because I enjoyed it a lot and couldn't bring myself to not repeatedly watch it over and over again. It lacks the extra point because...I hate to admit...it was flawed (minorly). I think many mature people would enjoy this and the other movies as well...mature people! It is rated R for a reason you know. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good horror movie","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The plot of the movie is preposterous but the movie somehow makes it work. A strangler is shot by a cop but before he dies he transfers his soul into a department store doll named Chucky. A young boy named Andy gets the Chucky doll as a present and the doll starts on a murderous rampage of revenge. The Chucky doll is a great creation that is both comical and very frightening. Chucky may be little and only a doll but this little guy does not mess around -- especially when he's wielding a huge butcher knife. He's a foul-mouthed little SOB and absolutely terrorizes Andy's mother. You'll laugh one minute and cringe the next in this fast-paced film. "},{"Title":"Can I have a GoodGuy Doll? Please!!!?Please???!","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Nice stuff here... ;) When I first seen this film , I loved it. I went on to watch all the Child's Plays after it. Unfortunately , the others did not do the same thing this did. Although Bride Of Chucky is fairly good , but it does start to show that the filmmakers here are just trying to come up with something else the oh-so-talented possessed Good Guy doll can pull off...In the same sense , hence the soon to be released 'Seed Of Chucky'--- ahh , let me guess on that one , Chucky is gunna reproduce now , how marvelous for him....But just how marvelous for us???? Only time will tell there... Lastly , I've watched this film just recently , although it did not have the same effect on me as it did the first time around - it is an original idea and it has a lot of kool shock value , so I still like it a lot....Will continue to be a favorite. PEACE "},{"Title":"Not As Bad As You Would Think","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Alright, so the thought of some red headed freckle face doll running around with a knife is just flat out funny, nothing scary about it. But, this film actually isn't all that bad. It is one of those movies that isn't all that scary, but it is pretty cool to watch. It is the kind of film where you can sit there and yell at the screen telling the actors what they need to do and what they don't need to do.The film is about young Andy, who has just got a 'Good Guy' doll for his birthday. But what he doesn't know, is that his doll is possessed by the soul of a crazy serial killer, and the only way this serial killer can turn back into a human is for him to possess this little boy. So now, his mom and Detective Norris must find a way to kill this doll.The kid who played Andy did an excellent job in this film, especially for someone so young. Of course Chris Sarandon does a good job, just like he does in everything he is in. I forget the name of the woman who played Andy's mom, but she did a very good job as well. Anybody who enjoys old cheesy 80's horror flicks will enjoy CHILD'S PLAY! "}{"Title":"An amazing journey in to obvious childhood fears,","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I Think that an idea of a killer doll has always scared children, it certainly did for me when I was young, I watched this film when I was seven years old and i still watch it when I'm 16, I have never tired of the killer doll, and with the new film Seed Of... coming out this Halloween I hope it does not disappoint.The only fault i can pick at this movie is that the ending was totally unrealistic (so is the notation of a killer doll!) its hard to explain but the doll keeps getting up and attacking at least 3 times when you think its dead i just keeps getting up and attacking. Well in conclusion this is a decent film and horror fans will not be disappointed. So watch it and make up your own mind.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Don't judge it by it's premise, it's a good horror movie.","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is a clear example of how some horror movie clichs negatively influence at the moment of picking up or not a movie.Before watching Child's Play you can say by it's box cover that it's about a demonic doll that starts a killing spree. That's it. With a premise like that created by your horror movie instinct, you watch the movie with low expectations, or in the worst case, you don't even watch it. That has happened to MANY horror movies from the 80's thanks to clichs started by the slasher genre.Child's Play has the advantage of being a good horror movie and overpasses expectations. If you think Child's Play is a cheesy, silly, slasher flick you will be pleasantly wronged. Sit down, relax, and watch it with NO expectations and you will have a good time.*SPOILERS*Charles Lee Ray a dangerous strangler from the area is killed in a Toys 'r Us store by Detective Mike Norris after a long chase. Moments before dying, Lee Ray speaks a demonic spell and passes his soul to a Good Guy doll and swears revenge against the Detective and his accomplice in crimes Eddie Caputo. Mrs. Barclay buys the doll for her 6 (?) year old son Andy but little does she knows that the doll is possessed. The doll answers to the name of Chucky (name created by Lee Ray)...and you know the rest.Child's Play has a near to brilliance script if you watch it objectively. I praise Mancini's and Holland's intention to hint the audience about Andy being a possible suspect of the murders. The suspense in this movie is very effective and Holland's direction is top notch. The script is very complete as it deals with a possessed doll doing the killings, black magic, voodoo, police in the hunt of a strangler, and the disbelief of everyone towards the possessed doll.There are many elements that make Child's Play a GOOD horror movie. First, the story is very well crafted and the characters well written. Second, there's not that much cheesiness (a killer doll is cheesiness) and the movie is always interesting. Third, the good acting is a key element. Chris Sarandon (Mike Norris) is a great actor and his performance in this movie credits him. Tom Holland cast Sarandon mainly because of his great performance in Fright Night. Sarandon has can act in horror movies. Catherine Hicks is good as the worried mother that would do anything to protect her young son. Very good performance. Alex Vincent (Andy Barclay) steals the movie with his tender and believable performance. He looks shocked whenever Chucky does the bad things or threatens him. His probably the most liked child actor in the 80's horror movies. Great performance.Brad Dourif gave the voice to Chucky and he totally shined. He gave a wicked performance and you can't think of Chucky without thinking about Dourif. It helps a lot that Dourif has portrayed weird characters like Chucky.Child's Play has a great cast, good direction, good f/x and make-up (very good for it's time), a decent score, and a high fun factor.This is by no means a GREAT, or BRILLIANT horror movie but it's sure a good one. It's entertaining and wicked on it's own way. One of the best horror movies from the 80's and that's something to say.8/10. Worths a watch. "},{"Title":"This movie is FANTASTIC! **SPOILERS**","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Seriousley, you have to watch this movie if you like comedy/horror (but not silly like scary movie! lol). It was - well done, not to bloody but sadly not scary, but most of all FUNNY! The things that made it good were the not to bloody and obviousley the comedy.Anyway, its a little boys birthday (andy) and he desperatley wants a Good Guy doll, Good Guy is the make of dolls and the funny cartoon you see on tv, so anyway his mother gets the doll for him from a peddler in a back alley behind her store. Little does she know, the doll is possesed with the local Lake shore strangler Charles Lee Ray. Anyway the doll kills Andy's auntie by violently knocking her out of the window. Things go fine until andy skips school for his doll to go and kill the guy who double crossed him at a shootout (Eddie Caputo) He blows his house up!Andy gets taken away while Chucky tries to kill his poor Mom, he then goes to his voodoo friend and kills him via a voodoo doll after this man tells Chucky he must tranfer his soul into the first living human he revealed himself to (Andy). Chucky goes to the hospital Andy's been taken to for the short time and kills Andy's doctor via electrocution!Anyway to cut a long story short chucky gets killed by being burnt alive and shot in the heart! And of course to let a sequel in its place the door is left open (litterally!) "},{"Title":"A Classic Very Good!","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I Love this movie this is the movie that started it all. I also feel that Child's Play is very original with great acting. also the child's play D.V.D Can be found at all best buy stores for $9.99 Who ever watches this movie won't be dissapointed when I had first saw this move I was 5 years old and it had scared me but when I had got older It had became funny to me. The way chucky had move and talk had always interest me beacuse it looked very real. The Acting was very moving epsecially the Andy's Mother played by Catherine Hicks and the part when chucky had came to life in her  hands was a classic moment. I give this movie a 9 out of 10 rating because   this movie is very entertaining "},{"Title":"where's the dvd?","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  has anyone noticed that the first childs play film is so hard to get on dvd, i have childs play 2, childs play 3 and bride of chucky but i cant get childs play anywhere i have been looking for about nearly a year something like that anywhere does anyone know where i could get it ive even been on the hmv and virgin megastores website and the store its self, does anyone one if you can get order from a shop like wh smiths or something like that as it isnt showing on the websites i dont think. why is it that when you ever what an oldish film you rather lucky and you get it of your not and its like the film was never made. the best thing is i was very young when i saw it and i was scared but times change and i love horror movies! i can remember much just pieces and its fuzzy and i dont like it so im desperate to see it in full.thank you for your help.  "},{"Title":"Dated, but still not bad...","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The possessed doll movie which started it all. *LOL* A bit dramatic, eh? Perhaps, but this is still a quality horror movie. There are some good, tense moments; a decent execution of the voodoo angle; believable performances by all involved; a campy but fun story line; and a satisfying, if somewhat smarmy, ending.The transformation sequence, if not original, did have a creative spin and a unique execution. This was a classic B horror, directed by Tom Holland, which was so bad, it was good. I never figured out how Chucky could reach doorknobs, light switches, and elevator buttons, though. Just a bit of creative licensing, I suppose, but it contributed a heavy feeling of camp throughout this fun little cheese-fest. Honestly, I like this movie for its cast.In spite of its shortcomings, I highly enjoy watching this movie, and the subsequent sequels. I guess this is one of My guilty pleasures. *LOL* On a more serious note, I must comment on the detriment of our society, in that a child must rely on a doll for his/her only companionship, rather than the company of his/her mother or other human contact. I would say that if she had found him a good play group to begin with, he never would have been obsessed with this doll.6.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a good doll horror movie. I taped it one night on Scream but the video tape I taped it on was horrible. It kept on messing up. But I got through the whole movie okay and had to say it was pretty good. It's also kinda funny.i have to look into seeing the sequels. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Good for a laugh","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this just the other night on the big screen for a midnight show.  I had seen it many times before but it had been a good 5 or 6 years since the last time I saw it.  I laughed through the whole thing.  It was hilarious to me to watch this doll run around cursing and trying to kill people.  I kept thinking why they didn't just kill the thing with fire or rip it apart like any other doll.  Oh well it was a horror film and nothing simple makes since in horror films.  I do have to say that Chuckie has become an icon and is a very entertaining character to watch.  The big screen does make it much better.  I will have to go out and buy all four of these and make a collection now. "},{"Title":"Fun, but often dull, horror movie.","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A mother (Catherine Hicks) gives her young son Andy (Alex Vincent) a &#145;Good Guy' doll that he desperately wanted for his birthday. Unknown to, this doll contains the spirit of Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif), the notorious Lakeshore strangler, who after being mortally wounded in a shoot out with police office Mike Norris (Chris Sarandon) passed his soul into the doll so that he could continue living. However Charles (nicknamed Chucky) does not want to be a doll forever which is very bad news for Andy.The movie is a little slow but, considering the rather daft subject and plotline, manages to be rather tense in places and delivers a couple of shocks. Created by Tom Holland, who previously brought us &#145;Fright Night' and wrote &#145;Psycho II', &#145;Child's Play' is the film that started the rather brief influx of killer toy movies (&#145;Puppet Master' being the only other that was really any good) and through it's rather poor sequels helped to end the same fad. This original isn't all bad but becomes rather tedious after numerous watches. There are only so many times you can watch the same movie about the same killer doll without the absurdity of the situation beginning to bother you. However, for horror fans that have not already seen this movie, it is worth checking out. The acting is quite accomplished for an Eighties horror movie, and the story itself is not actually that bad. Questions are left, but the idea is simple though tries to be too complex in parts and that subtracts from the enjoyment of the movie. It's astonishing that Chucky has become such a cult icon since the making of this film and it is worth watching this movie just to see if you can guess why? The foul-mouthed little murderer is in some ways kind of loveable and his occasional one-line jokes in this film do offer an enjoyable source of comic relief. Unlike it's sequels, especially &#145;Bride of Chucky' (1998), &#145;Child's Play' is generally a more `serious' horror film, lacking much gore despite a few grisly scenes, the movie tries to rely more on suspense and tension but it's attempts often lead to rather dull and uneventful moments. Tom Holland did direct this movie well, a number of scenes stay in the mind after viewing including the final moments which are some of the more exciting scenes in horror for films of the late Eighties, but occasionally Holland's judgement seemed to slip and the viewer is left with overly repetitive and eventually dull moments.Not to everyone's liking but probably for fans of 1980's horror cheese, even if the movie does try to be too serious in places, I enjoy this movie though it does not stand up to repeated viewing. If not for the dull moments I probably would hold the movie in higher regard. My rating for &#145;Child's Play' &#150; 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Little Chucky wants to play","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*A kid in Chicago gets a Good Guy doll for his birthday. The doll calls himself Chucky. It's too bad for the kid that the doll is really possessed by a mad killer. No returns, no refunds. Chucky hangs out at his pad until he gets bored. Then it's party time in the doll house.One thing that struck me about this flick was how everyone could be so scared of a little Chucky doll. Why not just tackle him and drop kick him into the trash compactor? Maybe the sight of a little doll attacking me would freeze my instincts up too. Chucky causes as much carnage as a little doll can.I liked this flick. It was truly creepy. It was also great that Chucky kept up the facade of being a doll for as long as he did. The Good Guy voice segueing into the Chucky voice was eerie. That's the one thing that the sequels don't really bother with. Chucky forgoes the charade and just acts like the mad killer he is.   "}{"Title":"Very cool!!","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first movie I ever watched in my life was Chucky's scary older sister, Dolly Dearest.I have seen all of the videos of Dolly Dearest, one filmed in 1984, another filmed in 1989, another filmed in 1991, and another filmed in 1995!Then, I heard from a friend that Dolly has a younger brother named ChuckyChucky is as scary as his sister, and Child's Play is a fun movie to watch, I enjoyed it myself!Chucky only came about when the creators of Dolly Dearest wanted to make a boy doll as scary as Dolly is!Give this scary s*** 9/10 "},{"Title":"Great.","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this film first when I was about 6 or 7. I was very scared and after I had watched it I was so afraid the Chucky would come and get me. 5 or 6 years later I bought the film In a flea market and watched it again. I was not as scared but I still loved it. Everything about this film is good. The acting, the script, the plot, the cinematography, the direction. The film is scary without having to much gore or blood. It is a great party movie and also a good movie to watch alone and if youre little brother or sister or someone you know who are about 5-8 are annoying or something and want to keep them quiet let them see this film it is perfect to scare little kids. A Great film that everyone should watch sometimes. I am by the way shocked that this has the average rating of just 5.7 it deserves to be in the top 250. 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Loved it.","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I do believe I am the only person I know who actually liked this movie. I find the idea of a killer doll so intriguing that i don't think I couldn't like it. I don't know if this movie was supposed to be scary, and as I watch it today--it isn't in the least. However, I do remember, when i was younger. oh-so-many-nights i kept my mom up screaming about how Chucky was going to kill me in my sleep,  So it did its job in that department, i suppose.I gave this film 8 stars.  The acting was par, the suspense was there, and the plot was great (a rare thing in most horror movies today).  I suggest if you haven't seen it, you rent it sometime soon. "},{"Title":"Make no mistake!  Chucky rules!  D","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have been a fan of Chucky's since I was very little and I know that will never change!  I will always feel that the first movie in the series was the best, but will always like all of them.  Brad Dourif did and absolutely awsome job as the voice of Chucky!  You have to consider the year this movie was released before you comment on the special effects.  For 1988, you have to admit this movie was pretty awsome.  Even as a person spoiled by today's out of this world special effects, I can still watch Child's Play and be happy.  The special effects do get better as the series continues.  The cast did a wonderful job as well.  They gave great delivery of lines and stayed very dedicated to their characters.  That's one of the many things that kept this movie from being thrown into the forgotten pile of horror movies!  If you haven't seen this one yet, you need to!  Once you get yourself into the right frame of mind, you'll see how awsome Chucky really is!  D "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For some reason, this movie beats out all the sequels, even though Chucky, the murderous star of the movie (You all know the plot, I'm not going to explain it all) doesn't say much, or kill *that* many people, So..Well...It's just GOOD. The atmosphere and quality is much better than Child's play 2 or 3, although I really enjoyed 'Bride of Chucky'. It just creates alot of tension, and keeps you hanging onto every word. Very good, rent it if you've got nothing else to do on a Saturday. It's not scary, don't worry. "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is one of the best slasher flicks ever. not only did it lead on to a massive franchise but it kicked ass first and foremost! the vocals of Brad Dourif play a major part in this film, almost as big a part as the actual actors themselves. the screams are amazing and the convinction in his voice is amazing. I thought the plot of the film was pretty good and the acting on the whole was good. shaky in some parts but good in others. The only bad point is that Chris Sarandon wasnt killed! guy p!ssed me off so much. When chucky was attacking him, i was supporting chucky! wanted him killed. there were some comedic moments, but they were developed in the other 3 films. To be honest,chucky became like Freddy Krueger-king of the oneliners. All in all, this film was amazing and led on to a very successful franchise! Ant rating-9/10. "},{"Title":"He said he was sent from heaven from daddy. This movie was!","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie, I don't even know where to begin. When I saw it I thought, 'oh, just another killer doll. Big deal' But it scared me s***less. You would not believe! If you rent any movie. Rent this one. If you wanna get 2 more, Get 2 and 3. Bride of Chucky is very stupid. Its about the lakeshore strangler from Chicago (where I'm from!) who puts his soul into a Good Guy Doll. Alex sure knows what hes doing, being 6 and all. Congrats! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Freaky, awkward, disturbing, all of the above. (Spoilers)","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I was a little kid, age 6, I had the misfortune of seeing this movie. Don't get me wrong, this is a great movie, but my point is, no little kid should watch this movie. Being the same age as the main character (and sharing the same first name), I was mortified. I pretty much avoided it through most of my childhood until I got a little older and got over it. Now, I love this movie. To me, it is a classic slasher flick, right up there with Halloween and Nightmare on Elm Street. Chucky is one of the most memorable horror movie icons to come along in the past 20 years. Although he didn't really come into his own here (see Child's Play 2) he had plenty of great one-liners, my favorite being in the elevator scene. The movie itself is pretty dark. It takes place in Chicago and the environment created is a very grimey and seedy setting where corruption and crime rules the street. Brad Dourif plays the part of Charles Lee Ray (Chucky), the infamous Lake-shore Strangler, who after a struggle with the police, loses his life and transfers his soul into one of the popular good guy dolls. As coincidence would have it, little Andy (played by Alex Vincent, who has very little movie experience outside of this film and quit the business a decade ago) wants nothing more than to have his very own Good Guy doll. Put two and two together, let your imagination roll, and you know what will happen. The movie is pretty freaky because you are constantly questioning everything you know. For the first hour, you don't see Chucky move or speak, so you might be suspicious that Andy is causing all this mayhem. I won't spoil the movie for you. It's one of those horror flicks that I consider to be required viewing. It is both entertaining and scary. It may look a little dated, but it has definetly stood the test of time. "},{"Title":" Fun doll movie sometimes stupid but ok","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a very fun and suspensful it is violent and it has a fun plot it will make you think and it will catch your eyes and will sink them to the tv. Its fun. While writing that its very stupid too. I mean how can a doll just kill everyone till it gets  a boy who he  wants to transfur his soul to its unrealistic I mean that could not happen in real life no way! Well I will say this is a ok horror move. Rated R for language and violence. Ok movie. Brad dourif as the voice of chucky (Charles lee ray).Its just average.The third one is the best of the series. Second ones bad and bride of chucky sucks.This one is better  than bride of chucky and child's play 2 So if I had to rate the child's play movies and bride of chucky it would be child's play 3 then 1 then 2 then bride of chucky. this movie is good by being fun and suspensful and bad by being unrealistic. "},{"Title":"What An Ugly Doll!","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"                         POSSIBLE SPOILERSThe evil doll Chucky is the ugliest doll I have ever seen. Why any child would want to own an ugly little freak like Chucky is beyond me. Child's Play was a good film though.The soul of an evil killer ends up inside the inanimate body of Chucky the doll. The beautiful Catherine Hicks plays Karen Barclay who buys her young son Andy the doll for his birthday. Things are fine at first but pretty soon Andy is taken into care when no-one believes him that Chucky the doll is alive. That's when his mom Karen discovers the truth about Chucky and the fun really starts. Chris Sarandon also does a good job as the sceptical Detective Norris who actually killed the bad guy at the beginning before his soul was transferred into Chucky.The film is really creepy at times. It's creepy because you have this creepy little doll who is home to the soul of a killer. There are some great scenes in this as Chucky jumps out at you. And Chucky himself is relentless to the very end. One point I forgot to mention is that Chucky needs to find a human body to transfer his soul into or he risks staying stuck inside the dolls's body forever.All in all, a creepy little film. Watch out for Jack Colvin from The Incredible Hulk TV show in it.  "}{"Title":"3rd best of the chucky series....","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've never been one too like this movie and i'm a big fan of chucky. This movie is considered a classic to most people because of it's originality and stylish chucky performance by Brad dourif. Although there's alot of junk in this movie that I dont like probably all that stuff that brings you too the death someone particularly of Aunt Maggie It takes like 10 mins for her too finally die I know most people liked it but those parts are just so boring The best one of those is when the mom brings chucky home and chucky comes too life then he insults and bites her that part is freaky and funny. I still recommend the movie maybe it's just me who's bothered by that. 6/10  "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *minor spoilers*Child's Play sports an admittedly silly premise a serial killer's soul takes control of a lovable doll, baffling the police with several mysterious deaths. Only the doll's young owner knows what's going on, but no one believes him. You have to give director Tom Holland credit for taking on such a wacky storyline; there are so many ways it could have failed. Has he succeeded, despite the odds? The answer is yes, for the most part Child's Play works. It's a slick, fast-paced horror/dark fantasy that builds up excitement until the relentless finale. It's a tour-de-force sequence that just doesn't let up. The horror convention of the killer who won't die has been used so often it's become a clich, but it's effectively utilized here. I am remind of James Cameron's Terminator, which featured similar scenes, although that film did so in a much more serious manner.Note the extensive use of point-of-view shots in the early scenes. There is no doubt that part of their existence is due to the inherent technical challenges of creating a convincing killer doll effect in the pre-CGI era. However, they also serve to create a degree of ambiguity regarding the true identity of the killer. Is that little boy responsible, and making up stories about Chucky? At this point everyone knows the doll is solely to blame for any deaths that occur in this film, but it's still fun to watch everything unfold, to observe the little bits where characters slowly come to suspect the truth. When we finally do get to see the doll in action, the special effects work is nearly flawless, thanks to the tireless efforts of makeup guru Kevin Yagher. Sometimes his work in this film is so convincing it's downright eerie.Alex Vincent is one of the few child actors who is not whiny or overwrought; he takes on the role believably and helps to make everything more credible. Likewise, Catherine Hicks is effective as his frightened mother, and Chris Sarandon takes a no-nonsense approach to his role as a disbelieving cop. Of course, the real star is Brad Dourif, that reliable player of weird characters in genre films. His odd voice is perfectly suited for what must be his strangest role yet. In fact, this movie might not have worked without the benefit of the right performers to give the material some grounding in reality. In the end, the only element of the film that doesn't quite work is the subplot about Chucky's use of voodoo rituals. Granted, this aspect of Child's Play is not treated as stereotypically as many other films have done; there is a degree of ambiguity surrounding the nature of that particular religion. Nonetheless, whenever it's dealt with, it seems somewhat strained. However, it's not dwelled upon for too long. This is a much better film than you'd normally have the right to expect.*** (out of ****)Released by United Artists  "},{"Title":"Sleeper chiller (minor spoilers)","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Definitely one of the ten best horror/splatter flicks of the 80s! And, for CP's favor, it fits better in the horror-categoryMore insight and originality than in, say, Friday the 13th.Better actors, real character development, and the cast is completely adult, with the exception of 9-year old young Alex Vincent. But no teenagers.The plot is quite straightforward, but moves with an unhurried pace, taking time for subplots and involving some realism NON-moronic cops INVESTIGATING the murder case, and little Andy taken into custody. Leonard Maltin didn't give this one ***/**** for nothing...All sequels fall straight to the splatter-category, parts 2 and 4 being moderately good and part 3 watchable. "},{"Title":"This was Funny and Scary! (*Possible Spoilers*)","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"      This movie is just great. Chucky is a very good murderer because, he can just sit there and not be noticed if someone passes by. Like, If Micheal Myers was sneaking up on you and someone walked by, they would catch him. Chucky just limps and they see it as a normal lil' doll that the kids left on the ground for them to pick up, pass by, and Chucky can resume him murderous activities. The perfect crime. Also, Who would suspect the doll?      Chucky has a haunting voice (Thanks to Brad Dourif) Which goes well with the lil' doll character. But, you don't hear him talk much. Andy (The Little Boy) Just puts him up to his ear and then does something. He should of talked more. But, In the Sequels, he should have talked LESS. In this one, (Like Nightmare on Elm Street), He is scary. You don't see him much, he doesn't talk THAT much, only when needed, and when he kills someone, It's chilling! And (Also Like Nightmare on Elm Street) In the sequels he's on screen too much, talks ALOT, and you get used to him on screen and start to laugh at him, SO he IS NOT SCARY ANYMORE. When he kills someone, YOU'RE Laughing. You aren't scared of his appearance. You've seen too much of him.       I loved the bit where Chucky was in the Apartment elevator going up to get Andy, and SOme people walk in. They Say Some kid must of left their toy in the elevator. It Sure is an Ugly Doll, Too. The People Step Off the elevator and walk away and the elevator goes up, and in a Casual Voice, Chucky Replies (F-Word) You!.            Pure Classic. You're Laughing, then someone dies. So you're sitting there, going  Hahahaha-AHHHHHHHHHHHHHh-Hahahahaha....-AHHHHHHHHHHHHHH-Hahaha.       My Rating BIG 10/10 "},{"Title":"kick ass movie","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** child's play is with out a doubt the most succesful movies ever made.it all starts when karen barcly (catherine hicks) comes home from work when she finds detective mike norris (chris sarandon) with her son andy barcly (alex vincent) who says that his new good guy doll is alive with the spirit of charels lee ray/voice of chucky (brad dourif) and that his doll killed his aunt maggie (dinah manof) and mikes partner jack santos (tommy swerdlow) trys to get as much information on andys doll as he could. when docter ardmore (jack colvin) says that andy needs to be put away chucky comes alive and hunts down his victom eddie cuputo (niel giuntoli) and andy.when karen goes and finds the peddler (juan ramirez) that sold her the doll,she finds out that mr. chriswall (alan wilder) is the only person who can stop the doll. child's play is the horror movie that created the killer of all killers. chucky "},{"Title":"becareful with what dolls you pick to buy your kids","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is an awesome movie. I love horror movies as you can tell if you see all the movies i've commented on so far. This movie is about a mom who's son wants a good guy doll. The only problem is they cost to much. The girls friend finds a vender on the street selling toys. She winds up buying one that is possessed by an evil guy name Charles Ray as we can see in the very beginning of the movie. You don't really see the doll kill much in the beginning but it's still good since you can tell that people are being murdered and it's the doll that is doing it by the footprints in the flour. I liked this movie and the other 3. but avoid The Bride Of Chucky. "},{"Title":"Give me the power, I beg of you!   Go Chucky!!!","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hey guys, a bit of reverence please, we're talking classic horror here when we speak of The Chuck!If you don't like CHILD'S PLAY, then the odds are you wouldn't be reading this review anyway! So more than likely I'm preaching to the converted. While this and BRIDE OF CHUCKY (The third sequel) are the pick of the quartet (number 5 is due for release in 2003), ALL the Chucky films are fun. I won't hear serious criticism of any of them as they defy such literate analysis. Any Chucky film is a cinematic event - live with it! If you want to complain - go watch THE ENGLISH PATIENT instead...now that truly IS a horror film!CHILD'S PLAY was pretty original for its day and drew its fair share of criticism from audiences worldwide who complained about what they saw as extreme violence and children being exposed to evil doings! Yeah well, the hanging scene in OLIVER was pretty ropable (sorry, just HAD to say it!) too!  As I have said many times if some enterprising person put out a Chucky doll in the world's department stores - they would sell millions! I wish I had the venture capital!Fans will realise that CHILD'S PLAY was directed by Tom Holland who also made the innovative and brilliant FRIGHT NIGHT which also starred Chris Sarandon (Susan's bro! if you didn't already know), Brad Dourif contributes another masterful supporting  performance as the evil Charles Lee Ray who becomes Chucky of course.Nowhere does this film lag - a trait of Tom Holland. "},{"Title":"The most terrifying in the series.","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Some people see these films for a giggle,nothing more.The real truth behind it is that to some audiences,Chucky is a terrifying symbol amongst youngsters.The story begins with a six year old boy called Andy,and his middle aged mother living poorly in a city. Andy sees a doll he wants for his birthday that his mother can hardly afford. One night the mother buys the doll from a homeless man for cheaper. Then the other part of the story links up to the detective (played by the brilliant Chris Sarandon) who shot the serial killer Chucky (as a human). When the detective kills Chucky his soul enters the doll and the irony is that Andy ends up with the doll. Chucky (the killer doll) is then o a murderous mission to seek vengance on the cop who killed him,and to take over Andys soul and become human again before it's too late. Childs Play is a frightening movie followed by three sequels (soon to be number 5)the sequels are hardly worth the bother but the original is brilliant. I reccomend 4 out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Forget about Freddy and Jason, here is Chucky!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When 80's horror was at it's top, with the Friday the 13th series, Nightmare on Elm Street sequels, and tons of other horror movies, in 1988 came Child's Play, which has to be the scarriest film for any little boy or girl. When everyone was used to see a psycho or some creature doing the murders in a movie, someone came with the idea of a doll committing the crimes. Sounds little original, but what makes it a good idea is the fact that the doll has a kick-ass personality, and we get to love the character. Chucky is the villian in this movie. Don't laugh about his short height, or  his clothes, or about his horrible hair... 'cause he can be a mean doll.Child's Play has gore, an interesting plot, voodoo elements, a great direction, an effective score,  and good actors. Chucky's voice is from Academy Award nominee Brad Dourif. This movie is so popular nowadays, and that's why other 3 sequels came (and a 5th one is coming soon). ANY HORROR FAN SHOULD CHECK THIS ONE. Go Chucky!!!  "},{"Title":"intense and well-made","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Effectively eerie, well-crafted thriller about an infamous serial killer who's believed to have been killed while eluding the police. Unfortunately for them, and a young child, he was an expert in the art of voodoo and black magic, and transferred his living soul into the body of a child's doll. No one believes his new owner (Vincent), but soon mysterious murders begins to occur and the killer tries to find a means to transfer his soul into the child's body. Despite the film's disarming title, this is an intense, gripping thriller with plenty of scares, suspense, and violence, as well as impressive and utterly convincing special effects. *** "}{"Title":"Really good","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was really young when I first saw this film about 6 now I am 15 and I still love it the chucky doll is cute/ugly/funny. I used to say hello to his picture on the video case along with IT the clowns picture. So they wouldn't come and get me. This is a really good film and so are the second and third sequels. But the bride of chucky isn't really good its quite funny but it's not the same. I give Child's play 9/10  "},{"Title":"a great film","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Scary, clever, and violent, the original Child's Play is a classic. A young boy discovers that his new doll Chucky is possessed with the spirit of a dead serial killer but no one believes him until it's too late. The acting is top notch and the special effects are incredible. This is definitely the way to make a horror movie. Don't you dare miss this one! 3/4 "},{"Title":"I'll be your friend to the end!!","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  AAHH - CHILD'S PLAY! What a great idea. I'd have loved to be in the room when the producers/director pitched this film!!The story? A serial killer is on the loose, and the cops are very close to catching him. Charles Lee Ray is badly injured, and performs a voodoo ritual on a 'good guy doll' so that he may 'live' inside it! All this transpires just before he gets struck by a bolt of lightning. The cops think him dead, but Charles Lee Ray will still exact his murdering potential on anyone he feels gets in his way.The story then deals with a young boy's birthday present - which just happens to be - OH NO!!! - Charles' Good Guy doll!!! His name for the doll is 'Chucky'. Watch the Rugrats cartoon series, and there's a FRIGHTENING similarity between the two!!!The film rolls along at a good pace, building up the suspense well. People are murdered and the one connection to all the murders? Little Andy. Surely he isn't the killer? But as an audience we know who it is!Chucky is both cute/funny and terrifying. I hate dolls and in this film I never ever wanted to see a large toy. They have this kind of 'weirdness' about them.This was the first in a (so far!) series of 4! And you can see why. We as adults, or early teenagers - I was 9 when I first saw this! - like to be scared by kids' toys. The films 'Dolls'. 'Dolly Dearest'. also tried to recreate this, but none of these come close to what Child's Play does.Good plot, some dated 80's acting, and some damn fine SFX/puppetry make this an enjoyable horror film. It does what it sets out to do, and being a horror from the 80's that's quite a good comment. "},{"Title":"A Nice Killer Doll Movie","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You Would think that a movie about a killer doll would be Absurd, But it is not. This Movie is Scary and at sometimes even Funny. I Am a Big Fan of Chucky. This is The Movie that Started Killer Puppets as We Know it. Rent it.  "},{"Title":"In my top ten horror movies (small spoiler)","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I recall when I was eight Childs Play was the first film to scare in a while. Tom Holland is one in the top catogery when it comes to horror directors. He plays it smart with his cinematography by not showing a lot of the killer until the every end. The film proved that every day objects can scare you. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Brad Dourif Has Lost His Mind","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After being nominated for best supporting actor in 1976 for his role in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, Brad Dourif decides to take the role of... Chucky, a Killer Doll!!! This is actually the main reason I watch this movie. Chris Sarandon is also good fun, although I don't know what is going on with his voice. Considering how funny I find it (especially that hammer to the head scene), the suspense built up in this film is incredible. I always check under my bed and leave the lights on all night after watching it or one of its sequels. Check out the third one; it's probably on TNT right now. "},{"Title":"Great Horror Movie","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Childs Play is an excellent movie. Its somewhat scary and very suspensful. What makes this movie so much better than all the rest, is that Chucky doesnt do so much talking, and he doesn't have a wise-crack remark to everything. And there aren't so many un-realistic death scenes. But there is only one thing that gives this movie a 9/10. The leading lady Katherine Hicks. I just have never cared for her. I think her and Dinah Manoff ( Maggie, the babysitter ) should've switched roles. She could've played the part of Karen than Katherine. But anyways the whole idea of a serial killer passing his sould into a doll by using a voodoo chant was a good idea for the film. The whole thing is just creepy. If youre the type of person who likes movie like the first Halloween, or the first Nightmare on Elm movie, then i definitely recommend this to you. 9/10/ "},{"Title":"Look under the bed for Chucky!!!","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It all started with a big shoot out. Charles Lee Ray was your average every day creep on the run until a little evil magic changed him into everybody's worst nightmare CHUCKY. When little Andy got his first ever Good guys doll Chucky he was so happy. This was the doll of Andy's dreams but after his aunt is pushed out the window the only thing Andy can say is Chucky did it. Everyone thinks this is a game Andy made up. But when numerous murders are happening Andy still says Chucky did it. Could Chucky really be the doll of Andy's worst nightmares find out in this terror riddling story. "},{"Title":"really cool","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was a good movie, and at the time it was made i was really scarred. I was 6 years old. Probably to young to have watched it but oh, well. It was the best one made out of all 3. Then came along the 4th one where he got married and that was just funny. Chucky is a classic horror movie. I give this ten out of ten.  "},{"Title":"God, i love this movie!","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first 'Child's Play' movie is a classic- Boy gets a doll who just happens to be possessed by a serial killer, who kills everything in sight, and everyone believes the boy did it! The scene where the mother finds out Chuckie is real (No batteries!) is really scary! A great flick, one that everyone should see! "}{"Title":"Scary little thriller","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Child's Play is a scary little horror movie that is very well made. Here for once is a slasher film that doesn't go over-the-top to be gross and disgusting (the sequels however took that route). That makes it all the more better. Child's Play relies on scares and shocks instead of gore galore and on that basis, it works. I remember jumping from out of my seat on a couple of occasions when I saw this in a movie theater when it first came out. Catherine Hicks stars as Karen Barclay, a divorced mother living in Chicago with her cute 6-year-old son Andy. The upside on Andy's birthday she buys him a Good Guy doll (one of those talking dolls). The downside this is no ordinary doll. This is a doll that's possessed with the mind of a madman who transferred his soul into the doll before dying from gunshot wounds. Before you know it, the doll (named Chucky) starts killing people off, and it's up to Karen and police detective Mike Norris (Chris Sarandon) to stop the terror from continuing. Child's Play is a bit preposterous in some scenes, but it's so entertaining that I was involved with what was going on. It's scary, and thrilling. It has good special effects on when the doll comes to life. And it has terrific acting. Hicks and Sarandon are well cast, as is young Alex Vincent as Andy. This kid is not only cute, but is a pretty good actor. I would only see this youngster in one more movie (Child's Play 2), and that was it. I haven't seen him in another movie since. Brad Dourif (One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest) appears briefly as the killer who works up some voodoo magic to get the movie moving in motion, and Dinah Manoff (Empty Nest) provides a little comic relief as Hicks' best friend. Good directing job by Tom Holland (Fright Night), who keeps the movie moving at a fast pace. I was never bored while watching it. Plus, it has one of the eeriest music scores that I've ever heard for a horror movie. Child's Play is ridiculous to be sure, but so what. It's a well-acted, scary movie. *** (out of four) "},{"Title":"An original and well-done film!","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Child's Play was a very original and good movie. I enjoyed it a lot. This film is scary, even though it doesn't sound like a murdering doll is scary, but it is pretty creepy. The story was good, the directing was good, and I lied the acting. I give this film an 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One of the best horror movies","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Childs Play is a well done horror, the acting was good, the storyline is good and there is also a bit of comedy. I watch it all the time. Not much gore but suspense is built up first. There were very little downpoints in this movie cursing quite often and slightly less violence this movie is a must-see for horror movie fans. Its popularity spawned 3 sequels Childs Play 2, Childs Play 3 and then Bride of Chucky, but I did not like them as much as the brilliant original. The music is rather tense and this movie will have you sitting on edge for most the way through. "},{"Title":"Not a bad start, but could have been better","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first installment in the series about the maniacal doll Chucky has always been my least favorite, but is still pretty good.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!A killer transfers his soul into a doll after being shot by a cop. A mother buys the doll for her son for his birthday and he is very happy that he got it...not for long though. Chucky begins talking to him and once that starts, so does the bodycount.Entertaining for the most part, good effects, and o.k. acting, but slow in parts, and a somewhat mediocre plot. **1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Better than ever.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This first part of Child's play is still the best. The effect that the film has is extremely good. I can remember seeing the 90's version of the latest Child's Play, it is even better.The child actor at that time, he did well, act very real and naturally, like his reaction on that movie.  It seems that this movie has many follow up sequel as mentioned but this one is still definitely the best. "},{"Title":"Holland takes an absurd premise and cranks up the scare factor! A horror icon is born...  (CONTAINS SPOILERS)","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   Director Tom Holland (who also gave us the cult classic, Fright Night) takes an absurd premise and transforms it into one of the defining horror flicks of the 80's.  Cue catchphrase Hi, I'm Chucky, wanna play...?   One thing that the makers of the later Nightmare on Elm Street sequels could learn by watching this is why the comedy element of this film works.  Asking us to take a killer doll completely seriously was always going to be a stretch, so they threw in a little (dark) comedy.  Freddy Krueger is a character we should be able to take seriously, because of the child abuse that forms part of the mythology of his character.  What works for one film is a huge misfire in the other (see my ANOES 4 review for more details)   Holland is helped in his mission to transform a silly plot into a genuinely disturbing horror thriller by a nice cast (why has Chris Sarandon sunk into obscurity?)  Particularly good are Sarandon as the cop, Dinah Manoff as the single mum's best friend, and of course, Dourif as Charles Lee Ray/The Voice of Chucky.(SPOILERS)   An atmospheric opening sequence helps set the tone, and the first viewing is especially good because you're never quite sure how Chucky will choose to present himself.  The scene where he makes himself known to Andy's mum must surely enter the ranks of the horror classics...   STANDOUT SCENE Where Chucky goes to visit his old voodoo-practising pal  I gotta go, John, I got a date with a six year-old kid, and YOU have a date with death...   What could have ended up as a laughable B-movie became one of the best known horror films of the decade, thanks largely to Holland's intelligent direction.  Proof positive that even the silliest idea can turn into a great little film given the right treatment. "},{"Title":"It'll be worthy of a SCREAM!","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  OK. This may be an off the wall type of movie for most people. But what movie isn't today. This movie really scared me when I saw it on TV. For a low budget, no high-tech graphics it didn't do a bad job at bring the film to life. The acting was better than average and the plot was scary enough. It may not be a Halloween or a Scream, but all in all I thought it is worth a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Creepy in it's own way","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Child's Play, to me, was a great addition to the 80's horror scene.  It was sort of a slasher flick, however it added a lot more to the picture than being just your typical horror movie.Andy Barclay is your typical little kid.  He wants almost everything he sees.  But what he really wants is a Good Guy doll.  When he finally gets one, (Chucky) he is excited.  However, his Good Guy speaks to him.  Passing it off as typical child imagination, his mother just grins and moves on. However, things get scary when Andy's babysitter ends up dead.  As time moves on, Andy claims that Chucky was the one who killed his babysitter. And the rest, as they say, is history.I especially liked how you never actually SAW Chucky move throughout most of the movie.  It was almost as if the audience itself could have doubts as to whether or not Chucky was really alive.  However, we are certain when the mother threatens to throw Chucky in the fire.  From then on, all hell breaks loose, as Chucky sets out to find Andy.  This movie was one of my favorites. The sequels didn't appeal to me as much...but the original was truly creepy in it's own way. "},{"Title":"Hi, I'm Chucky Wanna Play","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Child's Play is another film i'll be reviewing for the Halloween season. This film is extremely eerie. The idea that sometihng as innocent as a childrens toy could be so evil is a very terrifying thought. At first when i heard of this film i though it would be really stupid. in fact the doll itself looked really silly on the box art for the fil, but i still gave it a chance. i was pleasantly surprised. i'm glad that this is one of the positive points in the horror genre and it is even better than some of the recent slaser films that have come out recently.The plot is pretty simple. a serial killer named Charles Lee Ray is chased into a toy store by a cop and is shot. to save himself he says a voodo chant and his soul is placed in the body of a Good guy doll. Now a young boy named andy come sinto the picture and he desperately wants a good guy doll for his birthday and gues which one his mom has bought...Creates very good tension and when the doll is in sction he is very scary. the acting is good for this kind of film and the last 10 minutes are it's best. see this film 8/10 "},{"Title":"What an ugly doll!!!","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What a good movie!!!! Far better than part 2 better than 3 and even with 4. This one however is not as funny as part 4, as this one focuses much more on the horror and less on the comic stuff Chucky says like in this one, when he is sitting in the elevator and gives quite a normal response to something that was said, but does it in such a way you have to laugh. The voice of Chucky and the whole character are great + the effects are pretty good. The cast is good too as is direction and script. A Famous horror movie, but not quite a classic. Go see it if you are a film freak and if you are a horror freak, well, I guess you've already seen this one.8 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Small doll poses small threat.","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When it came out, Child's play was highly original and scary in that you wouldn't look the same way at dolls again. But then, i don't intend to look at dolls again, and by now the premise of a doll threatening people with a pretty small stabbing object is hardly terrifying. The shock therapy scene is pretty painful to watch. But all in all, i found it better when i first saw it, then do now. I still give it merit for originality and a good voice-over by Brad Dourif.I'm not even giving a review of the sequels. They're too dire to waste words on. "},{"Title":"Very original !","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I LOVE THIS MOVIE. I usually love scary movies because this kinda movies are more interesting than others.Child's Play is a horror and an excelent thriller. Chucky , the hero of the movie , is a doll with a killer soul. The movie  is good and scary , you will love the movie , and you will love Chucky !  "},{"Title":"Nothing special, but I like Chucky.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Like I said, it isn't an expetacular film, but it's fun. If you're looking for a good fun on a regular scary movie, here's your movie !Brad Dourif has the exact voice for the psycho doll Chucky. It's funny and scary at the same time. And I always liked Chris Sarandon in all his roles.I give this film three full stars. Tom Holland deserve it after Fright Night.  "},{"Title":"A little kids worst nightmare","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Whenever I want to think of Chucky I remeber this movie. I don't think of Bride Of Chucky.Chucky was a ruthless killer. He was known as Charles Lee Rey. One night he was gunned down by a police officer. But what the cops didn't know he is knew how to transfer his soul into anything he touches. So he touches this doll and his soul is transfered into the doll. Andy Barkley is a normal little kid. He lives with his mom. So when his mom is out looking for somthing for Andy a guy on the street sells her a doll thats been sold everywhere. The good guy dolls. So she brings it home and along the way Andy starts to talk to Chucky. So the mom tries to get help for him. Many people start to get killed and everyone thinks its Andy.Chucky finds out from the guy that tought him the power that the longer he remains in the body the more human he becomes. So he has to try to get his soul from the first person he talked to.So Andy must find a way to stop Chucky before Chucky kills him "},{"Title":"Essential Horror","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is in every sense a fantastic example of great horror. Why is it that they don't make horror like this anymore?  The 1980's were a golden age for the genre and in my view, this is cream. It combines slasher, thriller, the supernatural, and tongue in cheek.  Chucky is, and forever will be a horror icon.  Rent this film today.  Forget all the latest new releases, head over to the horror section, pick up this film.  "},{"Title":"Good for a laugh","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Child's Play is one of those movies that after the first time gets a little tiring but i am not saying it is not a good movie.Killer Charles Lee Ray converts his soul into a red haired doll while dying from being shot in a shootout by cop Mike Norris.All 6 year old Andy Barclay wants for his birthday is a good guys doll when his mum buys him one of a street seller Andy could not be more happy until he  finds out his doll is alive and uses the name of Chucky short for Charles Lee Ray.When the baby sitter that is looking after Andy is killed no one expects Chucky until he attacks Andy's mum.As Chucky goes around killing everyone that betrayed him when he was alive Andy's mum and cop Mike Norris try to  find away of killing Chucky before he finds Andy.15 for a little bit of gore and swearing. Jack Foreman "},{"Title":"not all that scary.....","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i haven't seen child's plays 2, 3, and 4 yet but if they aren't as scary as the first than i shouldn't bother renting them! firstly, i hardly saw any blood! which really got me angry, i mean come on if your going to classify a movie horror you should make it at least a little bit horrific! i loved Chucky in the movie, he was so two faced like in the scene where Andy's mum is eves dropping on Andy talking to the doll (so that she can see if the doll REALLY talks to Andy)and Chucky looks at the door (because he knows she's there) and he says something very Good Guys to Andy which I thought was very sneaky. the ending was ok, but like i said before there wasn't enough blood and gore. for chucky i give him...6/10 (for his swearing and good looks) "},{"Title":"excellent!","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Child's Play is by far the best film of the series. It's got great suspense and plenty of skin-jumping shocks. It may seem that the special effects are horrible, but these special effects were awesome for 1988. Chucky doesn't even come alive until half the damn is over, but this just adds more suspense. The acting in this movie is pretty good, but Alex Vincent is not very good in the role. Plus, there are a couple of parts in the movie that are boring. Over all, I give this movie a healthy 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"A great horror flick !","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of Tom Holland's great horror flicks ! Back in the 80's, this movie can be consider a classic of the horror genre. And Brad Dourif has the most perfect and frightening voice for the killer doll Chucky.Rating  **** "},{"Title":"Very silly, but entertaining in a weird way","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Anyone who thought up the idea of a good guys doll been taken over by the spirit of a mass murderer must have meant it as a comedy horror. There are some places where you do jump out of your seat, but the premise is so silly that a serious horror it does not become. Alex Vincent is good as Andy, but the adult cast seem to be going through the motions- they were probably wondering what they were doing in a movie involving a killer doll. Still its pretty entertaining, goes fairly quickly and at least its not boring. Tom Holland has proven in the past that he is an effective director of horror and suspense, and he doesnt let the audience down in this film either. The climatic scene in particular is actually quite effective. Worth a look- but only for horror fans or cult film enthusiasts "}{"Title":"Well be friends to the end.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  How can you not absolutely love the spirit of a criminal transferred to a plastic body about 1 foot high? this movie is fabulous classic. Even the kid was cool in this one. Brad has the best voice. its perfect for Chucky. If your into good Classic Freaky films you will absolutely love this. I highly recommend it.9/10 Absolutely the Best  "},{"Title":"My thoughts","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To tell you the truth I was only 1 when I first seen it but now since I've seen it 3 times it's okay.But I've seen more of Childs Play 2 than all of them! Thats all I got to say. You figure it out. I'm only12. "},{"Title":"This movie is great if you're upto a scare!","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I loved this movie!!!  I watched it with my friend jay in a dark basement. We both screamed and were hiding under the blankets but we loved it! Catherine Hicks is awesome!  Rent it!  It's the best.  After watching this movie, watch Bride of Chucky! "},{"Title":"Good the first time, boring the second.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I watched Child's Play for the first time on Easter night, I expected it to be a laughable and cheesy movie. I was pleasantly surprised. It was not as cheesy as I thought it would be, although the first action scene in the movie, involving Charles Lee Ray being chased into a toy store and then creating a storm as he transferred his dying body into a Good Guys doll, was terrible. It was more suspenseful than I thought. There were some scenes which were very pleasantly surprising. The boy did a very decent job as an actor, and the three leads, Catharine Hicks, Chris Sarandon, and Brad Douriff were good. The story and dialogue was good, and the animatronics for Chucky were very, very impressive. The first time you see the movie it's great. But after you see it once, it gets VERY boring. The second time you see it, all you want is Chucky, yet he is not in the movie until a full hour, and the movie is only 88 minutes long. Chucky's absence from the screen is for such a long time that the movie really drags. The first time you see it, the fact that you don't see him walk and talk 'till the final reel is very sophisticated, but a movie like this one, a HORROR movie, can't really do that because people want to watch that kind of movie because of the excitement and the chills and thrills. The three sequels I thought were much less sophisticated and much more silly, but at least they are fun to watch more than once. As for the first one, rent it at Blockbuster and see a good movie, but don't buy it.  "},{"Title":"Talk to me!!!!!","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For a movie with a very sinister following in England this movie was great. The killings were very ....... Weird, But the story was great, A great cast and the Doll of Chuckie was great. Friendly looking but spooky. I haven't managed to see the 2nd and 3rd part but I will A 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Excellent horror flick!!!!","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The classic horror movie introducing the famous killer-doll Chucky, who is one of the most popularist horror characters right up there with Jason, Freddy, Pinhead. Yet regretfully this movie has been ripped off by such movies as Pinnochio(the dumb horror one not the original animated). Anyway, this is the story of a boy and his(killer)doll. The doll ( who is possessed by  Charles Lee Ray a.k.a.  Lake Shore Strangler) brainwashes the youngin Andy to get what he wants. After several deaths, Andy's mother and the authorities are getting concerned because all the murders link with Andy. When the mother discovers Chucky's secret along with a cop they must fight for Andy's life and get to him before Chucky does. Then the fun begins. This movie is a great scare because it's so unpredictable and the acting is very convincing. Chucky ( wonderfully voice by one of my fav. actors- Brad Dourif) is scary and funny as the killer-doll. The deaths are inventive, the story convincing, and the comedy worth seeing!!!  Great movie, most definatly worth the rent..... 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Oh-la-la! Absolutely wonderful!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  So original, so spooky! The build up is great and Chucky is a classic. You're gonna hate him and love him at the same time. A crazy killer dies and transfers his soul to a cute harmless Good Guy doll. A little boy gets the doll for his birthday and guess what? The killer wants the young boy's body(No! Not in THAT way). Now this is SCAAARY!  If you didn't see any of the Child's Play movies start with this one and go up the series to the forth movie Bride of Chucky. One of the few series where the sequels were all great and lots of fun. But beware Some scene are just too... Good! "},{"Title":"A fun horror movie","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first Child's Play is my personal favorite in the series, followed by Bride of Chucky, then parts 2 and 3.  I think that Chucky is one of the coolest movie villains ever, and he's got what some of the other villains don't---personality.  He's got a sense of humor, which is good.  I kinda hate seeing him get killed, but like he says at the end of Bride of Chucky Go ahead and kill me!!  I'll come back!  I *always* come back!  then to himself--but dying is such a b**ch!  The acting is pretty good, and I thought that the kid who plays Andy was a lot better in the first one, when he was like 6, than he was in the second one, where he was 10 or 11.  He seems sleepy throughout the whole second movie, but in this one he seems like a regualar 6 year old kid--a regular 6 year old kid with a doll from HELL!!!  A commenter before me said that one problem was that nobody believed Andy and his mother first, but c'mon, how many people do you actually think would believe someone who said that their doll was killing people?  That was pretty much the point of the movie!  All inall a great horror movie, with just a touch of comedy thrown in. "},{"Title":"Chucky's First!","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the first, and I think perhaps, still the best in the series which stars everyone's favorite tiny terror, Chucky! Brad Dourif not only puts on a believable performance as pre-killer doll-Charles Lee Ray, but also a performance for Chucky's voice that helps this flick stay on the non-silly side. Not only is that helped by Dourif and his fellow stars, but one of my TOP 10 favorite horror directors aswell, Tom Holland. Who gives some great humor to this film! He is one of the greatest in putting humor in horror. This was first recognized with his masterpiece, FRIGHT NIGHT. It's not that some of the humor in CHILD'S PLAY was unintentional, with Chucky's attacks, but it was just the situation of a killer doll attacking someone. I did not like CHILD'S PLAY for all the wrong reasons. I loved it for all the great reasons! It was pretty chilling, to think of a killer doll. It was also pretty humorous  Great direction! Great pacing! Great creation! Great entertainment! Some find this flick boring, but I find itexciting, even after my near-50 time viewing of this modern-horror classic! The most exciting moments and also the moments that most fill the excitement of the audience is the firsttime Chucky's first seen active, non-POV that is, and very active indeed! And the last 15 minutes! This is a classic! The sequels may at times be more entertaining and I love them and I say bring on more Chucky!, but I still have to say CHILD'S PLAY is the best! CHILD'S PLAY is a great flick! ***** OUT OF 5 STARS! "},{"Title":"By far the scariest in the series, but not the most entertaining.","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Child's Play is sometimes very scary, but isn't the most entertaining in the series. That award goes to Bride of Chucky. But it still is entertaining. I give Child's Play *** out of ****  "}{"Title":"clever thriller","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I haven't seen this movie since I was about 10 or 11 years old, and I wouldn't say this movie actually scared me.  It has some suspense, the violence is pretty tame, but the Chucky character has become an icon in the horror movie genre, and for that I have to give Child's Play credit.  The movie has fine acting and a pretty easy to follow plot with some good scenes.  I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Surprisingly scary horror flick in which young Andy Barclay finally gets a Good Guy doll, not knowing that it's possessed by a killer.Film has several chills and thrills,thanks to the terrific special effects and Brad Dourif's great voice work.only marred by slow beginning.Rating***1/2(out of 5) "},{"Title":"Hi, i'm Chucky, wanna plaaaaaayyyyyy ??????","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the bests Tom Holland's films ! Here, the psycho killer Charles Lee Ray passes his soul to the famous Good Guy doll. Meanwhile, a six-years-old boy named Andy Barclay, who wants the doll more than anything, in his birthday, her mother Karen Barclay give to him the doll ( The same doll with Ray's soul ) and the only who know that is the kid. But when the doll start to kill a lot of persons, Andy try to warn her mother and the detective who was investigating the crimes Mike Norris, but, of course, no one believe in him. And worse, everybody think than the kid is the responsible for the deaths !!! But, Andy has to run away from his doll Chucky ( Nickname of Charles ) because to don't pass all his life in the doll, he has to pass his soul to the kid because the kid is the first than he tell who he really was. A great movie who scare me until today ( Just kidding ), but if you don't watch yet, i recommend, but don't expect a violent and bloody movie like Scream, IKWYDLS, Urban Legend, Halloween and etc. It's another kind of scary movie, but still very fun..... "},{"Title":"Good...All most","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  MGM/UA did a nice try on this film....but this film couldn't touch its sequel.  Also the original music on this film wasn't so great, performed by Joe Renzetti....Child's Play 2 had a better original score and better sound and visual effects....I would grade this movie as a C.  "},{"Title":"An Excellent Film","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is definitely the best out of the first three Child's Play Movies. I haven't seen Bride of Chucky, yet, but I can't wait. The Child's Play series is great, I like them all. I also like them because my nick-name is Chucky . I would recommend you watch all of the child's play movies, but if you only have time for one, this is the one to watch! "},{"Title":"Chucky is sooo funny","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love this doll and I love every Chucky movie ever made. I think I love the Child's play films more for humor then anything else. Whenever I hear Chucky swear or see him flip the bird,it just cracks me up. I think the best of all the Child's play movies was Child's play 2 but like I said,I enjoyed them all. "},{"Title":"This movie is the one that started it all, it is the birth of a classic horror villain!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Child's Play (1988) is a movie with wonderful special effects for its time. Ever since I first saw this movie I became a fan instantly because it was a great horror movie. This film started it all, what I mean by that is that there are Child's Play 2,3,4, and (in production as of Dec.29) a 5th film. Although the sequels aren't as good as the original...until the 4th came and it looks like old Chucky who is the classic horror villain to be born in this film will continue his movies into the late 90's and early aaaa errrrrr 2000's or whatever. When you think about the idea of a doll coming to life some people say, that can't be scary and other people say, that will be chilling, and other people call it fun to watch but whatever you call it I know you'll call it good!! The 'original gets **** stars I Loved IT!!! You will too!!! "},{"Title":"Child Play is best, sequels are good","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first Child's Play is certainly the best and has more horror suspense content than its sequels. Though I do give praise to the sequels, they have a certain liking to them and don't lose their killing styles, although they are more comic.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good for a movie about a killer doll.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film actually had moments that scared me a little. The concept seems crazy but director Tom Holland makes it work. The special effects by Kevin Yagher are great and Chucky is just plain cool. I'm glad I saw this when I was older or else I would have had nightmares for years. "},{"Title":"This movie is awesome","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie has everything. It's scary funny and will leave you begging for more. Go rent it. It rules "}{"Title":"Birth of a Horror Icon","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's a basic horror movie in which a lot of accidents happen and it's almost kind of funny to see a doll do nasty things to people.  Probably the most frightening part of this horror film is that the villain has a bond to a child and he won't let up until he can take the child.  The birth of a horror icon like 'Freddy' and 'Jason.' "},{"Title":"It was paced very well and delivered at the end.","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this movie did a good job. Sure it isn't the most original story, but it was well made so that it came out right. "},{"Title":"A really inventive and creative horror movie","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have to say that Child's Play isn't like all those other movies about inanimate objects coming alive and killing people (Christine (1983) and Dolls (1986)). In both those movies, we have no real idea how the object(s) got possessed(if you've read the book Christine you know). But in Child's Play, they give us an inventive explanation. It's a little annoying that you don't see Chucky actually talking to Andy before he shows his real self to Andy's mom. Chucky doesn't actually start talking until the middle of the film. But when he does, it makes a worthwhile movie to see. "},{"Title":"Classic Chiller","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This being Halloween, I am re-watching all my horror films, and commenting on them. CHILD'S PLAY is a classic chiller. Although as good as it is, it definitely has its problems. First, let's focus on the good things. Catherine Hicks, Chris Serandon, and Brad Douriff  Always great give fine performances. Above the standards of those in other horror films. The BIG, and I mean BIG problem with the film is the lack of its main character in about 60 of the 88 min running time. It gets tedious not seeing Chucky. After you see this 1 time, the suspense is gone and you want Chucky!! This is true of another film, JURASSIC PARk. Now don't get me wrong, I give that film 5 stars, but THE LOST WORLD was better because it had more of what the first didn't, DINOSAURS. Anyway, they are both 5 star films. Watch em'. As for Child's Play, it is an above average horroh flick, but nothing special. COMING SOON Reviews for CHILD'S PLAY 2, 3, and 4.**** stars for Child's Play "},{"Title":"At least it is better then Child's Play 2 and 3.","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In my opinion I think the first Child's Play, Is way better. It is original.At least this Child's Play got a better plot and the acting is a lot better then the other 2 movies. I can understand what going on in this film. Think about it. Back in the 80's this was a great horror flick.Rating***  "},{"Title":"Not An Original Idea","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Killer dolls are not much of an original idea. The Zuni fetish doll from an old TV Movie Trilogy of Terror (1975), House of Evil (1968), Asylum (1972), and I am sure more that is well before the 1988 Child's Play.The only thing I find scary about Chucky is that he is extremely annoying to me. An annoyance that goes deeper than the fact I wanna slap the stupid looking doll. IDK maybe it's because I've never liked playing with baby dolls as a kid I found them to be annoying too (and I'm a female). Gimme a Zuni fetish doll any day over any baby doll.Now as far as the story of Child's Play (1988) it's not too bad - it is entertaining and the best of the Chucky series. The story is the only reason I'm giving Child's Play 6.5 stars.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Original premise makes decent genre movie.","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Out of all the 'classic' horror series, Child's Play is the only one I still need to watch completely. It took me years but finally I started with it. What took me so long? Well, because Chucky used to freak me out as a little kid when I saw ads for it on TV! But no, of course it's far from a true scary movie really. The one thing that this movie has going for it is its originality but in all truth and honesty, that's more than enough for a movie of this sort.Having a child-sized doll as your killer is obviously a quite unique and original premise. And it actually works well. Having a doll as the killer prevents this movie from falling into the usual genre clichs and makes the movie more original than not with all of its horror/slasher moments. Besides, the effects for Chucky are all convincing looking, so it actually looks like it's a real doll going berserk and goes on a killing spree, after a serial killer transfered his soul into the doll, right before he died. Not hard to see why he has become an horror icon over the years.And of course who better to play a maniac killer than Brad Dourif. Granted that he only is in the movie for a couple of minutes but he also provided the voice for the Chucky doll, or good boy doll, like he's officially called. The Child's Play series actually gave him lots of fame, even though he's only providing the voice of Chucky in the rest of the series.I would had probably still preferred it if the movie went along with its original idea of letting you in doubt whether or not the Chucky actually truly came to life or if perhaps it was the little kid who committed all of the murders. It would had given the movie an extra dimension, horror-wise but the went for the more straight-forward and perhaps also more safe road instead. Yes, it makes the movie quite simplistic but luckily it still of course has its originality going for it, which really makes this movie an above average genre attempt.I think that the movie works better as entertainment than horror really but I don't necessarily see this as a bad thing. It means that you can have fun watching this movie but you're better off watching a different one if you're in the mood for a good scary- or gory slasher.It still remains one of the more original movies within its genre.7/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A goofy, but well made horror","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" At first I found the movie to be a bit weird for my liking. Some serial killer is being chased into a toy store, get's corned and shot by the police, then chants some mystical voodoo spell to transport his soul into a Good Guy Doll, doesn't sound very invigorating. However despite the questionable premise I found 'Chucky' to be an effectively intimidating and scary horror flick, and I think that it's mainly due to Tom Holland's clever direction.What he does is, he takes his time putting us behind dark room corners and point-of-view camera shots before actually letting us see the doll move freely about, kind of like what Steven Spielberg did with Jaws. This allows Tom to build up plenty of suspense just before he encapsulates us with the impressive visual effects. In that scene where the mother threatens to throw Chucky into the fire, Charles Lee Ray comes to life right before your eyes and it's so much fun to watch. Even before the doll expressed his true self he was still very intimidating, every time you looked at him you could tell that there was something going on in that little plastic head. Brad Dourif was casted perfectly for this role, he has such a creepy voice that it's not surprising why the producers wanted him to stick around for next five sequels. And that kid who played the little boy Andy was a very good actor, especially for only being seven years old.Child's Play does not have the best story, nor the best screenplay, but it does have a great main monster, great visual effects, and a great director that all together prevents the movie from being a complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"Best Slasher, Great Atmosphere, Solid Acting & Excellent Effects","Date":"4 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is me re-writing a review for the film because I thought it was too rushed. It is edited by the way.Child's Play as well as being my favorite horror film is also my 2# favorite film of all time, along side with The Dark Crystal. It has everything a film can possibly have. As my summary goes it tells the story of how great I find this film.The story is quite simple but also very different from other Horror films that have come before and after it.It is about a serial killer/lake shore strangler called Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif) who is trying to escape a detective named Mike Norris (Chris Sarandon) a long with a couple of cops who are also trying to get Ray's friend Eddie Caputo. The Serial Killer isn't ready to die and he breaks into a toy store, transferring his soul into an innocent good guy doll named Chucky. The next morning a hard working mother named Karen Barclay (Catherine Hicks) skips off of work and buys the doll from some peddler who grabbed the possed doll from the toy store. She gives it to her son Andy (Alex Vincent) for his 6th birthday and Andy is loving his new toy. When Karen is asked to do overtime, her friend Maggie baby sits Andy. She puts him to bed and is then killed by Chucky cause she turned off the news. After that Chucky goes on a killing spree to posses Andy's soul so he can live again. If he doesn't, he's stuck in the sinister doll forever.After summarizing such an amazing plot, I have really grown to love the characters, the locations, the effects, everything. I'm going to go through more of the film and make my pointers a little bit deeper for why it's my favorite Horror Film.Plot/Story, 10/10 The Story is planned well and the characters as well as the scenes keep the story alive throughout. The story is at a slow pace and if you hate slow paced stories, then this isn't for you. But like other slow paced horror stories such as Black Christmas, this one does it perfectly. I found nothing wrong with the story.Acting, 9/10 The actors acting out were all done well. Alex Vincet for being only 6 or 7 years old at the time just did so well, it's like he had to have the responsibility for keeping everything alive. Brad Dourif was a perfect voice for the serial killing Chucky. He did great as Charles Lee Ray as he had to be a mad man running all over the place. Catherine Hicks & Chris Sarandon also do well. These 4 actors keep the film stable and the other actors no doubt were excellent.Effects, 9/10 There isn't much to say about the excellent effects that haven't been said already. For the late 80's, they do a top notch job at the sinister Chucky. The way they made him move, walk, sprint, kill and even jump were all done well.Scenes, 10/10 A lot of people think that some of the scenes were silly, silly maybe but the silly scene with the voodoo joint was done well. Every scene that came around was always very memorable whether Chucky was on-screen, off-screen or his perspective, it didn't matter. The scenes were always pulled off well and some of them actually scared me the first time round.I also wanted to point my point out a little bit deeper for why this is the best Horror film. Besides it having many memorable moments, this Slasher as well as Horror had a whole new tone and level which made it much better for a change. Now don't get me wrong I love Michael Myers, Freddy Krueger, etc but I think it's better when we see something else. i'm not talking about a Killer in a mask etc going after teens. I'm talking about a Doll stopping at nothing to get what he wants. And that why I found Child's Play a bit better then Halloween etc, because It was something different.I want to conclude that if you haven't seen this Slasher/Horror film yet, you must at once. It's also the first Horror film i own and I'm really glad that it's the first one cause it's just the best.One of the most memorable films. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Child's play is kinda underrated","Date":"3 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can't believe this film has a 6.2 on the ratings, it should be at least 7.2. This is bye far the best of series, it's actually serious even though i do actually enjoy Bride of Chucky. A serial killer named Charles Lee Ray(brad Dourif) has been shot by detective Mike Noris(Chris Sarandon). Charles uses voodoo to transfer his soul into a good guy doll, which is from there on out The Lake Shore Strangler is now Chucky the killer doll. If your a horror fan that gets bored with horror films that barley has gore then you might not like this film, It does how ever surpasses John Carpenter's Halloween in gore though, but much like Halloween, this film doesn't need gore to be entertaining or scary. When someone says Chucky, you might think of a goofy evil doll that's real jokey but this one Chucky is real bad ass, scary and serious. Even Child's Play 2, Chucky was a real joker. Alex Vincent as Andy Barclay does a pretty good job for his age. You'll be surprised that Andy is far from annoying unlike Tyler from Child's Play 3. I thought Chucky looked a lot more realistic in this one then in the sequels, He looks like a demonic toddler!! Just look at him, when he's trying to transfer his soul into Andy. The Characters that were being killed off could have been in there longer, to make it seem more like a slasher, Maggie was in there for a pretty good time but the rest of the people that Chucky kills need to be in there a little bit longer, Leprechaun 1 also suffers from this But at least this one did it a little bit better. Brad's voice is perfect for Chucky's voice, It was actually a girl who did Chucky's voice but they watched the scenes where Chucky talks and they thought Chucky sounded like he was gay. Brad was supposed to only play Charles Lee Ray but fortunately they also casted him to do Chucky's actual voice. Any Ways this is the best out of the series, check it out. "}{"Title":"Child's Play is Anything But.","Date":"25 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" All Andy wants for his birthday is a Good Guy doll. A doll that can interact with you, the Good Guy is all the rage but unfortunately Andy's working single mother can't afford one, that is, until a street peddler is willing to sell her one on the cheap. Quickly making friends with his doll, named Chucky, Andy gets more than he bargained for when heinous murders resembling that of the recently deceased Lakeshore Strangler start springing up and he gets the blame. Is Andy crazy? Has Chucky sprung back to life? And just what the heck is up with the street peddler's teeth? Child's Play, directed by Tom Holland (Fright Night) and written by Don Mancini (who has written every installment in the franchise to date) dances around these issues, brilliantly keeping you in suspense for the bulk of the film. While the popularity of the following sequels and its iconic killer spills the beans, the film still manages to retain a fair amount of creepiness. If you managed to catch this film as a child, it no doubt scared the bejesus out of you, and even as a grown up, it will hook you in with its sinister mood, chilling music and sympathetic performances by Alex Vicnent as Andy and Catherine Hicks as his mother. Key performances by genre hero Chris Sarandon as the skeptical cop on the trail of the murders and the great Brad Dourif as Chucky only further rope you in.Even though it is over 20 years old and some aspects of the film have become understandably dated, the film still retains the kind of magic that only the best horror films have. Its sequels may have made a joke out of the initial premise, but as a stand-alone film, Child's Play is as effective as they come. A remake is currently in the works (with Mancini and Dourif returning) that plans to return the franchise to its darker roots, but the sequels themselves were fun, just on a completely different level. Try to forget everything you know when viewing this movie, and it will reward you each and every time. "},{"Title":"Not a classic but still really good movie","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Before I Start This was thdLast Child's Play I saw, as it was not in shop for over years, I think I Waited 7 Year for this DVD to come back into shops, when came back in shops, I had to get it, as I have the got rest on DVD.This movie starts of really well, as we see Charles Lee Ray is being chased by Mike Norris and then end up getting shot and mortally wounded by Norris. Before dying, Charles then goes into a toy-store finding boxes of Good Guy dolls, and uses a voodoo ritual that will transfer his soul into one of the dolls. The store is then struck by lightning, and it burns to the ground.Then we see Andy while making breakfast in bed for his mum, he notice an advert on TV for a Good guy doll, and tells his mum he want good guy doll. Later The mum buy him the doll for Andy which happens to be the one that Charles lee Ray transfers his soul into. Then later that night Maggie is babysitting Andy and while Babysitter she is killed, We don't see who kills the Babysitter but the cops believe that Andy the one killed her,then more people start dying and that putting Andy in the frame.When we finally See Chucky talking, Swearing and moving, this is where the movie shines, with a good car crash scenes, which wad really good and The Voodoo Doll Death was favourite part of movie, as it was really hard to watch.I wss little disappointed with this as it start of really slow, we never saw Chucky talk until 45 minutes in to movie, after that scene the movie action packed until the end, I wouldn't called this movie a classic but It's a very good movie, I would recommend it, to any horror fan. "},{"Title":"Decent horror film, though it has some serious flaws","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have never found the concept of the CHILD'S PLAY films to be particularly scary. There really isn't anything scary about a doll. I think the idea of a doll coming to life and killing people is actually pretty damn humorous. It wouldn't be that hard to just pick it up by it's legs and smash it! Sheesh! That being said, this is what I think of CHILD'S PLAY.The first half of this film is solid. The film starts out with a little boy being really excited about his upcoming birthday in which he's going to get a 'My Buddy' doll, which is apparently the next big toy craze in the world of young children. His mom buys his doll from a rather sketchy homeless man in a trench coat and, sure enough, people soon start dying. The first half of the film works perfectly by not giving away the identity of the killer and in leading the audience with some question as to who is committing the murders. It actually works incredibly effectively. The performances are remarkably realistic and the suspense feels genuine. The mother and the child are equally likable and you really get a true feeling of dread from several of the scenes.Unfortunately, the doll comes to life. Once he does, the film changes. It goes from being a legitimately suspenseful and bizarre horror film to being a rather tasteless and by-the-numbers slasher flick. The doll goes on a murder spree, and, instead of feeling tension, we witness people getting killed by a doll. The murder scenes often come off cheap, forced, and pointless. The tone of the film shifts to a series of clichs. Pretty soon, the whole thing feels like such a joke that after a while you just stop caring and just go with it and accept what is going on, although it really doesn't make it any better. I never really felt that there was any reason for any of the characters to be scared of a doll, despite the fact that the doll goes on a killing spree. I found the second half of the film a bit silly and contrived.Despite the weak second half, the film is still worth seeing. I just wish that they could have taken the original premise with the film further rather than to have turned the whole film into a slasher picture. While I do not generally mind a good slasher picture, this film kinda leads you to believe that it will be something more than that which is why I think the end result is a bit of a letdown compared to what you expect. Overall it does have some good scares, good performances, good music, and a true horror film feel. You just need to be able to tolerate the silly nature of the second half. If you can do that, I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Friends Till The End","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Now, the premise of a killer doll has been done before but not like how Child's Play pulled off the idea.How? Well, the film is about a serial killer who on the verge of dying had no choice but to transfer his soul to a Good Guy which seems to be a sort of parody of the Cabbage Patch Kids and the My Buddy dolls. The same doll lands in the hands of a ten year boy named Andy Barclay and you know that sort of thing won't end well.I didn't write in the full summary mainly because I didn't want to mention any spoilers about the film. Maybe I did but oh well.But yeah, the premise of a killer doll took a new spin, instead of a doll coming to life on its own, the doll has the soul of a person. In this case, the soul is a serial killer.The acting is really well done. Actors such as Catherine Hicks and Chris Sarandon really put in a lot of effort into their roles and the script really helped. Alex Vincent who plays Andy Barclay who unlike a lot of kid actors made the character believable. But hands down, Brad Dourif is the best of the actors, Chucky is without a doubt one of my all time favorite villains and the character himself is a badass.Don Mancini, Tom Holland and John Lafia wrote a very clever script.Tom Holland who directed the film was clearly the perfect guy for a film like Child's Play.Any nitpicks? Well, barely actually.Overall, 10 out of 10 from me. "},{"Title":"Capitalism's a Bitch!","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What I love about this movie is the way it slyly pokes fun at, and subverts, the 80s Toy Industry. Witness the scene where the single mother couldn't buy her son the Good Guy doll he so dearly wanted for his birthday, and has to face his disappointment and reassure him that she'll get one soon. How many parents had to face this scene in real life throughout the 80s? The film also manages to incorporate a sense of the multi pronged, multi-media merchandising attack of many toy lines of the decades. The Good Guy dolls are generally considered to be inspired by the My Buddy range, but note how they have their own cartoon show, which brings to mind thoughts of He-Man, Transformers, The Care Bears and so on. This kind of detail brings a level of wit to Child's Play that is ironically lacking in its increasingly comedic sequels.Child's Play is one of the cleverest and most entertaining horror movies of the 80s. OK, so Chucky isn't scary, but how many of us are really scared by Freddy, Jason, Jigsaw etc.? It is simply great fun, brilliantly executed. "},{"Title":"Forget the sequels because the first entry actually works","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If a movie had to be selected for a specific decade based on cult following or continuing to grow,Child's Play would claim the 80's. Is it Chucky who scares us? No not in the least bit. What made Child's Play succeed was the idea that something as innocent as a doll could be evil. Character actor Brad Dourif stars as Charles Lee Ray a notorious serial killer who is chased down by Detective Mike Norris into a toy store and gunned down. Under his dying breaths he transfers his soul into a Good Guy doll.We are now introduced to Andy Barclay,a kid who loves the Good Guys.The only thing he wants for his birthday is a Good Guy doll.His mother Karen who is short on money buys the Chucky doll from a hobo on the street.Chucky murders Karen's friend Maggie. Norris is assigned to the case and discovers the footprints of a Good Guy doll at the crime scene.Norris suspects Andy. Andy tells his mother that Charles Lee Ray is Chucky's real name.Chucky forces Andy to bring him to the run down home of his partner in crime Eddie Caputo. Chucky murders him. Norris finds Andy and his doll at the crime. Andy now thought to be insane is brought to a mental house. Karen brings the doll home and discovers it has no batteries. Chucky attacks her and runs to murder Norris.Norris escapes the attempt and helps Karen track Chucky down. Chucky goes to his voodoo mentor who tells him he can only put his soul into the first person he told his true identity to. Chucky murders the old man goes to find Andy. Andy escapes his from the hospital and returns home. Karen comes and sets the possessed doll on fire,but he keeps coming back until Norris shoots his heart.This movie is unfairly not taken seriously. Tom Holland has directed a suspenseful horror film. The actors all excel in their roles,particularly Chris Sarandon as Norris. Unlike the other Child's Play films the cast and crew take the story seriously. The movie is dark and has an evil sense to it. The other Child's Play films are pathetic jokes,if you must see Chucky rent this one.By the way,I think this is one of the best portrayals of the city of Chicago on film. "},{"Title":"best ever film","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this was the best ever film i have ever seen, its so scary and funny and well put it this way i had nightmares up to the age of 12 and i saw it wen i was 6, the way the plot goes is great too, the cops think little Andy does all the killings but little do they know there is a killer doll out on the lose and he is seeking a new body to put his soul into, this film gets a 10 out of 10 from me because it is the best ever film i have seen, the best quote is i will get you and Eddie no matter what at this point Charles lee ray has been shot and is dying, he is telling the cop he is going to get him back and his partner for leaving him to die, at this point he finds a good guy doll and says magic words and before you know it there is a killer doll with a bad ass attitude on the run. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror movies ever","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A lot of people don't give this movie its due because the slasher is a talking doll.  This movie has more suspense than most of this genre and it's directed by a great horror movie guy.  Tom Holland has done the Beast Within, Thinner and Fright Night and all are great.  Where is this guy now? We need to stop the PG-13 crap that keeps coming out like Darkness Falls and They.  Hollywood is evil and maybe Holland got sick of the crap and the cuts by the MPAA.  The kick ass Brad Dourif is the voice of Chucky which is fun times for all.  The sequels suck until Bride of Chucky which is also a classic.  John Ritter is da man in that one! "},{"Title":"SEE THIS MOVIE!","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With great acting from the ever cool Brad Dourif and the amazing special effects, this movie is a classic slasher. It may have some cliche's and some corny dialogue (Wow, he's really something huh?) but the overall style and pace of Child's play makes it a must-see for any slasher fan.I saw this film for the first time when I was 5. Where most people will say it scared them as a child, I loved it. I own all movies (Child's play 1 is taped because it is outlawed in the UK in 1993) and have some cool Chucky s***. Fans of Brad Dourif (like me) should be happy that his intense voice is put to good use in this movie.There are several scenes in Child's play that I still remember since my first viewing like the scene were Andy's mother forces Chucky to talk (and he does!). After this the foul-mouthed tiny-terror made three sequels and Child's play 5 Seed of Chucky is in talks. LONG LIVE CHUCKY!10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A truly classic film.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In this movie a murderer called Charles Lee Ray is killed by police in a toy store. With his dying breath he transports his soul into the body of a one foot Good Guy doll named Chucky. Meanwhile a little boy named Andy Barclay receives the doll as a birthday gift. Chucky then begins his killing spree. As the film progresses Chucky realizes that he is becoming more human and if he doesnt change bodys soon he will be stuck in the dolls body forever which places Andy in mortal danger. This is one of the best films that I have ever seen. "}{"Title":"Was to become much better","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The original Child's Play was just a one-off shocker that put a new-ish spin on the slasher genre by having the killer be a kids doll possessed with the soul of a dead serial-strangler (though Don Mancini's original script Blood Buddies was more of a satire on kid's marketing and did not feature Charles Lee Ray). It became clear afterwards that the outrageousness of the idea could lend itself to more humor-orientated sequels and that Chucky himself had potential that stretched beyond just one movie.As a result, this first Child's Play movie seems to be a bit different from the rest. Don't get me wrong, the franchise is pretty good with it's continuity which is unusual for horror films, but first time around the makers played it for straight, which gives it different edge from the rest. Obviously they didn't want to play their ace right away so for the most part, Chucky is rather quiet in this one. Later on, his star would shine brighter.Chicago cop Mike Norris guns down killer Charles Lee Ray in the street, but before Ray dies he breaks into a toy store and transfers his soul into a Good Guy doll. Knowledge of Voodoo is pretty much the first thing that you're taught in serial killer class. That very same doll is given to lonely little boy Andy Barclay for his birthday, but he's not aware of the evil lurking within.Judging the film on its own merits it's not exactly the best shocker out there. There are only a couple of scare moments and a couple of those are badly timed and obviously telegraphed. The story isn't as tight as it should be and there's simply not enough kills. The sequels had bigger body counts and more interesting deaths. "},{"Title":"An original and scary horror classic!","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The notorious serial killer Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif) is fatally shot by a cop named Mike Norris (Chris Sarandon) in a toy store. Ray uses his last dying words to recite a voodoo chant that supposedly grants life after death. Using this chant, the sadistic murderer transfers his soul into a nearby Good Guys doll before all life ebbs from his body. A few days later, six year old Andy Barclay (Alex Vincent) is given the same doll as a birthday present from his mother Karen (Catherine Hicks). Andy loves his new Good Guy doll, which is able to talk and move its head around. Calling itself Chucky, the doll begins to tell Andy strange things and takes him to odd places where murders are committed. It seems that Chucky, animated by the soul of Charles Lee Ray, seeks revenge against Mike Norris for killing him. The evil living doll also finds out that in order to become human again, he must transfer his soul into Andy's body. When Karen Barclay finally realizes that Chucky is alive, she enlists Mike's help to stop the murderous doll and save Andy's soul.This fantastic modern day horror classic has one of the greatest premises ever conceived. Kudos go to director Tom Holland and writer Don Mancini for giving us this highly original and timeless film. Chucky is one of the greatest horror villains ever and in this movie, he is actually very scary. Brad Dourif was the perfect actor to give Chucky his voice, as well as playing the human Charles Lee Ray before he becomes a living doll. I'm so glad he returned for every installment in the series that followed this movie. Brad IS Chucky, and always will be. All the other actors here are very convincing and believable in their parts, Chris Sarandon from Fright Night being a favorite of mine. It's a shame he hasn't done more films in recent times. Catherine Hicks does very well as the concerned and protective mother, I genuinely felt bad for her in certain scenes. Usually I can't stand kids in horror movies, but Alex Vincent didn't annoy me at all and actually did very well here. Great job Alex! I also love the Chicago setting, which made for some beautiful big city scenery. The fact that it's also wintertime with snow on the ground enhanced that. The best thing about this movie, besides its great villain, is the suspense. Chucky is kept in the shadows for the first half of the movie and most of the kills are suggested. This was a great way to build scares and toy with the audience at the same time! I would recommend this movie for anyone who loves scary and suspenseful horror films with a great storyline, villain, and setting. Child's Play rules! "},{"Title":"A parody of the Cabbage Patch Kids","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Film Synopsis Fatally wounded after a shootout with police, serial killer Charles Lee Ray breaks into a toy store & conducts a voodoo ceremony where he transfers his soul into a Good Guy children's doll. That particular doll winds up in the hands of a street pedlar who then sells it cheaply to Karen Barclay, a department store clerk who has been searching for a Good Guy doll as a birthday gift for her son Andy. Andy is excited to get the doll, calling it Chucky. But the doll comes alive & starts exacting his revenge on the people who got him killed. Chucky then attempts to transfer his soul again, this time to Andy. Can Karen & the detective on the case stop him?Film Review Ever since the 1929 effort THE GREAT GABBO, the possessed doll has had a number of appearances in the horror genre. The idea had its best airing in the portmanteau film DEAD OF NIGHT back in 1945, which is still regarded as the final word on the subject. In the 1980s, director Tom Holland, who had made the vampire classic FRIGHT NIGHT, decided to contemporise the story using the visual effects technology of the day.With a story that hangs its plot on the concept of a serial killer transferring his soul into a child's doll & then using the doll's body to commit further crimes, I wasn't expecting Child's Play to be scientifically plausible &#x96; one of the things about the horror genre is the required suspension of disbelief &#x96; but this film really drags the idea through the intellectual gutter that most of the Friday THE 13TH films inhabit (what is quite ironic about Child's Play is that with its wisecracking killer doll, it is similar to A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET which came out only four years earlier).That said, the film works better as a parody, mainly setting its sights on the late 1980s trend of Cabbage Patch Dolls that drove both children & their parents crazy &#x96; the dolls didn't do anything, only they looked quite cute & had their own birth certificates! What better way to scare the public at the time then to exploit their worst ideas about those ridiculous dolls. Quite cynical really.However, with the commentary & all, Child's Play is really quite stupid. Besides the whole soul-transferring-into-doll business, the film throws in some absurd plot devices where Chucky's body slowly turns more human the longer the killer's soul inhabits it, as well as the most obvious idea of forcing Chucky to transfer his soul into the body of the first person he revealed his secret to (in this case, young Andy Barclay). Let's not get into the whole business that is the scene where Chucky confronts his mentor, a voodoo priest, & kills him using a voodoo doll.The shocks are well-staged, particularly the scene where Catherine Hicks discovers Chucky's secret (he's been walking, talking & killing without any batteries!) & the first two kills are suspenseful. But the film loses momentum with its action set-pieces, most notably the part where Chucky tries to kill his police nemesis while he's in his car, which is one of the most unintentionally funny scenes in the whole film. The climax is an amusing scaled-down parody of THE TERMINATOR but ruins itself with the climax going into overtime with Chucky proving to be quite hard to kill &#x96; he's a doll, it shouldn't be that hard to kill him!On the acting front, Catherine Hicks & Chris Sarandon are quite competent, but the film really belongs to Brad Dourif, who makes the role of the killer doll his own, a role he would polish in the sequels. "},{"Title":"The Original, Chucky is still King!","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play The Child's Play franchise with the lovably insane Chucky doll has become a pop culture icon. With five films and more to come, it hasn't quite reached the legendary status of Jason, Freddy, and Michael Myers, but Chucky continues to slash his way to the top.Tom Holland directed the original 1988 film as well as the Stephen King adaptations of The Langoliers and Thinner. Set in Chicago this is the story of a widowed mother (Catherine Hicks) and her son Andy (Alex Vincent). Andy is having a birthday and wants a Good Guy doll. It's kind of like the boys version of a Cabbage Patch Kid. His mother buys one from a street peddler and Andy couldn't be happier. Little do they know that the doll is inhabited by the soul of a serial killer the lakeside strangler Charles Lee Ray. Chucky talks to Andy, but when things start to happen and he blames the doll. Obviously nobody believes him, even his mother.Chucky is pure satanic evil with a dirty mouth to match. Like Freddy Krueger he has a string funny one-liner that go to embarrassingly bad lengths in the later sequels. Chris Sarandon plays a detective investigating the mysterious murders and is finally convinced that Chucky is to blame. But who will believe him? This movie also has several of the now more familiar horror clichs. The fake scare followed by the real one, Chucky comes back to life about three times, nobody believes the little kid. The doll effects are pretty good, and Chucky seems to be acting circles around Sarandon's character. All in all the acting is quite good as well as the production values. This is another classic essential 80's horror movie. What a decade! "},{"Title":"Never expected a doll to be soo evil and crazy!","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film was really good, I was pretty spooked when the doll came alive and started talking like a real person. I have seen all of these films and I am a major fan of this evil doll, he thinks of just about every impossible thing to get to Andy in the first few films. But always in the end he dies just like we do each day but to him, he can always come back someday. If something like this did happen it would be a miracle in horror history. Like you wouldn't suspect a doll you have sitting in a room with your child to come alive and start acting like a real person trying to get attention by police or news media. But to him, it was only the beginning of a scary feeling that was surrounding you and your family.I had a nightmare about this movie once that haunted me until the point that I had a seizure and my mother had to get rid of all the big dolls in my house(seriously, it is true, when I was a child!)and then my nightmare had come to a reality motion picture that wasn't as scary as my nightmare when I was a child, now I am 18 and I am not afraid of any dolls anymore but this film does bring back some scary memories from my past. Overall this film was great but beware he can always come back for more victims! "},{"Title":"The First Horror Movie I Ever Owned. And I'm Proud.","Date":"24 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This Is The Very First Horror Movie I Owned In My Life In 2007. Child's Play Is One Of The Best Horror Movies Ever Made It Takes The Killer Doll Thing That Was A Already A Clichie And Change It So Freking Hard That It DONES'T Make It Clichie. PlotA Serial Killer Named Charles Lee Ray Gets Gunned Down In A Toy Store (Because That's Were He Hid.) Then Right Before He Dies He Casts A Voodoo Spell On One Of Toys That Were Popular I Gusse They Were Popular Because THERE WAS LIKE 2 MILLON OF THEM! There Called Good Guys Little Dolls That Speak And Cra- So Anyway He Gets The Doll Says The Spell And The Toy Store Freaking Blows Up Then His soul Is Transferred Into The Doll Meanwhile We See A Little Boy Named Andy And He Wants A Good Guy For His Birthday. Also This Secne Is Funny Because He's Making Breakfeast For His Mom And He(Beep)s It Up Very Bad I Know He's Only Like 5? But That Was Funny. Watch For Yourself And See What Happens Your Gonna Smile. His Mom says She Can't Buy The Doll Because She Did'nit Had The Money They Proubaly Costed 100$ Then Later On The Mom's Friend Pulls Her Out Of Work There's A Homeless Guy Selling A Good Guy Doll For Only 50$ SALE! SALE! 50 PERCENT OF-Anyway She Busy It Oh By The Way It's The Charles Lee Ray One Lol. Watch It It's Awesome But Don't Watch Around Kids It's A Pretty (beep)ked Up Movie. WARNING CONTAINS BLOOD VIOLENCE GORE LAUNAGE. "},{"Title":"Scary, suspenseful and funny!","Date":"4 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play (1988) is one of my favorite horror movies of all time. This movie manages to be terrifying while also very funny. There were parts of the movie where I was frightened and other parts where I couldn't stop laughing!This film is about a murderer, Charles Lee Ray, who is dying after being chased and shot by a cop and possesses a Good Guy doll. Andy really wants a Good Guy doll for his birthday so his mom buys him one. What she doesn't know is that she bought the one that was possessed by Charles Lee Ray. The possessed doll, Chucky, starts killing numerous people including a friend of Andy's mom who was babysitting him. Andy knows that it was Chucky but know one else believes him. And to make it worse, Chucky is trying to get out of the doll and into Andy's body! I've seen Child's Play, Child's Play 2 and Child's Play 3 and they are all great but the original Child's Play is certainly the best. I recommend anyone who, like me, loves a great horror film to watch this. This is a well made, scary and surprisingly funny movie. 10/10! "},{"Title":"A great horror film....","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I thought that Child's Play was a great horror film. Young Andy Barclay sees a commercial for a 'Good Guy' doll on TV, and asks his mother for one for his birthday. At work, Andy's mom and her friend discover a shop selling one for a low price, and she buys it. What she doesn't know is that the doll contains the spirit of Charles Lee Ray, who died at the hands of police the night before and had transferred his spirit to the doll by voodoo. That night, Andy's babysitter is pushed from their 5th floor window, and young Andy knows that 'Chucky' the doll is responsible for his death and a series of murders that follow. The soul of Charles Lee Ray is trying to get out of the doll's body and take over Andy's body. I thought that this was a very good horror film 7/10 "},{"Title":"Friend to the End!","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was a kid myself (well not as young as 6-year-old Andy in the film) when I first saw 'Child's Play,' and I absolutely loved it then. Not too gory, a whole bunch of scenes that made me jump and enough action/explosions you wouldn't expect in a low-grade horror movie about a killer doll. Strangely, this is a movie that gets creepier the more times you watch it, or experience any of the sequels. Reason the way the mother, friend or anyone handles what a demonic doll this Chucky will become. It's like not knowing who Jason Voorhees will be and smacking him around as a kid. The movie revolves around a dying, fleeing criminal who transports his soul into a Good Guy doll, seeks revenge while as a 2-foot demon-doll and terrorizes a family. The voice of Chucky (whether good or bad) was pitch-perfect, most scenes of shock were hilarious, either intentionally or not, and the suspense was tight, despite the grand number of plot holes, inconsistencies and normal horror clichs. I will tell you the scene that turned the movie around for me and made me jump as teenager, was the batteries. When they fell out, I jumped a mile. (Okay, I did back then.) Also, I was a huge TV 'Hulk' fan and it was great to see McGee (Colvin) again, albeit a few minutes. And finally, I always loved the toys-coming-to-life and terrorizing stories growing up. I think they did a splendid job with acting (the kid really wasn't that bad) and mother (Hicks) was believable and fun to watch. They also didn't spend barely an ounce on background or how this magic of soul-hopping happens. They didn't need to. They needed to get to another future horror-icon fast, and they did. Well-done. "},{"Title":"Chucky As He Always Should Be","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Probably one of my all time favourite horror films. Why, simple its got all aspects that scare people, as a child i was haunted with this which when i look back on make me appreciate this film a lot more if one viewing can make me think about this in my nightmares for about 10 years then I'm sure its a good film in my book. although i have lost interest after child's play 3. the comedy side of Chucky seems to have taken the fear aspect away from the films and i hope that don Manchini makes his remake (2010) more like the first ones. In my opinion to get the right recipe for a remake would require the original cast and considering that Andy Barclay is about 30 years old now i doubt the remake will be superior to the original although i will give my verdict when released "}{"Title":"Another Childhood Favorite!!!","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As a child, it was Chucky that got me interested in the horror genre. It was awesome to see Charles Lee Ray transfer his evil soul into a harmless children's toy. If you don't know the story, I'll spin it for you; Charles Lee Ray is close to death because of Detective Mike Norris, but he finds a Good Guy doll, and says a chant and his soul goes into the doll. The nexy day, it's Andy Barclay's birthday and he desperately wants a Good Guy doll. His smokin' hot mom, Karen gets him one, and it happens to be possessed by Chucky. Detectives show up when Andy's aunt falls out of the window. Andy tries to tell his mom and Norris that Chucky did it, but no one believes him. After Chucky kills his old partner and Andy is placed in an asylum, Karen tries to get Chucky to talk, he finally comes to life, and Karen nearly survives. She needs Norris to believe, but he doesn't until Chucky tries to kill him in the car. Karen and Norris later find out that Chucky needs to transfer his soul into Andy if he wants to be human again. Karen and Norris must stop Chucky and kill him before he tries to become human again. If you love horror, and dolls, you'll love CHILD'S PLAY!!! "},{"Title":"Very cool horror.","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Classic. This is one of those horror movies that everyone knows due to the presence of Chucky, the creepy ass little doll that spawned so many sequels. The basic premise is that a con-man dabbling in devil magic ends up transferring his soul to that of a child's doll before he dies by chanting a magic spell. The doll gets into the hands of a little kid, and...well, it isn't pretty.I hadn't seen this thing in years, and as it turns out, I was right this is some good stuff. Filled with kitschy cheese and some surprisingly well-done suspenseful moments, Child's Play is a thrill ride all the way through - just check out the kickass car scene toward the middle, or the part where she figures out the truth about Chucky for some of my favorite moments.It does raise the question, though What would have happened if the killer would have stumbled into a kitchen-ware store instead of a toy store before he died? "},{"Title":"Let playtime begin!","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Original, scary, and with competent special effects, what more could you expect from low budget horror, Child's Play delivers the goods. Even with the short running time, the film paces itself perfectly. It gives a nice introduction to the characters which keeps them out of the cardboard dimension level, and then it offers a worthy hour of sheer creepiness which does not disappoint for a moment.One night in Chicago, serial killer Charles Lee Ray is shot down by the police during a robbery, but before he dies he uses some black magic to transfer his soul into the body of a doll product in a toy store. A few days later this doll is given as a present to little Andy from his mother. Then a bunch of strange deaths start to occur in the neighborhood, and neither his mother nor the police believe Andy when he tells them that not only does his doll 'Chucky' speak to him but he is responsible for the mischief. When his mother finds out, she jumps to save her son from the doll who wants to take over the poor kids body and be human again.If you are a horror fan, Child's Play is a film to see. (but only Child's play, and not the sequels) "},{"Title":"Over two decades old and like Chucky himself the film's popularity won't die","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Kids are afraid of so many things. The monster in the closet, the long dark hallway, the tapping of tree branches on windows, and toys coming to life. The latter has been the subject of several films, many of them horror and those like 'Magic' and 'Dead of Night' have not been forgotten. The same can be said for this film, which came at the tail end of the slasher film boom of the 1980s. But unlike others before it, this time the killer doll was made into a full-blown character and returned for four, count 'em, four sequels. This film proves that when dealing with evil, size doesn't matter.Pros An interesting new spin on the killer toy formula. Good performances. A pretty good score topped off with a main theme that'll stick in your head. Awesome special and make-up effects. Fast-paced. An exciting car sequence. Memorable kills. Director Holland does a fine job of creating suspense.Cons The low budget really shows. Has one ending too many. The idea of a doll, even one Chucky's size, overpowering an adult human is pretty silly.Final thoughts Just because this involves a toy doesn't mean you should let your kids watch it. However if you remember being afraid of things when you were young then you should check this one out. It's not quite a classic on par with the likes of 'The Exorcist' or 'Night of the Living Dead' but it holds it's own in the world of Horror.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Chucky","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well what can you say about Chucky,, well let's see he's mean as you would ever want to see, funny as can be, can be very convincing, or ever child's darkest nightmare.. i first seen this when i was in my late teens so it didn't really affect me any, except to keep wanting to watch more of him, Charles Lee Ray a serial killer , gets corned by the police, but right before he is apprehended he performs some black magic and transforms himself into this department store 3 foot doll that kids love to play with, he goes on to wreak havoc the entire movie,, getting the little boy in mischief bit by precious bit,,, this movie does have some great haunting music to it as well, and like i said great one liners by chucky. l "},{"Title":"A fun late 80's killer doll horror winner","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The evil spirit of vicious serial killer Charles Lee Ray (the ever creepy Brad Dourif) gets transferred into the body of a popular doll. Plucky single mother Karen Barclay (superbly played by Catherine Hicks) purchases the doll as a birthday present for her son Andy (an endearingly sweet performance by Alex Vincent). Chucky the doll comes back to murderous life and embarks on a killing spree. Director Tom Holland, working from a clever and witty script that he co-wrote with Don Mancini and John Lafia, treats the frankly silly story with admirable seriousness, keeps the pace brisk and unflagging throughout, and builds a good deal of tension which culminates in a lively and exciting conclusion. Moreover, although the tone is basically straight, Holland still injects the proceedings with a wickedly nasty sense of dark humor. Additional kudos are in order for the uniformly excellent acting by a bang-up cast Hicks makes for a sympathetic lead, Vincent is adorable as Andy, Dourif does the voice of Chucky with his customary rip-roaring crazed aplomb, plus there are sound contributions from Chris Sarandon as cynical, skeptical detective Mike Norris, Dinah Manoff as Karen's spunky best gal pal Maggie Peterson, Neil Giuntoli as Lee Ray's cowardly partner Eddie Caputo, Raymond Oliver as voodoo priest Dr. Death, and Alan Wilder as Karen's jerky boss Mr. Criswell. This film even manages to astutely address such timely 80's topics as single parenthood, mass media commercialization, and urban squalor and decay (Karen buys Chucky from a street peddler). The tight 87 minute running time ensures that the movie never drags or gets bogged down in needless tedious filler. Kevin Yagher's animatronic doll puppet f/x are nifty and impressive. Bill Butler's polished cinematography makes effectively fluid use of a prowling Steadicam. Joe Renzetti's shivery score does the shuddery trick. All in all, this surprise 80's horror hit holds up quite well and remains a neat little romp. "},{"Title":"Hi, I'm Chucky! WANNA PLAY?","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you know anything about actors, you know that every single one of them worth his or her weight in 'iambic pentameter' wants to do good, meaningful work, usually meaning stage work with the classics. Ibsen, Mamet, Odets, Shepard, those kind of guys. But you also know that stage work usually pays bupkis, union or not, and doin' the Bard don't pay da billz! So when something comes along that offers guaranteed paychecks, and may not be classic, but does give you something to sink your teeth into, then risk of typecasting be damned! It's like hitting the actor's version of Powerball. Robert Englund got his ticket when he met with a guy in a messed-up red-and-green sweater and a Ginsu manicure. Brad Dourif, famous for his role in ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST, hit the jackpot himself by landing a date with a crazed serial killer, who unfortunately, knows his way around some gris-gris spells.To true horror fans everywhere, that story is now legendary. Abandoned by the cronies who were supposed to be helping him escape, Charles Lee Ray, on the lam and being pursued by Detective Mike Norris (Chris Sarandon), is mortally wounded in a shootout that takes place in - would you believe it? - a toy store. Having learned a thing or two about voodoo while in stir from his cellie, a shaman nicknamed Dr. Death (Raymond Oliver), the dying Ray uses a dark incantation to transport his soul into the body of a Good Guy doll, coincidentally named Chucky. Norris, like everyone else, assumes that Ray died in the mysterious explosion that took place at the toy store. Meanwhile, the now-possessed doll finds its way into the hands of a homeless grifter who salvages it from the crime scene and sells it to hard-working mom Karen Barclay (Catherine Hicks). Knowing that it's a Good Guy doll, 'THE hot toy' of the moment and all that her seven-year-old boy, Andy (Alex Vincent) has wanted, she can't turn down this steal of a deal to get it for him as a birthday surprise. Actually, though, the surprise is on...everybody. Suddenly, Andy finds himself racking up quite a record as a pre-teen juvenile delinquent, as Charles/Chucky starts going after nosy babysitters, his voodoo teacher and all of his turncoat associates and pinning the blame on the kid. Only when Norris nearly becomes another notch on Chucky's overalls, does the cop begin to believe the story that Andy's been telling him, Karen and everyone else all along...the doll is alive and kicking and stabbing and strangling, and it has to be stopped! And the worst part? Not the murders, which are bad enough, but unless Charles Lee Ray can move his soul back into a human body, he will have to live as Chucky The Good Guy Doll forever. And the transfer has to be made into the body of the first human being he revealed himself to...ANDY.Up to this point, the only really scary 'doll' story that had been done was the Zuni fetish doll tale Prey in Dan Curtis's TV shocker TRILOGY OF TERROR. (Stuart Gordon's cult hit DOLLS, released a year earlier, didn't yet have the rep it does today.) Writer/Producer Don Mancini and director Tom (FRIGHT NIGHT) Holland knew they had a winner on their hands, but how could they have possibly imagined a franchise that has continued for at least SIX films? And Brad Dourif, though he only ever appeared in the very first movie, would continue to give Chucky the same kind of nasty, wise-ass attitude consistently through the entire series?It's hard to believe that there are still people who have never seen this, but if you haven't, be warned...you will want to drag your kids/siblings kicking and screaming past the Dolls aisle at Toys-'R'-Us, because after seeing CHILD'S PLAY, you won't want these little buggers within thirty MILES of your house ever again!!! "},{"Title":"Ugly Doll F*** You","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A very popular film yet just last weekend I watched it complete finally. Of course I knew Chucky and I had seen this film in parts just like some of its sequels, recently I watched part of Child's Play 2 on TV by the way, and as a fact not long time ago I realized that the film's title was not Chucky and honestly I was surprised. In Mexico its title is Chucky, el mueco diabolico (something like Chucky, the diabolic doll) and it is always referred as Chucky so and honestly I always thought that its original title was that.Anyway, I decided to finally get its DVD (I love this days since most of the horror films on DVD are on sale!) and I'm glad, certainly Child's Play was a pleasant movie for the Halloween weekend. This film is amazingly entertaining, maybe it is one of the most entertaining films I have seen and Chucky is truly a memorable character, extremely famous, a unique doll that can be more than just a headache, a doll that simply can kill you if he wants. He's a Good Guy, he's the doll of a quite popular TV show for kids and certainly Andy (Alex Vincent) is a fan of it. He seems to have seen already most of the episodes, he has the cereal of the show and for his birthday he wants one of the new and expensive dolls however his mother (Catherine Hicks) gave to him other stuff, we understand why since the Good Guy doll cost like $100 but we can't understand why she gave him clothes as present, you just can't give that to a kid! Anyway, thanks to her best friend Maggie (Dinah Manoff) Andy's mother finds a Good Guy doll that is selling a tramp and she could get it for $30, she knew that Andy really wanted a Good Guy.The idea is effective, I loved it since the danger comes from the last thing the characters could have imagine, you know you buy a doll for your son and it results to be a killer doll and we know why but who will believe Andy when he says that his Good Guy doll Chucky is alive? And this is great, having a kid saying that stuff about his doll then the kid is the main suspect of the murders, for sure a kid talking about stuff like that will end away of his parents, in this case only of his mother. To watch Chucky on fire is quite fun and I loved that and eventually more persons will see that Chucky is alive, certainly Andy's mother will be one of those persons but obviously nobody will believe her either, after all she's a desperate mother trying to save her son. Detective Mike Norris (Chris Sarandon) is an important character, he's one of the targets of Chucky since he is the cop who killed the strangler Charles Lee Ray. The very first sequence of the film has In Charles Lee Ray and Mike Norris its protagonists and we can watch that Charles Lee Ray knew certain stuff so when we see why he knew that stuff Andy becomes a target of Chucky. We enjoy a nice ending, Mike, Andy and his mother will fight but Chucky will survive to any kind of thing, he will be burned out, they will shot him, he will end in pieces but still he will be alive. So by then not only Andy, his mother and Mike knew that Chucky was alive but also Mike's partner who will also experience the anger of Chucky and he says something like this, after Mike said that if now he believes him yeah I believe you now, BUT WHO'S GONNA BELIEVE ME? "},{"Title":"Any film that can bring an inanimate object to life and make it come across as somewhat scary is at least a mild success.","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After it's prologue, Child's Play begins with a sweeping of sorts shot that covers a living room in a Reagan era, late 1980s, working class American home that houses a single mother and her young child. It is a shot that incorporates objects complete with brand names, consumer driven toys and dolls and one that culminates in a television playing to nobody in the room (but perhaps to us?) displaying an inane cartoon specifically for kids. A young boy named Andy (Vincent) walks in; his face drops when he sees the screen and exclaims that 'he has seen this one'. I feel this is an attack on consumerism of some sort set in a contemporary time where the latest in modernity somehow finds its way into the working class home. The tracking shot of extensive produce twinned with the boy's quote of already having seen the episode could be read as a reminder that perhaps, it's all going too far.But this is the perfect introduction to the film's primary, and sadly only, theme. Child's Play does not need a realistic narrative of sorts; partly because it's an American horror film that ventures into the realms of fantasy, but also because its premise is one that maintains a voice and message throughout &#150; this is a statement on many, many things. The film revolves around the incoming of a toy doll into a household that is already housing a boy missing a fatherly figure. If the tracking shot is displaying consumerism, then the incoming doll of Chucky acts as a statement that the latest in gadgets and gimmicks can enter the household so very easily. But it also carries an eerie message that firstly asks us, 'Do we really know what we're buying?' and 'Is what we're buying ultimately safe?' Obviously, this is not some paranoid rant warning people that toys might come alive and attack you. What I think Child's Play does is highlight the dangers of giving into Consumerism so easily and buckling under the pressure of both a child's want for something and the ill knowledge you may carry regarding said object. This ignorance is best highlighted by Maggie (Manoff), a friend of Andy's mother who is fast paced, outlandish and just too confident when it comes to looking for the next gimmick and best way to purchase it &#150; it comes as no surprise that her encounter with the doll results, in the sense it gets the better of her and, quite literally as well as ironically, 'sneaks' up on her.But the film refrains from being anything brilliant due to its repetition of scenes and generally daft nature. The statement and ideas of Capitalist modernity in a post-modern world work well and these sorts of themes are said under a guise of, let's face it, a pretty mediocre slasher film riding on the success of Halloween and its sequels. Characters do this, characters do that, characters say things and get themselves into situations and scenarios that demand they ignore logic for the sake of the odd shock or thrill as suspense builds to a certain crescendo. But for what it is, Child's Play is kind of entertaining with some good scenes albethem illogical. The point of attack and opening exchanges involving Andy, Karen (Hicks) and the doll over whether or not it's really killing people is effective because we're given the position of power that we know the kid's telling the truth.Child's Play is relentless in its pacing and uses its unique selling point sparsely and wisely. I don't think the idea of a talking, killing doll had been done before Child's Play and I think it's largely down to the constant referencing and spoofing of the idea in other texts such as the Krusty doll in The Simpsons that has made Child's Play the 'cult' film that it is. The film takes on ideas of reincarnation when a robber is gunned down in the opening but instead of going out in a hail of bullets or dying with dignity, he possesses a child's doll which is an interesting if not accidentally comical idea when you say it out loud. But the ideas of reincarnation are limited to bizarre incidences that go by very quickly and consist of brief interactions with voodoo driven, black priests in grotty apartments which merely act as nasty locations for Chucky the doll himself to maim said poor fellow.There is more in Child's Play than I thought there would be and certainly, the opening forty minutes or so is interesting because 'less' of the doll very much feels like 'more' of the doll as he goes on a personal vendetta. Plus, the suspense and a few of the deaths are either surprising or just work in a low-rent horror inspired sort of way. Kathy's interaction and gradual, I feel, affection for detective Mike Norris (Sarandon) whose best scene involves him being in an upturned car with the doll running around outside is also good fun to watch. But once asylums complete with rooms that look like operating theatres begin to crop up and certain characters have their brains fried purely because the filmmakers are able to include that effect occur, it feels as if it is dragging &#150; a bizarre thing to have to say about a film that's under 90 minutes long. "},{"Title":"classic","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this film is just a classic horror movie and Chucky should be up there with the likes of Freddy Kruger and Jason this film will make u so scared and the plot is original a killer doll attacking a young boy come on thats so good child's play is so scary i say there should be remake and brad is perfect as the killer the kid who plays and really does just sells it he makes the audience believe that this could really happen. hell i got scaread and i'm 18 and i only saw this film once thats how good it is the sequels don't even compare to this hell i wouldn't be surprised if there was a line of Chucky dolls that came out after this was made Chucky should be considered one of the greatest villains in movie going history. 7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"The second best and most serious child's play movie","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Rated R for Violence and Language.Child's Play is the first in the Chucky series of horror films.There are 5 films in total.The film had a pretty laughable concept of a killer doll and the series slowly turned into a horror/comedy series but this first film is much more serious.There is no humor whatsoever in this film.It is meant to be taken seriously and it does a decent job of making a killer doll seem scary.The film is about a man who'se soul ends up inside a good guy doll named Chucky.Now with the doll's body, he must take over the soul of the first human he sees which is the four year old Andy.He also gets revenge on the people who wronged him.Child's Play is a fairly good horror film even though the concept is funny.This film is very serious though.The second one I remember had one funny scene, Child's Play 3 had a few more funny scenes and Bride Of Chucky and Seed Of Chucky were real horror/comedies. "},{"Title":"Original, scary","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is one of those movies where once you see it you will most likely never forget it. The movie is very well written. Usually in slashers, the killer is a psycho, or someone from the dead. In this case, its both and also something new. Here, we have a dead psycho possessing a doll from the toy store, using a little boy as his bait. Andy Barclay receives a new doll on Christmas and becomes best friends with it. His mother, Karen sees no foul play until one night when tragedy strikes (I won't say what to avoid putting spoilers). Soon its a race to save her son from this mysterious new threat. In the mean time, Detective Mike Norris is working to save Karen. Now to the different elements that make this movie great we have a perfect storyline here, however unlikely it seems. We have great acting from Brad Dourif, who plays Chuckie perfectly. Even Andy was very well played for a 5 year old. The mood in this movie is very dark at times. A lot of scenes are poorly lit on purpose to add to the eeriness. Also, the music used makes the movie very tense and dark. This movie is truly a classic, and deserves much more respect than what it gets. 8/10 seems like a good rating for Child's Play. Horror fans should not miss this one. "},{"Title":"A clever game of deception","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is not only the name of the movie, but a term meaning when a child is kidding himself. But there's no way that the villain in this supernatural movie is kidding at all, nor does he stand tall at all, just about a foot.Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif) gets wounded where there's no way in hell he wants to go back to jail just after his partner Eddie ditched him. He chants a spell where after his body lies still, he soul disappears and enters a Good Guy doll with red hair and a cute smile to make any kid want to buy the toy.Andy Barkely is just shy from his fifth birthday where his mother (Catherine Hicks of 7th Heaven) wants to buy him a good guy doll where after getting his son his present and naming it Chucky, things are getting weird where after a friend of Andy's mother is killed, the blame is on Andy though he didn't do anything.Charles' soul is on the rampage seeking vengeance on those who turned on him and wanted him dead from cops to criminals leaving poor Andy for people not to believe him.This 1988 film remains as one of the best thrillers where it's saddened that many sequels followed. "},{"Title":"Child's play- Better than Nightmare on Elm Street","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Recently I have been on a mission to watch all of the classic horror movies that I have wanted to see but never got around to. I started off with Halloween, then Nightmare on Elm Street and then Child's play. I thought Chid's Play is a superb horror movie, in fact I thought it was better than Nightmare on Elm Street. Don't get me wrong I did enjoy Nightmare but I just felt it was a tad bit boring in places.The whole concept of a killer doll is genius, part of the fear comes from the fact that a seemingly innocent doll can be so evil. The climax in which they are trying to kill the seemingly indestructible Chucky was very well done. I can finally agree with the thousands of fans who swear by this cult classic. I don't normally get scared that easily but this movie scared the life out of me. "},{"Title":"Not scary but a bit creepy.","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a decent enough horror, lots of running and screaming but not so much that it becomes annoying.The idea is good and although parts of it are silly the central premise is straight forward.The acting isn't great and, unusually, the child, Andy, probably delivers the best performance in the film, excluding the doll. The two main adult characters are played quite badly in a very b-movie way and are never convincing.Chucky does have a feel of being a child size Terminator and that gives a little humour as well as the creepiness, I was expecting more humour given the subject matter, think Gremlins, and was disappointed not to find it.The lack of humour and poor acting stop this from being anything more than a watchable b-movie. "},{"Title":"A terrible premise is turned into a really good movie","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The set up to this flick is pretty stupid. A criminal who's dying happens to know voodoo. He uses it to transfer his soul into the body of the doll. A boy wants the type of doll, and his mother buys it for him. Oh what do you know? the same doll. You know the rest people.This film is very predictable, and the ideas sound laughable. But, a big but. This film is brilliantly crafted. Child's play is tense (the creature comes alive later on in the picture), frightening (the doll is one mean S.o.b) and very well acted (Sarandon, hicks and Vincent are on top form). The picture also uses some of the stupid stuff for some dark humour (and it didn't fail to make me laugh) e.g A man talks to the doll (chucky is his name, but you knew that anyway) like a normal human being. Priceless.In summary, this is a violent and frightening film which is effective, funny and well made. Bravo. "},{"Title":"Friends til the end","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The original Child's Play came out in 1988. Right at the end of 80's horror. People actually thought the film was scary. What worse a thought than your child's toy coming to life and attempting to possess his body while knocking off people all the way!? Add to this that ever single child in America had one of those My Buddy dolls at the time and there ya go. The Look as well as the wardrobe worn by Chucky was eerily familiar with the My Buddy Doll so much in fact that the dolls started scaring children and children being scared may have led to the demise and decline in sales of My Buddy. But that's just my opinion.So basically we get the story of Charles LeRay (Brad Douriff) - The Boston Strangler. During a night of chases and shootouts with the cops, Charles takes a bullet and is about done for. While finding his way into a toy store, the voodoo educated serial killer puts his voodoo to use and puts his soul in the Good Guy doll which just so happens to be the current Toy craze in this film. We then go to young Andy Barclay (Alex Vincent) who wants one so bad for his birthday. His mother is having a difficult time finding one but manages to pull it off from a creepy old street vendor who rescued the doll from the toy store fire. Which dolls survived? The possessed one of course. So we get Andy trying to convince people that Chucky is alive all the while Chucky is killing. The movie is great for it's time. While I don't see much scary about it, it is definitely fun. The FX are top notch for a 1988 flick. Best scene bar none is the elevator scene for the sheer comedy of it. "},{"Title":"Classic killer doll movie","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is a great killer doll movie and is one of my favourite killer toy movies, my other favourite is Puppet Master movies. The music is creepy and the Chucky effects are great, Tom Holland did a good job with the suspense and they way it toys with you at first. The film sees psychopathic killer Charles Lee Ray being chased by Detective Mike who shoot him, his friend leaves him behind so he quickly goes into a closed toy store and finds one of the toys called a good guy doll so he transfers his soul into it. In a apartment young Andy wants one of the popular good guy dolls for his birthday but his mom hasn't got enough to pay for it but her friend tells her a man is selling on for cheep so she quickly buys it for her son, at first it seems like a normal doll but Andy starts to speak to him likes he's alive, her friend looks after Andy while she's at work and while Andy's in bed someone small creeps around and puts a chair in front of the door the picks up a hammer and hits her in the face causing her to fall out the window.They think it's an accident but Mike believes that someone killed her, possibly Andy since they're small footprints on the table. Andy tells his Mom that Chucky's alive but she doesn't believe him, when his Mom drops him off for school Andy doesn't go and instead goes to where Chuck's ex-friend Eddie lives and while Andy isn't looking Chucky sneaks in and turns on the gas, Eddie searches the house and hears a noise in the kitchen so he fires the gun casing the house to explode. In the police station Andy's mom arrives and meets with Andy, he tells them that Chucky's alive but they don't believe him so a psychologist wants him to stay at a mental hospital for a while, when he's mom returns home with Chucky she discovers that the battery's wasn't in him so she threatens to burn him so he attacks her and escapes. She tells Mike but he doesn't believe her, she goes to find the man who sold it to her but he tries to rape her but Mike stops him. He takes her home but she still trying to tell him about Chucky but he still doesn't believe her so after getting her out the car he looks at Charles Lee Ray's file and when in his car Chucky attacks him and after crashing his car Chucky runs around the car taunting him until he shoots him then escapes. Mike finds her in Chucky's apartment and tells her that she was right about him and that they to find a man named John who taught him who to transfer his soul. Chucky meets with John and asks him who to get of this body at first he doesn't want to tell him but after breaking his arms and legs with his doll he tells him he needs to transfer his soul into the first person he told that he was alive, Chucky then stabs the doll and leaves to find Andy, they then find him and he tells them they need to destroy his heart. They then need to find Andy and stop Chucky before he can transfer his soul into him.Child's Play is a classic movie that should be seen for some scares and laughs. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Despite the idiotic premise, Child's Play is an surprisingly effective horror film.","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When the notorious serial killer Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif) is gun-down by the police detective (Chris Sarandon) in part of the bad streets of Chicago. But before Charles dies, he transfers his soul into a good guy doll by using a voodoo spell! The next day, when a little boy Andy (Alex Vincent) wants a good guy doll for his birthday and his hard working mother (Catherine Hicks) actually gets his birthday wish. But when Andy knows that his doll is actually alive and this doll tells Andy that his name is Chucky. The trouble starts when strange, unexplained deaths are appearing. No one wants to believe that Andy is actually telling the truth that his doll is guilty of these crimes. But Chucky discovers that he needs Andy to transfer his soul into the boy to be human again.Directed by Tom Holland (Fright Night, The Langoliers, Thinner) made an clever, although quite dumb supernatural thriller with a few moments of intentional (?) black humour. This has good puppeteer work and design by Kevin Yagher and his crew & nice cinematography work by Bill Butler (Anaconda, Frailty, Jaws).DVD has an sharp Pan & Scan (1.331) transfer and an good Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound. DVD's only extras are an collector's booklet and the original theatrical trailer.The new 20th Birthday Chucky Edition has plenty of good special features. DVD has an good anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an fine Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD also includes two entertaining commentary track by the cast & filmmakers. DVD also have four scenes specific commentary by Chucky!, 3 mini-featurettes with the cast & crew and more. Child's Play went on to be an Box Office Hit and it's spawned four sequels. The highlight of every Chucky movie is the memorable vocal performance of Dourif. Which Dourif gives Chucky life in every Child's Play movie. Certainly worth a look. Written by Don Mancini (Who wrote every single Chucky movie), John Lafia (Man's Best Friend, The Rats) and by the director. From a story by Mancini. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Great slasher, pretty underrated.....","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I was little, I grew up with the first two sequels but never got around to watching the original. It wasn't too long ago that I finally got to see it and now I believe the first Child's play is the best in the series. This film is special in the fact that the series wasn't a parody of itself yet, that the character of Chucky wasn't on center stage (Though he definitely plays a big role in this movie of course.) I'll try to keep details on the plot as short as possible, but basically its about a boy named Andy who gets a Good Guy doll for his birthday. The one doll he receives happens to be alive thanks to a voodoo ritual that transfers the soul of a serial killer (Named Charles Lee Ray) The doll named Chucky sneaks around and murders innocent people but fingers are pointed at Andy, since after all who would believe that a toy is alive and killing people. Chucky throughout the film is attempting to become human again by possessing Andy's body, since he can only use Andy because he was the first person who knows who he is in doll form (Though at first Andy doesn't know Chucky is evil.) I'll leave the rest of the plot for you to see.A lot of people complain that the plot of the movie is stupid and lame. They comment how if in real life Chucky attacked they could overpower the doll so easily, and that it wouldn't be a problem at all. Personally I think using a doll as a villain makes the movie so much more better. A lot of people have a irrational fear of dolls (The way they look, their frozen faces and postures, how they seem to stare at you wherever you are in a room.) and that really enhances that in this film. Secondly, Chucky isn't a generic monstrous brute who kills victims with pure brawn. He waits for the right moments, hides in the right places, and strikes when your guard is down. And even if he didn't, would YOU really know what to do if all of a sudden a doll came to life with a knife in his hand and lunged at you? I think you'd be too scared to even react (They even explain in the movie that Chucky has superhuman strength, which makes him hard to overpower despite his size.) I also wanted to comment that I liked the fact that although Chucky is the villain in this, he does not talk all that much in the film nor is he seen as much as the sequels, which gives him this sneaky, mysterious persona. I enjoyed him in the sequels but there were times I found him to be a little over the top and overly amusing. Its also interesting to see that Chucky himself looks more primitive and less realistic than in the sequels which I found gave a gritty and dark feeling.Another strong point in the film is the good acting, especially Alex Vincent who plays Andy. One scene I like in particular is when he's in the hospital and realizes Chucky is searching for him. He starts to despair and cries hysterically, which I thought was brilliant acting for such a young boy. He really makes you want to jump in the screen and protect him.Child's play may not be a classic in the horror genre, but its a fun movie that shows what the franchise was like before Chucky was more of a comedian than a killer. It's not for everyone, but if you want a good scare, or if you want a good popcorn flick, rent this one sometime. "}{"Title":"Effective and creepy...well made little horror film","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What can I say, I have a big soft spot for this movie because when i first saw it i wasn't much older than the young male protagonist of the film, Andy (Alex Vincent), and thus was more than a little freaked out by Chucky, the cabbage-patch-doll-from-hell.Andy, bless the little tike, wants a Good Guy doll for his birthday. The latest craze, they even have spin-off cartoons and cereal commercials. But lo and behold, Toys R Us charges a bl**dy fortune, so his mum (Catherine Hicks) gets a deal from a homeless guy who has one in his cart. Unbeknowst to mum, this doll has inherited the soul of Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif), a psycho who was shot by Detective Mike Norris (Chris Sarandon) in a toy store. Charles Lee Ray landed next to a stand of Good Guy dolls, and thru voodoo magic, he impregnated Chucky with his SOUL!!!! Needless to say, Andy and his mum are pretty pleased. But no sooner has Chucky been welcomed into the family, the babysitter turns up dead! And what's more...Det Norris thinks little Andy is to blame! Soon enough though, the mayhem breaks loose (heck, it's only 87 minutes long) and we are treated to a slasher movie with a difference. No more plot spoilers...the rest of the story is pretty easy to figure out.Catherine Hicks plays the stressin' mum really well here, we can tell she's very fond of her kid and doesn't want ol Chucky to make mincemeat of him (even though he is darn good at it), so she begins the track down the origin of the evil so we can destroy it part of the plot. Meanwhile little Andy begins to realise Chucky is Bad with a capital B, and in his attempt to escape Chucky we find some of the great little moments of tension this movie flicks at you from time to time. The scalpel scene made my hair stand on end...mostly coz Alex Vincent looked so damn clumsy and I was afraid he'd fall on the damn thing...but director Tom Holland got some really fine moments out of this little actor, like the Chucky's coming and he's going to kill me! bit. I was on the edge of my seat when Andy's lookin out the barred window to see Chucky methodically making his way towards the cell...eerie stuff! The movie is predictable and unbelievable but hey, this is an 80's horror flick, lighten up! Double bill it with some other fun horror flick, break out the popcorn and have a blast. 87 minutes well spent. "},{"Title":"Child's Play - It's not make-believe anymore!","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm almost ashamed to admit it, but Child's Play scared the living daylights out of me when I was a kid, one of many horror movies to do so while I was growing up. Now, as an adult at 21, I'm glad to say that it doesn't scare me at all, but nonetheless this movie marked the beginnings of another classic screen slasher, soon to be followed by the inevitable countless sequels.The 1980s were dominated by the likes of Jason Voorhees, Michael Myers and Fred Krueger, so why is the slasher in Child's Play so scary? Because the slasher is, you guessed it from looking at the posters, a doll. Perhaps Child's Play was an attempt by the filmmakers to cash in on the doll craze of the '80s, you know, from My Buddy to the Cabbage Patch Kids, the dolls your kids just *had* to have.With that said after having viewed this film in its entirety for the first time, I'm glad to say that I never owned such a play-thing growing up. He might have tried to hurt me, or even worse, possess me, which is exactly what happens here in this neatly packaged and entertaining, albeit clichd little horror film from Fright Night director Tom Holland.In the opening moments, Chicago detective Mike Norris (Holland's Fright Night alumni Chris Sarandon) has managed to mortally wound serial killer Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif) as he runs into a toy store. In the haste of the chase, Ray dies, but not before having transferred his soul (using Voodoo magic) into a conveniently placed Good Guy doll. One special effects explosion later, the Good Guy doll winds up in the loving arms of six-year-old Andy Barclay (Alex Vincent) as a birthday present from his widowed mom Karen (Catherine Hicks) after the struggling mother buys it off the street from a peddler.After the babysitter takes a swan dive out the kitchen window, Norris is brought in to investigate the possibility that sweet little Andy may have a homicidal dark side. But Andy insists that his new Good Guy doll, who he has given the name Chucky, killed the babysitter and that his real name is Charles Lee Ray, the recently deceased serial killer. No one believes Andy's claims that Chucky is possessed by the soul of a dead serial killer, but Chucky's homicidal rampage continues with Andy looking more and more like a child in desperate need of attention.It is not without some degree of irony that Child's Play, despite its familiar slasher flick trappings, seems to represent every parent's worst nightmare that make-believe can become flesh & blood reality sometimes - and it's also hard to believe that something so innocent could be so dangerous. Perhaps if the slasher route had not been taken, Child's Play could have enjoyed endless possibilities as a psychological thriller. But this is not to say that the film is a total failure. In fact, in Holland's hands, he keeps the tension mounting from the get-go up until Chucky claims his first victim nearly 30 minutes into the picture. Even by strictly abiding by typical horror film conventions, Holland makes sure his film is tight and creepy with some above-average performances from the leads and a truly dark sense of humor.Chucky, voiced by Dourif, is one creepy-looking doll with an attitude and very foul mouth. Dourif's voiced Chucky in all of the sequels and despite a very limited role, he was really able to do a lot with his voice and darkly humored one-liners. This does somewhat allow him to stand out against his counterparts who are all bigger than he is and could easily get the drop on him. As fate would have it, though, Chucky would spend the next two sequels trying to transfer his soul into poor Andy and failing miserably every time. And he even received another playmate in the form of the equally-murderous Tiffany in Bride of Chucky (1998).Make-believe - it's not Child's Play anymore.7/10 "},{"Title":"Despite Some Flaws, a Decent Suspense Flick.","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play contains the predictable horror and suspense that one would expect for this type of film. However, what sets it apart from other films of this nature is that the killer is a talking doll.SPOILERS The story is simple. Little Andy wants a Good Guy doll. The latest fad for kids. The doll is expensive, so his mother gets a deal on a Good Guy doll at about half price from a street vendor. Unknown to her, this doll has inherited the soul of a killer who gets fatally shot by a cop on his trail at a toy store in a poor neighborhood. In a bizarre twist, the killer falls next to a box of Good Guy dolls and is struck by lightning. Each Good Guy doll has a distinct name and personality all his own.Chucky the bad doll, has now inherited the soul of a killer! When Andy's mother buys him the doll, strange accidents begin to happen, with no material witnesses except Andy around when they occur. Naturally, the authorities are slow to believe that Chucky is alive and evil. After Chucky attacks Mom, she realizes that she must not only convince the authorities of who Chucky really is, but try to protect her son before Chucky kills him.The pacing of Child's Play for the most part is suspenseful and direct. Running at just under 90 minutes. sustains interest throughout most of the movie. There are some scenes that are overdone, such as taking forever for Chucky to die by having his body break off individually into small pieces after being shot multiple times. This seemed to be a time killer. A lot of these types of movies have the almost invincible killer element to them, which can make them look stupid in these types of scenes. But the overall effect is simple, yet effective horror.Child's Play is a better movie than one might expect. See it. "},{"Title":"Great Lines From Chucky ! !","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is a horror film written by Don Mancini and directed by Tom Holland. It was released by United Artists on November 9, 1988.The film was met with moderate success upon its release, and has since developed a cult following among fans of the horror genre. The film spawned many sequels released by Universal Studios (which acquired the rights to the series shortly after the release of the original), including Child's Play 2, Child's Play 3, Bride of Chucky, and, in 2004, Seed of Chucky.As I said Chucky and his bad mouth really do give the movie a boost but some of the sequels try to beat the comedy in this film which lets them down.10/10 "},{"Title":"good","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I loved this Chucky film its so excellent how they did the story line and the special effects were good. But the rest of the films were terrible child's play 2 was mucked up what got me is Andy is transfered to foster care yea that was good but they didn't explain anything about the mother or the policeman i have seen loads of horror DvDs and they always show what happened to the characters in Any second movie. first one was great 2nd ,3rd were not good 4 and 5 were terrible the reason is why they have totally ruined Chuck and the saga they changed him with scars and the story line was mucked up. The story line was mucked up after the 2nd one. Go and see child's play one is brilliant i would say go and see the 2nd but the rest are terrible. "},{"Title":"Good Guy Doll Serial Killer","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Only the 1980's can dream up movies like this, pity they don't make them this fun anymore. Child's Play sets up the premise with an interesting opening and takes it's time setting up the tension and building up the characters and when it's finally revealed that the doll is actually the killer well it just goes on and on from there, very cool. The film itself is very strong with a mix of horror/action and comedy.Although the movies does have on or two flaws, well it's not perfect well what movie does, like some of the effects like in some parts it looks as if it's not a doll running round but a little midget in a mask, other than that the movie is a barrel of laughs and really fun and even spawned some great sequels like Bride Of Chucky and Seed Of Chucky, Child's Play 2 was OK but the third one wasn't very good.The acting was spot on Catherine Hicks (Karen) gave a great performance very believable despite the ridiculous goings on, Chris Sarandon (Mike) delivers here too. Alex Vincent (Andy) is the perfect child actor, and can really act, Brad Dourif (Charles/Chucky) was the star of the show with witty one liners and great voice acting really made this movie.All in all some people may think a film about a killer doll may be stupid but that's just small minded people, just give this movie a chance it's a movie that really stands the test of time and you won't forget in a hurry. "},{"Title":"This is how a doll surprised Hollywood","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I will tell my experience of watch Child's Play for the first time. I watched this movie for the first time in 1997, almost ten years after the launching in the theaters. The movie begins, and there is Charles Lee Ray and Mickey shooting each other, I didn't like this scene, I was there to watch a killer doll... Then Charles enter in the toy store, and finally transfers his soul to the doll's body. I'll never forget the way the camera focused the empty eyes of the Chucky doll. Passing the Andy's party, and finally going to the part where he gets the doll, my nerves starts to freak out. A boy and his mother living in an apartment, without knowing that they have a murderer between then. The great director Tom Holland only shows the doll running, and speaking, after the middle of the movie. This is enough time to be scary of the innocent Chucky, with just one expression in the face, but the audience knows that inside that face, there is a mastermind, conspiring to put his soul in Andy's body. We don't know what he thinks, what he plans to do, nothing. This give a sensation of defenseless to the audience, and much more to the Barclays. Finally Mrs. Barclay gets crazy about her son goes to a institution to crazy kids, and almost throw Chucky in the fireplace, but then what we all expect to see in the whole movie happens, CHUCKY GETS ALIVE! And bite Mrs. Barclay's arm. This scene was really good, the face and the voice of Chucky change by surprise, and I almost screamed. And finally the final battle, this was the best, a claustrophobic sensation, with Chucky surrounding the Barclays. The whole movie was a roller-coaster ride, but a roller-coaster ride that you will never forget, a roller-coaster ride that will make you feel the will to watch again, and again and again. Child's Play is a classic movie, forget about the sequels, this movie is unique, and will be in my child memory forever. "},{"Title":"Child's Play","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first saw the infamous antagonist of the series in the fourth film, Bride of Chucky, so I was keen to see the three original films before it and see how he became popular in horror culture, from director Tom Holland (Fright Night). Basically detective Mike Norris (Fright Night's Chris Sarandon) is chasing the notorious murderer, The Lakeshore Strangler, Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif, also voicing) (named after Charles Manson, Lee Harvey Oswald, and James Earl Ray), and he mortally wounds him with a gunshot, but before Ray dies he does a voodoo incantation to transport his soul into the body of a Play Pals Inc. Good Guy Doll. Andy Barclay (Alex Vincent) is celebrating his sixth birthday, and after seeing the commercial he is desperate to get a Good Guy Doll, and his widowed mother Karen (Catherine Hicks) manages to buy one from a street peddler, her son is overjoyed to receive his doll, named Chucky. Later the same night Karen's best friend Maggie Peterson (Dinah Manoff) babysits the little boy, and she is hit in the head by someone, before crashing through the window and falling to her death and landing on a car. Mike is investigating the death, and small footprints found suggest that maybe Andy did it, and the nest day, apparently from Chucky requesting, the little boy takes his doll to the house of Ray's former accomplice Edward 'Eddie' Caputo (Neil Giuntoli), and it explodes. Andy is questioned about these recent events, and he blames it all on his doll Chucky, and because of this apparent disassociation with reality he is placed in a psychiatric ward, while his doll is left behind. Karen is throwing away the box that the Good Guy Doll came in, and the batteries that are meant to be inside it drop out, she confirms there are no batteries inside the doll, and he comes to life in her hands, attacks her and dashes away. Mike refuses to believe her story that the doll is alive, and possessed with the soul of Charles Lee Ray, that is of course until he is attacked himself, and they know now that Chucky is after Andy for a reason. Chucky goes to visit his voodoo instructor from years past, John, as he got shot and is bleeding, meaning that the longer he stays in the doll body the more human he is becoming, and he may be trapped, the only way to get out is to transfer his soul into the first person he revealed his true identity to, that is Andy. Before dying from his hideous injuries John told Karen and Mike that they must kill Chucky before he can get to Andy, they have to aim for his heart, and he meanwhile has tracked the little boy to the psychiatric unit, but he has already escaped to head home. Andy is knocked unconscious for a few moments after Chucky hits him on the head with a baseball bat, and starts his incantation to transport his soul, but Karen and Mike get there to stop him. After a struggle Chucky is trapped in the fireplace, and with the gas stove he is set on fire until apparently dead, until of course he gets up and tries to attack again, with his arms and legs shot off, until finally he is killed with a bullet through the heart. Also starring Tommy Swerdlow as Jack Santos, Jack Colvin as Dr. Ardmore and Home Alone's Alan Wilder as Mr. Criswell. Vincent is adorable as the little boy victim, and Sarandon and Hicks do their parts fine, but the star of the film is of course Chucky, brought to life with pretty good puppetry techniques and the great fiendish and wisecracking voice of Dourif. You may think it is a little cheesy in modern terms, but at the time this cult scary movie did cause a big stir, not just being a hit, but people wanting it banned, of course now it is just seen as a standard slasher movie, so if you interested to see where Chucky the killer doll came from, then this is it, an enjoyable enough horror. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is very underrated, considering it started off a whole new type of horror genre, resulting in crappy films like Dolly Dearest, Demonic Toys, Pinocheo's Revenge, and others. Even though it was followed by four cringe worthy sequels, it is still a very good film in its own right. The plot is about a young boy named Andy Barclay(Alex Vincent) who gets a Good Guy Doll for his birthday present. But soon after he gets the doll, very strange things begin to happen, which worry Andy's mother. Andy claims his doll is alive and talks to him asking him to do things for him. Soon after there a string of murders, and all the evidence points to Andy. Could it be a seemingly innocent child committing all these murders? Andy's mom, with the help of a newly be friend ed detective, is out to find the answer.Child's Play is a good film, which supplies plenty of scares. Even though it is outdated in effects, it is still very fun to watch.8/10 "},{"Title":"Cabbage patch kids and the terror they deliver...","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif) is a serial killer also nicknamed The Lakeshore Strangler however when mortally wounded by detective Andy Norris (Chirs Sarandon) however due to Ray's knowledge of voodoo he transfers his soul into a good guy doll (A sly knock off of Cabbage patch kids) who is bought for a child. Much killing goes on. I must admit I wasn't all that much of a fan when this came out, I remember people thinking it was scary and very suspenseful but I was laughing in the theater through out especially since the doll was just so unscary. However on re-watch I saw that in this modest horror movie is a sly notion about commercialism and the overall marketing kids go nuts for. I was too young to understand this edge because well you never pick up on these type of things when you are fifteen but living through not only the Cabbage Patch kids craze, the ninja turtle phase and Pokemon stage one assumes that this all amounts to black comedy. The whole boy cries wolf angle never works and it is partially due to Vincent's irritating whining through out but whenever Chucky attacks an adult or scampers across the room (Which is obviously a midget) Chucky's attacks amount to hilarious antics. The hysterical antics continue through out as doll keeps coming no matter how many bullets, how burned and how much harm is inflicted upon it. This of course takes the reaction of parent's view as well as useless controversy and in the end just common sense which never stop a popular product. To keep this point, Child's Play inspired sequels.* *1/2 out of 4-(Pretty good) "}{"Title":"Classical and the scariest","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" child's play 1 scared the crap out of me. Yes the second and third were kind of scary but this one is genius. And I think Bride and Seed were good, but if only they kept it scary, it would be my dream if Tim Burton ( directed Edward sciccorhands,Beetlejuice, corpse bride).. would direct it. It would be great with that Gothic feel.The child actor in this who's plays Andy was very good.Also was Catherine Hicks who has just now rapped up 10 years of 7th heaven.I think it's the best of the series, a 9 out of a possible 10 and I also like chucky plained faced and not all cut up, to me it a more scarier and creepier feel. Bravo, Don Mancini you have made a nice classic character "},{"Title":"so bad it's good.","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Who could forget this campy horror classic? The thing is, this manages to distinguish itself from countless other similiar films around this time just BECAUSE of the added touch of hilarity. This movie is so darn bad its actually good and even though certain parts were funny, it was also more then a little creepy! Horror films aren't me favorite genre but I'd watch this one again-it's simultaneously funny, creepy and entertaining-even if it's not the world's best movie it's a bit more then just another stupid horror. "},{"Title":"Totally over-rated horror film that fairs better as cheesy cult film","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Anyone who legitimately SCARED by Chucky is a mamby-pamby mama's boy! About the only praise I can give this cheap-filling silly movie is that whenever a young kid (11 or under) wants to watch a horror movie at my house I can usually get them through CHILDS PLAY or DEADLY FRIEND without any trauma occuring. Anyone over 12 should be able to see through the sheer dumbness of this movie, but its heralded as a classic by many, go figure. A single mother (Catherine Hicks) is trying to get a hot talking doll toy for her son Andy. She ends up buying one from a street vendor unaware that the doll he has is possessed by the spirit of an evil Satanic killer. When she gives the doll to her son it says cute phrases like Hidy Ho! and Your my best friend!(hey, sounds like Ned Flanders!) BUT when alone the doll says more sinister things to Andy (think the TALKING TINA episode of TWILIGHT ZONE). the doll is evil and wants Andy to help in its murderous mayhem, although Andys a good kid who wants to stop Chucky. The funniest scene in the movie has Chucky in an elevator with an elderly couple..and this scene is almost worth watching the movie for cuz its a rip! (dont bother watching it on TV, its edited, and thus the joke is lost). If you must see a Chucky film may I suggest BRIDE OF CHUCKY, a legitimatly GOODF Chucky film that has it all (although it also has sex, so you might wanna keep the kids away from that one). "},{"Title":"Best one of the series...","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  MY REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERSOkay, I give this one a big 10 out of 10. And here is whyTHIS IS WHERE THE SPOILERS COME INA cop guns down Charles Lee Ray in a toy store. Charles is trying to find someone to help, but no one is there. He notices a toy Good Guy doll, and puts his soul in it. MeanwhileA boy named Andy really wants a good guy doll for his birthday. And his mother (sooner or later) gets him one. But the problem is, she bought the one the killer put his soul in.The doll goes on a killing spree, and Andy blames it on the doll. It turns out they think he is crazy, and take him away from his mother. Until, a cop finally realizes it, and it is time to dance.The whole group (the cop, Andy's mom, and Andy), try and kill it. They burn him. That doesn't kill him. So, the cop shoots him in the heart. And that kills him. Maybe? "},{"Title":"The best damn movie ever!","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you haven't seen this movie there must be something seriously wrong with you.  Child's Play is a breakthrough in the horror genre.  Brad Dourif puts in an excellent performance as Chucky and just makes his character so much more interesting than any other to date. "},{"Title":"He walks, he talks and carries out deadly deeds.","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Mix a little voodoo with terror and you are in for a white knuckle murderous tale. A life-like talking doll is inhabited by the devious soul of a serial killer that is not ready for his dirt nap. Six year old Andy Barclay(Alex Vincent)is stunned when his babysitter is pushed out a window to her death. Andy tries to tell everyone that his birthday doll Chucky did the deed, but no one wants to believe the strange story. A string of gruesome murders leads a detective(Chris Sarandon)back to the same suspect...Chucky. All Hell breaks loose when the baby faced Chucky tries to transfer his evilness over to his master...Andy.Catherine Hicks plays Andy's emotional mother. Excellent special effects highlight this riveting and demented slice of horror. Brad Dourif plays the serial killer Charles Lee Ray and is also the voice of Chucky. Also in the cast are Dinah Manoff and Jack Colvin. "},{"Title":"What's On Every Little Boy's Birthday List This Year? A Killer Good Guy&#153; doll named Chucky!!","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Charles Lee Ray (a.k.a Chucky) is shot down at a Chicago toy store, but before he died, he used a chant to transfer his soul into the body of a doll. A Good Guy doll that would be the hit of the year!        A young boy named Andy Barclay was going to turn six. He saw a TV commercial for a Good Guy doll and wanted one, naturally. He hadtwo presents for his birthday, one was a big one. Could it be a Good Guy? No. His mother, Karen, got him clothes. Clothes? What kind of mother is she?          Karen Barclay and her friend Maggie buy a Good Guy doll from a pedler by Karen's place of employment. Karen's boss is a pain in the hiney! Karen brings the doll home to Andy. These dolls can talk! It's name was Chucky (a.k.a Charles Lee Ray).         That night, Maggie babysits for Andy, but when Andy tells her that Chucky said he wanted to watch the news but Maggie declined.A few hours later, Maggie accidentally fell out the window, six floors down and fell onto a car! Ouch! She's not gonna be in Child's Play 2! Police Detective Mike Norris believes maybe Andy knocked Maggie out the window. Also, he and Karen do not believe Andy when he said Chucky was responsible. So a chain of drastic events lead up to Karen and Mike Norris (believing the story after being attacked by Chucky) learn that Chucky will transfer his soul into the body of the first person he told his secrets too. That person was Andy! At the apartment, Andy, Karen and Norris fight off Chucky. They shoot him and burn him. Norris shoots Chucky in the heart which was the only way to truely kill him,but it obviously wasn't! The doll lay lifeless. The story left an open end, rather than happy one. The doll was dead but nobody was happy.            Now about this film. Karen Barclay didn't seem to stand up for things. Like after Chucky killed Eddie Caputo, this stupid Dr.Ardmore said maybe Andy should spend a few days with them at theinstitute. The keyword here is MAYBE. Karen should've said no! Or when the bum manhandles her, she didn't fight but boy Mike Norris sure did. And when Karen turns the box upside down, the batteries fell out. That was a chiller scene but leads to one possibility Maybe those were spare batteries!           Don Mancini reports he originally wanted to call the movieBatteries Not Included. Sorry, Donny, 1) That title is taken. *batteries not included starring Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy, made in 1987 and was about miniature space ships coming to earth to help an elderly couple when they were about to be evicted from their old apartment house. 2) The batteries were included. It said so on the box!         This movie has it's moments. Not many of them but they are there "},{"Title":"Really scary movie!","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie on the USA network one night and as the opening credits started to roll, I thought it would be another weak horror film. Then as the opening credits were finishing up, the movie began to get kind of scary note it takes very little to scare me. Each scene got scarier and scarier. By the middle of the movie, I had bitten half my nails off I was so scared. Though this one is scary, the sequels are just plain stupid. "},{"Title":"The Child's Play series is terrible.  Not even genre fans will find much to like here.","Date":"13 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm a hardened horror film fan. I've been watching all kinds of genre films since I was a child and would like to think that I could stand my own in a conversation with most any horror film fan. That said, the Child's Play movies are absolutely awful and I really don't see what even a genre fan has to enjoy from these films. I suppose the character of Chucky has become very recognizable but he is anything but interesting. Quite annoying actually.The premise is ridiculous even for a horror film. The ending of the movie makes absolutely no sense and I have yet to find out why a group of adults can't figure out a way to stop a tiny doll from slaughtering them. It's not exactly intimidating. The one-liners are not funny and the movie is not entertaining. Watch if you must but it is perfectly acceptable to pass by this and all of its sequels. "},{"Title":"Ultra cheesy but still quite a cult favourite in the horror genre","Date":"4 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" STAR RATING ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning ** Sunday Night * Monday Morning A serial killer (Brad Dourif) is cornered by seasoned detective Mike Norris (Chris Sarandon) in a toy store (of all places!) and all seems over- until he uses voodoo powers to transfer his soul into a doll...which ends up in the hands of innocent child Andy Barclay (Alex Vincent) so he may continue his legacy of evil from beyond the grave. Nasty things start happening around Andy that no one around him can explain...and no one will believe him when he tells them it's the doll.Horror films that turn into franchises , if you think about it, always tend to revolve around goofy, far fetched ideas. Truly terrifying, psychological ideas tend to be one offs or less cheap follow ups (i.e. Red Dragon to The Silence of the Lambs.) And here we have an idea that's as goofy and silly as they come...a doll coming to life whilst being possessed by the soul of a serial killer. Yet Child's Play spawned two sequels and even a spin off film. And created a legendary horror creation in Chucky the doll. All you need is an iconic character with a certain air of menace and one or two neat catch phrases and you've created horror gold.And yet as a film, Child's Play's as weak as they come. The acting's poor, the writing's iffy and, as I said, the premise is just ridiculously silly. Despite this, there is a genuine air of tension and atmosphere created from it (like Catherine Hicks's character realizing Chucky has no batteries in him!) and it's created a lot from such a short film, leaving it's mark on the horror genre which Tom Holland's film has undeniably done. **** "}{"Title":"Silly premise but a scary film...","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Very clever, highly suspenseful chiller with a boy's doll inhabited by the spirit of a dead man. You have to suspend all disbelief because it's told in a way that hooks you from the beginning.CHRIS SARANDON is the detective who shoots BRAD DOURIF, who vows to take vengeance on the world while clutching onto a Chucky Doll in the toy store he invaded. CATHERINE HICKS is the mother of a small boy, ALEX VINCENT, who wakes her up early in the morning to celebrate his birthday. Disappointed, she buys him a Good Guy doll he's been asking for. Enter Chucky. He's something, isn't he? his mother says delightedly when the boy gets Chucky to say a phrase. As it turns out, Chucky can do much more than utter his standard phrase.He's something, all right. From then on, the boy begins to discover things about his favorite doll that has him warning his parents and anyone who will listen that the doll is possessed. Of course, no one believes him until it is too late and a couple of murders have occurred. The mother is a bit slow to catch on but there's a chilling moment when she realizes the doll has no batteries inside it.Really frightening stuff, directed with great skill by Tom Holland and played to the hilt by a good cast. All the special effects for the doll's menace are extremely well done.Summing up Creepy tale provides a good dose of thrills and chills. "},{"Title":"Serial Killer Turns Into Mad-Doll.  Silly Idea, Mediocre Horror Fashion","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is one of those horror movies that has an original idea, but that same idea is silly and results in, you guessed it, a mediocre movie overall. When serial-killer Charles Lee Ray is turned into a Good Guy doll (by some ritual that's hinted at but not thoroughly explained later) he begins to put a young boy and his mother through their paces. Young Andy gets what he's been begging to get for his B-day with Chucky, only he gets a little more than what he and his mother bargained for.This idea does help give Child's Play credit for at least trying to be original, I'll give it that, but the movie itself is lackluster. The movie doesn't bore you to death, it almost bores you to the point of snoring within the first scenes. But what really kills the movie is that it's completely devoid of anything scary and lacks virtually any thrills. With that, the movie seems to lack what would make a horror movie in any way good. At least you're not given the usual drunk teen at parties atmosphere that almost every horror movie has. Yet, the acting in the movie isn't anything great, Andy surprisingly being the most fake character in the movie. The only real acting talent in Child's Play is the ever-lovable personality that Chucky has, which I love to quote from this and the other Child's Play movies.However, despite a doll with a nasty personality and being original, Child's Play doesn't do anything that is in any shape or form worthy of being thrilling or scary. You just get a serving of cheap horror deaths and swearing. If you really need to see this movie, don't bother renting, wait for it to come on TV until you decide if you truly think it's worth watching again for entertainment. "},{"Title":"Nice try, Chucky","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play is the kind of horror movie that would scare people whom are afraid of dolls. I have to say that the idea of a doll being scary is pathetic, especially since dolls can be easily ripped apart and thrown away. My point is Chucky is not scary at all.The movie starts out as some kind of action movie. We see this criminal named Charles Lee Ray running away from a police officer. He gets shot a few times, and then hides out in a toy store. When he's about to die, he says some kind of voo-doo chant, and then his soul gets transported into the body of a doll. Later on, when a mother of a child buys the doll for her son, Charles (nicknamed Chucky) starts terrorizing the son and the mother and others that are in the way.The movie has some good thriller elements in it, but they only last for a short while. The movie is more of a thriller than a horror film. There are just not enough scares.The acting in the movie is very goofy and annoying at times. The kid was extremely over-acting in his role, and the mother seemed like a clichd character. The hero cop in the film didn't seem tough enough to be a cop! Finally, the character of Chucky seemed more like a criminal than a horror villain. Well, he was actually BOTH criminal & horror villain. But he's one of the weakest horror villains ever, along with Jigsaw from the Saw movies. If you were to put Chucky against horror villains such as Freddy Krueger, Jason Voorhees, or the Candyman, Chucky would get ripped to shreds. Chucky isn't a true horror villain; he's just a typical criminal that doesn't do enough to scare others.To sum up, this is a very weak horror movie. It has a few good scenes, but the horror element is missing. The film is more of a kind of crime/thriller than a horror, which at least makes the movie watchable. Watch it if you haven't seen it before, or if you are afraid of dolls.I give this movie a 5/10 "},{"Title":"The definitive killer doll movie!","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" CHILD'S PLAY is a very fun, suspenseful & very clever, scary, well put together horror thriller. The direction by Tom Holland is top notch. Holland is able to milk every ounce of suspense just perfectly, employing many jump out of you're seat moments & some really good, gripping edge of you're seat suspense sequences. He often uses the camera at times as an omniscient stalker, for much of the first half of the film, resulting in a few tense moments. Holland also conceives some weird moments, particularly with the ending, where the headless, one leg/arm missing, badly charred body of Chucky, attacks a cop while under the control of Chucky's severed head. The Chucky doll is very cleverly conceived & executed by KEVIN YAGHER. In fact, rarely has a doll been so creepy as this one. Unlike the sequels that followed, which took somewhat of a comedic route (more so in Parts 4 & 5) CHILD'S PLAY was & still is the only true dead serious film in the series. It remains a mercilessly effective, top notch horror thriller, that definitely should please all horror fans. The build up to some of the kills are very effective & expertly pulled off. The acting is very well done, especially by young ALEX VINCENT & CHRIS SARANDON (Re-teaming with Director Holland from FRIGHT NIGHT) who is well cast in the role of a homicide detective, trying to make sense of it all. CATHERINE HICKS is well cast as Andy's mom, while BRAD DOURIF who plays Chrles Lee Ray & voices the doll, is perfection as the main villain of the piece. This is definitely one of his best performances as a an actor & in a series role that he will no doubt be best remembered for. In a way, the film could arguably be seen as a spoof on the whole CABBAGE PATCH DOLL craze of the early eighties, as well as a salty poke in the eye, to greedy conglomerates squeezing out as much money as they can from paying customers, wanting to make their children happy by buying them a doll (It is stated in the movie, that the dolls run for a hundred bucks a piece). but also having them be gouged of extra cash, by having to buy the accessories that go with the doll, since all the items to fully complete it are sold separately. The film also focuses on (albeit briefly) the never ending phenomenon of a highly profitable craze, based on a certain toy or cartoon that has become a must have, as this film hot selling toy doll has it's own Cartoon on TV, breakfast cereals, children's clothes & even sneakers, all bearing the logo & image of the doll itself. The film also introduces a somewhat interesting scenario at about the mid way point, where Chucky finds himself growing more human inside the doll, to the point he can be injured & even trapped inside the doll's body, never to get out & even be killed in it, if he soon don't trade souls with the first person he told his secret to, that being young Andy & that he can only be stopped by destroying his heart.All that out of the way, the film isn't perfect, in fact there are a few flaws the film has that way it down a little at times. I guess my biggest pet peeve would be Chucky in human form (Played by BRAD DOURIF) CHARLES LEE RAY is supposed to be a serial killer, but yet doesn't act or resemble one. In fact he reminds one of a robber not a serial killer, since he is hardly anything you would call scary or even menacing. I just wasn't buying the fact that he was a killer & the same goes for his partner. Another thing is how the film-makers keep Chucky off screen for the first half. Obviously the film-makers & writers were attempting to toy with the audience, making them wonder if Charles Lee Ray, has indeed been able to transfer his soul into the doll, or if he died that night & it's actually Andy doing all these nasty things. The problem is, is that this angle just doesn't work. It might have had it not been for numerous scenes at the beginning, where we can clearly see the doll is alive, where we see Chucky move his head on his own, in a couple scenes, which begs the question Why bother with an attempted mystery angle, when the answer to who is killing, is given almost from the beginning? A scene where Andy travels across town with Chucky, further proves this theory even more so, when we see Chucky clearly moving around in order to see his old partner who left him behind. Chucky can be seen setting up for his partners execution. None of the psychological elements or the mystery elements of who might be the killer is surprising, since the film was originally written to be a psychological thriller, before being heavily re-written. In fact the original psychological driven script was later adopted & re-written in area's, to become the direct to video released PINOCCHIO'S REVENGE (a.k.a. The Pinocchio Syndrome) in the mid nineties. So in a way it could be argued that CHILD'S PLAY was remade. Great score as well. Written by HOWARD FRANKLIN (who is uncredited), DON MANCINI, Director Holland & JOHN LAFIA (Who would later go on to helm Part 2). Highly recommended to horror fans. If you haven't seen this one yet, go & rent it now! You will not be disappointed. The films phenomenal success at the box office & video rental chains from around the world, has resulted in five (Less serious, more jokier) sequels, starting with CHILD'S PLAY 2**** stars "},{"Title":"Wanna play?","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I finally pulled myself together and sat down to watch this film, after putting it off for a long time. I thought(well, used to think) It's a horror film about a murderous *doll* and it's an 80's flick with a bunch of actors in it that I've never heard of. This film proves quite well how wrong you can judge a book by its cover. Yes, it is a doll doing all the killing, but it's pretty damn creepy. It's also far more creative and smart than your average doll, uh, killer. See the trailer to get an idea of how unusual and creative the death scenes are. The plot is surprisingly good, though there are weak points. The whole voodoo/magic thing concerning Chucky's birth is kind of... lame and far-fetched, honestly. It is, however, also quite original. And it's the only truly low point for me about the film. Then there's the whole 80's film complex that most, if not all, 80's films have been cursed with. The curse includes, but is not limited to hammy acting, bad dialog, soundtrack consisting of dreaded 80's music and predictability. Fortunately, this film suffers very little under this. The dialog is very obviously 80's at some points, and the acting could definitely improve, particularly with some of the minor characters, but the film manages to create a good deal of unpredictable scenes and the music is so neutral that you couldn't possibly tell from the soundtrack that it's an 80's film. The pacing is pretty good, there's really no point during the film where it's boring. The acting ranges, but the leads are mostly good. I thought the child actor who portrayed Andy did a pretty good job, considering he was 6-7 years old when he did the film. The special effects are so-so, but considering that this was the late 80's, they're sufficiently good, and they are used to great effect. There are plenty of genuine scares in the film. I enjoyed the cinematography, particularly the very good use of long takes and tracking shots. The ending was overdone, and came off as annoying rather than particularly scary. All in all, the film is definitely worth watching if you're into the genre. In the end, it's better than most other 80's flicks, and if you do see it available for rent, it'll probably be cheap, and hey, it's less than 90 minutes long, so it's easy enough to get through. I recommend this to fans of horror films and 80's flicks. If you belong to one of those groups, you'll most likely enjoy it, at least to some extent. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Playing With Old Horror Movie Cliches.","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A criminal (Brad Dourif) with a knowledge of the occult transfers his soul from his dying body to the body of a child's toy. The doll, impossible to find, is bought by single mother Catherine Hicks from a vagrant at a bargain-basement price and gives the item to her only son (annoying child actor Alex Vincent). Immediately strange things start to happen as the doll appears to have a mind and an agenda of its own as those around it start to have their lives threatened by Dourif's disturbed soul. And of course you know that Dourif's real motive is to place his immortal soul in the body of a real person. I wonder who his victim might be? Child's Play brings us yet another horror film anti-hero 1980s icon with Chucky (the doll's name). Other than that insignificant footnote, there is really nothing that makes Child's Play stand out from countless other would-be fright-fests of the time period. Overall the film is little more than a very late-night time passer. Followed by several lesser sequels. Fair enough for its cinematic group. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Excellent horror film you'll love which will leave you feeling good","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" CHILD'S PLAY, in my opinion, is an excellent horror film you'll love which will leave you feeling good. The only thing about it that scared me was when Chucky (voice of Brad Dourif) suddenly jumped out and killed someone. Other than that, I didn't get scared at all. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone involved in this film did an excellent job. In conclusion, to all you horror film lovers that have not seen this excellent horror film you'll love which will leave you feeling good, I highly recommend it! You're in for a good time as well as some pure chills and thrills, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, turn down the lights, lock all your doors and windows, and enjoy! "},{"Title":"I'm not sure why it has a rating higher than 5...","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My Bloody Valentine (1981), is my favorite movie, despite it's low budget and such. It has a 6.1/10 rating, and when I saw Child's Play, I honestly couldn't believe it had a rating any higher.A maniac serial killer, just before he dies, possesses a creepy-looking doll within a toy store. A single mom strapped for cash buys it from a hobo to give to her annoying little brat-of-a-son for his birthday, and it tells him its name is Chucky. As bizarre and horrible events begin to happen, such as her son being around when his babysitter falls to her death and a house blows up in a derelict part of town, his mom begins to suspect that Chucky is behind it all.Sure, Chucky has its moments. In and of itself, it's a rather freaky looking doll. What annoyed me was the bad acting, unoriginal and highly cheesy plot and boring soundtrack. The little boy was sweet, but in that too-fake, very annoying way so that each time he talked I wanted to rip his head off a little more. It was easy to predict the next move of the doll, and I think I would have found it more enjoyable when I was twelve years old and I was still into Goosebumps.Overall, Child's Play is not a bad movie. But I won't be checking out the sequels any time soon, and I don't think I'll ever watch it again. "},{"Title":"Child's Play fits the title of the movie","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well finally I got the chance to watch this movie. I've heard people always talking about Chucky. I really didn't know what this Chucky was all about. When I finally watched it,it really was enjoying to watch, I was surprised on the special effects, and knowing this movie was out in 1988. The reason I rated this (7/10) was because when Chucky was attacking Mike Norris, and Norris was in the car(Upside Down), it seemed to me that, Mike wasn't really scared of the Doll (Chucky). He to me seems to be the kind of person, that isn't really into the role of the character. Yes he did good job in other parts, but he needs to do more. I know this was a Horror movie, and that everything isn't like reality. The movie was a good watch, with few good action scenes, and suspense moments that kept my eyes focused.This movie ranks in my List of 1,000 Horror films, which ranks in # 76!--A. Haynes--Other I rank Movies I watch, so If you want a full List, just e-mail me. "},{"Title":"More funny than actually scary.","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Granted it was entertaining, but more in the funny way than the suspenseful horror way. That is probably why the fourth and fifth movies of the series were basically all comedy rather than horror. This one tries to be horror and in some ways it works, but I think the main problem is the voice of Chucky done by Brad Douriff, he is kind of likable, you almost begin pulling for Chucky because by golly he is a very funny guy who has plenty of one liners. The story has a guy who is running from the police, as a last ditch effort he uses a technique he learned to transplant his soul into a toy doll. Well a mother buys her son this rather ugly doll and now Chucky is telling the boy what to do. There is a cop who begins to suspect something and then there is the climax that seems to center on really torturing Chucky. Which the sequels to this film seem to do a lot of especially two, a lot of Chucky crying in agony. It has its moments of being somewhat creepy, but then it has its rather humorous scenes such as the old couple and the elevator scene. The doll is done rather well as it looks like one of those stupid my buddy dolls, while being creepier in appearance. It also moves very well too as it is puppets rather than any computer stuff which is always a good thing. Still, Chucky just has a way of making me laugh. "}{"Title":"A pretty good movie, but now it's just old for me.","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am certainly not saying this is not a good movie. It is. What I am saying is I have watched it many many times, and now it's just getting old. The acting is pretty good, Chucky is still very funny and creepy, but the movie is just old. It definitely shows its age, which is odd since 1970s movies look better, but maybe that's just the quality of my DVD. I don't really know, but I think this movie is just OK now. Believe it or not, I actually like the sequels better. So definitely check this out if you are a fan of killer doll flicks, or if you like movies with not that much gore. Otherwise, still see it. You might enjoy it, unless you're scared of killer dolls of course.7/10 "},{"Title":"Holds up pretty well","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As a horror film, Child's Play is OK but overall this is a pretty darn good suspense film rather than full blown horror.Here, Chucky is actually quite scary. Director Tom Holland (who made the excellent Fright Night) wisely puts the accent on atmosphere and suspense, saving the Chucky revelation until fairly late into the proceedings.The special effects are very good (considering this was 1988) and Chucky sporting a knife entered my dreams on more than one occasion back in the day.The performances are also way above average, with the terribly underused Chris Sarandon and Catherine Hicks solid as the adult leads. Young Alex Vincent is fairly likable but top honors go to Brad Dourif, ensuring Chucky is indeed quite the scary villain. Plus, nice to see The Incredible Hulk' co-star Jack Colvin turn in a solid supporting performance. "},{"Title":"You're such a doll","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the many horror movies - spawning series - that arose in the 1980s, Child's Play is a true pleasure to watch. Obviously, it's not the most polished horror flick, but who watches these movies for that? The point is to see the killer do his stuff, and Chucky does just that. The cast includes Catherine Hicks (the whale scientist in Star Trek IV The Voyage Home), Chris Sarandon (Prince Humperdinck in The Princess Bride) and Brad Dourif (one of the patients in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest).All in all, this is definitely an enjoyable movie. In my opinion, the Academy Awards needs to have a special category to honor classic horror flicks that they ignored in earlier years, just so that they can give this one an Oscar. Really great! So yes, do give me the power... "},{"Title":"An 80's horror classic!","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Voodoo obsessed Chicago murderer named Charles Lee Ray (Brad Douriff) is known as the Lakeshore Strangler for he is one of the city's most notorious criminals. He was chased and gunned down by a cop named Detective Mike Norris (Chris Surandon), the next day a 6 year old boy named Andy Barclay (Alex Vincient) had a birthday and his mother Karen (Catherine Hicks) buys him a Good Guy doll named Chucky for it was a great gift that the boy has gotten. Andy has gotten more then he has received for horrific accidents and occurrences has happened, it turns out the doll is possessed by the spirit of Charles Lee Ray as it terrorizes the child's mother and other people for it wants to transfer his soul into the boy.Exciting and stylish supernatural horror thriller that gave birth to one of horror cinema's most infamous villains Chucky. The film started as an idea by Don Mancini and David Kerscheiner as a metaphor on the huge Cabbage Patch Kids craze of the 80's with voodoo themes to it, Tom Holland (Fresh off Fright Night) agreed to direct the project. Manci and Kerschner were influenced by films like Richard Attenbourgh's Magic and Trilogy of Terror even a bit from the TV show The Twilight Zone on episodes like The Dummy, Talking Tina and Caesar and Me. The performances are surprisingly good even by Jack Colvin whom you all know as Mcgee on the classic Incredible Hulk TV show and Hicks is quite sexy as the MILF heroine, Kevin Yagher's special effects and animatronics are fantastic for they have hold up well in this age of CGI. The film has stood the test of time for 20 years and it's still popular as it still spooks kids, it became a solid hit in 1988 since then as it became a classic of jolting terror and originality for it spawned four sequels and a new generation in evil doll movies.Also recommended The other Child's Play movies, Magic, Puppet Master, A Nightmare on Elm Street Series, Halloween series including 2007 Rob Zombie version, Silent Hill, Devil Doll (1964), Trilogy of Terror, Dead Silence, Making Contact (a.k.a. Joey), Pet Sematary, Poltergeist, Dolls (1987), Freddy Vs. Jason, Friday The 13th Series, Dead of Night (1945), Pumpkinhead, Dead of Night (1945), The Orphanage, Black Christmas (1974), Final Destination Trilogy, Candyman, Dolly Dearest, Gremlins 1 & 2, Cat's Eye, The Pit, and House (1986). "},{"Title":"Batteries not needed...spares for your 47th remote","Date":"11 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Thoroughly enjoyed watching this psychotic toy midget running around in his kool dungarees stabbing and strangling peoples knees! Classic 80's horror! Come on though to be fair must be a pretty embarrassing way to go, being topped off by a doll...with ginger hair! * Thoroughly enjoyed watching this psychotic toy midget running around in his kool dungarees stabbing and strangling peoples knees! Classic 80's horror! Come on though to be fair must be a pretty embarrassing way to go, being topped off by a doll...with ginger hair! * Thoroughly enjoyed watching this psychotic toy midget running around in his kool dungarees stabbing and strangling peoples knees! Classic 80's horror! Come on though to be fair must be a pretty embarrassing way to go, being topped off by a doll...with ginger hair! "},{"Title":"This one is classic!","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horror maestro Tom Holland (Fright Night) brought wit and devilish energy to this 1988 scare fest about a murderer (Brad Dourif) who wills his soul into an innocuous doll named Chucky, and reveals himself only to the toy's owner, a frightened little boy. Catherine Hicks plays the child's mother, and Chris Sarandon a detective; neither of them knows what to make of the kid's story. Monster-doll stories are always wonderfully surreal, and Child's Play is no exception. Holland oversees some finely tuned special effects that allow Chucky to express himself and do some damage--it is truly unnerving but somehow good, subversive fun. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Police Detective Mike Norris (Chris Sarandon) is called to a toy store where serial killer Charles Lee Ray (Brad Douriff) is hiding. After a lengthy cat-and-mouse game with each other, Charles is apparently killed by a freak lightning bolt that almost destroys the entire store. The owner of the toy store (Alan Wilder) is concerned that the incident will ruin the reputation of the new toys that are slated to go on sale the next day. Norris assures him it will be fine, and leaves, unaware that one of the toys contains Charles' spirit inside. Young Andy Barclay, (Alex Vincent) who takes better care of his mother Karen (Catherine Hicks) than she does towards him, accidentally buys the same toy doll for Andy at his insistence. As she goes out one night, she leaves Andy with a babysitter (Dinah Manoff) and the doll, Chucky, kills her in front of Andy. When Karen returns, she finds the babysitter dead and Andy begins telling her that Chucky was the one who did it. No one believes him, but there is no evidence to pin on Andy, so the whole incident is forgotten. More murders occur around the people Andy's friends with, eventually leading everyone else to believe that Chucky really did commit the murders. Enlisting Mike's help, Karen and Andy try to stop Chucky from transferring his spirit into Andy to make him human again.Well-made thriller with highly original premise highlighted by terrific special effects and lots of good one liners and humor.Rated R for Extreme Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Hi, I'm Chucky. Wanna play?","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I see a new movie called Black Devil Doll will be released next year, and i wondered how the original devil doll - Chucky (not the coach of the Bucaneers) looked.I have to admit that I was mesmerized by this evil thing that would not die. Don Mancini, John Lafia, and Tom Holland managed to write a captivating story.Catherine Hicks, from my favorite Star Trek movie, did a great job as mom trying to figure out what was wrong with her son, played by Alex Vincent, who did a super job in a child's role.Brad Dourif (Halloween 2007, LOTR - Two Towers, Return of the King) was Chucky. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i loved this as a comedy not as a horror. the props changed so often you could do nothing but laugh at their expense. i especially liked the bit where chucky threw a plastic hammer at the woman and she fell out of the window and died. i suppose you could think this was a realistic film seeing as how nowadays you can get freaky toys that move and talk. if you want a good laugh watch the bride of chucky and pay attention to what they say when having sex it's great. this is the prime example of a horror-comedy. try it you will laugh. in my opinion one of the best failed horror movies that reinvented itself as a comedy. true comedy with lots of violence "},{"Title":"Possibly the best film of the 80's","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Don Mancini's Child's Play is a terrific horror film.  It combines suspense, scares and some humor here and there.  It's not just what happens when the toy doll (played by Brad Dourif to Pythagorean precision) is alive and killing, it's also when the doll is playing a straight face and that can be as scary as hell.  I found it a jolting roller coaster with the jolts coming thick and fast.  Kudos to everyone who worked on this film, because it's the best of the series.  A+ "}{"Title":"Hilarious horror fun!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    This movie is just plain funny to watch. It doesn't scare me a bit, because the whole idea is so stupid. I watched it and just laughed the whole way through, as I saw this little doll walking around, talking like some gangster. The overturned car sequence is hilarious as well! Oh, see this movie for some good fun. It didn't let me down, just don't expect it to scare you. This film should be in the comedy category! 3/5 stars.JOHN ULMER "},{"Title":"The slasher flick comes a cropper...","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Troubled youngster bonds with his talking doll, unaware that the plastic companion is alive with the spirit of a deceased murderer. Tom Holland co-wrote and directed this somewhat-comedic thriller which hardly has anything new up its sleeve. Stealing quite a bit from both Trilogy of Terror and The Bad Seed, Holland proves he's not even equipped to mimic the Masters! This is hack film-making all the way, with topical wisecracks and vulgarities designed to give viewers some raucous relief, but merely stamping the film as dated and uninspired. The Chucky doll creation is initially quite marvelous but, like Freddy Krueger before him, a little of Chucky proves to go a long way. Followed by an onslaught of unimportant sequels. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"I'm with Dee Snider on this one...","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...when he said, It's a doll. Just friggin' step on it! Being a horror movie maven, I am often criticized by my dislike of this particular film and the sequels it generated (all of them laughably bad). Chucky is often regarded as one of the big slashers, though hits the proverbial glass ceiling while trying to obtain the status of Freddy, Jason, and Michael. Yeah, there is a reason for that. Albeit the story is quite original, and the concept itself pretty scary, the payoff would have been a whole lot more effective had he transported himself into something a bit more fierce. Yes yes, that is part of the whole duality of the situation. That doesn't stop it from not being good. The direction was good, the acting was par (Chris Saradon is always great), but it just wasn't tense or scary past the age of 12 max.He'll have his fans, but I'm just going to leave Chucky in the box. "},{"Title":"And t think when I was younger I actually thought this movie was scary","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Alright. First off, I would like to say that in real life that doll would have died a lot quicker. There would be no b.s. the doll would pick up the knife and he would have gotten shot in the head immediately. And no, he wouldn't have gotten up, BECAUSE HE'S A DOLL, NOT FRIGGIN SUPER-MAN! HE'S MADE OF WOOD, THERE WOULD BE NO HEAD LEFT! And, in real life, he would have burned a lot quicker. Let me remind you that it wan't some sort of super-demon that inhabited this doll. It was a person, an ordinary person, who could, even while he was in the doll, feel pain. If I was lit on fire, I wouldn't get up. I would just lay there, because I would be in an a$$-load of pain. IT WAS A DOLL. A DOLL THAT COULD FEEL PAIN. HELL, GIVE ME A LIGHTER AND SOME GAS, I'LL KILL THE LITTLE BASTARD! But, if you liked this movie, good for you, I was just a tad angry about the plot that didn't make an ounce of sense and I wanted to talk about it. "},{"Title":"Not Scary","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was so so so retarded....it was hardly considered scary... a doll kills people, please how much more stupid can it get...? I don't think that the sequels were that scary either...maybe if they didn't have him come back to life every time he was killed it might actually make some money and actually be somewhat scary. The Seed of Chuckie was the least scary...Britney Spears? Well whoever wrote this movie has some serious problems...at first I used to be so scared of it but then it kinda hit me that it was retarded because it's not realistic at all. Maybe they should make a reproduction of this movie...a scary one... until then I guess I'll just have to live... "},{"Title":"If you like hilarious bad horror movies, this is a winner","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play has become one of my favorite bad movies. But I don't find the idea of a foul mouthed, deranged Cabbage Patch Kid as a villain to be very effective. Especially when he used to be a regular guy (well, OK, a strangler), and now he's stuck in child's doll and more p.o.'d than ever.Andy Barclay is an adorable, lisping little boy insanely obsessed with his favorite TV characters, the Good Guys. When he finds out that Good Guys are actually on the market as talking dolls, he wants nothing more than for his mother, Karen, to get him one. Unfortunately for Andy, mom is poor and can't afford the hundred bucks for the doll. But before long, she's buying one for a lower price from a peddler in an alley. Unfortunately for both she and Andy, the doll was possessed by Charles Lee Ray, or Chucky as his friends call him, a serial killer.Andy is ecstatic with his new best buddy. Chucky begins spouting off to him right away, revealing himself to be alive (though we don't actually hear from him at this point), but of course no one buys Andy's comments that the doll has a mind of its own. Then, the killing begins. Actually, Chucky only manages to take out two people before Andy is blamed for the deaths and locked up in a weird mental home. Soon after, Karen finally finds out the truth about Chucky, as Chucky flies into a rage and attacks her for messing with him. Karen goes off trying to get a cop to believe her, and Chucky goes off to talk with his voodoo guru, some guy who looks like Bill Cosby and who taught Chucky how to beat death. Voodoo guy is outraged at the abomination before him, but Chucky finally gets it out of him that to become human again, Chucky must transfer his soul into Andy. A little while later, it's the final showdown. This movie is loopy as hell from the start, but the final showdown is hilarious. At least, it is if you don't buy killer Cabbage Patch Kids as frightening foes. If you do buy it, then the humor of seeing one of them fly backwards through the air in slow mo after getting shot, or suddenly scrunching up his face in a fit of fury and charging forward to attack someone might be lost on you. But how anyone could miss the plain campy, cheesy *badness* of this goofball horror movie is beyond me (Count how many seconds Chucky screams Ayiyiyiyiyiyiyi!! for no reason at one point). The creators surely didn't miss it. No one can convince me that this movie isn't tongue in cheek. If you watch it as a comedy, like I do, you may find yourself quite entertained. "},{"Title":"Chucky? Chucky?  Where are you, you silly doll?","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I LOVE YOU, CHUCKY. YOUR MY FRIEND TILL THE END.Nobody believes Andy when he tells them that his Good Guy doll is responsible for several brutal murders. Everyone thinks the kid is nuts and that he is the one on the killing rampage. This just goes to show, be careful of who you invite into your life, even (no, especially) if it is a doll. It just might be possessed by the spirit of a psychotic murderer. The original Sleeping With the Enemy and a very disturbing movie.  If Andy survives his childhood, he's going to need some serious therapy. "},{"Title":"The Concept is not EVEN Original - but it is bad because....","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It is bad because I found it so hard to believe this thing was coming to life.  Sorry, folks.  As a comedy it's wonderful...even though Scary Movie was better.  But call me jaded.  Nothing scares me anymore.  After a few films, the genre was done for me way back when.  The concept of having a doll come to life for evil purposes was used a few times by Rod Serling in the old Twilight Zone series.  What does this movie contribute to the genre of REALLY being afraid? Folks, have we run completely out of NEW ideas? (The only thing that would frighten me is if cheesy movies like this were the only kinds we could see.  Now THAT'S a horror). I wonder if one day they will ever get accomplished writers to contribute to horror flicks..that is, instead of nerdy, overgrown horror-fan wannabes.  Maybe there is hope and a real plot will emerge from the hot air.  And maybe, just maybe, we can get these villians to have really interesting MOTIVES that are not hackneyed.  Maybe Speilberg will make one really good one, one day! Well...I can dream, can't I?  "},{"Title":"Pretty decent killer doll film.","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play starts as homicide cop Detective Mike Norris (Chris Sarandon) pursues notorious serial killer Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif) through the streets of Chicago & into a toy store where Ray realises that having been shot by Norris he is dying so he performs a Voodoo ceremony that transfers his soul into the plastic carcass of a 'Good Guy' doll... Andy (Alex Vincent) the young son of Karen Barclay (Catherine Hicks) is disappointed when he doesn't get a Good Guy doll for his birthday, sensing his obvious disappointment Karen jumps at the opportunity to buy one cheap from a derelict no questions asked. At first Andy is delighted by his Good Guy who responds to the name Chucky, however Andy stats to treat Chucky a lot like a real person & when Karen's best friend Maggie (Dinah Manoff) dies in a mysterious accident the police become involved. The evil spirit of Ray stuck in the body of Chucky the killer Good Guy doll wants revenge...Directed by Tom Holland Child's Play is a pretty decent horror film, it's not the best I've ever seen but it's far from the worst. The script by Don Mancini obviously tackles the horror sub-genre of the killer toy based film but Child's Play was a rather more serious take on the them than the likes of Puppet Master (1989) & the Demonic Toys (1992) films, in fact the Child's Play series would become more & more light hearted as it went for outrageous gore coupled with black humour & lots of one-liners. Anyway, for the first half it tries to be more of a psychological horror as not much is given away & I guess the audience is not supposed to know whether there is a killer doll running around or whether it's all a figment of Andy's imagination & as such the foul-mouthed Chucky as we now know & love him doesn't make an appearance until about half way through the film. I also think the way it takes itself so seriously (maybe a reason why the recent instalment's are better because they don't?) hurt it overall with some very silly scenes, the sequence when Karen drops Chucky & he runs out of the apartment in a matter of seconds for instance, I'm sorry but there's no way on Earth he could have reached the lock & opened the door let alone reach the elevator buttons so quickly without anything to stand on at least. I wasn't keen on the end either as the torso of Chucky with just one arm & one leg manages to crawl through an air vent, burst out & nearly strangle a guy, it just doesn't work as a scene & comes across as ridiculous. Having said that there is still much here to entertain, it moves along at a nice, there are some nice kills, there are a couple of decent mini action scenes including a shoot-out, a speeding runaway car & some cool explosion's, Chucky was a great horror character with bags of personality even back then & as a whole it's passes 90 odd minutes painlessly enough.Director Holland does a good job here & the film has a nice look to it. I'm not sure the film is particularly scary but it has a decent horror atmosphere to it. I was a little disappointed by the kills in Child's Play as well as the lack of them, for some bizarre reason until the recent British DVD Child's Play had always been cut over here in the UK including it's original theatrical run & as usual the extra footage is of no real significance or particularly strong & as a whole the violence & gore quota isn't that high. There are some stabbings & a few splashes of blood here & there but very little else to get excited about. I mean there's nothing here to rival or as memorable as the slit throat from Part 3 or the nails in the face & guy run over by a huge semi-truck & gorily splattered all over the road scenes from Bride of Chucky (1998).With a very healthy sounding budget of about $9,000,000 Child's Play is very well made with good production values. The acting is good & I didn't even find the kid that annoying which is something I suppose...Child's Play is a good horror film I will openly agree with that no problem but I don't see it as any stonewall classic, there are too many silly moments which let the rest of the film down & it could have done with better kills. I don't think I'd watch it again anytime soon. Followed by Child's Play 2 (1990) which I haven't seen, then came Child's Play 3 (1991) which I like & thought was on a par with the original, after a 7 year hiatus came the brilliant Bride of Chucky which breathed new life into the series & following that was the more recent Seed of Chucky (2004) which I haven't got round to watching yet but I do have it in a big pile of DVD's I've brought that one day I get round to seeing... "},{"Title":"Ladies and Gentlemen, the world's lamest villain CHUCKY","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Now, I know most people are afraid of this movie, but I wasn't. I mean, come on! You could just pick the friggin' doll up and drop kick him. I am afraid of dolls very much. But this thing was just like a foot tall. Yes, the plot is very original. And I did enjoy some of the scenes. But most of this was just lame. I give the movie a little credit, because yes. Chucky is a creepy villian. But to me, he's not that memorable. He just didn't do too much for me. Not like Michael Myers or Freddy Krueger. If you are a true horror movie fan, you will watch this. Just to know what all the hype is, but if you are just looking for a quick scare. Skip the movie. Trust me, it's not worth it.4/10 "}{"Title":"Holds Up Well","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Child's Play (1988) *** (out of 4) A mother (Catherine Hicks) gives her young son (Alex Vincent) a Good Guy Doll named Chucky but she doesn't know that the doll is possessed by the soul of a serial killer (Brad Dourif). This was the first time I've watched this movie in ten years. It was a personal favorite when I was younger and I must say the film held up much better than I was expecting it to. I think the film works so well due in large part to director Holland who makes a pretty stylish little film and also manages to make it quite suspenseful in certain areas. The first murder is very well done and Holland keeps it going long enough to make it pretty suspenseful. Another major aspect to the film working is the wonderful special effects bringing the doll to life. This was a low budget film but these effects hold up very well twenty years later. Another added bonus is Hicks who turns in a very good performance as does Vincent as the child. Chris Sarandon adds nice support as the police detective working on the case. I've always felt the film's main problem was the final twenty-minutes where it goes a bit over the top but this remains one of the better horror films of the decade. "},{"Title":"Fun & scary 80's favorite!","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Many horror fans include Child's Play in their list of favorite 80's movies. That actually might look like a weird and surprising thing to do UNTIL you see the film yourself. Initial skepticism and disbelief is allowed, because this basically is a movie revolving on a murderous doll and hinting at other far-fetched topics, like voodoo and spiritual possession, and such a story is almost impossible to deliver shivers among hardcore horror fanatics. Yet Tom Holland proves that, with the right director's attitude, even the stupidest premise can result in a scary and atmospheric little movie! The elaboration of the script is fully focused on suspense and Holland's solid supervision almost doesn't give you any opportunity to linger over implausible and/or ridiculous elements in the story. This is exactly what distinguishes Child's Play from the majority of lame 80's horror movies&#133; Many of them feature thin and silly story lines, but at least this film doesn't downgrade itself to cheap comedy-standards and actually manages to come across as real horror. Single and constantly struggling mother Karen is absolutely delighted when she manages to buy her 6-year-old son Andy a popular Good Guy-doll at a much cheaper price, but little does she know it's possessed with the malicious spirit of a criminal that got gunned down by Detroit police officer Mike Norris. Even as a cute-looking kid's toy, Charles Lee Ray remains the embodiment of pure evil as he commits gruesome murders and even attempts to transfer his soul into young Andy's body. Naturally, nobody initially believes the child and he's even sent to mental institutions because the authorities think he's a young psychopath who killed the babysitter himself. The freckle-faced doll Chucky is quite an engaging horror villain, made legendary by Brad Dourif's raw voice, and thanks to some really impressive visual effects it looks even more menacing than most fully-grown and anatomically correct serial killers from other 80's horror movies. The highlight-sequences in Child's Play are genuinely creepy, for example when Karen drastically experiences that her son was telling the truth or when Chucky avenges himself on the police detective who shot him. The acting performances are superb (even young Alex Vincent is a revelation) and the amount of witty one-liners is thankfully kept to minimum, unlike in the sequels where they became the franchise's main objective. Highly recommended! "}]