[{"Title":"Returning to Bergmanesque Roots","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"65 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's worth noting that in 1978, ten years before he made Another Woman, Woody Allen created another quiet film, a drama with prominent Bergmanesque influences. The film was called Interiors, and it was a tribute, or an American take on Bergman's Cries and Whispers. Interiors examined the relationships of three sisters and their husbands in the face of the divorce of their dominant mother and detached father. The film essentially detailed the fall of interiors, or illusory worlds created by the dominant mother in the face of tragedy and loneliness.Another Woman, made ten years later, shares similar themes with Interiors, but it is more akin to Bergman's Wild Strawberries than to Cries and Whispers. It is a story of a university professor, played spectacularly by Gena Rowlands, in whom something stirs when she overhears a therapy session with a young 30-something woman who is discontent with her life. The professor, Marion, feels an emptiness rise inside her - an emptiness that had settled there years before, that she can consciously feel now. Little by little, like in Interiors, the world she has constructed for herself, a cold, cerebral world, deconstructs.Marion despairs, enters into conflicts with herself, and questions endlessly trying to reason her way out of her malaise. But the cure for her malaise is not rational resolution and she, realizing that her strongest characteristic (namely her rational intelligence) is not enough to untangle what worries her, finds herself entirely helpless in the face of an unraveling existence.Her drama is very much like the drama of Professor Isak Borg from Bergman's film, a man on his way to receive a medal for his lifetime achievements. And, on the road, he also succumbs to the same malaise as Marion, the same questioning and the same painful re-evaluation. The horror shared by both Marion and Professor Borg, of course, is that despite their highly lauded accomplishments and their intellectual self-satisfaction, they feel void. There must, in other words, be something else to life than strictly intellectual work, however satisfying it may be.In Bergman (both Cries and Whispers and Wild Strawberries) and in Allen (both Interiors and Another Woman) life falls under question. The entire existence is evaluated, its worth and meaning doubted. In Interiors and Cries and Whispers, however, the meaninglessness pervades everything in the films - the dialogues, behaviors and even visuals. The sisters in Interiors shatter the mother's reality and find nothingness - they continue as they were, much like the two sisters in Cries and Whispers for whom the death of their young sister changed absolutely nothing, and only confirmed their beliefs about the world.However, Another Woman is not as stark (though it is stark indeed at times). Marion grabs at the chance to re-evaluate the life she feels she painfully wasted and tries to start again. It's not a false choice, or a gimmick on Allen's part, but it's a true depiction of Marion's sincere desire to continue to struggle because her life does have value for her. She rediscovers a passion for the struggle and her motivation is the same curiosity that made her go through the questioning process in the first place.Another Woman is a testament to the fact that Woody Allen was still at the top of his game in the late 1980s. It is a brilliant, honest and (surprisingly) warm film. It is not a remake or rip-off of Bergman's work, though it is highly influenced by him (which shouldn't seem so surprising to anyone, because Bergman himself was influenced by the most basic questions of existence). Another Woman is an existential film that is both uncompromising and not hopeless. It's one of my favorite Woody Allen films and it reveals to us not only a great American director, but one whose films are of worldly greatness. "},{"Title":"A FILM OF GREAT POWER AND FEELING","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"43 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Woody Allen's Another Woman is, upon rediscovery, a film of great power and feeling. Sadly, not many people will be open to rediscovery after the initial viewing.Gena Rowlands stars as Marion Post, a 50ish philosophy professor whose life is in order. She rents an apartment to work on her latest book. By accident, she discovers that through the heating duct, she can hear all conversations from the psychiatrist located in said building. At first, she covers the duct with cushions to block the sound, but she decides to listen in after hearing, by accident, the testimony of a young pregnant woman. This sets in motion a chain of events that changes Marion forever.Woody has said that he originally conceived the idea as a comedy and indeed, it could be played that way (on a smaller scale in Everyone Says I Love You). But here, Allen resists the temptation to play it for laughs. In fact, there is not one single moment of comedy relief in his film. I think that is a wise decision. I was so absorbed by Marion's journey that comedy would have broken the mood of the film. This film is another venture into Bergmanesque cinema and Another Woman can compare with the very best Bergman.Gena Rowlands hasn't had a role this good since the films of her late husband John Cassavetes. This in fact, shows another side of Rowlands; a more restrained, mannered character than the fiery, passionate characters in the Cassavetes films. It just shows the different types of roles Rowlands can play so well. She deserved an Oscar nomination for this.In fact, the whole film is well cast by Allen. Gene Hackman is great in a mellow part as Marion's ex-lover. Blythe Danner makes a return to form as Marion's best friend. It is great to see Danner do what she does best, especially following the horrible Brighton Beach Memoirs in which she was underused. Ian Holm is superb as Marion's husband, who as Roger Ebert puts it must have a wife so he can cheat on her. In his final film, John Houseman allows himself to appear weak and frail; quite a change from the pillar of strength in The Paper Chase and a good cap to a great career.I mentioned at the beginning that not many people will be open to rediscovering Another Woman. I think that is correct. Here are my reasons why. First, the film is deliberately paced, even with a short running time of 81 minutes. Most viewers' attention spans won't be able to tolerate the long takes Allen is famous for. Second, the film doesn't offer any instant gratification or closure. Allen's story is one of those stories that just can't have a typical happy Hollywood ending. Third, there is T&A, even though adultery plays a large part in the story. So if you're looking for a fast paced film with T$A and guns and action and a happy ending, you might as well move on.Another Woman is one of those films in which rediscovery is necessary. Allen packs so much into 81 minutes that multiple viewings are necessary to absorb it all. If you make the effort to see it again, you might find that Another Woman is a film of great power and feeling that works better every time you see it.**** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Woody's delicate drama","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is by far my favorite Woody Allen straight drama (most of his other serious films, like Crimes and Misdemeanors and Husbands & Wives, have comedic moments).  His third heavy film (after Interiors and September) is chamber drama, beautifully acted and directed.  Most of the elements found in Allen's other post Annie Hall films are here (the upper crust Manhattan intellectuals, dysfunctional relationships), but what's missing are the laughs.  The film is very serious stuff, involving repressed emotions and alienation.  There is simply no place for Woody's usually nervous character in Another Woman.  You can still tell that this is one of his films because of the characterizations.  Gena Rowlands is in nearly every scene and is classy, as usual, and the rest of the ensemble cast is just as good.  My favorites were Gene Hackman and Ian Holm.  The title is fairly clever as well; it doesn't refer to what you might think.  "},{"Title":"Another Woody","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The melancholic mood and Gena Rowland's impressing acting are the most important elements of this movie. It's the Ingmar-Bergman type of film, like &#132;Interiors`, much more serious and thoughtful than all of Woody Allen's other movies, not at all typical for him. In my opinion, it's even more vivid than &#132;Interiors` because there are less people involved and &#150; something that happens less and less in Woody Allen's movies &#150; there is only one main character. This time, it's the character herself who tells the story which is really unusual for Allen. By leaving every other trade mark in plot and topics away, Allen concentrates on the intellectual dialogues and the analyses people make about each other. It's characteristic that Marion Post is a professor for philosophy. She automatically analyzes everybody around her, which leads to the fact that they start analyzing her. Her crisis begins, when she learns that people talk about her &#150; which, of course, is something completely natural &#150; and therefore starts analyzing herself. Her character really impressed me because I know people myself who are exactly like Marion Post. Woody Allen is a brilliant psychologist who watches people precisely and that's why he is able to create such believable characters. "},{"Title":"Another great Woody Allen drama","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie but not an easy one. It mixes the present with the past and dreams with real life. You will need to see it three or four times at least to get the best out of it but it's well worth doing. Every performance is spot on, every scene has a purpose, there is no padding here. It comes as a shock to Gena Rowlands character that she is not what she thought she was, that people do not view her in the way she thought they did.She takes a journey through her life to see what went wrong with the unwitting aid of a psychiatrist and patient in the apartment next door. The film ends abruptly without a proper resolution just as life can and does. The final line of Gena Rowlands beautiful narration will haunt you. A masterpiece of writing and direction to say nothing of superb acting and masterful cinematography.  "},{"Title":"excellent performances and script.","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a character study film. There are many layers to the story. Allen comments via the character in a subtle way.  The film uses surreal and the subconscious to lead the characters to their destination.  I like the fact that the ending left the viewer with his or her own ideas about the outcome of the characters.  Nothing in this film is forced on the viewer.  Gena Rowlands narrates and is very easy to listen to.  This is definitly not a film for the person who would rather watch than think.  Rowlands puts in a very fine performance, in my opinion, she is one of the under-rated actress' of her time.  The film runs less than 90 minutes.  I didn't know what to expect when the film started but was surprised and pleased with this film! "},{"Title":"This film blew me away","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just watched this last night, and I've been thinking about it all day.  What an amazing film!  So poignant, so subtle.  A woman re-evaluates her life and begins to lament the choices she made years ago.  Such a simple premise, such immense possibilities.  This film demands a lot of its audience.  There is no humor, no action, and very little plot.  Most people won't be into this at all, I imagine, which is a shame.  This film offers a really wonderful perspective on a subject that is so very rarely addressed in films today aging.  This film is about a woman taking stock of her life at the age of fifty.  She looks back, she sees the choices she made and how they turned out.  She sees the compromises she made to get where she is today (very successful, head of a philosophy department, about to write another book), and she begins to appreciate, for the first time, what those compromises cost.  This is, in my opinion, the central tragedy of human existence.  You only get one shot at life, and no one ever tells you how to manage it.  So, you make mistakes, and one day, when you're fifty, you've finally learned enough to start making the right choices.  But, by that time, is it too late?  This film doesn't answer that question, at least not for its central character.  But it does offer hope.  The film is propelled by several dynamite performances.  But, even in such a crowded field of great performances, it is not difficult to pick out Gena Rowlands, who gives an unforgettably nuanced performance as Marion, the film's central character.  You may notice that this film is propelled by a number of coincidences.  Every chance encounter, however, has an eerie relevance to Marion's soul-searching.  It may look contrived, but it isn't.  These aren't coincidences at all.  The pregnant woman, played by Mia Farrow, is instrumental in setting up each of these 'coincidences', and that character's name is Hope.  I was half-expecting a Fight Club revelation at the end, but it never came, which is good.  This film could stand both ways, and it's better for the director to leave the audience to consider the relationship between Hope and Marion on their own.  Like I said, I've been thinking about it all day.   "},{"Title":"One of Woody's most mature and underrated dramas","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There was a certain period in Woody Allen's career when he was trying desperately to imitate Ingmar Bergman's work. It rarely worked, and often turned out disasters like the execrable September. Another Woman is a riff on Bergman's Wild Strawberries a college professor, played by Gena Rowlands, is past fifty and looking back on and reliving key events in her life as her present life is falling apart. The film is quite stagy at times, just as it was in September, Allen's previous film. He seems to think that adds something, but it really doesn't. One other problem Another Woman has is a couple of very clunky scenes, and a few poor bit performers, which were much bigger problems in September, which was actually the last Allen film that I saw and the one that made me subconsciously avoid him for the past several months. Allen's script here is excellent. He has produced an excellent character study which is probably unsurpassed in all of his other films that I've seen. The lead actors are wonderful here, Rowlands, Ian Holms, Blythe Danner, Sandy Dennis, and Gene Hackman. Allen's use of piano music is beautifully touching. It all adds up to a very touching and sad little film. It might not be Woody's best film, but it ought to be better respected and known. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Makes Us Reflect On The Choices We Make In Life","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is not like any other Woody Allen movie I've seen before.  He writes and directs this film which hits many levels of the human heart.  The acting is well performed and the subject matter makes you reflect upon your own life and the choices you've made along the way.  This one is to be added to your collection. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bergmanesque territory for Allen again, this is an intriguing and well directed film in Bergman's style, however unlike in some of Allen's earlier Bergman ventures this one feels like less of a copy and more so just a unique drama. The film is philosophical without the ideas seeming intangible, and some of the points are very interesting, like how the pain of others can cause one to realise one's own, and how fascinating it is to hear someone else's revelations. It is not a minute too long, and the dialogue is great, but if one was to flaw it, Allen's choice of music seems a little off-balance, the narration is a touch cold, and whilst not bad, the performances are generally rather ordinary. But all these problems are very slight, as the overall production is fascinating and thought-provoking stuff about how one reflects on oneself. "}{"Title":"I wondered if a memory is something you have or something you've lost.","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In Woody Allen's Another Woman, Marion (Gena Rowlands) is the head of a university department of philosophy and also a member of several important committees. She is an expert in Art, music, and an amateur painter. She is in a comfortable and successful marriage to a physician (Ian Holmes), and has a close and friendly relationship with her husband's teenage daughter from an earlier marriage (Martha Plimpton). Marion is writing a book and decides to rents an office in a downtown building. When in the office, she inadvertently overhears a woman (Mia Farrow) in a session with her psychoanalyst and begins to look back at her own life, identity, relationships, and purpose. I watched Another Woman for the first time last night and I am totally engrossed by it. I love everything about it. Actually, it is the first Allen's strict drama that I love so much. It will go very high on my Woody's favorites list. The film is so Woodyesque even if it doesn't have any laughs - it is still his style, his Manhattan, his favorite music, his long takes, his intellect, his sincere, intelligent, and emotional contemplations of life's disappointment, regrets, and losses. I think it is one of Allen's most profound and warmest films. Yes, warmest, because Marion looks at the first 50 years of her life in a true and painful light, but she also would learn that there is hope, that anything can be changed and life could be started over even at 50. She will reevaluate her life and her relationships with her husband, father, brother, step-daughter, and friends. She may not find the answers for all the questions but she certainly learns a lot about herself. I've seen John Cassavetes' A Woman Under the Influence (1974) and I know how great the actress Gena Rowlands is but I was amazed by her performance in Another Woman. Allen gave her wonderful material to work with and she was superb - strong, reserved, brilliant woman, incredibly attractive at her 50. It is a dream role for an intelligent middle-aged actress but sadly, Hollywood does not provide them very often. A lot has been said about Bergman's Wild Strawberries (I'd add Cries and Whispers and Face to Face) influence to Another Woman but it is not a remake. We all at some point of our lives lose the way we traveled by and enter a dark forest. The artists by the power of their talents capture the moments of search for meaning and put them on the canvas, on the paper or on screen. Even if they meditate on the same theme, each artist uses his unique tools, and brings his unique vision and talent.In Another Woman Allen created an excellent character study which is on par with his best and more famous films. Wonderful Rowlands is surrounded by the first class supporting players including Ian Holms, Blythe Danner, Sandy Dennis, and Gene Hackman. Allen's use of music is touching and delicate as in all his movies. Another Woman is one of the best unfairly forgotten films and it deserves to be rediscovered, respected, and admired. It is certainly, the best of Allen's pure drama films. "},{"Title":"Stunning. Perceptive, insightful and objective!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was absolutely astounded when I saw this movie, it is simply brilliant. One of the best movies I have ever seen. This movie is never caught up in sentimentality and is never brought down by the value system or personal wistfulness of its writer and director. The movie is straightforward, not disguising any element, not using any device to imply that one particular viewpoint has greater validity than another. It simply is an objective and unbiased look into a woman's life.The music in this movie is very beautiful. Woody Allen is a master of introducing music to influence mood and he is very subtle about it. Unlike the often abrupt and rather abrasive incorporation of music by directors aiming to forcefully manipulate one's point of view and emotional response, Allen knows that this will happen through subtle presentation. Again, what is so brilliant in this movie is its subtlety. To me, that is what makes everything so real. You are presented with someone's life through a window, you hear their thoughts and observe their actions. You find that the events of their life follow a progression without implications, without obvious foreshadowing. You are left with your own insightfulness and the struggle of the character to find her way out of the darkness she is in.The acting is stunning. Gene Hackman and Ian Holm give incredible supporting performances and Gena Rowlands is remarkable. She does not come across forced or attempting to be something she is not. It is as if she were playing herself, she is very believable.I think this movie is a masterpiece. I recommend paying very close attention to the ending, it is haunting. "},{"Title":"Brief Woody Allen treatise about choices,  chances, regret and hope...","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sedate and as fleeting as a paperback novel (despite its penchant for high-toned literacy), Woody Allen's Another Woman is a seemingly deeply-felt sonata about a 50-ish female writer in New York City who comes to the realization her current state of upscale well-being is a sham. Allen excels in sequences of chatty couples interacting, with the dynamics of two sparking something unintended; he also loves delving into the romantic complications between teacher and student, usually with infidelity a key ingredient, and all of those aspects work their way into this story, which has a moral, grounded center despite the cheating adults (even a younger teen gets a guilty moment, having sex in a forbidden place, but of course she feels cheap afterward!). Allen loves a contradiction as well as any writer, but his main character (played stunningly by Gena Rowlands, who also narrates) is living in the subconscious, and is forced into continually being enlightened. This is handled quite well (with dreamy interludes and flashbacks to childhood), but this narrative actually should be more compelling; instead, it's gossamer drama, with Bergman or Chekov overtures. A last-act fling between Rowlands' husband and a friend is disappointing, with Woody falling back on the cliché (couldn't Rowlands leave her sexless marriage on the basis of boredom alone?). As a director, Woody is very careful and strict with his actors, and Gene Hackman as a novelist surprises the most (his harsh attempt at seducing Rowlands is straightforward and yet almost neurotic--and you can see the anguish and passion on his face); Martha Plimpton continues to be far too eager, but Rowlands, Ian Holm, Betty Buckley, Frances Conroy, and Sandy Dennis have some incredible moments. As the other woman, whose life parallels Gena's, Mia Farrow has very little on-screen time but her plaintive voice and sensitive face are just right for this brief role. A fine drama about choices and regrets; I'm not sure just how deeply a man like Woody Allen can empathize with a lady in her 50s trying to stay afloat in a loveless life, but there are several scenes here that really dig below the placid surface. *** from **** "},{"Title":"World of Gray, or Woody Does Ingmar","Date":"25 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Gena Rowlands gives a marvelous performance as a woman coming face to face with her reality in Another Woman, a 1988 Woody Allen film also starring Mia Farrow, Ian Holm, Blythe Danner, John Housman,Sandy Dennis, Gene Hackman, Betty Buckley, Martha Plimpton, Gretchen Conroy, and Harris Yulin.Rowlands narrates as well as stars as Marion Post, a brilliant woman and expert in German literature who is on sabbatical from teaching to write a book. In order to accomplish this, she rents an apartment which happens to be right next to a therapist's office. The walls are then and her apartment and the therapist's office share a vent. Marion, in spite of herself, becomes very interested in the sessions of a young pregnant woman (Farrow) and starts to analyze herself. This leads to some shocking and painful realizations.With a cast like this, it's hard to miss, and Allen doesn't. This is a character study, and while the film moves slowly, it manages to keep one's attention.Allen does a beautiful job with this - Marion lives in a world where she hasn't allowed herself much real passion and feeling; therefore, he always has her dressed in gray.Another Woman here actually has several meanings - Marion herself was another woman when she and her husband (Ian Holm) first met, as he was married; the Farrow character represents another woman; and Marion realizes that there is another woman inside her who hasn't quite emerged. There's one more another woman, but that's all I'll say.Reminiscent of Bergman, Allen here has done an American take on him, so it just feels a little lighter than, say, Autumn Sonata (what doesn't?).Very special film about choices, regrets, aging, and hope. "},{"Title":"Rowlands is a revelation, and the film matches her.","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Devastating, unlike anything I've seen from Woody Allen so far. This was a very quiet, deliberately paced exploration into a woman facing a mid-life crisis, played with extraordinary skill by Gena Rowlands. It leaned maybe a little too much on narration when it could have utilized her talent as an actress instead, but that's a small complaint when the final result is so powerful.Rowlands' Marion Post rents an apartment in order to work on her novel and, through hearing the patients of the psychiatrist's office next door, slowly begins to examine her life and the choices that she has made. We see her interact with those surrounding her, be it her husband, her daughter, her brother, but she always feels a level removed from all of them. Over the years she has isolated herself from everyone around her and examines them rather than interacts, and Rowlands plays this with a knowledge so fitting and serene.There's an extended dream sequence a little over halfway through the picture that is one of the most surreal, emotional and illuminating experiences I've had in a Woody Allen picture and one of my favorite moments in the twenty or so films of his I've seen. It imagines her life as a stage play that she watches take place, and it opens the world back up to Marion, which is displayed in master strokes on the all-telling face of Rowlands. She gives a performance for the ages here, working mostly from the inside out, although there are a few devastating scenes of her letting herself fall apart.I was surprised at how little Mia Farrow was in it, given that she's on the cover for it and the plot synopsis makes her part seem a lot more major, but she manages to leave an impression, although the most surprising of the supporting cast was Gene Hackman. I'm used to seeing him (and loving him) in varying crime pictures, so it was nice to see him take on a more grounded and every day character, which despite only appearing for a brief time he manages to leave a lasting impression with his emotionally conflicted portrayal. You can really feel this character that he displays, feel his love and heartache in every breath.Still, the film absolutely belongs to Rowlands, who resonated so deeply inside of me and will surely stick there for a while. She knocks it out of the park in a film that is so unique, cerebral and magnificent from Woody Allen. "},{"Title":"An intensely felt drama.","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Very much in the same vein as 1978's Interiors, Woody Allen returns to serious dramatic fashion with Another Woman, which like Interiors explores the inner workings and details that make up a family. In particular, this one focuses through the parameters of Marion, brilliantly played by Gena Rowlands as an icy cold woman who has managed for years to shield her true feelings and emotions from practically everyone close to her.Unfortunately, this begins to fall back into her lap as she talks with her step-daughter, husband and old friends and family who tell her that she is nearly impossible to communicate with and not very feeling. This comes as a shock to Marion and us; we don't notice it and how did this happen? Woody Allen is certainly one of the great comedic writer/director/actors of the last 50 years, but his serious dramatic turns are just as impressive. With the help of Ingmar Bergman's legendary cinematographer Sven Nykvist, Allen creates a mesmerizing canvas of dark, surreal colors and palates that give off a moody and depressing tone felt by all the characters, especially Marion. This is certainly a film only for true Woody Allen fans as it doesn't have any of his usual zany or self-depraved humor. Yet, what it does have is terrific performances by Rowland, Ian Holm, Mia Farrow and Gene Hackman as well as a solid script and direction by Allen. A must-see for any of his fans. "},{"Title":"Perfect!","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The closest thing to perfection, along with Zelig, The Purple Rose of Cairo and Match Point, Woody Allen ever got. I found this movie by accident, I had just seen Interiors and was amazed... But when I saw this one i just went crazy. Is everything Woody Allens observed e digest from Bergman at it's best. Gena Rowlands performance of this lonely and intelligent woman is superb and captivating. The rest of cast is also very engaging as well... It also has one of the greats opening in a film i 've had ever seen.Sven Nykvist photograph gives a poetic and melancholic touch to the movie along with the wonderful soundtrack. Art with a big A! "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's overlooked masterpiece","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Another Woman is bar none one of the best movie Woody Allen has ever made. In this movie, Marion Post (Gena Rowlands) starts to reexamine her life when she overhears Hope (Mia Farrow) speaking with her analyst.Of course, a one sentence synopsis cannot even begin to do justice to this masterpiece's depth. The characters are incredibly engaging and the dialog is a pure joy to behold when delivered by one of cinema's finest assembled casts.Gena Rowlands, of course, delivers her role wonderfully, but Gene Hackman's performance is nothing short of stellar. The brief moments he is allowed on screen are gems to be treasured and represent some of his finest work to date.Only Hannah and Her Sisters comes close to matching the perfection of this movie, with all of its emotional and intellectual complexity.Ten out of ten. Memorable, beautiful, and wonderful. "},{"Title":"Small and golden","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Another Woman was the first in a decade of gems in Woody Allen's film-making canon, nearly all of them small dramas with very precise stories. It is, perhaps, among his best because of how modest, how quiet and how emotionally and psychologically affecting it is. Surprisingly so.It is the story of a classic introvert, played with magnificent discipline by Gena Rowlands, who has constructed a very tight shell around herself she never realized she lived behind. But from the moment we see her and hear her narrative voice in the opening frame, we see it. We feel it. And we relate to it while we also scoff at it.And bit by bit, in her small corner of life in Manhattan's old, stoney, by-the-park world where the film is set, Marion's shell is cracked and peeled by the inevitable twists of life, even for people like her. And the funny, coincidental shocks -- most penetratingly through a device Allen uses -- end up stirring Marion's self-doubt and self-awareness for the first time in her life. She whirrs to life, finally. She feels real pity, real humiliation, real regret, and real girlish passion under a Central Park bridge in the middle of a rainstorm.Indeed, much like a classic introvert, all of Marion's turning points happen when she is alone (except, of course, the romantic one -- but alas, it only is realized as she relives it alone in a room). And if you've ever hopelessly loved an introvert like Marion, you'll applaud Allen's insight into the way such people operate. Perhaps it's the only film of his in which Allen really communicates the hell and the loneliness of such a personality without any tonic of humor.But this is not a dreary film, far from it. It has a golden beauty to it despite the beigey-ness. When Marion's real warmth and humanity pulses to life in Another Woman, it has a hopefulness and naivety that redeems all of her blathery intellectualism, much like we must forgive some of Allen's dialogue which must read better in subtitles overseas than it sounds to us (much less so in this film than of its butterscotchy predecessor, September).Indeed, in Another Woman -- much like in the small-and-golden films that followed like Crimes and Misdemeanors, Shadows and Fog, Alice, and finally, with a gush of fully re-realized wonderful sentimentality in Everybody Says I Love You -- Allen doesn't hide so much behind his shtick and comes right out and says how he feels.Added in are some really fantastic cameo performances. Mia Farrow's whiny, hormonal character has a humanity to it that leaves just the right kind of taste in your mouth by the end. Blythe Danner is wonderful as the best friend who ends up being more (or perhaps less) complex than you initially realize, and Ian Holm is pitch-perfect as the moral match for Marion's cranially-steeled self. Martha Plimpton does the young, rich prep-school girl justice without making her a cartoon. Sandy Dennis' two scenes are riveting -- her character's emotionality clearly something Marion had an intense jealously toward (and Dennis hits it out of the park so well in a way that you imagine the main scene was done in one take). And John Houseman, in his last moments on screen, brings a sort of brave, memorable rawness to his speech about the end of life -- Allen owes a great debt to him for this.If you have someone like Marion in your life, someone intelligent whom you love yet you find maddeningly introverted and remote -- go onto Amazon and quietly send them Another Woman with a very sparing note. And while you probably shouldn't expect a very revealing note back a week or so after it arrives, be content to know that it will likely have quite an effect. A small and golden one. "},{"Title":"One of Woody's finest dramas","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The great Gena Rowlands has a fine narrative voice and in fact, it is her voice that you'll remember long after this is over. Voices in fact come into play a lot in this picture, from the sad stark voice of Mia Farrow whom Rowlands accidentally overhears in therapy, to the soft voice of John Houseman recalling his life, to the harsh voices of Sandy Dennis and Betty Buckley, in both real and flashback time. Allen shows some nice touches here as he uses visual and theatrical tricks to flesh out key parts of Marian's past. Nothing is wasted film wise as the editing is smooth and keeps everything finely constructed like a novel. Regrets and mistakes soon haunt everyone in the story and Marian comes to identify with a stranger (in Farrow) as she realizes most of the people in her small world never really knew who she was. Not as emotionally heavy as Allen's 2 dramas, this one allows you to admire the careful writing and the sometimes selfish motives of the characters, who don't always resonate with likability. Gene Hackman and Martha Plimpton offer pleasant support, perhaps the only 2 connections to solid love Marian has experienced... Worth repeated viewings, as all of Woody's movies are... "}{"Title":"A masterwork","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The acting and script of this film are amazing.  Even the music is haunting (Allen effectively uses everything from jazz to Bach to Eric Satie). Although Interiors may be the best known of Allen's melodramas, this one is very close behind in quality... I strongly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A truly extraordinary film. You will be thinking about this film long after you have watched it. It will leave you thinking about the choices in your life, the ones that you have made and the ones that you didn't make. It's out of print, and hard to find in the video stores, but if you have the chance to see it, please do. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"a metaphor for the psychoanalytical process","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Woody Allen's most satisfying cinematic achievement, psychologically speaking. A well accomplished woman in her fifties, through a deep and painful process, reaches upon the realization that her entire life has been full of lies and deception, intended on defending herself from true passion and emotion. The film paces through like a slow haunting voyage into her psyche, with each step going deeper, reaching painful truths that Marion (and the audience) cannot block away any further. This goes on until finally she is forced to see her life and choices for what they are. At which point liberation and inner peace become possible. It is really a metaphor for the psychoanalytical process at its best. "},{"Title":"Gena Rowlands as A Woman Above the Influence ...","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Right now, it's just as if I was experiencing the same mental block than the main protagonist, Marion, played by Gena Rowlands in Woody Allen's Another Woman.I guess I don't want to pollute the review with formulaic superlatives, to make it sound like some pompous intellectual movie, when it's more than that &#x85; and while my brain is trying to pull thoughts together, I can't get off my mid the enigma of Marion. Here is a woman who is a philosophy teacher, she's brilliant, intelligent, standing above all criticism, and this woman, after having turned 50, realizes what a cold, lonely and worst of all, unfulfilled life she lived.Another Woman uses a very clever plot device to subtly convey these feelings. Marion rents a little flat downtown to write her new book in a quiet environment, and gets distracted by the sessions of a woman at a therapist. Her first reaction is to cover the radiation system (from which the noises come) with pillows, but the temptation is too big. She ends up listening as the poor woman's plight hit some sensitive chords. Marian who never expressed any sign of weakness, who built her solid reputation on a pedestal of serenity that allowed her to spread judgments on her entourage, find the closest echoes to her hearts' most alarming torments. Then starts an unforgettable journey in Marion's life, where we discover the people of her life, and the way she affected them.Ian Holm is Ken, a snobby and stuffy doctor, whose teenage daughter, played by Martha Plimpton, developed a certain bond with Marion. Gene Hackman is Ken's friends and the only man who passionately loved Marion and felt that there was a fire burning behind that icy facade. Harris Yulin is the less-brilliant brother who had to live under her shadow, Sandy Dennis was her closest friend and still held some serious grudges against her, Sam (Philip Bosco) her true husband, after being her professor. Marion is such a secret and reserved woman, even her detailed narration are deprived from any emotionality, this is why these characters are vital to comprehend through the way they were affected by Marion, what kind of woman she was. Interestingly, Marian's empathy with the 'voice', which would reveal to be Mia Farrow, is a self-reflection on our own mental connection with Marion, it's a voyeuristic device tunneling us into the intimacy of a person, via her mind rather than any action. Ironically, it's the same effect that John Cassavetes' A Woman Under the Influence provided, but through the true- to-life improvisation and chaotic genius of Rowlands, sinking us into the darkest abysses of human soul. Rowlands strikes again but in a more restrained manner, we see the despair in her condition through her personal reactions to Mia Farrow's cries, to her friends and family's accusations. Rowlands proves again to be the greatest living actress for her ability to cut straight to your heart, no matter how explicit of implicit her torments must stay. Another Woman is made of tones of beige, and yellow, in harmony with the autumnal setting, as to convey the same melancholy than the woman who came to the last quarter of her life, and take some perspective on her accomplishments. The Bergmanian' feel is not accidental; the director of photography is Svent Nikvyst, Bergman's long-life partner. Allen has never hid his idolization of Ingmar Bergman but even if Marian's journey into her past, and the magnificent dreamy escape, are explicit homages to The Wild Strawberries, Another Woman stands alone as a masterpiece of humanity, highlighting the conflicts between feelings, reason and instinct. Basically, Marian is a woman who thought so much, she mostly about how to feel, than feeling, using an intelligence like a social double-edged swords.Woody Allen is not just a talented but also an intelligent screenwriter, the only one I can think of to write intellectual's dialogs with such naturalism, there is Bergman again but this is more of Allen's trademark. Starting with Annie Hall, Manhattan, Interiors, Hannah and Her Sisters and September, the dichotomy between belonging to an upper class elite and being condemned to a world of boring social conventions, where intelligence and sophistication are the very barriers for living the exhilarating experiences they love to discover in books or movies. That is the paradox of Allen's characters. I mentioned at the end of my September review that the film coincided with Allen's 50's, a time he wondered where he was going, if he fulfilled his own dreams? Or was it even worth it? I guess as intelligent as Woody Allen is, he's not enough to be alienated by it, he's aware that without passion, without genuine affection, without the power not to take life seriously, life would be hell. Allen's dramatic vein has nothing to envy one of the best dramatic directors, but I admire his constant restriction as he never falls in the trap of over-dramatization, and even the darkest dramas carry some thin and fragile lights of hopes. The ending of Another Woman is satisfying because we know that Marion could make her own diagnostic, being aware of the problem can be half the solution. And in one expression of the eyes, we don't need anything other than putting our own pillows and let this woman try to reconquer the lost time.Finally, allow me to play the movie geek by insisting that Another Woman is the combination of tremendous talents in acting, directing, writing and cinematography. The film is a masterpiece, it's one of Allen's best and to use one Internet's favorite jargon, it's cruelly 'underrated'. "},{"Title":"Gena Rowlands finds out that Mia Farrow is a patient woman.","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Another movie from the prolific Woody Allen, this is one of his serious outings and it's also one of his better serious outings. While there isn't any light relief it's certainly not as oppressive as Interiors, or even September (neither of which I really enjoyed that much).Gena Rowlands is the leading lady and the title of the film could just as easily refer to her as it could to the woman she begins hearing through her apartment walls (Mia Farrow) or even the other other woman character who causes quite an upset. Rowlands listens as this woman talks to her psychiatrist about her problems and this starts off a cycle of self-analysis and honesty that leads to some major changes.This film has a great cast and a great script and sucks you in slowly but surely until you're engrossed in the whole situation and what the characters will do at this important junction in their lives. Rowlands is in pretty much every scene and is superb throughout, Farrow isn't too bad and Ian Holm (as the partner of Rowlands) puts in a superb performance. The rest of the cast includes such luminaries as Blythe Danner, Gene Hackman and Martha Plimpton and everyone is excellent.The direction from Allen is simple and relaxed, this is easily a movie that you can watch and disregard as inconsequential. It's a character study but, in many ways, it's also an archetype study and it does what it sets out to do superbly. I watched it and didn't love it, it would never be my favourite, but when it came time to consider the content for my review and rating I realised that I had thoroughly enjoyed every performance and every scene. Give it a try sometime. "},{"Title":"Morally complex, quietly devastating... yet hopeful; an underrated Allen masterpiece","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As I'm warming up to watch Whatever Works, Woody's new film, this weekend, I've just watched two underrated films from my favourite director September (1987) and Another Woman (1988), for the first time. I've seen most of his films, but there's about a dozen I haven't been fortunate enough to see yet. I think even his minor films are good at least, but Another Woman is on the same level of his greatest achievements The Purple Rose of Cairo (my personal favourite, and somewhat underrated itself), Annie Hall, Manhattan, Husbands and Wives and Hannah and Her Sisters, among others.Another Woman is only 81 minutes long, but its power lingers. This morally complex, quietly devastating tale about a woman in her fifties (Gena Rowlands, extraordinary as always) who overhears the conversations between her next door neighbour, a psychiatrist, and his patient, 'Hope' (Mia Farrow, in a role similar to the one she played in September - continuation of the same character, maybe?), a younger pregnant woman. As she gets drawn to the plights of Hope, she discovers dark truths about herself - her feeling to help Hope discloses her own insecurities and flaws, and this new perception of herself changes the way she can relate to other people around her. The supporting cast - Ian Holm, Gene Hackman, Martha Plimpton, Sandy Dennis, Philip Bosco, Blythe Danner, Betty Buckley and a cameo by Frances Conroy, 13 years before Six Feet Under, as Rowlands' sister - is also top notch. Erik Satie's Gymnopedies for Piano No. 3 is the moving, haunting musical theme.Basically, Another Woman is to Allen's career what Persona (1966) is to Ingmar Bergman's (not by chance, the cinematographer is Sven Nykvist, Bergman's usual collaborator), and 3 Women (1977) to Robert Altman's. Another Woman is not as much about identity theft in a literal sense as it is about human connections, revelations and false perceptions; but the female psyche is clearly at the core of the story. Those who say Allen is only obsessed with the neurotic, Jewish New Yorker male, don't really know his work. Although it's true some of his themes can get almost repetitive, he's still the man, and it's great how a long time fan like me can still be constantly amazed by his work, both old and new. When someone is 73 and still makes an average of one film a year, you can't expect for much. However, Woody always delivers something to be enjoyed or profoundly admired, and I hope he makes at least 10 more films before he dies. I know you don't believe in God, Woody, but I do; and I thank him for giving us a genius like you. You once said that if your movies make at least one person more miserable, you feel you accomplished your job. I don't believe you actually mean that; because I'm sure you know that your films make lots of people, myself included, very happy. Thanks for existing! 10/10. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Gift For Anyone Turning 40, or 38, or 42, or 33...","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Being the astounding director Woody Allen is, equaled only by Maverick Robert Altman where ensembles are being cast, it is not surprising there is no weak link in the cast of this thought provoking film.There is no comic relief either, which labels this film immediately as one of Allen's 'Bergmanesque' movies.It seems that every age has something in store for us. When we are ready to turn 20, we have CATCHER IN THE RYE. When we are ready to drown ourselves in alcoholism, we have the milestone that is as sombre as it is eloquent and inescapable UNDER THE VOLCANO (The book that is, not the flat film which is but a fleeting whiff of perfume next to the book).And when we are ready to turn 40 ... we seem to know it all. Smooth sailing from now on, right ?For most of us this superb film might very well be of the same influence as 'The Catcher...' had some decades back in our life. ANOTHER WOMAN, so short in time yet so full and rich and full of foreboding, should not be missed by anyone over, let's say ... 40 ? Or ... 36, maybe ? Or ... ??Well, please DO NOT MISS this highly important and fantastic film !!!Or you'll regret it later in life ! Which of course is the theme of this sublime moving picture. "},{"Title":"An Intellectual Horror Movie","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really enjoyed this Woody Allen dramatic movie. To me this was an intellectual horror movie. Things real and imagined that happened made the final reality at the end only more horrific. The cinematography by Sven Nykvist, the cinematographer for many of Ingmar Bergman's films, was excellent. This was the first time for most of the cast of well know actors to be in a Woody Allen film and their performances were excellent. Mia Farrow was really the only carry over from previous movies. Her role was almost biographical. Woody Allen dramatic movies are so much like stage productions in impact. I have liked his previous ones, but they always seemed so forced and loud in getting their point across. This one seemed more subtle and quiet, but still hit hard. "},{"Title":"So brave.","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought I'd be bored by this, it's not one of his comedies, but I really loved it. A middle aged woman reevaluates her life and choices, and that's about it. Played by the fantastic Gena Rowlands, with a great supporting cast, this is just a lovely little film worth seeing. You have to be in the right mood, though, and don't expect any jokes. When Woody Allen does serious, there is NO humour allowed. But I still liked it. The men in her life are played to perfection, and the music is great too. Worth a look indeed.    "},{"Title":"Powerful character study","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This has got to be one of Woody Allen's very best.Rowlands is perfect as a mature woman who has lived a lonely life without even realizing it.  She has worked it out so that there is very little danger of being embarrassed or uncomfortable -- and is surprised each time one of these situations threatens to encroach upon her.  What a wonderful job Rowlands does!  Each self-discovery is intimate and genuinely conveyed. See it tonight...go on...you know you want to. "}{"Title":"Ghastly","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Woody Allen's ghastly drama is so uninvolving the viewer is left stunned at it's utter badness. Gene Rowlands is an academic writing a new book and finds that the studio she's renting allows her to overhear some painful conversations taking place in the psychiatrist's office next door. She soon re-evaluates her own life and realizes that she is not a good person and the people in her orbit hate her. There is snotty husband Ian Holm, underachieving brother Harris Yulin, bitter best friend Sandy Dennis and truth-telling sister-in-law Frances Conroy. Rowlands has so much thrown at her, it's a surprise she doesn't just kill herself. There's not a single sympathetic character in this whole 81 minute angst ridden treadmill test. It's cold, humorless and stodgy. It's a pseudo- intellectuals idea of a Bergman film that fails at every level. Pretentious and then some ---this film has to hold some sort of record for its continuous mention of poet Rainer Maria Rilke. Blech! Gene Hackman, Blythe Danner, Martha Plimpton, Betty Buckley, John Houseman, Philip Bosco, David Ogden Stiers and Mia Farrow contribute absolutely zero with their small roles. "},{"Title":"Interesting drama that is worth watching more than once","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In an attempt to concentrate on her latest book, Marion rents a one room apartment to get peace and quiet.  On her first visit to the apartment she finds that she can overhear every word that is being said from the psychiatrist's office next door.  She blocks it out but one woman's conversations stick in her mind.  As she mulls over what she hears she begins to apply it to her own life and see the failings in her life to date.I do love Woody Allen but some of his dramas are not to my taste as I have found them to be him chasing `real' art and not comedies.  However I can't remember having seen Another Woman so I decided to give it a go regardless of my preconceptions in relation to his `serious' work.  I was happily very wrong about this film as it is a very good piece of work.  My main problem with the film was simply because I couldn't relate to the life experiences of a 50 year old woman.  I was interested and felt sympathy for her situation but I felt like I needed to feel sympathy or at least connect better than I had.Despite this weakness (which was more mine that the film's) I still got something from the film.  The plot was well written, yes it keeps the usual Allen themes but that doesn't mean they aren't interesting.  What astonished me was the way he crammed so much into just 85 minutes, I could easily have watched it again afterwards to try and get more from it.Just as the plot is well written so too the characters are well developed and rounded.  None of the characters seem unreal although at times they were portrayed in a slightly pretentious fashion.  Marion is very well written and Rowlands brings her out well &#150; it is sad she has not had parts as good as this of late.  Farrow is good and the support cast are generally strong as well as being well known respected actors such as Holm, Hackman, Plimpton (!), Stiers and others.Overall Allen fans who love his comedy but have difficulties with some of his serious work (ie &#150; me!) should check this out as it is one of his best totally-straight films that I have seen.  Well developed story and well written characters make for a strong film that works very well. "},{"Title":"But seriously, folks...","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If there is a moral to Woody Allen's ANOTHER WOMAN, it is that we should live our lives with passion, spontaneity and optimism. Ironically, these are the very elements that are noticeable missing from the film. ANOTHER WOMAN seems to be selling products it doesn't have in stock, let alone on display.ANOTHER WOMAN is an immaculate movie; sensitively acted, concisely written and lovingly filmed. But like so many of Allen's serious films, it is cold and strangely impersonal. It is Woody standing back and looking at someone else's life, composing a precise picture, but with a hands-off, leave-no-fingerprints approach. It is one of those films that is so easy to admire, but very difficult to embrace. It desperately wants to touch you, but refuses to come within touching distance. The film's central character is described thus She's just a little judgmental. You know, she sorta stands above people and evaluates them. That is how Allen approaches his characters here, like they're specimens. There is, of course, two Woody Allens the comedy genius and the always aspiring dramatist. Most of his comedies are pretty good, but the best are those that let the serious Woody sneak into the film and give the material backbone, as in ANNIE HALL, MANHATTAN, STARDUST MEMORIES and DECONSTRUCTING HARRY. He allows the serious Woody to make cameo appearances in his comedies, but when he sets his sites on meaningful drama, the funny Woody is barred from the set. It is as though Allen is afraid that so much as a smile will break the mood and make people forget just how serious his intentions are. He so easily mocks intellectual thought in his comedies, that he seems to have no faith in his ability to be serious and mean it. As such his serious comedies are alive and filled with insight, while his serious dramas are filled with pretense. How seriously can one take a line like I shouldn't have seduced you. Intellectually, that is.? I mean, who the heck talks like that? In his comedies, such dialogue shows how pretentious the characters are; in his dramas, it seems meant to show just how sincere the characters are. And words are an important element of ANOTHER WOMAN. Allen's dialogue and narration is eloquent and sophisticated, but stiff and formal. Even when discussing their deepest feelings or expressing anger or reliving joyous moments in their lives, all the characters speak as though they are discussing the terms of their life insurance policies. There is a solemn emptiness to the tone of the film; even at the end, when Marion tries to make amends for past failings, she seems to be negotiating a contract, not saying Let's start again. Such pompous droning seems designed to reflect the tone of the characters' lives; but the end result is monotonous and deadening, rather than being poetic and compelling. The film does have a clever conceit the always marvelous Gena Rowlands plays Marion Post, a professor of philosophy, who sublets an apartment to serve as an office where she can write her latest book. A quirk in the ventilation system allows her to inadvertently eavesdrop on the conversations going on next door. The next apartment is the office of a psychiatrist, who counts among his patients a young pregnant woman, played by Mia Farrow. The young woman discusses at length her sorrowful life and suicidal impulses. Because she identifies with the younger woman's feelings of loneliness and alienation, Marion becomes obsessed with eavesdropping on the sessions and uses the situation as a springboard for reevaluating her own life. It is significant that just as Allen tells the story from a sterile distance, Marion reviews her life only indirectly, though voice-overs, flashbacks, dreams and even symbolic stage productions. Even her psychoanalysis is conducted through a surrogate, Farrow's character, who is rather obviously named Hope. Much of the interaction with other characters occurs in Marion's mind. And rather predictably, Marion's journey of self discovery is, well, rather predictable. She discovers -- as protagonists in this sort of film always discover -- that her successful career and her well-ordered life are a facade hiding her empty relationships and assorted personal failures. Her life of satisfied accomplishment is meaningless and the trust, love and respect she believes she shares with others are delusions. It's like IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE in reverse Just as the angel Clarence acts as George Bailey's conscience to show him how valuable his life has been, Hope acts as Marion's conscience to reveal how empty her life as become. ANOTHER WOMAN has a counterpart in Allen's 2003 film, ANYTHING ELSE; another film with an obvious doppelganger. The former is about a woman who encounters her younger alter ego and reevaluates her past choices, while the latter is about a young man whose encounters with his older alter ego (played by Woody Allen) effects the choices that will shape his future. The same basic story is approached from opposite directions.It's dangerous to speculate, but it seems that Allen made ANOTHER WOMAN during a time in his life when he was hugely admired for his accomplishments and he was deeply involved in a relationship with Mia Farrow and her extended family. Certainly Farrow's playing a pregnant woman and Marion's second thoughts over placing career over personal relationships seem to suggest a parallel. By contrast, ANYTHING ELSE, made a decade and a half later, finds Allen's character playing a mentor at a time when he is apparently happily married to a much younger woman, and where his status as a filmmaker is more iconic than in vogue. As such, his surrogate changes from being the central figure to the sadder but wiser voice of experience.Both films are steeped in regret, but make an effort to end in an upbeat fashion. But while ANOTHER WOMAN is an accomplished, polished work striving for a cool perfection, it is not persuasive in its attempt to inspire us with optimism. ANYTHING ELSE is rambling and unfocused and, well, sloppy, but its optimism is honest and funny. ANOTHER WOMAN is about getting another chance, but there is no reason to believe that anything will really change in Marion's tight, introspective little life. "},{"Title":"For the first time in a long time, I felt at peace.","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Gena Rowlands' Marion Post is only modest on the surface, but it's so beguiling that she almost does not recognise the air of superiority and disdain herself. Her opening voice-over narration has a reserved, bored quality about it that, as if she has finally found herself a place to settle down and enjoy the rest of life. Then a simple technique; the thin walls of the therapist office give way to creeping thoughts about wasted life and ambitions and futility that are mirrored in her own mind. This leads to a series of reveals that are like a thread unravelling the seemingly peace and contentment of Marion's life and relationships. It starts with a timid question with her 2nd husband whom we understand has not slept with her for quite some while. And we feel that this sort of introspection has not breached Marion's mind for a long time; she has been too haughty, too dismissive, too self centred and confident in her appearance. She has slowly eroded any sense of respect from her 1st marriage, but oh, it was only under the guise of being honest! And she is a home-wrecker too - there is that icy interruption of a gathering by the ex-wife Cathy that is reminiscent of Bergman, and it is so cold in the way that Ken shushes her emotional breakdown in the politest way. Marion sees this in her own way; not the emotional distress of Cathy, but worrying that it might someday be her in that situation (and she is eventually correct). One thing that isn't honest at all is Rowlands' performance. Her mask of genuineness is put on in almost every social gathering, but there is a hint of this stalker-like presence, as if each quietly absorbed word is being filtered through her ego. There is a brief scene at a restaurant when she is having dinner with her friends and a former student of hers confesses that she has changed her life. Rowlands' reaction is just perfect; a hint of modesty, a fluttering of the eyes, and though she is proud, there is also a semblance of shame, as if she has never ever had that sort of effect on anyone that was actually close or important to her. There are also these dream sequences that indicate her mind is filled with regret. These aren't the most subtle of Allen's scenes, but when is this emotion ever slight? Gene Hackman's Larry is the lost love, the one that got away, and there is also a wondering of what might have eventuated of an abortion borne out of an affair with a professor (and how the edit seamlessly transfers an older Marion into the worries). Two things signals her eventual change. One, how she notifies the therapist of the 'acoustic oddness' because she is no longer fretting about hearing these so familiar thoughts of pessimism. And two, the little chapter at the end from Larry, which is the first instance of a positive memory of Marion in the entire film. It offers a sweet, lovestruck perspective, as if it were not too late to start over, and that even at 50, such an emotion could be sought once more. "},{"Title":"This is a film of introspection and marvelous performances. A central theme of the film is that people can transform their lives to become more fulfilled.","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I realize you have been hurt. If I've done anything wrong, I'm sorry. Please forgive me. I accept your condemnation. You are a member of Amnesty International and the ACLU. And the head of the philosophy department. Impossible! These are two of my favorite quotes from the Woody Allen film, Another Woman. I like them each equally well but for different reasons. The first is such an outrageous statement by a phony pomposity of an ego so far gone as to defy augury and the other hits a little too close to home with the exception of being the head of the philosophy department. Woody Allen strikes gold here with his study of intellectual angst and mid life crisis. It would not be too much of an exaggeration to declare this film to be a mini-masterpiece.I ran across this neglected, forgotten and, probably one you never heard of mini-masterpiece while scrolling through HULU one night looking for something decent to watch. Oh, a film by Woody Allen! Let me check it out. Probably seen it before but what the heck? So I cued it up and started watching. Curiously enough I didn't remember anything about it and was soon captivated and mesmerized by the haunting voice-over by one of it's stars and the brilliant cinematography of one of the worlds foremost cinematographers.Another Woman was released in late 1988 and runs for 81 minutes. It was written and directed by Woody Allen. It stars Gena Rowlands as Marion Post, a middle aged philosophy teacher who is on sabbatical to write a book. It is her voice-over we hear as the movie begins. She is describing her life as accomplished and reasonably well settled.She rents an apartment downtown to work on her book without distraction and discovers that she is able to overhear the conversation between a patient (Mia Farrow) and her psychiatrist through the heating vents coming from the adjoining apartment. At first Marion blocks off the sound with pillows but later she starts to listen in. The patient is despondent, pregnant, and thinking of ending her life. Her name ironically is Hope.This conversation gets Marion to thinking about her own life and through series of coincidences, ruminations and, flashbacks, she encounters people from previous times in her life and she discovers she is not as happy as she thought she was.This is a film of introspection and marvelous performances. A central theme of the film is that people can transform their lives to become more fulfilled. To say the film was Bergmanesque is rather stating the obvious. It has long been known that Woody has been greatly influenced by the Swedish master, Ingmar Bergman. Some say that this film resembles Wild Strawberries but I think it is more Persona like, which was also photographed by Sven Nykvist, Bergman's favored cinematographer.This is a wonderful film which I highly recommend. "},{"Title":"Gena Rowlands at Her Best in Woody Allen Classic","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Gena Rowlands lives in her own world, really. She is married but is self-sufficient and, as she will soon find out, her world is coming apart. She is a very intelligent and well-educated woman but is one of those people who can't see past the end of their nose. In writing her latest book, she rents office space for quiet but is distracted by a voice confessing to a psychiatrist. She is enamored by the vulnerable and lost voice (Mia Farrow) and in the process learns about herself. In dealing with family members, her eyes are slowly beginning to open to see her own flaws and how to forgive herself and others. Gena Rowlands gives a spectacular performance in this introspective, insightful and intuitive Woody Allen film. It's beyond me why Gena was never recognized by Oscar for this film, or how this film never has gotten as much recognition as other Woody Allen films, like Hannah and Her Sisters and Annie Hall and even Interiors. This is a film not just for women but for all who demand intelligence and something challenging and worthwhile in the movies they see. No one can really write films like Woody Allen, where less is more. This short film will leave you thinking about your own life and how you get along with others. A tour de force for Gena Rowlands and Woody Allen! "},{"Title":"A Minor Work From Allen","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In every classroom, there is a genius, and chances are, that genius will be big on brains but low on social skills. You may dislike them greatly for their seemingly thesaurused vocabulary and cool diction, but they would never know it. They're caught up in themselves, more keen to boast their brightness when they should be showing their warmth. Marion Post (Gena Rowlands) is that kind of girl, except she's grown gracefully into middle-age, has been married for years, and has a job as a university administrator that satisfies her intellectual needs. She's content.Currently, she's writing a novel. Her apartment, however, is distracting, sometimes too noisy when she needs to be alone with her thoughts. She rents a small flat that fits her needs perfectly &#x96; or so it seems. After only a few minutes into her preparation, she discovers that a psychiatrist's office is next door, as she can hear every conversation through a noisy air vent in the middle of the living room. At first, she places pillows over the accidental speaker. But after accidentally overhearing a hysterical patient (Mia Farrow), Marion becomes fascinated. The exchange between the psychiatrist and his patient is interesting to say the least, but Marion finds it precariously relevant in her own life. As she begins eavesdropping on a regular basis, she finds herself reexamining every detail of her existence. It seems that her marriage, friendships, and familial ties are not as ideal as they seem.Woody Allen tries to plunge into the psychological depths of Bergman with Another Woman, but the film is frequently overwrought in its intellect, pretentious even. Allen has tried drama several times, more often than not with success. 1978's Interiors was stirring in its melancholy catharsis, and future endeavors, such as 2005's Match Point and 2014's Blue Jasmine, explored new territory with the same if not more accomplishment.Another Woman feels more like an experiment that could have been left as a novel or a short story. At only 81 minutes, it's somewhat abrupt. The ending lets us know that Marion is planning to change her life for the better, but how? Throughout the film, we see her cold shouldering nearly everyone on a regular basis &#x96; is she suddenly going to heat up her shoulder and hope for the best?It's a stupid question I pose, I know, but I think the real problem with the film is how controlled it feels. There is no danger. There is no looseness. It wants to be stark in its atmosphere, and it is, but if it's going to hold back emotional texture, there should be something to fill in for that gaping hole. Another Woman is like an exercise, not a film. It isn't bad in the traditional sense, but in comparison to Allen's other movies, it's a filler, a transition, if you will.There is plenty for the actors to do Rowlands, who spent most of the '70s and '80s in her husband's (John Cassavetes) films, ties up her untamed hair and colorful wardrobe for a tight up-do and a bland turtleneck, giving one of her most affecting and impressive performances in the process. Hackman's longing desire is pungent, and Farrow is a force of gloominess in her few scenes. But even though Another Woman is well made and, at times, poignant, it doesn't have enough meat to make it any less than a forgettable exploration for one of cinema's greatest directors. "},{"Title":"Very similar in atmosphere to My Dinner With Andre","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a serious drama by Woody Allen, not the usual neurotic romantic comedy genre that he is known of. I loved this movie, although after wards I felt it was familiar to another film I had seen recently. And that is My Dinner With Andre, where the music (Satie) and brown greenish colors create the same atmosphere. But both movies are great and make you think and evaluate life in a different way. This one is about a woman who has recently turned 50. She has rented a room to write a book, but when working, she suddenly overhears patients talking to a psychologist next door through an air vent. After listening to a particular patient played by Mia Farrow, she realizes she has alienated many people from here life because of her coldness. Many chances have passed by, e.g. a child, or real love. After meeting this woman in a restaurant, she overhears the character played by Mia Farrow talking to the psychologist about their meeting, later on. I loved this wonderfully voyeuristic and insightful twist,and this is just another winner of Woody Allen, not in the least since the story is clever, and the drama is acted wonderfully - he always knows how to pick first rate actors. A must see! "},{"Title":"A film more to be appreciated than to be enjoyed","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Another Woman is not the easiest Woody Allen film to get into. It has some fine moments of observation, it allows several members of its outstanding cast a chance in the spotlight, and it comes to a beautiful, almost cathartic ending. But it often is as stuffy, suffocating and mannered as the type of character and lifestyle that it purports to condemn. Woody Allen is the master of balancing comedy with drama, as he has shown multiple times in his career; Another Woman represents one of the few times that he completely removes almost every ounce of comedy. Two years later, he made a film (Alice) that dealt pretty much with the same themes as Another Woman, but because he allowed comedy - and fantasy - back into it, without sacrificing some dead-serious moments, the result was more varied and more satisfying, to me at least. **1/2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"Lack of emotionality is a Defense Mechanism to help wade through life","Date":"4 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Maybe this movie is showing how persons who manage to suppress their emotions can less painfully experience all of life's problems, because they do not have to relentlessly talk about them, see psychiatrists, and ventilate emotional affectations onto everyone else - and suffer because of the emotional triggers. All of the other characters are just extensions of the Farrow character,Hope, and her emotionality which leads to the need to see a psychiatrist. Both Marion and her husband, the cardiologist, seem to pass through life unaffected by all the negative aspects since there is a void in their emotional makeup which lends to their compatibility. Their overall constitution seems to fit comfortably with each other (and there is no suggestion that the last other woman with whom Marion's husband is having an affair is demonstratively over emotional like the Hackman character was with Marion). Perhaps one might suggest that, regardless of one's constitution ( ie emotional,cold, and analytical), and because EVERYONE is doomed to endless conflict during life, characters like Marion and her husband will suffer far less than the norm. There is no perfect world and it would seem that humanity might benefit (ie suffer LESS) from a concerted effort in teaching, promoting, and rewarding cold and analytical personae as well as suppression of individual emotionality. Since this concept is silly, I would simply say that people like Marion and her husband have an advantage at gliding through life with less pain and we should leave them alone to live it. There may be no merit in forcing emotionality onto those who do not have it. "}{"Title":"Woody Allen's most poignant film- really beautiful stuff","Date":"16 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Of the full-on serious drama films(Interiors, September and Another Woman), Another Woman is for me the best one. Interiors is still a great film but an acquired taste and it did ramble a little at times and September is also good and was better on re-watch. Another Woman is such a beautiful film and Allen has probably not done a more emotionally affecting film, and is close to perfect. It looks gorgeous especially with Sven Nykvist's typically wonderful cinematography and the dark and surreal colours are also eye-catching. The music is some of the most understated of any of Allen's films and good thing too, anything louder would have spoilt the mood, the piano as the instrument couldn't have been a more perfect choice. The script is incredibly thought-provoking and reflective, as well as usually with Allen painfully truthful and the odd bit of subtle humour, and the story is very layered and told with much intensity and genuine emotional impact. It is by far the most poignant Allen film and the one I personally connected with the most. There's a definite Ingmar Bergman influence here, Interiors and September also did, but never in a way that feels ripped off, more of a homage if you will. The characters are developed beautifully and easy to connect with(compared to other characters in Allen's films), and Allen's direction has never been more intricate. The cast are all top-drawer but Gena Rowlands is stunning- one of her, perhaps her very, best performances- and her haunting narration sublime. Ian Holm is delightfully priggish and Gene Hackman is remarkably moving as a conflicted character, one that is different to other characters he's done. Mia Farrow's role is rather small but she is very restrained and plaintive and appropriately so. Blythe Danner also gives one of her better performances in one of her best films and John Housemann, Sandy Dennis and David Ogden Stiers give more than able support. The ending is somewhat abrupt but incredibly moving. Overall, a beautiful film and among his better films, and Allen to me has never done anything more poignant. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"My rating 8","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm not sure about the translation of the title, but that's the movie is good to be watched I'm sure. It is not really for the taste of the masses, because talks about people celebrating fifty years of age who gradually turned his gazed back to the past where they find only old failures and lost moments of happiness.A second focus, it's about the life of a woman, a professor of philosophy encompassing loneliness slowly realizing it into her second marriage. Completely absorbed in her successful career and relying on the correctness of the cold and sober thought, she remembers how she escaped from the uncertainty of the adventure, which has been offered by true love, choosing the safety of the moral, ethical and pragmatic. Recalls also to have an abortion before that.When things between her and her second husband did not received (catching him with another woman), the protagonist seeks refuge in solitude, additions to her book and thinking about things that have happened to her over the years. This brought her to questions such as whether the memory is something you have or something you've lost. And whether happiness is living with someone or moment of a day alone with him without the interference of others.http//vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Another Woman is one of Woody's best.","Date":"9 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of Woody Allen's best movies. Gena Rowlands always knocks my socks off, and she's at her best here. Gene Hackman seemed out of place, but Ian Holm was right on target with his characterization. The movie is chock full of some of the best actors of the day Blythe Danner, David Ogden Stiers, John Houseman, and Sandy Dennis, to name just four, and the script uses them well.The script is excellent, and the character development is relentless as the plot draws us to its climax. The intertwining of separate lives into one story is well done. A great film for adults. If you haven't seen it since it came out, it's time to see it again. "},{"Title":"Worth revisiting","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's funny, this is a film I enjoyed much more on a recent DVD viewing than I did on it's initial release. Originally I found myself distanced, experiencing it as an intellectual exercise. This time around I found the ending very moving. I found some of the acting flat out great (Gene Hackman, Gena Rowlands), and a lot very, very good, (Ian Holm, Martha Plimpton). The biggest weak spots are Rowland's voice overs which often awkwardly, coldly explains things the visuals are already giving us with far more subtlety and emotion.But for a film that was relatively ignored at the time of its release, its a surprisingly worthwhile addition to the body of Allen's stronger work. "},{"Title":"A Simple, Intelligent Reflection of Human Weakness","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Another Woman is a very good film because it is subtle. Gena Rowlands plays an ordinary person named Marion, a philosophy professor at a university, who decides to write a book in her free time. The turning point in the story comes when she begins to listen to psychiatric sessions next door to a small apartment she rents. What leads her there is nothing more than the scenario that loud construction has begun outside her initial office. As a philosophy professor, she comes to her own conclusions about the pregnant patient next door, played with the signature timidness of Mia Farrow, which she can't do much about. Yet the script is a portrait of the microcosm of Marion's life, how she is compelled by a completely unaware person to analyze and become more sensitive to it.Marion's voice narrates candidly to us her thinking, perspective, impressions, and ultimately, her metamorphosis. Together with the details that she shares about herself, her introductory annotation suggests that she is not yet in a situation to take up any sort of introspection, particularly one that might prove tough and challenging. She favors not to dredge too far within since her life appears to be working.Woody's gentle buried treasure, one of his strongest dramas, soon unravels that her impression in this respect is wrong, as we all must be to some extent when we feel this way, and something in her life is intensely, tragically off-kilter. Her storytelling voice, particularly in those opening scenes, is supine, neutral, and it sounds as if to lack much of an emotional dimension. Her misconception about the condition of her life will emerge from being embedded in a deep-seated emotional suppression, and her ensuing compulsion to keep an interpretive arm's length from significant, intimate relationships. But as long as she is kept from delving further into the merit of her life, she will not discover the expanse of her denial nor see her life and its relationships for what they really are. Her biggest dilemma, as a result, is her lack of self-knowledge.We become familiar with her biggest dilemma through recurring cases in point in which her impression of herself, as well as her impression of how others view her, are shown as out of place with reality, played out in her various personal relationships.Woody Allen does not fashion a psychologically challenging film of atonality and dissonant style. He creates a pervading mood of calm in which we welcome the subdued melodrama of Rowlands's life, an atmosphere wonderfully sustained by the simplistic, Venusian beauty of Satee's music. It's a movie that we can look to as a reflection of our weaknesses without the thick wall of pretentious intricacy and style many other directors would have cast upon it.Gena Rowlands plays Marion, the emotionally uncommunicative professor, with the timid charm and realistic companionship she brings to all of her films. As wife and regular of highly influential independent filmmaker John Cassavetes, she is not a film actress who takes anything short of juicy, substantial roles to which she brings a breezy comfort that comforting to watch. "},{"Title":"Perceptive study of a fascinating character","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Woody Allen likes his big ensemble dramas (Hannah and Her Sisters, Crimes and Misdemeanors) and is largely successful with them, but it's refreshing when he concentrates on one central character -- as he does in The Purple Rose of Cairo and again here with Marion.  Making inventive use of the tools of cinema (the use of flashbacks in this film is most intelligent, and Marion's voice-over narration is never intrusive), Allen delves into her psyche in such a way that we understand her about as well as she understands herself at the end of the film.  Of course, it helps immeasurably that she is played by Gena Rowlands, an actress who brings great depth to Marion and allows us to see past her cold, seemingly emotionless exterior.All in all, a big step up from the disappointing September. "},{"Title":"On turning 50, Marion Post looks back on her life to find it's not quite what she had thought it was...","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The reviewer said it best, This is a masterpiece. I've watched this film at least 50 times, and it is deeply moving. It is a film which stays with you forever, even after the first viewing. If you are willing to grant the film its premises, and to take its values as they are presented by the film, you will be absorbed into the most introspective inner dialogue available in cinema. Woody Allen at his directional best, this film is an amazing accomplishment. Thank you, Woody! I will remember you for this film most of all! "},{"Title":"Wonderful portrayal of an upper middle class professor who realizes that all is not well","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Absolute to the mark acting - Gena Rowlands seems so real that I feel I know her.  Perfect protrayal of a segment of New York society - upper middle class professional.  Great supporting cast - Ian Holm is great as usual. Entire ensemble cast is perfect. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen at his best","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  To me, this is Woody Allen at his best.  He is the master of the character study and these characters are so rich and complex I never got tired of hearing their dialogue.  Gena Rowlands is brilliant as an austere intellectual looking inward on her life's choices, and seeing Gene Hackman is always wonderful.  I particularly liked his appearance in this film (all too brief) as a somewhat sentimental, love stricken man.  The writing of this film falls somewhere between brilliance and masterpiece.  The ending is just perfect, not too syrupy sweet as it would have been as a major Hollywood release, but still with an element of hope. "},{"Title":"Another Woman","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Honest and intelligent drama from Woody Allen about a woman  who realizes she has led an unemotional life and must look in the past to find a path to the future. Superb film with outstanding performances from Gena Rowlands, who is priceless as a passionate woman trying to find herself amidst the madness of the world and Hackman as the one man who truly knows her for the loving woman she has strived her whole life to become.  "}{"Title":"Another Bergman.","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After borrowing heavily from Ingmar Bergman in Interiors, A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy and September, Woody Allen all but remade Bergman's classic Wild Strawberries in this tale of an emotionally frozen doctor reflecting on her life.  While Wild Strawberries is a masterpiece, this is still an engaging, intense little film, with an award-calibre lead performance by Gena Rowlands and a priceless cameo turn by Sandy Dennis. An underrated gem. "},{"Title":"First-rate, intense character study","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When Woody Allen is at the top of his form, as he is here, he can be counted among the best directors. Allen also wrote the screenplay and this is one of his serious works. Although intense, it is not depressing. Nobody has a better take on the foibles, neuroses, and temperaments of upper class intellectuals than Allen. The approach here is more of understanding and compassion than cynical.The story is that of Marion Post (Gena Rowlands), a German scholar and head of the philosophy department at an exclusive college. It appears that Marion could give Martha Stewart a run for her money as to living the perfect life. She is married to a successful cardiologist, has an active social life, is a respected academic, is physically attractive, dresses with taste, and lives in an elegantly decorated house. She is on sabbatical and beginning to write a book. A confluence of events conspire to expose to Marion what a price she has paid to live her perfect life. She comes to see how severely she has restricted her emotional life and how little data she has taken about how others react to her. She has applied her critical faculties to everything but herself. The movie follows Marion's introspection and ultimate transformation. An initial event exposes us to Marion's formidable, protective emotional barrier built up over fifty years her sister-in-law asks her for a loan and, during that conversation, tells Marion that, while in some ways her brother idolizes her, he also hates her. Marion's response is I don't accept that. But this event begins Marion's thinking about her life; it is a tiny crack that will widen to a major fissure as events unfold.Gena Rowlands gives a knockout, Oscar-worthy, performance. The large supporting cast of highly talented actors is uniformly excellent and it is difficult to single anyone out. John Houseman surely must have been happy with this as his final performance. Much insight is added by reaction shots, by letting the camera linger on a face after conversations are finished. Seeing Gene Hackman's reaction after Marion terminates a discussion of his confession of love gives an added piece of understanding of both him and Marion. Many of Marion's scenes are extended reaction shots to conversations she overhears through neighboring walls, and you can read more from her expressions than if she were to describe her emotions.The eye of the artist is evident in every scene - the sets, the lighting, the composition of the shots, and the pacing are flawless. The attention to detail is noteworthy - for example, notice in the scenes with lighted candles how their flames flow consistently with the action.Many of Allen's preoccupations are mentioned, but sometimes in a humorous, satirical, almost self-mocking way. In a dream sequence when a psychiatrist asks his patient what outrages her, she responds Life, the universe, the cruelty, the injustice, the suffering of humanity, illness, aging, death.This movie involves you deeply in Marion's struggle and transformation. Its pure artistry delights.The story lines of Another Woman and Bergman's Wild Strawberies are so strikingly similar that Bergman's film must have inspired Allen's, but I think that in this particular case the student has surpassed the master in producing a superior work.The ending has the effect you get when clouds part to let a little sunlight through. Marion has become another woman, but just how different that woman will be from the earlier Marion is not clear. "},{"Title":"... but this one...","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ... is near perfection! i watch it repeatedly & have over the course of many years. in my own humble opinion, Gena Rowlands is our greatest living American actress (just watch lovestreams or a woman under the influence or minnie & moskowitz. 'nuff said) & Sandy Dennis was similarly brilliant (who's afraid of virginia wolfe or up the down staircase or that cold day in the park). there is 1 key & breathtakingly acted, pivotal scene where Gena & Sandy are together, confronting each other, which forces Rowland's character to re-examine & re-evaluate her life. it is harrowing. two actresses that perhaps personified insecurities, instability & hope were directed here by , i think, the best American director we have available to portray those elements of a character. like i said, some (several) of the scenes are harrowing, so lift your skirts, ladies. we're journeying into hell.-bobby cormier "},{"Title":"Not one of Allen's greatest films, but an interesting one, nonetheless","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Many viewers have likened Another Woman (1988) to the work of Ingmar Bergman, no doubt as a result of certain similarities to the themes of Wild Strawberries (1957). Although these elements are apparent, I find certain parts of the film just as reminiscent of Tarkovsky; with the idea of memory and regret informing a personal story that has subtle shades of deeper interpretation, all pertaining to the spaces between fact and fiction, happiness and despair. Although I don't think it's one of Allen's greatest films, it does work; and the sense of emotion and the ideas expressed become more successful as the film progresses towards its somewhat more hopeful, and indeed, reflective final act. However, the lead up to this particular revelation, still pregnant with uncertainly and quiet anticipation, is a long and winding one; focusing on the issues of guilt, failure and a crisis of identity as the characters maintain a polite air of dignity and outward civility whilst crumbling from within.Like many of Allen's films that don't feature his typical on screen persona as the principal focus of attention, Another Woman looks at a protagonist that is difficult to appreciate from an audience's perspective; in this instance, a cold, arrogant and condescending upper-middle class intellectual facing a crossroad in her existence as she approaches her 50th birthday. Like the characters in the similarly structured Interiors (1978) and September (1987), the choice of character and her personal portrayal is vital to the film but difficult for the audience to get a hold of. Her initial characteristics, combined with the self-assured narration, make it harder for us to interact with her on a personal level, while her interactions with other characters and attempts to learn more about them ultimately cast a further, negative light on her own failings and insecurities. Through this particular devise, Allen is able to more closely examine the themes behind the film, ultimately creating something of an epiphany that will affect every character within in the story, but only as an extension of Marion herself.Like many of Allen's characters, Marion suffers from the typical trait of complaining about problems that she herself has created through arrogance and a lack of sympathy. The fact that she herself cannot appreciate this fact for the bulk of the film makes her even harder to sympathise with as she continues to look down on people and place them under the microscope as if insects there to be studied. However, for once, these qualities - no matter how seemingly repellent in the early parts of the film - do eventually lead the plot to somewhere greater. It still isn't handled with the finesse or imagination of films like Manhattan (1979), Stardust Memories (1980), Crimes and Misdemeanours (1989), Husbands and Wives (1992), etc, but you can see Allen's intent and confidence in approaching this character and the complicated themes that the film presents.Regardless of the flaws of the character and the flawed nature of some of the performances (particularly those in the minor and supporting roles) the film has a fascinating quality that leaves it open to a variety of deeper and more personal interpretations. For example, the implication behind the title - which is an important factor in truly understanding the various personal strands littered throughout the film - is never fully explained, though it is hinted at in such a way so as to suggest elements of further, meta-textual interpretation. Firstly, we can see it as an extension of Marion's guilt in regards to her various relationships in life; for example, she meets her second husband while he's still living with his previous wife, making her literally the other woman; the seductress, the home wrecker, etc. Later in the film we find out that that her husband is now having another affair, this time with a family friend. Again, she has become the other woman. She is also in the constant shadow of her mother; an enigmatic character in love with nature and the arts, and yet stifled by her cold, intellectual husband and the responsibilities of raising a family.Finally, the intention of the title is most obviously presented by Marion's interest and eventual relationship with the tragic and mysterious Hope; a young, pregnant woman plagued by various psychological problems and suicidal thoughts. Marion literally finds Hope when she rents an apartment that shares an adjoining wall with a psychiatrist's office, where a flaw in the ventilation systems makes it possible to eavesdrop on the various conversations. In discovering Hope, Marion is able to contextualise her own life and failures in comparison to this tragic young woman alive with desires for art and creative fulfilment, but shackled by the oppression of everyday living. It is almost as if Hope is an extension of Marion's personality; a vision of what could have been had she allowed her life to take a different direction, or a cipher that allows her to finally realise how meaningless and empty her own life truly is.In creating the character of Hope, Allen is intelligent enough to leave the broader qualities a complete mystery. As a result, the very nature of Hope, from her brief appearances in the film to the way that Allen frames her within the drama, suggest an almost imaginary figure; an expansion of Marion's own personality and a way for her to analyse herself, psychologically, in a way that reduces the chance for her own ego to rationalise her mistakes and complications. By creating this other woman, Marion is able to view herself objectively, finally finding hope in the literal sense and being able to change her personality and direction in life for the better. The ultimate revelation of this makes the film far more interesting and rewarding than it initially seems, with Allen looking at a number of weighty psychological themes and uncomfortable personal questions in a way that, regardless of its flaws, eventually makes for an intelligent and captivating drama. "},{"Title":"A superb and psychologically accurate tale of change.","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is Woody Allen at his best.  In spite of the evidence in his personal life to the contrary, Woody Allen understands human nature, especially what it means to be psychologically frozen and unaware.  The film portrays the psychological awakening of Marion, a middle aged professor, triggered by an accidental vicarious therapy experience.  She overhears therapy sessions of a young woman, and this experience and those that follow lead her to a process of self reflection.  She must confront the emptiness of her life and the many mistakes she has made in the past.  She realizes that she must change her life "},{"Title":"Quite Depressing! 3/10","Date":"12 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Review I couldn't really get into this movie. I found it pretty dull and depressing. I know that the main character is supposed to be going through a mid-life crisis, but it seemed very one toned and the storyline was all over the place. I did feel for the main character, whose played by Gena Rowland, because she didn't really feel loved by her husband and she lusted over Gene Hackman, but the film seemed to drag from one scene to the next. I was constantly waiting for something major to happen, especially with the conversations that she hearing through her door with the psychiatrist, but that just led to a dead end. On the plus side, the acting wasn't bad and the variety of characters were well put together, but I think that Woody Allen should have made use of Gene Hackman a bit more. In all, it's a deep drama with some some emotional scenes but it just didn't do it for me. Average! Round-Up This is yet another project from Woody Allen which is based around troubled relationships and infidelity. It doesn't have any of Allen's typical wit or annoying one liners, which is a plus, but it could have done with a twist or something out of the norm. Judging by the amount of money that this movie lost at the box office, I'm not alone with thinking that this was a disappointing look at a woman questioning the decisions that she had made in her life. I'm glad that Woody Allen didn't choose Mia Farrow as the lead, because it would have been really hard to watch, but it still lacks a certain punch. Anyway, I'm not a big fan of Gena Rowland's movies so I wasn't that disappointed with the outcome. Budget $10million Worldwide Gross $1.5millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there Woody Allen movies about a lady whose going through a mid-life crisis and questions her love for her husband. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Another Woman (1988) *** (out of 4) A middle aged, emotionless writer (Gena Rowlands) rents an apartment next to a psychiatrist office where she hears another woman (Mia Farrow) talk about her life and soon the writer begins to take a look at the choices she has made in life. This is Allen doing another Ingmar Bergman impersonation and for the most part he pulls it off. The film runs 80-minutes, which is both a good thing and a bad thing. The good thing is that Allen takes his time telling the story and there are a few parts that drag so I'm glad the film didn't run any longer. However, I think part of the reason the film drags is because some of the supporting characters, like Rowlands' husband, aren't written out enough so perhaps a longer film could have done this. As with Bergman and Allen's previously made Interiors, this film certainly isn't going to be for everyone due to how depressing and dark it is but Allen's dialogue and the cinematography by Sven Nykvist really makes for a beautiful picture. Rowlands is extremely good in her role and she carries enough intelligence that she doesn't need dialogue to get her feelings across. One of the final scenes between Rowlands and her brother is incredibly touching without any long speeches needed. Farrow is also very good in her few scenes in the film as is Ian Holm but I wish his character would have been a tad bit better written. Gene Hackman really steals the film in his few scenes as a man in love with Rowlands. This isn't one of Allen's greatest pictures but I think it shows what a truly unique talent he is in the way he can handle the dark drama of the film. "},{"Title":"not one of the best of the serious Woody Allen films, but it's still underrated, with superb acting","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Another Woman demonstrates Woody Allen at going, perhaps even further than Interiors (and we know how far he went with that), into his Ingmar Bergman homage realm of drama. Of course, this is never a bad thing if done right; Bergman was the top of the pops of dramatists in dealing with the human psyche, fragile human relationships, and the disintegration &/or deconstruction of the human condition involving intellectually cool but emotionally crippled folk. In this case Allen has a character that might fit in well with Bergman, or even with one of the old Swedish playwrights Bergman loved so Marion Post (Rowlands), a philosophy professor on leave to write a book, who started off her relationship with Ken (Holm) as an affair he was having with his wife, who had cancer. There's more infidelity to come in the story, and more past ghosts as well (revealed, also in Bergmanian fashion, as a dream with the visions of the past on a stage in a theater). But Marion, left to her herself during the day at home, finds that the next door psychiatrist's office is within ear's reach, and she can hear everything being said- notably by a fragile case, played by Mia Farrow- and it becomes a private obsession which triggers a whole host of new feelings, or an awareness of the wasteland that's formed around her and within her.So, yeah, deep stuff. And to be sure there is a good load of Allen's usual notices of the soul stripped away under the garnish of the upper-middle class bourgeois of New York. And, as always, Rowlands is terrific in digging under the skin of this character, giving her so much revelation to the audience, even (and especially) when she's just listening to the conversations which may or may not be taking place next door. But there's almost a line Allen crosses here that starts to blur the line- as the argument often goes with Tarantino and his films- of homage and 'rip-off'. There's material here that does come from Allen's creativity in branching out as a dramatist, of taking a deeper glance at people he usually skewers comically in farce or satire. But the style, filled with narration that feels like it would work better in a novel than in a film, starts to make the style feel clunky, leading up to that somewhat predictable climax with Holm and, subsequently in a sense, Hackman.This isn't to say it's not a good, solid drama that tries to pierce the empty spaces of a person like Marion who has loads of intelligence but a confused spirit, tarnished by her affairs and loves lost and her rocky past with her father and brother. And with Sven Nykvist around as DP it's hard not to get a few memorable shots in there. It's just short of a (possible) masterpiece is probably the only complaint. "},{"Title":"a delicious coming of middle age story","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  performance by rowlands alone makes this worth seeing. the movie takes you on a journey from seeing what makes the life of this successful woman so enjoyable, to seeing that she really isn't that happy. She has suffered many hardships in her life. i love the way the story is woven together and rowlands' life is depicted in her now self but in the same situations she was in twenty years ago, ten years ago, a year ago. She sees the way she has treated the people in her life, including her brother, who was treated the lesser by her father, who feels he has been far too hard on his daughter his whole life. The story winds up in an interesting  state when rowlands, due to her husband cheating on her, winds up alone again. It seems she has put her true feelings in the backseat her whole life, but now she is becoming...another woman...loved it.  "},{"Title":"woody's a picture","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Of all the movies woody's made ,i think this is up there with the best of them .The acting is superb particularrily rowland and hackman and the script one of woody's best,i dont think he has ever written for women better.This is definatly not just a derivative take on bergman's wild strawberries although it does share themes and ideas but it's like saying any love story is derivative of romeo and juliet.It stands on it's own merits as testament to mr.allens cinematic genius my only wish is that he makes some more of those earlier serious films  "}{"Title":"dry direction--wonderful acting","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There are two Woody Allens. The chaotic director of comedy and the stiff director of drama. On occasion, he has managed to meld the two brilliantly, such as in Manhattan or Hannah and Her Sisters. On occasion, the contrast in an individual film is disastrous, such as in Crimes and Misdemeanors or Manhattan Murder Mystery.Here, there is only the drama. The film is compelling, with wonderful supporting performances by Gene Hackman and Ian Holm. But this is without a doubt Gena Rowlands' movie. She has always been an exceptional actress, but here the performance is so raw and moving.Gena's character is slowly beginning to awaken to her life's regrets--how she unconsciously distances everyone and as a result, despite a marriage and successful career, really has little to show for herself. She is a very lonely person.The film captures the audience. For anyone that has an emptiness inside them, they will surely relate to the movie and character. But be forewarned the ending, although slightly optimistic in a realistic way, will leave many sad and aching. "},{"Title":"I think, therefore I think","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A friend of mine asked me to take time off from my bowling night to watch this movie and to comment on it. Gena Rowlands' performance is fine, but what really strikes me is that it's a cry for help by the intellectual academic community that will only be heard by similarly challenged intellectuals. There's a further irony it adds to whom it may concern the same type of baggage that poor ol' Marion so desperately needs to shed. I wonder if Woody privately laughed at this closed self-referential loop he has his audience running in, or if he actually realizes how self-indulgent it is. Break out of the box! Go build a snowman, smoke dope, take the kids to the fairgrounds, have a Big Mac, pop a beer (drink from the bottle), go bowling --- and stop thinking, for god's sake... "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After the unfortunate September, it was a treat to see Allen in top form on Another Woman.  His use of mirrors (actual and human), flashbacks, dreams and simple (or not so simple) dinner conversation to examine and amplify Marion's life is without parallel - repeat viewings only deepen one's appreciation of this overlooked film. "},{"Title":"Woody's Worst","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Allen unleashes his inner Bergman and the result is a resounding dud. As usual, Woody assembles a terrific cast of big names, but they don't look comfortable spewing the pretentious lines that he feeds them. The script is not only heavy-handed but also mind-numbingly boring. Rowland is a capable actress but she mostly looks lost in the central role of a professor facing a mid-life crisis. As with his earlier Interiors, Allen feels that a drama should be completely devoid of humor to be taken seriously. Unfortunately, while the characters babble on and on, they don't say anything interesting. Even at 81 minutes, it seems overlong. "},{"Title":"An early glimpse into the canker in the rose of Woody Allen's privileged, insular universe","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  More like a painter than a movie director, Woody Allen can be broken down into distinct `periods.'   He broke wholly (if temporarily) from comedy in 1978 with the Bergmanesque Interiors, a departure which failed to net him expected acclaim.  In 1987, with September, he returned to somber, introspective drama unencumbered with mirth, and followed it up the next year with Another Woman.  Whatever else can be said about these three works, they show more integrity and hold more interest than the soured, indifferent movies he began to issue in the late &#145;90s.  But, even earlier, the canker was gnawing at the rose.In Another Woman, Gena Rowlands plays an academic on sabbatical trying to write a book.  Money seems no problem to her, as to most of the characters in Allen's universe (when construction noises outside her huge, pre-war uptown apartment disturb her concentration, she just leases a smaller one downtown, in the high-rent Manhattan of the late-Reagan boom years).  But faulty ventilation enables her to eavesdrop on the clients of a psychiatrist whose suite lies next door.  One of them (Mia Farrow, in a peripheral role) begins to obsess her, but, again as with most of Allen's characters, the obsession is not so much with another human being but with her own reactions, moods and memories; Farrow merely primes the pump.Rowlands' life is replayed through her own voice-over narrative, flashbacks, and dreams (in which staged theatrical productions are mounted).  Her second husband (Ian Holm), another cool cucumber, is carrying on with a mutual friend (Blythe Danner), much as Holm carried on with Rowlands when married to his first wife (Betty Buckley).  Rowlands' older first husband, her professor at Bryn Mawr (nobody gains entry to Allen's world without a prestigious sheepskin), may have killed himself, possibly as a late reaction to the abortion she secured against his wishes (he had already arrived when she was just starting out).  Her brother (Harris Yulin) never made much of himself &#150; he works in a crummy office on a metal desk &#150; and so is shunned by her and by their crusty, success-conscious father (John Houseman). Rowlands finally encounters Farrow in a `cluttered and dusty' antique shop that paradoxically dazzles with freshly polished lustre; they go to lunch together, and the younger woman accelerates Rowlands' ordeal of self-assessment. Taking many long walks to clear her head, she runs into people who are none too thrilled to see her or she them (Sandy Dennis, as a former best friend, steals her two brief scenes).  The short movie ends, rather abruptly, with Rowlands claiming finally to be at peace after reading a novel by an old flame (Gene Hackman).  Completing the self-referential circle, it's one in which she had inspired a character.Socrates' maxim about an unexamined life not being worth living may be good advice to hoi polloi, but certainly not for those who've made it.  Memories start churning, the detritus of past relationships, past mistakes floats up, and Rowlands and her set are flabbergasted &#150; deeply offended &#150; that such unseemly happenings should befall them.  They're in such bad taste.  It's as though the creative, richly remunerative careers they've contrived to attain, as well as the connoisseur's lifestyle (Klimt, Mahler, the `original French production of La Gioconda') that comes in their wake, justify and negate all the trimming and compromises and self-delusion that went before.  It's only the warm and comfortable destination that counts; the arduous journey there is best forgotten.It's a credo Allen seems in full sympathy with &#150; he's long since stopped celebrating where he came from (as artists generally do) in order to celebrate where he fancies he's risen to (and though his penthouse may be on the East Side, he's still not an old-money WASP &#150; and like John O'Hara, another arriviste snob, he never went to college).  And yet more keenly than any other film-maker, Allen remains a merciless satirist of smug intellectuals, destructive solipsists and careerist phonies, although it's not entirely clear he knows it. "},{"Title":"Gina Rowlands' formidable performance","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Marian (Gina Rowlands) is a philosophy professor living in New York who rents an apartment on the other side of town to provide a quiet environment where she can work on her new book. Unfortunately she finds that, due to a quirk of the air conditioning system, she can hear every word spoken in the next apartment, which happens to be a psychiatrist's consulting room. In particular, she overhears the heavily-pregnant Hope (Mia Farrow) talking about her suicidal urges. This is familiar Woody Allen territory but without Woody Allen and without the jokes. We have psychotherapy, embarrassing confrontations and marital infidelity. Another recurring Allen theme is the reality of the film reinterpreted as fiction or as a play or as a dream. In fact we are never sure whether Marian really is hearing Hope in the next room or whether her hearing voices is part of some depressive illness.Gina Rowlands gives a formidable performance as Marian but she looks as if she could eat her husband Ken alive and Ian Holm appears uncomfortable in the part. We are told that he is a brilliant surgeon but he never seems to go to work and never seems to be on call. They spend every evening socialising with friends. As is not uncommon in Woody Allen films, the characters do not seem to have time to earn a living, they are too busy sitting around analysing their problems.Allen reuses the idea of eavesdropping on a therapy session in Everyone Says I Love You, but with comic effect  "},{"Title":"The Better of Two Gloomy Woody Allen Dramas from the Same Time Period","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Woody Allen was in a bad mood in 1988, for he made two of his most sombre films September and Another Woman. September is dreadful, but Another Woman is quite good. Gena Rowlands plays a troubled woman who overhears the therapy sessions of an anonymous younger woman (Mia Farrow) through the vents in her apartment, and whose life begins to be impacted by what she hears. The film is a character study that gives Rowlands freedom to act up a storm, which she does, well, and it gives an ensemble cast of recognizable faces juicy little parts as the people who come in and out of Rowlands' life.The biggest problem with Allen's dramas is that they're oppressive. He seems to think that a serious-themed film must be completely devoid of humour in order to be effective. Another Woman doesn't entirely escape that trap, but strong writing and acting carry it through and make it feel like more than a Bergman rip-off, which is exactly what September does feel like.Grade B "},{"Title":"woody does strasberg","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Woody gets to fulfill a lifelong fantasy in this film by casting some of the best film actors of the time, and have them play scenes just as though he were Lee Strasberg in the Actors' Studio.  Some of the scenes are quite good, as would be expected given the talent, some transparently Method, which is due to the fact that they are not reading Tennessee Williams or even Ingmar Bergman, whose classic Wild Strawberries forms the framework Woody hangs his collection of scenes upon.  Allen's lines are still devoid of real emotion and hence real drama, although the characters are sometimes believable.  If you like watching some truly fine actors riff on Woody's brand of soul-searching, you'll probably enjoy this.  "},{"Title":"Another Woman, Another Stinker *1/2","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Marion is the head of the Philosophy Department at a college who takes a leave of absence to write a book. As far as I'm concerned, she (Gena Rowlands) should have taken a leave from this terrible film.Marion, as in the case with too many of Woody's characters, has emotional hangups. Writing a book, the woman needed to be in therapy real fast.There is so much going on in this movie that yentas sitting in front of a building couldn't report it as quickly.Marion is on her 2nd marriage. Her husband is a cold doctor played by Ian Holm. At a pre-wedding party, Holm's first wife came in to slap her husband and condemn Marion for taking her husband away from her. Then, there's Holm's daughter, Martha Plimpton, who gets along very well with Marion but has her own emotional problems.Complicating all this, Marion's mother has died within the past few months, and her father, played by John Houseman, can't really dispose of his wife's belongings. A flashback shows him as a younger man (played by David Ogden Stiers) telling his son to work in a cardboard factory so that Marion can go to college.After talking about her friend, the latter suddenly shows up. Sandy Dennis, as the friend, condemns Marion for paying too much attention to her husband as well as a previous boyfriend.How could I forget to mention that Holm's friend, Gene Hackman, makes a play for Marion at the pre-wedding party.In writing her book, Marion can hear a psychiatrist talking in the next room to a patient. (Mia Farrow) Later, Marion befriends Farrow and then loses her as the movie thankfully ends.The film, which was Houseman's last, is ridiculous at best. Houseman looked in great pain. (He died the same year.) He managed to deliver his lines like Prof. Kingsfield in The Paper Chase. Dennis was very swollen, dying of cancer 4 years later, she was probably taking treatments.The best part of this farce is that Marion is recognizing that her marriage to Holm is coming apart. They are never alone and no longer sleep together. Naturally, while in a restaurant with Farrow, Marion sees Holm with a friend.It is tiring to see these emotionally strung-up women and men act out their problems. In a world full of problems, we don't need theirs. "}]