[{"Title":"My loyalties are all screwed up!","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** Shocking disturbing but at the same time penetrating film by director Costa-Garvras about terror in Americas heartland spilling over into the big city, Chicago. A popular but controversial Jewish talk show host Sam Kraus, Richard Libertini, gets gunned down by a group of white separatists in the garage of his apartment building the killers leave their calling card on the murder scene Z.O.G  Zionist occupied government. A phrase that the separatists use to refer to the US government all throughout the movie. The FBI in trying to find and arrest those who perpetrated the crime send agent Cathy Phillips/ Kathy Weaver, Debra Winger, undercover to the farm land in the area where they think that the killers come from. Due to the very high anti-government sentiment there with farmers in danger of losing their land. It turns out that Agent Phillips should have been the last person for the FBI to put on a case like that due to her very sad home and family life. Phillips lost her parents at a very young age and had no family her entire life but her employer the FBI which was anything but loving and personal to her.In the farm land and being undercover as Cathy Weaver she falls in love and lives with murder suspect Gary Simmons, Tom Berenger, and his family. Simmons is a widower with children who's mother also lives with him that has Cathy/Katie for the first time in her life have the family that she always longed for. This very fact is what Cathy says is Screwing up her loyalties to the government and FBI that she works for.Cathy/Katie desperately wants to be taken off the case before she betrays the man, Gary, as well as the family that she loves. Still the FBI refuses to do so because Cathy's in too deep and is too close to break the case on the Kraus killing.Gary is also very honest with Cathy/Katie by telling her about himself and what he and his friends, the anti-government white separatists, are all about. Gary even takes Cathy/Katie out one night to a Hunt where Gary and his friends hunt down and murder a terrified young black man in the back woods. This makes Cathy/Katie feel terribly guilty since she's not honest with Gary even though Gary is so brutally honest with her about himself.Debra Winger is phenomenal as the FBI undercover agent who's emotions are stronger the her senses and is tortured in what she's doing by setting up her lover as well as his family for the FBI. Even though he's a murder and is planing with his friends to commit a major attack and assassination of a number of top government leaders. Tom Berenger is as good as he ever was as the all-America Vietnam war hero who comes across as a cross between Gary Cooper and Jimmy Stewart that it's hard to believe that he not only believes the radical ideas that he openly talks about but also practices them. Meanwhile with all this going on there's a sinister sub-plot about an Illinois election that is connected with Gary's group that goes totally unnoticed by the FBI until it's too late that Gary kept from Cathy/Katie which exploded at the end of the film.Pre-dating April 19, 1995 Oklahoma City bombing by seven years and the 9-11 terrorists attacks on New York City and Washington D.C by thirteen the film is without a doubt one the best movie about terrorism on US soil ever made and It puzzles me why Costa-Garvras' Betrayed doesn't get the attention that it should after those two terrible events. "},{"Title":"He named his dog after Ronald Reagan.","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of those mythological films that I speak so highly of in other reviews. This was a gem hidden in the darkness. Looking at the cover, you would never guess that this would be such a powerhouse of a film, but let me be the first to say that it was. Berenger and Winger are amazing in their roles. Winger giving the best performance that I have ever seen her do, while Berenger takes a character riddled with evil and makes him human. When I first began this film, I was expecting a very true Hollywood production. One that would be dark at first, but all of the sudden create this happy world at the end. This film did nothing close to that. What was amazing about this film was that it let the audience make it's own decisions. Not much was handed to you on a silver platter. Upon the first ten minutes of this film, you would probably assume that it was a love story. It is anything BUT a love story. It is a crime/thriller/drama film, and quite possibly one of the strongest that I have seen in some time. There are some scenes in this film that I couldn't believe I was watching. The sheer brilliance of the director left me wondering if this film was really made in 1988. The cinematography was outstanding. There is one scene that stands out the most in my mind. After Berenger tries to put down his dying horse, he can't pull himself to shoot a living creature, so he has his side-kick do it. After it is done, he runs out into the rain behind Berenger wrapped in a plastic tarp. The image here is of the devil riding close behind. It is so vivid and so beautifully done that you can't help to wonder what that may represent. There are a couple of scenes very similar to this as well. Now, this isn't a film without some small flaws. The young girl was annoying. Perhaps I find young children in these types of films always to be annoying, but in this case it was especially bad. Also, there were some dopey scenes to this film. There were some parts that I felt I was the director of the film watching some bad lines happen between Berenger and Winger ... but it was only a couple. Betrayed ends like an open-ended question. It tells you that justice has been served, but not eliminated. It does not paint a pretty picture of our society. Be prepared if you see this for some embarrassing, yet disturbing images of ethnic hatred in this film. Some scenes that you will not believe ever happens in our country, but in the back of your mind you know certain evils do exist. But then also be prepared to see John Mahoney (of Say Anything... fame) do his best work ever. The war took his son, the bank took his land, why shouldn't he fight in this battle of supremacy? Dark and impressive ... WOW, I am lucky to have found this one.Grade ***** out of *****  "},{"Title":"Excellent film about Aryan nation and Alan Berg murder","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Betrayed is loosely based on the real life murder of a left-wing radio personality by the name of Alan Berg by a white supremacist group called The Order headed by a guy named Robert Mathews. The actual murder happened sometime in the 80s (I believe). In the film Debra Winger is an FBI agent sent undercover to a farming community in rural Illinois to find out information about a possible suspect (Tom Berenger) when a Chicago radio personality is killed.I've watched this film a number of times over the years. Something keeps pulling me back to it. As someone else mentioned, there are moments that really burn their way into your memory. I can't believe somebody else commented on it, but there is a moment after Tom Berenger's family horse is put down and as Bergener and a young Ted Levine are leaving the barn in the rain we see Levine wrapped in plastic holding the gun he used to shoot the horse and walking slightly behind Berenger. For some reason, I've always found the image haunting. Someone else said the image of Levine signifies the devil, which certainly makes sense.Another moment is when Winger and Berenger are watching through a window as the combine girls leave the motel and the entire scene is played out with the camera outside, and something is blocking the lower part of Berenger's face, so all we see throughout the scene are his eyes. And Winger says, I don't like people getting hurt. And Berenger says They aren't people. They're mud people. Something about it is very disturbing and strange.The racial tirades in the film are quite jarring, too. Especially when the kids say them. The ugliness and hatred of the words contrasts so sharply with the obvious innocence of the children. We see so clearly that the children are not inherently bad, and are simply being taught hatred, as someone would teach a child the alphabet.The hunting scene, as almost every reviewer has mentioned, is very disturbing, and is clearly meant to be disturbing. I still have trouble watching it.I do think this is an important film, however. Most films depict the Aryan nation and similar groups as quite simply evil, without offering any kind of logic or shape to what they are about. Betrayed is a film that actually dares to show them as real people. The character of Shorty, played by John Mahoney is a brilliant creation and his campfire speech to Debra Winger, explaining his motivation for behaving like he does, is extremely important for anyone who wants to learn why some people would join a radical group.Incidentally, there is also a (very disturbing) play entitled God's Country that is about the Alan Berg murder and Robert Mathews. And the Oliver Stone film Talk Radio is loosely based on Alan Berg's life and murder. "},{"Title":"Chilling movie about man's dualistic personality","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen Betrayed for three times now, and each time it just gets better and better.Tom Berenger is excellent as Gary Simmons. He is perfect for the role, that requires in-depth understanding about love and hate. This man loves his family dearly and is extremely loyal to things he believes to be justified, and at the same time he is capable of doing most savage deeds towards other people he think are sub-human. Simmons is so cold and yet such a nice man at the same time it makes my blood freeze in my veins.Also Debra Winger is great as Katie Phillips. She finds herself falling in love with this man and then realizes that everything is not so perfect she thought it was. Her disappointment is almost palpable. I highly recommend this movie to all, who wonder with amazement the dark sides of human nature.  "},{"Title":"Effective as both a story and a commentary","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie to be effective as both fiction and non-fiction. Debra Winger and Tom Berenger both give first rate performances. This movie reveals how racism is passed down from one generation to the next. The passage, the sins of the father are visited on the son seem particularly relevant. I was surprised that it did not receive a higher user rating. Eventhough I saw it years ago, it remains in my memory as a very powerful and important movie. "},{"Title":"Tom Berenger's own favorite","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Debra Winger plays an FBI agent investigating the death of an obnoxious radio talk show host, but he may have been killed by some white supremacist group. She goes undercover in America's heartland and befriends farmer Tom Berenger, who may have had something to do with the whole thing.Racism and political beliefs courtesy of Costa-Gavras. Many viewers feel this film completely missed the mark on both accounts. I, on the other hand, have always enjoyed the film very much and think of it mostly as a drama piece, focusing mostly on Berenger's and Winger's relationship. As a suspense flick it also delivers, with high tension especially during the climatic finale. Granted, some scenes are pretty tough to take, but from my point of view this is an excellent study of how many pure white folks see the world. They're not depicted here as complete and utter monsters, but regular folks who have radically different worldview than most (I hope).On the trivia side, Berenger himself said in an interview that this was his favorite among all his films. "},{"Title":"Excellent Drama of the Complexities of Racial Hatred and Family Love","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" At a crucial moment in the movie, the racist militia group that is the focus of the movie robs a bank, and one of their own are killed by an FBI agent. When asked shortly thereafter how he felt about the killing, the agent says that it was no more than wiping dirt off of his shoe. We often like to think of those people who engage in hatred and violence as being completely unhuman. We want to believe that they are without emotions, without humanity, without integrity and mostly without love. In short, we want to believe that those with monstrous attitudes are only monsters and nothing else. And it is not so, which is I think the point of Betrayed. People who adhere to what mainstream society judges as dangerous prejudices are in fact much more complex and often have more of humanity than we would like to believe.The story centers around two characters Gary Simmons, played with much tact and depth by Tom Berenger, a leader of a local white supremacist militia group, and Catherine Weaver, alias Katie Phillips (played with complete believability and subtleness by Debra Winger), the FBI Agent who infiltrates the group. Her goal to link Simmons and his group with the slaying of a leftist shock-jock who is slain at the beginning of the film, an incident which closely resembles the real-life assassination of Denver radio talk show host Alan Berg, a leftist personality known for hanging up on callers and other on-the-air rudeness. (In real life he was the most popular and simultaneously the most hated radio host in his geographic area.) The FBI also wants to undercover any future plans the group may be concocting that might involve assassinating celebrities and/or politicians.At first, Phillips believes the FBI have targeted the wrong people since despite their use of the N-word and occasional racist jokes, they appear to be peaceful friendly and neighborly, they appear to respect women, and they often give a helping hand to those in need. Gary Simmons is a loyal father, a model citizen who speaks his mind, a hard-worker, and a straight-shooter. He always tries to do the right thing. He is low key and doesn't speak often about his political views. And Phillips also finds herself quite taken with his two beautiful children who are innocent while simultaneously being indoctrinated with prejudice that may manifest itself later as hate and violence. To add to the confusion, Phillips finds herself falling for Simmons, wanting to believe that he is the wrong man.But as Phillips sinks deeper into the family and friends of those around Simmons, she learns she is very wrong. After Simmons takes her hunting, a deadly game in which a captured African-American is then hunted by a group of whites like a British Fox Hunt with automatic weapons, she realizes there is more to this group than her initial observations would indicate. Then a camping trip reveals that it is true, that Simmons and his close associates are members of a complex supremacist group with connections all over the country to people who believe that Jews, African-Americans, Gays, and Lesbians, and almost any other non-white ethnic group are intending to exterminate their livelihoods if not their lives. They have rationalized that they have to fight back. And these groups are their targets for not only hatred but for proposed violent engagements.Phillips' other world is her FBI associates that keep pushing her to stay the course and complete her mission by staying within the family. Unlike her mid-west family, the FBI team are emotionless, less sympathetic to the traumatic toll the assignment is taking on Phillips, and rather cold about what they are really doing. The government agents have little understanding that despite racists' destructive attitudes, they are real people who love, who grieve, and want happiness. While the FBI wants to put the racists into a convenient stereotypical box, Phillips realizes there is much more to these people than their hate. But she does find that their flawed perception of reality lies within a complex myriad of rationalizations that serve to construct their world-view. They have convinced themselves that only their hate and violence can save them.The movie becomes a struggle between these two worlds, and at one point, Phillips begins to question which side is the good side, and ultimately she must make a choice between the two. The irony is that if we want to fight prejudice we can't fight the people, as it only fuels the next generation of racists and proves their point. Maybe we can't even fight the attitudes. Maybe we need to love them despite their attitudes and maybe that would foster more love as it appears that hate only breeds more hate regardless of which side we are on. "},{"Title":"Potentially explosive subject matter manufactured for depressing results","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Federal agent Debra Winger goes undercover in rural Texas as a combine operator, infiltrating a group of down-home guys and their families in the hopes of linking them to white supremacy and the murder of a shock-talk radio host. Winger is romanced by the group's ringleader (Tom Berenger), and very quickly seems to cross many lines that aren't covered in the FBI trainee's manual. Berenger takes Winger to a KKK camp-out, to a human hunt (with a black man as the target) and to a bank robbery (to finance their cause), yet Debra's superiors actually request that she get more probing evidence! An exasperating movie, with facetious, halting dialogue leaving whole sequences feeling half-finished--and Winger's character without much personality. Director Costa-Gavras seems intent on underplaying this whole matter, to the point where even shocking moments come off as muted, matter-of-fact occurrences. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Intriguing if slightly confused movie.","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What do you get when you team up the director of MISSING and Z and the writer of SHOWGIRLS and FLASHDANCE? A political film where the FBI is portrayed as even less honorable than the Klansmen and neo-Nazis they're trying to fight, and the female lead (well played by Debra Winger) is a victim of both sides, valuable to the FBI only because of her sex appeal, and unable to trust anyone except her small stepdaughter. That said, BETRAYED is an interesting, very watchable and disturbingly credible movie with some powerful moments, and the cast (particularly Berenger, Winger and the juveniles) give excellent performances. "},{"Title":"Gavras shoulda stayed with European themes","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an initially interesting film that turns sour 1/3 of the way through. Gavras wants us to see how an FBI mole, played by Winger, gets caught between bad guys who are outlaws, and bad guys who are government agents. She infiltrates a white supremacy group, and wants out when she decides they are harmless middle of America racists. Then she sleeps with the suspect and then she sees them murder a Black man.As we are 1/3 of the way through this should be the end of the infiltration phase and beginning of the Trial phase. Nope! Head agent (John Heard) decides that as there is no body there is no evidence. Apparently the eyewitness account of an FBI agent; a missing Black male (who she could identify if given mug shots of any Black male missing from the area); gazillions of automatic weapons bullets in the area; blood everywhere, isn't enough for the FBI So back she goes to get more information! We are supposed to empathize with her dilemma. All I wanted to do was tell her to either get a moral compass, or grow some balls.The whole movie is overwrought tripe. Winger and Berenger are wasted to Gavras' need to shove our nose into our own home grown racist fascism. I know the FBI aren't boy-scouts, but I think they draw the line at hanging one of their own out to dry, and ignoring murder and Bank robbery in order to pull in the bigger fish.Gavras grinds his favorite axes the sickness of fascism, and the corruption of the government. He gets the first one sorta right - how difficult is it to show KKK types as dense morons - but he misses the second one by a mile. Government corruption is much more subtle,much more insidious than this sorry screen play can portray. "}{"Title":"Betrayed by Hollywood","Date":"18 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" A shock jockey radio host is murdered. The FBI believes a white supremacist group of Midwestern farmers to be responsible. Agent Cathy Weaver, played by actress Debra Winger, is assigned to infiltrate the gang. She does so, and soon finds herself faking a love affair with Tom Berenger, a Vietnam veteran, widower, farmer and leader of one of the white supremacist terror cells.The film's premise is interesting and appropriately disturbing, but like most of director Costa Gavras' Hollywood films, can't maintain its highs. On the plus side, the film plays some interesting morality games. Consider this the film's racists are humanised and we're invited into their private lives and families, whilst the FBI are shown to be as isolated, narrow minded, compartmentalized and goal oriented as the white supremacists. The end result is that Gavras suggests that the country as a whole has arranged itself into hermetically sealed compartments, arranged around class, politics, race, religion and ethnicity, each section claiming absolute and exclusive humanity. In other words, isolation and social alienation create attitudes of inhospitality, racism and hatred. The Cathy Weaver character tries to resolve this by rejecting both the FBI and the white supremacists and by adopting Tom Berenger's children as her own. She essentially represents the healing balm of maternal love, teaching kindness and understanding to the kids of tomorrow.In terms of flaws, the film plays several scenes too heavily for shock value. This is the result of the notoriously crass screenwriter Joe Eszterhas. Many of the film's far right leaning xenophobes are likewise big caricatural lunatics and the film's high concept plot is at times unrealistic.Some of the film's shocks nevertheless do work well, Gavras taming Eszterhas' sensationalism with subtle truths. Scenes in which parent's indoctrinate their kids are creepy, the holiday camp for white supremacists sequence is haunting and the film's KKK rallies and midnight hunting parties (guess what they're hunting) have visceral effect. There's also something downright unsettling about little kids matter-of-factly saying the N word. The fact that many of the white supremacists are veterans who fought in Vietnam, opens up some interesting avenues, linking state sanctioned, government approved racism with Berenger's group, who call themselves ZOG (The Zionist Occupation Government). ZOG fly under no political flag, but their political assassinations and ethnic cleansings have idealistic overtones typical of various dark national policies. Gavras draws numerous parallels between the FBI and ZOG's underground network of cells and high tech agents.7.9/10 &#x96; Some of the best moments in Gavras' filmography are in this film, but one too heavily senses the soul sucking presence of Hollywood's and Joe Eszterhas' vampiric fangs. Gavras is striving for a kind of nervous intimacy, whilst Eszterhas relies heavily on Hollywood formula, his script taking interesting material in all the wrong directions. Like many directors (Hal Ashby, Coppola, Altman, Hill, etc), Gavras struggled once the 80s hit.Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"A Chilling Depiction of White Supremacists","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" From the mid-sixties to the early eighties, Costa-Gavras made an enviable run of movies. When he moved to Hollywood he made one last great movie, the 1982 thriller missing. Since then his work has deteriorated. Betrayed belongs to this period of deterioration.In a rare instance for Costa-Gavras, the movie is not co-written by him. Nor is it co-written by his usual screenwriters - Franco Solinas or Jorge Semprún. It's written by Joe Eszterhas, arguably one of the worst screenwriters Hollywood ever had. Betrayed is not as bad as Showgirls or Basic Instinct, however, and actually has a credible premise.Debra Winger plays Catherine Weaver, an FBI agent working undercover, whose mission is to insinuate herself in the life of Gary Simmons (Tom Berenger), a man suspected of having ties with white supremacists and possibly the murderer of a well-known and polemical talk radio host. Catherine falls in love with Gary, becomes intimate with him, is accepted in his house by his mother and children. She can't believe such a kind, noble man could be a murder.Then one night he takes her to go hunting a black man he and his friends have kidnapped for the purpose of sport. This sequence defines everything great and wrong about the movie on the one hand, it's a chilling, disturbing sequence; on the other hand, it's ridiculous that Gary would share such a dangerous part of his life to a woman he barely knew. The viewer needs to excuse such situations many times in the movie.The title of the movie is an interesting choice and refers to the betrayal Catherine is committing after all, she's accepted and well treated by Gary and his friends (with the exception of the psychotic Wes, played by an amazing Ted Levine). She constantly feels torn apart between her loyalties to the FBI and the love she has for Gary and his family. Debra Winger captures the emotional conflict very well.But it's Tom Berenger that steals the movie as the sweet, polite rancher who secretly organises an army and plots to overthrow the ZOG - Zionist-Occupied Government. Berenger plays Gary as a very human and even likable man. This movie deserves merit for not demonising Gary and his followers and for giving him a sound, coherent voice, even if it's fueled by hatred and twisted logic.Betrayed is never an awful movie; in fact it's quite enjoyable. But it doesn't feel like a Costa-Gavras movie. Anyone could have directed this and get the same result. And the ending is so sentimental and sweet, it seems forced, and hardly representative of the work of a man who has made bleak movies like Z, The Confession, State of Siege, Special Section or Missing. "},{"Title":"Love, Betrayal and Terrorism","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Chicago, the host of a controversial radio talk show Sam Kraus (Richard Libertini) is assassinated in the garage of his building by the terrorist group Z.O.G. &#150; Zionist Occupied Government. FBI agent Catherine Phillips (Debra Winger) is assigned to work undercover in a rural area to investigate the prime suspect Gary Simmons (Tom Berenger) using the identity of Katie Weaver. Katie meets the family man and widower Gary, his mother, his son and his daughter, and she believes he is innocent and they fall in love for each other. Gary trusts on Katie, proposes her and discloses the truth about his separatists and bigot friends and himself to her. Katie lives a dilemma and asks her superior Mike Carnes (John Heard) to be taken off the case because of her feelings. Mike insists and Katie is divided by her love and her duty, leading to a tragic consequence.The thriller Betrayed is still impressive nineteen years after its release. The story is ahead of time, showing terrorism inside North America thirteen years before the tragic September 11th. In 1988, Iraq was allied of United States of America and Iran was the enemy. Sam Kraus foresees in his show that in the future Iran would be allied of USA. Director Costa-Gravas disclose a story with drama, romance, thriller and action through two needy characters the agent Catherine Phillips is orphan, lives alone, and when she meets the family of her suspect she can not believe that he is a criminal. Gary Simmons is a honest man, disclosing his world to his beloved mate. This conflict of emotions and feelings leads to a sad and pessimist conclusion. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Atraiçoados (Betrayed) "},{"Title":"The issue just squeezed","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Racism is once again the main issue of the plot in this film. It goes over a racist organization similar to KKK (may be it is the same KKK but without masks) having branches everywhere in US even inside FBI, and attempting to kill black people and any other foreigners including Jewish one. There are scenes difficult to digest, as the one of hunting behind a wounded black man. How a group of men can hunt other man like a fox? Until here the plot is to accuse those involved in this type of activities. Was the agent Cathie Weaver (Debra Winger) really in love with Gary Simmons (Tom Berenger)? Doubtful that a woman who is looking for proves of criminality and hated all what he did against black people may still be in love with such a man. One may love the physical appearance of the person but normally you reject everything when you discover that his principles and behavior are far from those accepted universally in the society where one lives. In any case, Costa-Gavras, good director of materials with political plots, tried to combine those opposite feelings just to provide some color to its film. "},{"Title":"Undercover Agent","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Costa-Gavras directed this thriller that stars Debra Winger as an FBI agent who goes undercover in a Midwest community to infiltrate and expose a white supremacist group led by Gary Simmons(played by Tom Berenger) who is on first impression both charming and good-looking to her, and a family man, so of course she falls in love with him, despite there being no doubt that he is indeed a heartless racist and murderer. Just how can she betray the man she loves who does things she hates? Muddled and unconvincing film has good acting and direction but one seriously stupid lead character, who is clearly the wrong person for the job, despite the inevitable outcome. "},{"Title":"social paranoia, '80s style","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Something is rotten down on the farm, where FBI undercover agent Debra Winger discovers the man she loves (handsome, modest farmer and family man Tom Berenger) is actually part of an organized, nationwide white supremacist conspiracy intent on toppling the Zionist occupied government and their n*gger police. It's all part of the latest topical thriller by old pro Costa-Gavras, who gives us a sometimes shallow but not entirely unbelievable reflection of the cancer lurking just below the spacious skies and amber waves of America's heartland. The script, by superstar hack Joe Eszterhas (plundering yet another fashionable current events headline), manipulates its audience with occasional brilliance, and yet the sheer emotional impact of such a hot-button topic is often enough to camouflage the film's many nagging deficiencies. Perhaps its weakest link is the leap of faith needed to accept the naiveté of Berenger, who after casually hiding his true character from a new girlfriend is suddenly trusting enough to invite her on 'hunting' trips, bank robberies, and KKK weekend retreats. Eszterhas plays all his cards too soon, going to great lengths to portray Berenger in three dimensions (not all of them warped), but then introducing most of his pals as garden variety, flag waving, right wing psychopaths. For all his repugnant race hatred Berenger is less a villain than a victim of his beliefs, and the white hats of Winger's FBI comrades are hardly spot free, leaving her stranded between her affection for a man she hates and her loyalty to an agency that uses her without conscience. The suspense is strongest when sharing Winger's moral revulsion and acute fear of exposure, and it's a measure of Costa-Gavras' skill that he manages to produce some edge-of-seat tension from an awkwardly structured and sometimes unbelievable screenplay. "},{"Title":"you won't forget this one.","Date":"2 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was going to rate this movie a 6, but at the last minute gave it an 8 instead, because I saw it for the first time on cable a week ago, and I can't stop thinking about it.there are definitely plot holes you could drive a truck through, as they say. the biggest one is something other reviewers have noted. Debra Winger's character Katie/Cathy is forced to go back and continue her undercover work (pun intended) several times, even though there's PLENTY of information to convict all of these people on multiple charges many times over. I guess it's good to know the FBI is so scrupulous about the righteousness of their busts but seriously...!other people have mentioned the night hunt scene. I watch a lot of movies, horror movies especially, but I have to say that this was one of the only times I've ever literally watched a scene with my jaw hanging open. I got the impression that the crimes were supposed to ramp up somehow throughout the movie and get more and more serious, but the hunt scene was far more awful than anything that came after.the movie is beautifully filmed. one scene in particular caught my eye it's early in the courtship of Gary and Katie, and they've just come back into his house through the front door, which is still open. they stand facing each other, the farmland beyond framed by the door, and the trees all blowing in the wind. I finally figured out that it reminded me of that great (and very windy) scene in The Quiet Man and borrowed by ET with John Wayne and Maureen O'Hara. I do not know if that was deliberate on the part of the filmmaker, but it was really pretty either way. "},{"Title":"Horrendous waste of a great idea","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's too bad Costa-Gavras hooked up with the appalling Joe Eszterhas for this sociopolitical thriller.  A movie that attacks the white supremacist movement was a great idea, but this movie is far, far from great. Characters are inconsistent and thinly drawn; motivations are foggy; every point is pounded home.   Depicting these racist pigs as regular, ordinary Americans was on the money, and John Mahoney and Jeffrey DeMunn are excellent.  But the movie is obvious and forced, turning an important idea into mere hackneyed melodrama.  "},{"Title":"deep cover in right wing conspiracy movie","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" A leftist Chicago radio shock jock is murdered. FBI agent Catherine Weaver (Debra Winger) goes undercover as combine operator Katie Phillips to get close to farmer Gary Simmons (Tom Berenger). He seems to be a regular family man disgruntled with the state of the world. However, his family connections and suspicions about several deaths led agent Michael Carnes (John Heard) to send his girlfriend Weaver on her first undercover investigation.I love this world of right wing racists. It's a world of families and regular folks. Gary is also angry at Nazis and right wing politicians. He's the regular folks type left behind by the society. In the present, they are Trump supporters. It has a couple of solid actors and an engrossing premise. It is a longer movie and there are a couple of missteps. The great premise keeps the story compelling. "},{"Title":"Stunning performances from Debra Winger!","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" The artistry in this film is evident, the plot is gripping from beginning to end. I was pleased to see so many familiar faces in the cast Betsy Blair, (a 1955 Oscar Nominee for Marty), Frasier dad John Mahoney, John Heard, and character actor Ted Levine (Silence of the Lambs) all are here, and all do a wonderful job.The plot unfolds slowly at first, with only faint hints of what is to come. (Actually, the less you know about this film going in, the more you will be surprised by it.) The wholesome farm community which seems so normal holds so much more--something troubling and sinister. But yet, these people still retain that wholesome normalness to them, even after we see what is underneath. The normalness never completely goes away, and in some cases, we still are actually able to sympathize with these characters, as depraved as they are. As a previous reviewer said, the insanity of normality. Betrayed depicts this well. The whole cast is wonderful--Winger is compelling and convincing, as is the rest of the cast. The characterization (and acting) of Tom Berenger as the insane/normal Gary should be applauded particularly. All through the film his character is consistent--a man with a normal ability to love those close to him. Even when see how his motivations and world view are so completely warped, we see a Gary who feels deeply, loves, and wants many the normal things in life. These qualities do not disappear when the darker side of him is revealed, which makes his character all the more fascinating and even sympathetic at times. The insanity of normality is most evident in his character.The production quality of 'Betrayed ' is good with fine acting all around. Honorable mention is deserved by underrated actor John Heard who plays Katy's commander and suitor. In 1988 he was still thin.Overall rating 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Romance, Racism & A Political Conspiracy","Date":"2 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Betrayed begins with a brutal assassination in Chicago and then focuses on a budding romance in a small town in the American Midwest. Although initially, there's no obvious connection between the assassination and the romance, the story that explains the link is full of surprises as it reveals the existence of a huge political conspiracy and the fact that neither of the lovers are quite who they appear to be.Undercover FBI Agent Cathy Weaver (Debra Winger) is assigned to investigate the killing of a controversial radio talk-show host and moves to a Corn Belt town as one of a team of combine drivers who undertake contract work during the wheat harvest. When she meets handsome local farmer Gary Simmons (Tom Berenger) and his family, she starts to fall in love with him and can't believe that this charming widower could possibly be implicated in the crime she's investigating. When she shares her views with her boss Mike Carnes (John Heard), he isn't convinced and orders her to keep working on the case.As the couple become closer, Gary wants Cathy (who poses as Katie Phillips) to know everything about his life because the fact that his first wife didn't, was part of the reason why they eventually went their separate ways. He tells her he's going to take her out on a hunt but, to her horror, when they get to the night-time location where they meet the rest of the hunting group, she discovers that the prey is a black man who's given a gun with 10 bullets and is then hunted down like an animal. After enduring this traumatic experience, Cathy goes on to discover that Gary is a member of a well-organised national white supremacist organisation that's committed to overthrowing the government and that his hatred of black people, Jews and gays is also shared by his entire family.Mike Carnes was Cathy's previous lover and his insistence that she continues with her undercover work leads to her participating in a bank robbery and a Ku Klux Klan meeting while she continues to gather the evidence that her boss is determined she must find. Her predicament becomes increasingly unbearable and makes her question her loyalties between Gary, who obviously thinks the world of her and her FBI boss who seems determined to make her life a living hell.The characters in Betrayed are interesting and well fleshed out. Cathy is inexperienced as an FBI agent and as an orphan, is seduced as much by Gary's idyllic family life as she is by the man himself. Gary is a decorated Vietnam veteran, a committed churchgoer and a clean-cut family man who appears to be ultra-respectable but is in fact, content to participate in acts of criminality and extreme violence in order to support the aims of the anti-government terrorist organisation that he supports. Debra Winger and Tom Berenger are both absolutely convincing in their roles and John Heard's also very good as Cathy's autocratic boss whose actions seem to be motivated by his own personal agenda as much as his official responsibilities.Betrayed is powerful, provocative and shocking and contains passages that are deeply disturbing. The technique of very gradually revealing the full horror behind the events depicted at the beginning of the movie is extremely effective but would have made even more of an impact if the pacing had been sharper during some sequences. Overall however, this movie packs a real punch and leaves a lasting impression. "},{"Title":"The bad just pushes out the good.","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" After the brutal gun-down of a radio disc jockey, an FBI agent goes undercover in the search of white supremacists planning something big. But things get complicated when she falls in love with her target along with his children. A well meaning, if humid political drama, but it comes across rather heavy-handed and convoluted in its message making it far from entertaining to watch. Interesting, but only in parts and there's a real bitter tone evident. However profound, multi-facet performances by leads Debra Winger and Tom Berenger with a capable support cast; John Heard, Betsy Blair and John Mahoney keep it grounded. After a simple set-up, it show its dark underbelly and truthfully embraces it as our protagonist thinks she knows the man, but isn't really prepared and finds herself right in the deep end. The outrageous climax is baffling and some moments seem to lull during the family interactions, but these sequences are important to building character and illustrating the unnerving nature of racism (like the camp-out scenes).Whose side are you on? "},{"Title":"The Sickago Bulls variant (rental)","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This disturbing movie of Costa-Gavras reminds me about the closely named episode of the X-Files (5.18) in which Mulder like Debra goes undercover to dismantle a right wing militia (and it's also the proof that this show had really incredible quality !). In a way, Costa could be the European Spielberg as the two can tell strong, political story on the level of the common people and without any propaganda. Here, the militia members are totally crazy and criminal but if most of them are really devious, a few and the kids are just lost souls. The same can be said about the law enforcers  some does a clean work but others can't see that they push the limits and that they use Debra against her will. In that way, Debra is similar to Diane in « NYPD Blue » in which undercover mission is indeed a kamikaze one.What's frightening is that this movie is from the 80s. As seen in a sequence, it was a time when Internet wasn't there. You can see that the militia is using a rudimentary network with Amiga computers to chat together and it's also a computer printout that will be the trigger of the showdown. So you can imagine what happens now in those circles ! I got an hint with « American History X » but those kind of movies are rather not the kind of drama and cop movies nowadays. At last, it's also a 80s movie as the cast has also more talent than those today and it's a bit sad that we can't see anymore Debra or Tom Berenger now. "},{"Title":"Put It Down Great Entertainment/Bad Cinema","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Betrayed is top shelf entertainment, but it fails as great cinema. Director Costa-Gavras, writer Joe Eszterhas, and a fine cast create a meticulously shaped story with depth and multiple points-of-view. The film works on many levels. For example, contrasting romantic imagery of rural American against sterile bureaucratic offices is not subtle but it is effective. French cinematographer, Patrick Blossier, and editor Joële Van Effenterre bring subtly to the narration. For example, little side shots of a man lying in the bed of a pickup truck or umbrellas in rain define such icons as structural counterpoints to images of racial violence. Little touches give a sense of subtly to what is a heavy-handed story. This is pretend subtly. Mr. Eszterhas is an often-underrated screenwriter. With a great director, as in this film, the screenplay unfolds, as does his screenplay for Basic Instinct under Paul Verhoeven, but here it never quite feels authentic because it is not. How Costa-Gavras and Eszterhas create empathy for unappealing, bigoted people indicates the revolutionary material background for such violence. Not nihilistic but close to it, the film ends with a lovely affirmation of humanity. Alberta, Canada stands in for the Midwest of the United States as it did in the masterwork film Days of Heaven. Playing that area in warm tone against Chicago in cold, blue tones is obvious but it works. The ability of the players, with casting by Mary Goldberg, deeply impresses me from child Rachel Valdez to John Heard, John Mahoney, and Betsy Blair in her last role and on to Debra Winger and Tom Berenger as the protagonists. Debra Winger as icon with relentless reaction shots feels the core of the film. Those reaction shots would work wonderfully in a more carefully constructed narrative. This political film feels like propaganda because it is. Deciding the point-of-view is easy on one level but the density of the narrative undermines one's sympathy. That works; but the heavy-handed and essentially unlikely story annihilates that strategy. Roger Ebert's intelligent review of this film makes sense. The storyline is not believable. Debra Winder's character somehow just does not make sense. The ambiguity is simply too fancifully conspiratorial. Yet, Ms. Winger's reaction shots carry the day. You sense something deeper underlying the tomfoolery. The ten is for Debra Winger and Tom Berenger who somehow redeem this work. "},{"Title":"Underdeveloped mostly unlikable characters ........","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Betrayed is really a movie of underdeveloped, mostly unlikable, characters. Other than Debra Winger and Tom Berenger, we know next to nothing about everyone else. Sure, John Heard alludes to a past relationship with Winger, but really all he does is complain about a lack of evidence. Between a few shockingly evil events, there is way too much repetitive relationship nonsense, which makes the film seem overly long. The ending is a real stretch, as Beringer's cat and mouse game with the now unmasked F.B.I. agent, should have clued him that she just might try and get the drop on him. Overall the movie becomes tedious, and is not recommended, except for Tom Berenger's performance. - MERK "},{"Title":"Under the skin...","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" You have to admire Costa-Gavras for at least taking on touchy subjects in his Hollywood movies - Nazi-collaboration war crimes in Music Box and the frustrating search for truth after the disappearance of relatives in world hot-spots in Missing, but here he lets his predilection for delivering a thriller compromise his intentions in exposing the barbarism and inhumanity of white supremacists who masquerade under the guise of normality.After the brutal slaying of a controversial shock-jock after a typical heated programme on the issue of race, we cut to an apparently innocent country-girl (Debra Winger), cutting the fields of a young, good-looking, recently widowed land-owner in the American south (Tom Berenger) and her gradually inveigling herself into his family and affections. Of course it turns out she's working undercover for the authorities in attempting to bring to light the nefarious doings of a terrorising cell of ZOG, a right-wing racist group following a neo-Nazi agenda (although without the attendant paraphernalia) strongly suspected of the hit and of whom Berenger is the alleged leader.But what could have turned to be a still-relevant morality tale on the dangers posed by such monstrous people and how they can pass themselves off as ordinary average people in society, gets thrown off-kilter by too much focus on the moral dilemmas it puts onto Winger's character and a propensity to deliver cheap supposedly end-of-your-seat thrills in the best Hollywood tradition.Winger, irrationally you would think for a hardened agent, it seems falls in love and into bed with Berenger almost immediately and in short order becomes his fiancée as well as the adored new mother to Berenger's cutesy kids and prospective daughter-in-law to his protective mother. From there she ingratiates herself into Berenger's ZOG organisation, undergoing a throughly disgusting initiation involving a night-time manhunt to brutally kill as sport, a young terrified Negro and then taking on a Patty Hearst-type role in a bank-job to fund the planned hit on a politician whose death will supposedly foment racial tensions and presumably invoke a WASP uprising.Besides the last item there being hi-jacked from The Manchurian Candidate, it's all just too improbable for words and falls under the weight of its own however well-intentioned pretensions. Winger's part requires her to do little but simper when Berenger is nice to her and protest when her boss keeps telling her to go back in to finish her job. There's little she can do to make us think this honey-trap situation could ever have happened in reality plus the love-interest between her and her boss only further distorts credibility. Berenger is however very good as the handsome country boy farmer with a dark side but again you could never imagine him opening himself up lock stock and barrel to Winger's character so soon after his previous wife had learned about his other life and paid for it with her life.There are one or two thought-provoking scenes, besides the gruesome man-hunt mentioned above, particularly the stomach-churning scenes where Berenger's infant children start spouting racial bile once Winger gets engaged to dad and the slightly more subtle encounter between her and a seeming nice-guy who nonetheless betrays his ignorance and bigotry the deeper they converse round the camp-fire of the Ku Klux Clan brotherhood.By the time, however, we get to the inevitable conclusion with Winger and Berenger in an armed stand-off and later again when Winger heads back out to Berenger's young daughter's school for what reason I can't imagine, the film has imploded under the weight of its own sensationalism and conflicting aims.Like I said at the start, it was brave of the director to take on this subject (and anyone who's since seen Louis Theroux's Weird Weekend encounter with a latter-day real-life group of American white supremacists at work rest and play will concur that people like this do exist) but the whole is just too far fetched and unbelievable to hang together as it should. "},{"Title":"creepy","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  paranoid chiller becomes even more scary when the Debra Winger character stares out her car window and a giant burning cross is superimposed on the reflection... You'll never be able to hear Amazing Grace the same way... Tom Berenger expertly embodies the mindset of the Aryan movement overwhelming parts of America. There are 2 key scenes here that work very well the bank heist and its aftermath,  and the hunting game in the woods, both made all too real by the look of desperation on Winger's face. Many critics didn't like this movie, but I found it probing and truly numbing ...  "},{"Title":"If you found American History X powerful, check this out...","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you found American History X powerful, check this out. This movie walks the fine line between fiction and reality, in that it starts out with a portrayal of the murder of the Jewish talk show host in Denver, a real life event, by racist extremists. This is a movie that is especially relevant now , with the upsurge of white supremacist groups. The acting is good; the content is chilling and sobering.  "},{"Title":"Good example of how ignorance of a culture makes a lousy film.","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you want to make a film about a culture that you don't really know, this is what you'll end up with. Take every stereotype of the American small-town or rural community and mix it up with European sensibilities of politics, terrorists, prejudice and power struggles, and this is an example of the mess you get. Totally unbelievable, except to those who would use this fictional account to bolster their perverted views, thinking it to be a honest portrayal of an American community circa 1988. Since Hollywood is guilty of this same perversion of foreign cultures in many films, I suppose it's a sort of justice to have the same thing happen to Americans, but then why is it always done to those Americans who have a different political view from the powers in Hollywood? They would have us think that Nazi anti-semitism is fully engulfing our rural communities, yet they forget the roots of this prejudice come from those European cultures they so often admire, whereas the small-town Americans they slander gave thousands of lives to defeat such immorality, and still are doing so. "},{"Title":"What frightens me","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" What is scary is that the incidents that take place in this movie are ALL true though the names are different. I live in the city where one of the characters was affected. I do not want to give away the name or circumstance just in case you have not had an opportunity to see the movie yet.Great movie though! Also, the hunting scene does exist. This is EXTREMELY TERRIFYING because it is true and still does happen. Even to this day. A noteworthy news network did do a story on this. A few years ago.Watch the movie and you will see what I'm referring to. "}{"Title":"Racists have no clue about manhood.","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is a shame that we do not get to see much of Costa-Gavras' work here in America. The last film I remember is Z. he is a master of the political story, and this film tells a story about America that we really don't like to think about.Costa-Gavras does his best work when he also writes the screenplay. Unfortunately here we get Joe Eszterhas, master of some of the worst crap to hit the silver screen - An Alan Smithee Film Burn Hollywood Burn, Showgirls, Sliver, Jade, Flashdance. What could have been a great story is merely adequate.Debra Winger is just not credible as an undercover FBI agent. I just never believed in her. That, except for the story, was the weakest part of the film.Tom Berenger did a great job as a racist pinhead. If they make a movie about the Oklahoma City bombing, he should play the bomber.Great support by John Mahoney. he delivered the crucial line of the film The bank took my farm, and Vietnam took my son, and I am left with nothing. Typical of these racists to blame all their failures on others. Why don't they try some Kipling for a changeIf you can make one heap of all your winnings And risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss, And lose, and start again at your beginnings And never breath a word about your loss; That's a man, not these whiny jerks. "},{"Title":"A pretty decent thriller, in spite of the subject matter","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A pretty decent thriller, in spite of the subject matter. Debra Winger is such a good actress. Every time I see a one of her films, I am pleased with her range. I wonder what she's doing these days? She has has that beauty, yet a girl-next-door look. I can't imagine her character going back into that nest of loons, though. Interesting how Berenger's character belongs to this white supremacist network yet has such contempt for the Nazi-loons. Worth a look, and a must-see for Winger fans. "},{"Title":"Silly And Pointless","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I find it interesting that so many people who are NOT from the heartland of America (and particularly so many not from America at all) have commented on the authenticity of the film. Having spent my childhood in the heartland (Iowa), I don't recall having encountered any racism (I suppose because there just weren't many black people around). Also, I never even heard the word zionist until I moved to the East Coast, and heard it used by a radical leftist group defending suicide bombers. This is not to say there's no truth to the film, as we are all aware of the existence of militia groups, but, as often happens when filmmakers are trying to make a point, and believe themselves to be smarter than they are, they end up making a hysterical point (see The Day After Tomorrow). What people are crediting as the depth of the characters is actually an exposure of the shallowness of the film; Why is Tom Berenger a nice, hard working patriotic veteran who also hates his country, hunts blacks for sport and robs banks? What got these farmers to this point? I don't ask because I care, but because without that explanation, their actions are random and their characters cartoons. I suppose if the filmmakers don't care, neither should the viewers, so judge the film within that context, but don't give it any more credit than it deserves. So what's the bottom line? Tom Berenger and John Heard are good, as usual, but Debra Winger's performance suggests that of a woman who is no mental condition to do undercover work, and unfortunately, I don't think that's what the filmmakers were aiming for. The film is well shot, but also slow, and, not to beat a dead horse, but without any explanation for the goings on, pointless. It also comes off as smug, thanks to being made by people who have no knowledge or understanding of the culture they're portraying, which makes their lack of desire to explain it a blessing. "},{"Title":"I refuse to hate those of my brothers who hate me! Divided, our nation will not be able to stand!!!","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is in the top 5 of my most favorite movies of all time! Not only was it very well choreographed it was also incredibly revealing! I remember so many of the mysterious events, as this movie has revealed, in a period of time when there were unsolved murders of black folks found in Rock Creek Park from 1980 through 1986. Many people would find these true events revealed by this movie unbelievable or too far fetched! We live in the melting pot and everyone has the freedom to think and feel the way they do! I'm a black man born and raised in these United States and can understand the plight of the white supremacist. You will believe in what you were taught and raised to believe but some have come to know that we are all related because we all were created from and by one GOD! It's truly an incredible movie! "},{"Title":"Betrayed Mama Send the Pistol is the Devil's Right Hand ***","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" At least, when the closing credits appear, this song is uplifting and proves that Berenger's young daughter hasn't totally been brainwashed by the cult she lives among.Tom Berenger plays a heavy in this one where Deborah Winger, his new found girlfriend, is a federal agent penetrating a white supremacy group. He takes her to a variety of his crews exploits-mainly killing blacks and Jews.Periodically, Winger reports back to her superior and lover John Heard and is really in for a rude awakening at the picture's end when it is determined that she has been used for the agency's other purpose. This dynamic twist really adds to this decent film. "},{"Title":"Snakes in the grass.","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I generally find Costa-Gavras' works kind of hard to swallow because I gag on the pedagogy. Too many of his films are like Capra's Why We Fight propaganda movies from World War II. Here is the enemy. (It's always a right-wing conspiracy.) See how evil he is? And see how naive you cretins in the audience are for not having realized it? My God, what a nag he is. I don't like being preached to even when the sermon matches the prejudices I already hold.But this movie is an exception. For the first and perhaps the last time on any stage, ladies and gentleman, the director shows us some ambiguity in the characters.Yes, it's true. No doubt the evil on display is thoroughly rotten, the home-grown variety of racists and terrorists along the lines of Timothy McVeigh, the New World Order paranoids, the fluoride-in-the-water loonies, and the survivalists who have moved off the grid into the mountains of Idaho. But they're not that extreme. They're the salt of the earth. They go to church regularly, believe in God, treat their women with respect, fall in love, form bonds with each other, have suffered in the past, and have hope for the future. They just happen to hate blacks, Jews, commies, and fags, that's all. They're perfectly normal except that they have these encapsulated brain tumors that contain attitudes instead of cancerous tissue. Debra Winger is an FBI agent assigned to infiltrate a community of farmers in the Midwest who may be up to no good. She thinks the assignment is a washout and she falls for the simple, God-fearing son of the soil, Tom Berenger, who has a cuddly young daughter. Berenger falls for her too and proposes marriage.But things begin to pop up that are a little disturbing. The little girl spontaneously spouts apocalyptic racist nonsense that she is too young to understand. Berenger opens up to her little by little, taking her on a very strange hunt, a picnic involving happy campers with Uzis, and what is revealed isn't entirely congruous with Winger's picture of Berenger as an uncomplicated farmer. Eventually, finally trusting her, he tells her about a plan to generate a general uprising by assassinating celebrities and committing mass murders in Harlem and San Francisco and Sick-ago, as he calls it. Berenger and his friends are full of an unfocused bitterness that the director leaves unexplained. So far, so Cost-Gavras. And here's where it's different. The director develops Tom Berenger as a fully fleshed-out character, and Debra Winger too. When she is finally forced to shoot him, it is because he has found out her real identity and now he WANTS her to kill him. Suicide by FBI. His belief and trust in her is sufficiently profound that when it's shattered, there is really nothing left for him to live for, not even his precious cause. And the same is true for Winger. She has no family because, The FBI was my family. But they have manipulated her ruthlessly and are unable to see any human dimensions in what they consider just another operation that in the end is more or less successful. She plunks down her badge and gun and goes on what appears to be a cross-country binge before pulling herself together and seeking out Berenger's daughter. Cost-Gavras as HUMANIST! Even the title is dual-faceted. Berenger's group of subversive farmers has betrayed its own country's ideals, but Winger has betrayed the man she loves.At that, though, Costa-Gavras hasn't got quite a handle on the subtleties of the political issues. He throws every liberal bete-noir into the pot. A reactionary politician spews out the usual menu of racist nonsense but can also be heard pimping nuclear power and so forth. If he read the message boards on Yahoo, Morningstar, or anywhere else, he'd realize that no reactionaries are in favor of nuclear power. Nobody is FOR nuclear power. Some liberals are opposed to it, but paleoconservatives argue in its favor only in contexts that will irritate the liberals. Well, let's not make too much of a little background speech-making by a minor figure.This is a pretty good movie, in fact. The familiar parts of it -- the naive investigator finally being wised up to fascist conpiracies -- is more than compensated for by the added dimensionality of the two leads.But just to make sure you get the point, Costa-Gavras, perhaps feeling that he's been speaking over our heads, plays a song under the end credits -- The Pistol in the Drawer is the Devil's Right Hand. Got it? Good. "},{"Title":"This is one great movie","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I cannot understand anyone rating it below, say, 7. It has everything a good character- thriller needs, and the issues addressed, it seems to me, are unfortunately still very important. Great acting, great story, great drama - what else do you want? "},{"Title":"Predictably left-wing but certainly entertaining","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have watched this film several times. I usually avoid Costa-Gavras because he is left-wing and I have no truck with left wing ideals and socialist/commy doctrines. But, politics aside, this film is interesting plot and character-wise. I have read most of the comments from others on this and of course most of them are from left-wing liberals who rant on about racism and middle America etc etc. That was of course most predictable. The title of the film is Betrayed. And this is what is interesting. How Debra Winger, masquerading as a farmer manages to betray the kindness of Tom Berenger towards her. Little by little she enters into his private life and he is taken in by her. And it is very painful for him when she reveals her real identity. The film is very entertaining and there is never a dull moment. True, there are some violent and unsavoury scenes but these are not overdone. I have great admiration for the character of Tom Berenger - very sensitive to Debra Winger and a man of traditional family values, standing up to anyone he does not agree with, including Klu Klux Klan members and Nazis. His character is actually quite complex and while the liberals will predictably denounce him as a racist, it's actually a little more complicated than this. This is a typical European left wing liberal view of Americans and should not be taken too seriously by the Americans themselves. Indeed the most Obnoxious character in the film is not Berenger but Katie's FBI boss, Michael. I was really hoping this man would die during the film but alas it was not to be so.He was a really evil character who was using Katie for his own ends. In addition the actor playing him really had a mean face !! My main interest then in the film is the love relationship between Katie and Gary Simmonds as well as the tune the devil's right hand which is actually the French title of the film. "},{"Title":"the good racist","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" Let's focus on the film from a different perspective.Despite the movie helps us to understand the circumstances lead to racism,it also represents how a good racist should be. He should be a family man,should reject Neo-Nazis' ideas when they are trying to sell him guns in a camp by saying my father fought against Nazis in WWII.thus showing a moral man Director leads to misunderstanding reluctantly with the character Gary Simmons that appears to be a good man with all his faults grew up in an environment which makes him the leader of a terrorist organization.Still, it's a drama master-piece especially with final scenes "},{"Title":"Engrossing drama about an undercover FBI agent...","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" 1st watched 8/26/2007 - 8 out of 10(Dir-Costa-Gavras) Engrossing drama about an undercover FBI agent, played by Debra Winger, who is given more than she can handle as she tries to determine if a midwest farmer, played by Tom Berenger, is involved with the murder of a Chicago Jewish talk show radio host. Winger provides a so-so performance with Berenger playing his usual cute but deadly personality. What makes this movie work is the way that the director Costa-Gavras brings us this storyline along at a matter-of-fact pace, almost like it's from the midwesterner's point of view instead of the way we, the audience, might want it presented. Slowly it's revealed that the family man farmer is not only a bigot and racist, but is also a dangerous leader of a national organization bent on ridding the U.S. of anyone not like them and justifying it by the fact that they are taking from the average white American. Winger's character becomes deeper and deeper involved in the man's personal and criminal life to the point of contributing to some of the crimes. The FBI won't let her off the case until some evidence is found against him towards the killing of the before-mentioned Jewish man and when they eventually find it, Winger is way over her head to the point of being engaged to the man. Side stories about Winger's character's life along with Berenger's reveals that they have both been hurt in the past and are looking for new relationships to cement themselves into life again. This brings about further complications for both of them. Costa-Gavras always tries to take us new places in his movies and his done it successfully with this one. He keeps your interest to the very end which is my mark for a good director with good storytelling. Despite the fact that this movie wasn't highly acclaimed when it came out, in my opinion, it is not to be missed. "}{"Title":"Thought provoking moving on race","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of few movies in my life that left me thinking about things differently than when I went into the theater. It's portrayal of the dark side of race issues and how humans can have two sides is amazing. I highly recommend this movie for anyone interested in the subject of race relations whether it be black/white Jewish/gentile or even high society vs redneck.This is one of the finest works of Deborah Winger. It's unfortunate she doesn't continue to act. Tom Berenger is also at this finest in this movie, although I wouldn't consider him an academy award candidate.You can't leave this movie thinking and feeling the same as when you started. "},{"Title":"American History X's relative!!!Don't miss this movie!!","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was made about a dozen years before American History X. Tom Berenger(Shadow of Doubt,Shattered,Sniper) and Debra Winger(TV's Wonder Woman) star in thriller about Nazi like people living here in the U.S.A. Debra Winger goes undercover to find out a murder somehow related to Nazi racists living in the midwest. To do this , she moves in with a family man(Tom Berenger). During the movie , they fall in love. Of course the FBI is having Cathy Weaver(Winger) report in on a regular basis(she has to lie to Gary Simmons, the man and family she lives with. Later on , she goes on a trip with Simmons and his friends. It is here where the real plan of the racists Nazi's is revealed. The suspense is very thick in this scary thriller. It is American History X's relative because it is very similar , yet the message is brought home about racism!!!Even teenagers can learn from this movie!!!Just be sure they understand racism and the problems it makes!!This movie also shows people starting to get mad their government , so made check Arlington Road with Jeff Bridges too with this movie!!! "},{"Title":"Well worth a rental","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Betrayed is a surprisingly effective movie with a good script.  Deborah Winger play an FBI agent who has infiltrated a farming community that may have ties to white supremacist groups.  Her undercover work leads her to an emotional involvement with one of the people she is meant to investigate, and the situation leads to her become conflicted about her loyalties.  The movie has a good plot and some genuinely suspenseful moments.  "},{"Title":"Overlong but compelling.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A compelling subject matter is grippingly handled here by director Costa-Gavras, who managed to keep me thoroughly interested in the procedures of the plot, although the story itself is a bit far-fetched, and the film's overlength does become oppressive during the last half hour. I still have to recommend the picture, however, if only for Debra Winger's exceptional performance. Tom Berenger isn't bad either, but Winger just has this magical way of communicating her feelings through her face without ever overacting. She's one of my favorite actresses.  (**1/2) "}]