[{"Title":"So bad, yet so watchable !","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"44 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Superman 1 was such a classic movie, and 2 was almost as great - Superman 3 is not a great Superman movie, but as a piece of '80s American comedy / spoof it succeeds and has some very memorable scenes (notably Chris Reeve as the evil Superman). But Part 4 is just an awful film overall with few redeeming qualities. Reeve's admirable storyline works well, and the double date scene with Superman & Clark is very entertaining (similar to the style of Superman III). But it's when Superman IV tries to get serious and exciting in its action sequences that it fails miserably and becomes a cheesey, ridiculous farce that only succeeds in showing how pointless it was to make the film on such a small budget. The story's not bad and if Donner was directing and you had 100 million dollars you could do it now and create a great adventure movie with some classic comedy scenes and some exciting action sequences. But anyway, it's too late. For all its failings, every time you see it, it's still fairly watchable, mainly because you're always expecting it to magically be better this time around. It's not as bad as everyone makes out and far more creative and original on a 16 million budget than what Batman and Robin did with 100 million! If Batman and Robin's a 3 out of 10, then Superman IV's a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Crashing down to Earth","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"47 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" * (1 out of 5)Superman IV The Quest For Peace Directed by Sidney J. Furie, 1987Perversely bad. With major budget cuts (from $28 to $16m) and story problems, the moviemakers suddenly found themselves cutting corners in all areas. And it shows. Completely lacking in awe, fun and excitement, Superman IV most of all feels like a bad joke. The fact that it comes across more cartoonish than the previous three is hardly intentional, as everything - from effects to dialogue - just seems oddly rushed and second-rate.The only highlight is Gene Hackman - who returns in high spirits as Lex Luthor. Christopher Reeve co-scripted this time and he again personifies the Man of Steel. But most of his co-stars are either wasted (Mariel Hemingway) or hysterical (John Cryer). The new villian, Nuclear Man (as played by Mark Pillow), looks like a Swedish showwrestler in a home-made Halloween suit, complete with mullet hair and horrendous over-acting mannerisms. Director Sidney J. Furie (the man behind the otherwise taut thriller The Entity) seems unable to create any sparks and Superman IV falls completely flat, head first. Game over.Note Certain scenes had to be borrowed from the previous movies, most notably Superman and Lois on their romantic evening flight above the Manhattan skyline. How they even managed to make this scene look worse than in the original is really mind-boggling. "},{"Title":"Not A Very Memorable Ending To The Reeve-Superman Series","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Superman Turns Peacenik could be another title to this film. Christopher Reeve remarked several times that this was his most important Superman movie. Being somewhat of a Liberal peacenik, he was the kind you'd see out with a big peace sign at rallies against nuclear weapons.This movie had the kind of message that was dear to his heart.Superman goes about trying to rid the world of nuclear weapons here, especially, of course when they get into the hands of villain Dr. Luthor (Gene Hackman). It was a nice message and, overall, a nice film. Unlike the other Superman films of the era, they didn't overdo the sappy romance with Lois Lane (Margot Kidder). They concentrated more on the story. Unfortunately, that story - even with good intentions - just wasn't all that memorable. Ask anyone people remember the first two Reeve Superman films a lot more than the last two. This one, and the third one with Richard Pryor, pretty much bombed at the box office, at least compared to the others.It did not help that the producers of this movie were Golan-Globus films, guys that were known for their cheap and usually-sleazy exploitation films. Superman deserved better. "},{"Title":"Great premise...bad delivery.","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I like the idea of Superman stopping a nuclear war, however this film wasn't that great. The problem lies with SUPERMAN tackling a real life problem. Why not have Lex Luthor do something to percipitate a nuclear war and have Superman stop it. This film was done by Cannon films, and boy did it show. The villian with the N on his chest wasn't that great either...his only line was kill SUPERMAN. After the third film (which killed the francise) alot of interest was lost. I mean who could top SUPERMAN 2? Unless they found a new threat or villian equal to the villians in film number 2, they shouldn't have done anymore sequels. However, this is Hollywood remember.....they flogged this francise for every dollar it could grab, and with disasterous results I might add. "},{"Title":"The Last Nail in the Superman Coffin.","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"37 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  SUPERMAN IV THE QUEST FOR PEACE pits the Man of Steel against Nuclear Man, Lex Luther's newest creation while ridding the world of nuclear weapons.  This is easily the worst of the SUPERMAN movies, and it was doomed to fail right from the start.  Cut from its original 134-minute version, it is full of plot holes resulting in a movie with some scenes that just don't make any sense, but even with the extra 45 minutes intact, the movie still wouldn't work because the special effects are cheap and ridiculous, and it shows.  Unless you are a diehard fan of the Superman genre, this movie should be avoided.1 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Should have been titled Superman IV Rest In Peace","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"52 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie never should have been released. This movie is at the opposite end of the spectrum as far as favorites go for me. The 1978 original is one of my all time favorite films, while sitting through this one at the movies was like getting a root canal without the novocain. Special effects were horrible as well as character development and plot line. How could any studio head or those involved with the final print of this film feel comfortable with the finished project?Talk about a film that rode on the popularity of its predecessors and failed to live up to any expectations that fans of the earlier films had. This movie certainly was the nail in the coffin as far as the Christopher Reeve Superman films go. And for what it's worth I fall in the category that feels Superman 3 was better than this mess. A waste of celluloid.  "},{"Title":"The End of an Era... for Christopher Reeve","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" In this 4th and final Chritopher Reeve Superman film, Superman tries to rid the world of nuclear weapons, only to find that Lex Luthor is back and ready to supply the world with these dangerous weapons. Oh, and he has a new sidekick Nuclear Man! Many people have given this a lower rating (understandably), but a 3 or 4 out of 10? It really is not that bad. The film is fun, fast-paced and very watchable. Some consider it the worst, but I did not find it any better or worse than part 3. Granted, parts 1 and 2 are superior (thanks Richard Donner) but I've seen many worse films than Superman 4.Random thoughts The double date scene was clever, but really annoying and completely pointless. If Superman would just reveal himself to Lois Lane he wouldn't have to find other girls on the side... although see below.The idea of getting rid of nuclear weapons was very nice and a great social and political commentary. I agree getting rid of nuclear weapons would be a good move. But the film made this very unrealistic. The world cheers him on, when in reality the countries would protest. He invades a variety of countries and steals their to secret hidden weapons (not sure on the legality or logistics of that). And what is to stop someone from building these weapons all over again? What happened to Lana Lang? At the end of part 3, it looked like Superman finally realized that Lois Lane is a loser and hooked up with Lana. But she is never seen or mentioned in part 4, despite working for the Daily Planet (at least as of the last film). What gives? Does anyone else think Lex Luthor is getting a little tired? Did we really need 3 films with Luthor and one with a Luthor knockoff? What about Brainiac or Bizarro or the Eradicator or just about anyone else? Heck, General Zod is so much cooler than Luthor (with all due respect to Gene Hackman).There's a scene where he rebuilds the great wall of China just by looking at it. What power did he use? Tractor beams from his nipples?But anyway, this film is not as bad as many would have you believe, and if you've spent six hours on the first three, you might as well invest 90 more minutes in this series finale. "},{"Title":"Even Superman couldn't save this one!","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"31 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I am a huge Superman fan and I loved the first two Superman films,but starting with the third one this franchise slowly started going down.Now we reach the fourth installment in the franchise and not even Superman himself could of saved this one.The story and villain were weak and the action was boring.Plus this sported the worst special effects in the franchise.This film feels rushed and choppy,cutting from scene to scene leaving you confused.Christopher Reeves still played the part perfectly,but him and Margot Kidder are the only ones.I felt throughout the film they tried to rekindle the success of the original two,but just couldn't do it.With a corny script,bad special effects and action,weak acting,and terrible directing and editing this one is completely passable.You definitely will not be watching this one again and again like the first two.A disappointing 1/10!!! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I remembered","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I've just been given the Superman Boxset for Christmas, and much like the Robocop Trilogy, I would never have bought the 3rd or 4th film separately had it not been for the fact they came with the other two.For me, the Superman franchise started going downhill with Superman III. Sure, it had its comic moments, and the scene where Superman splits in two to become good and evil persona's was good, but I really felt that it was a downward spiral from there.So on revisiting Superman IV The Quest for Peace, I think had the 3rd film not existed, I really don't think people would hold the 4th in such low regard.Lets admit a few things 1). Some of the special effects are anything but, and are a step backwards from the first three films (surely they should get better) 2). Some of the plot holes are quite glaring, humans in space among some of the more stupid ones.But for the storyline, I think the basic storyline is fine, and I certainly like this aspect better than Superman III. The comedy doesn't feel forced like III, it feels more natural here.If what is believed is true that Superman IV was originally a full 50minutes longer (something I don't believe because films going over 2hrs was commercial suicide up until Dances with Wolves), then some of the plot holes (like Superman knowing that Nuclear Man was going after Lacy Warfield) might very well have been cleared up.I remember seeing the film for the first time and being disappointed. Now I've seen it again 19 years later, I have to say, ignoring the dodgy effects (and in some places they are as good as the first three films) and some of the glaring plot holes, I have to say its better than I remembered it to be.I wouldn't choose to buy it on its own, but its welcome enough as part of the package with the other three. "},{"Title":"A lot of promise and potential wasted","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Its Supes versus Nukes for the fourth, much-derided Superman adventure often slated for its repressing low-budget, inferior special effects and a whole wad of plot holes and incoherence &#150; thanks no doubt to the extraction of a whole fifty minutes, much of the film's middle portion. Yet, among the wreckage are signs that there was a good film in here somewhere, as our hero struggles to decide whether or not to intervene in human history and the character's rather touching realisation that he is not just a visitor to Earth. A nicely-toned return to the Lois-Clark-Superman relationship also could have rooted the film back to its glorious predecessors - bar number three - but once Nuclear Man shows up and the film's story is cut in half, all promise and potential disappears from the project and the audience is left with a strictly mediocre re-tread of Superman II. "}{"Title":"Well intentioned film...","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Superman 4 has good ideas and good performances, but was ruined when the director cut 40 minutes from the film before release. Among other things, the denouement in which Nuclear Man defies Luthor and turns himself into a nuclear missile in order to spark World War III. In order to see what the film should have been, I suggest one seek out the DC Comic Adaptation. This film, as Christopher Reeve's final performance as Superman deserves to be restored for DVD. The reason for Superman using powers he has never had, was the result of unfinished effects. The great wall of China scene should have been finished by adding Superman fixing the wall at super speed, and finished with Superman sealing it with heat vision. "},{"Title":"Still no match for I & II, but a very good try","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" By number four a series can become tired and people lose interest. Some stories can only go on for so long. Eventually people start running out of ideas and once you reach that point most people will tell you it's time throw in the towel. The 'Superman' series started out smashingly with the first installment and remained on a high with the first sequel. But then when it came to part III new people were involved and the series took a different turn. The comedic tone was a change of pace and yes the film did pretty well for itself, but it wasn't so well received. It seemed the magic was fading and fans would have to wait four years to see the caped crusader on the big screen again.Things could only go up from here though, right? It certainly looked that way. Star Christopher Reeve became more involved in the making of the new film and had some good ideas that really could have renewed interest in series. Alas, some people involved just didn't have their hearts in it like Reeve and the rest of the cast did. Some major budget cuts, poor test screenings, and being cut down from over two hours to less than an hour and a half made things look bleak for both the film and the future of the franchise. And sadly 'Superman IV' ended up being the least successful film in the series, both financially and critically.I had never seen IV as a kid, and after re-watching the first three after so many years I was both excited and nervous about seeing it for the first time. To my surprise it turned out not so bad after all. In fact in many ways it's a step up from III and the heart shows through. There are many flaws to be found for sure, but after all is said and done this third sequel to the classic 1978 film is much better than it's been made out to be. I wouldn't go so far to say it totally redeems the series, but it certainly does a good job of trying. Now that has to count for something.Pros As usual the performances are solid. Though dated, a lot of the effects are still pretty good. Nicely done score. Moves along at a decent pace. Has some really good ideas. Beautifully photographed. Some of the production design is fantastic. Has heart in it, something lacking in the last film. Some really touching moments between Lois and Clark/Superman. Some decent action sequences in the second half.Cons The budget cuts show at times in some of effects and sets, and especially in the opening titles sequence. The film was cut down from more than two hours to less than an hour and a half and it does feel like things are missing. Lacks some of the big scale excitement of it's predecessors. Though the messages are positive, things do get a bit preachy. Some plot holes.Final thoughts Call me crazy, but I actually kind of like this film. Sure it's dated and cheap looking compared to the earlier films, but it really could have been so much worse. At least some people had their hearts in it and it shows. There is some really good stuff here and it keeps the film from being a failure. It is a shame it didn't reach it's potential, but again it was a good try.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Superman IV....hmm...","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I maybe in the small percentage here but I thought this movie was a good solid comic book film. OK your probably thinking I'm mental for liking a film thats got a review of 3.3...but bear with it as I will explain why I like it.OK first off when I was younger I watched a film that had superman in it and a superman in a black costume....but I could never remember what superman it was, I knew it wasn't the first one or the third because I had them on video, so it was bound to be the second.When superman two was on sky movies I watched it and to my shock it didn't have that bit of cinema and action that I remembered watching as a child. After countless google searches I finally found out there was a superman four so quickly got hold of a copy and watched it...this is where the review begins.To begin with it has almost all the original cast back for the final film of the series, which is nice on its own, the opening sequence is (I will admit) abit poor compared to the previous films but when you hear the music you know your watching a superman film. Anyway the film goes on and superman starts to deal with issues that are important, a child writes to him and asks him to take all the nuclear weapons off earth and destroy them, to begin with superman isn't too sure on the idea. Anyway in the end he does destroy them, mean while Lex Luthor steals one of superman's hairs from a museum and uses it to create Nuclear Man, basically an evil superman...well it's almost exactly like superman except hes blonde and needs the sun to get energy on a more extreme level than superman.Still the movie has some great action sequences and fits in well to the other superman films, though you do have to take this for what it is a comic book movie it is good at what it is, you have to watch it and forget everything you where ever taught or believe...OK some of the stuff like the fight on the moon is abit extreme but it's a SUPERman movie. I can only suggest you watch this movie but just don't take it seriously it is a nice movie to watch and it is memorable which I hope is the message you got from the beginning of this review. "},{"Title":"Not As Bad As You Might Think...","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Despite its reputation as the worst of the Superman movies, Superman IV The Quest For Peace is not. Despite the horrendous special effects and rushed ending, the film manages to still present itself with some respect.Christopher Reeves had proved in the three previous films his ability to convincingly play the role of Superman. With this film, he not only proves his abilities but this is, in many respects, his best performance in the role. His speeches during the film are a sign of this and his chemistry with all the other actors helps also. Reeves also does his best to sell the special effects sequences it is a shame he couldn't. Reeves is the films biggest saving grace and it's a shame this would be his last time in the role.Gene Hackman also returns in the role of Lex Luthor and with brings him that character's with, charm, and silent menace. But somehow he seems to be out of place most of the time and serves as a drawback in many of his scenes. Mark McClure, Jackie Cooper and Margot Kidder all return in their roles. But unfortunately they are all under used and their appearances might as well be cameos.The rest of the cast does a decent job. Mark Pillow does excellent in the role of Nuclear Man, Luthor's super powered creation. Pillow does the role so well that one wonders how much better eh might have been in the special effects had been better. Mariel Hemingway is a welcomed addition to the cast as a heiress who serves as an additional love interest for Clark Kent. The only major addition that doesn't fit is Jon Cryer who could easily be the single most annoying character to ever appear in a Superman movie.The film's real drawback is its low budget values. While this doesn't affect the majority of sets, the Fortress of Solitude set in particular looks cheap when compared to the one found in previous films. The same can also be said of the Daily Planet set. The low budget would also hurt the film in the area a budget was needed most special effects.The previous films, for all their flaws, at least had decent special effects and mostly convincing flying sequences and this film has neither. The special effects are sub-par by virtually any standard and despite being made nearly a decade after the first movie the effects from the first movie are still more convincing. The truly horrific nature of this films effect sequences can be seen during the climactic battles between Superman and Nuclear Man. The added addition of new powers with bad special effects doesn't help either.The other major problem is the pacing of the film. The first 50 minutes or so is sheer entertainment that's the set up the story of both Superman riding the world of nukes and Luthor's evil plan. The set up, however, is better then the execution of the ending, which is both rushed and disjointed. The subplots of Mariel Hemingway's character and the boy who inspired Superman's quest are both left unfinished for example. Whole scenes feel incomplete and the final battle is over far too quickly to be effective.But the film does have a saving grace in its concept. The idea of taking Superman, the ultimate hero of America, and placing him into the timely situation of Cold War disarmament is a stroke of utter brilliance. The concept of Luthor and Nuclear Man added to it also serve as an interesting addition to the story and it makes for good entertainment when viewed in this context. But this concept is ruined by the rushed feeling of the ending. But one still has to give high marks to Christopher Reeves and the screenwriters for their concept.The films does have another saving grace its musical score. Like the Ken Thorne scores for II and III, Alexander Courage's score makes heavy use of the John Williams themes composed for the first film and is highly effective. The Courage adaptation never fails to use the Williams music to maximum effect and it's a shame that, at Courage's own request, it has yet to see release.Despite its flaws in special effects and editing, Superman IV has saving graces in Christopher Reeves, the rest of the cast, the music, and the timely nature of the story. While nowhere near as good as Superman The Movie or Superman II and while not as bad as Superman III, the film still serves its purpose and is your average Superman adventure. "},{"Title":"An improvement over Superman 3","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Superman IV The Quest For Peace is a definite improvement over the embarassing Superman 3.The cast give sincere performances despite the film's flaws with Christopher Reeve handing in another great performance as Clark Kent/Superman.Superman 4 is a flawed film, most notably the special effects and the bad editing, as well as the cut scenes, but I like the film.Alexander Courage's adaptation of John Williams' music is lovely and is certainly much better than Ken Thorne's version in Superman 2. It's a shame there's no Superman 4 soundtrack available to purchase.Superman 4 The Quest For Peace is a decent film, and one I certainly don't mind watching. "},{"Title":"Predictable sequel that's not that bad as people say it is","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Christopher Reeve plays the man of steel one more time in the last Superman sequel with Lex Luthor busting out of jail and creating Supermans ultimate nemesis, Nuclear Man! Now the reviews I have read said that this film is bad and it is. But that's not all right, this film is entertaining. It is a pretty predictable movie with big plot holes and bad acting but that doesn't mean we can still enjoy it. This film is ten times better than part three and is almost as good as the original. Superman IV The Quest For Peace gets the big 6 for being a sequel with no meaning, it's not good but it's not bad. It's just plain watchable though some people who are fans of the original may be upset. Just watch and you'll see, recommended for people wanting to kill time. This is that kind of a film, a time killer. "},{"Title":"A Super disaster","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" After an absence of four years, along with Christopher Reeve's initial determination he was done with the blue and red tights after Superman III, the Superman franchise was brought back to life for one more entry, but after the release of Superman IV The Quest for Peace, it's unfortunate that everyone involved hadn't just decided to let things alone. Superman IV is a complete disaster on almost every level, a silly, cheesy and downright cheap looking poor excuse for a film that manages to rank among the worst comic book adaptation films of all time, bested only by such winners as The Return of Swamp Thing and the direct-to-video Captain America.Superman IV finds our hero, Clark Kent (Christopher Reeve), selling off his family farm after his mother has died between performing his normal super duties. He returns to Metropolis to discover that the Daily Planet has been taken over by tabloid king David Warfield (Sam Wanamaker) and his daughter Lacy (Mariel Hemmingway) and are turning it into a salacious rag sheet. Shortly after the takeover, a young boy writes Superman a letter, via the Daily Planet, and asks him for assistance in solving the arms crisis by removing all nuclear weapons from the Earth. Superman initially refuses, taking the stance that he cannot interfere in human affairs (although how this relates to his other helping of humanity is a puzzler). Eventually, Superman changes his mind and begins ridding the world of all nuclear weapons by tossing them into the sun.Meanwhile, Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) has escaped from prison with the assistance of his nephew Lenny (Jon Cryer), and hatched a devious scheme to create a new super villain to defeat Superman by taking a sample of Superman's DNA recovered from a museum exhibit featuring a single hair from Superman's head and attaching it and a computer to the side of one of the missiles that are hurled into the sun by Superman and thus creating Nuclear Man (Mark Pillow, voiced by Gene Hackman), a being with the power of Superman, the voice of Lex Luthor, plus more abilities, powered by the sun. The two match off, but has Superman finally met his rival? It's not really surprising that Superman IV is terrible movie, considering it was produced by The Canon Group, who may never have released what you could label a good movie when they existed in the '80s. And Superman IV is not a good movie. It has an intriguing concept at it's heart, Superman ridding the world of nuclear devices, but everything around that central idea is just a complete mess. The script by Laurence Konner and Mark Rosenthal is borderline insipid, featuring some extreme gaps in logic that cause the audience to have to accept some absolutely ridiculous contrivances and just asinine ideas. Superman tosses a missile containing Nuclear Man's basic building blocks into the sun. And how is that not all fried by the sun? Okay, maybe the Superman genetic material may not be (although I don't know if it was ever stated he is able to withstand even the sun), but the computer that will supposedly give Nuclear Man form, along with the barest shreds of material that suddenly grow into clothes to cover his body? Please. And how does he get Lex's voice? Late in the film, a human character is carried into space by Nuclear Man with no oxygen or protective suit, and survives. The complete contempt for the audience the script shows is inexcusable.With Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) still pulling a mostly supporting role, the writers attempt to inject Lacy as a new love interest, with her eye on Clark instead of Superman. They also try to generate a triangle between them, but none of it works. There is no chemistry between Lacy and Clark, and much of what was there between Superman and Lois seems to be gone or on life support. Yeah, Lex Luthor is back, but he is nowhere near as engaging as he was in Superman and Superman II. Hackman does the best he can with his questionable material, but there is no saving it.Many of the outstanding aspects of the previous films are just shoddy this time around. The special effects are abysmal, with many generic elements of Superman flying reused over and over again and almost none of it is believable. The action sequences, what few there are, are unspectacular and barely raise your pulse. The film, on the whole, has a rushed and half-complete feeling to it, and you get the impression you are watching a movie made on the cheap, not the latest sequel to a successful, multi-million dollar grossing franchise.So, after close to ten years and three sequels, Supeman IV is able to do what Lex Luthor could never accomplish it brought the Man of Steel down, and left him tattered. It would take almost two decades for Superman to fly again, and we can only hope that the next entry is worth your time, because this one wasn't. "},{"Title":"a guilty pleasure","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" come on people what's wrong with it, I there's a lot of problems with this movie but if you don't take it seriously I think you will like it like I did, I admit the effects were terrible, the same shots used over and over again, fighting scenes meh and a bad villain and retarded scenes, and last but not least no logic is in this movie.but just remember the budget used when they were making this, there was a good message and it was well presented still I enjoyed it, all those problems make it what it is a fun movie to watch, and I would recommend it if you like funny failed movies such as batman and robin, troll 2, for me the movies so bad it's good "},{"Title":"Nowhere near as bad as people seem to think","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have watched this recently (early 2011) on the Deluxe DVD &#x96; picked up very cheaply to complete my set &#x96; I think for the first time since it came out. As a teenager, I am sure I enjoyed it as a piece of typical escapism, but I have come back to it now &#x96; screening a season for myself of all five Superman films &#x96; aware that people seem to think it's an all-time turkey. Well I am here to say that this really isn't fair.As with so many things, it's all a matter of context &#x96; yes, alongside a modern equivalent superhero sequel, e.g. The Dark Knight or any of the X-Men follow-ups, it's pretty dire. But then alongside a contemporary equivalent &#x96; say, Highlander II The Quickening or Ghostbusters 2 &#x96; it's almost sublime! (But then compared to Highlander II, nuclear war sounds like a pleasant diversion.)Anyway, I am prepared to say that this is not even the worst Superman film! It's worthy of re-evaluation and it's genuinely worth seeing as part of the series.Firstly, it's VERY 1980s when you watch it now. Big-hair-tastic and shoulder-pad-mungous. But this is comparable to any other film from that era, such as Robocop or Working Girl. And yes, infamously there are some extremely dodgy effects in the mix &#x96; but some of them are actually very good. This odd contrast is not so different from the previous films in the series, especially the first from 1978. And remember that Ghostbusters &#x96; released the previous year and winning an Oscar for its effects, no less &#x96; has some risible shots when you look at it now.The real problem with Superman IV is that it's clearly been compromised in the making, ultimately put together without all the footage the director had planned to shoot. The infamous budget slashing by the studio is obvious in various scenes. While, jarringly, elsewhere you can see the money up on screen &#x96; the result being an uneven whole that's sadly less than the sum of its parts.I shall have to check out the deleted scenes some time to see what potential was there. But as it is, there are so many plus points trying to save this filmGene Hackman is great as Lex Luthor again, with lots of good lines and villainous charm. he was shamefully wasted in Superman II, as was Kevin Spacey in this role in the turgid and unengaging Superman Returns. Hijacking the airwaves to lure Superman, Luthor signs off with V-for-victory signs and an ironic Peace! and I love the subsequent scene where he has his say/exercises his ego before our endlessly patient hero, constantly on the move and fixing himself a drink of champagne to toast the demise of his arch-enemy. (It's clear, too, that the film-makers decided to try to top his wonderful subterranean lair from the original film by having his new hideout a big Art Deco set for the top of Metropolis' equivalent of the Empire State Building.)The rest of the returning cast all do a solid job and, of course, Christopher Reeve is excellent. As the clutzy Clark Kent, he mistimes his aerobics (so 80s again!) but slyly gets back at a bully, bumbles around the capable Margot Kidder's Lois Lane and compliments his new love interest on her dress &#x96; badly and only at Lois' prompting. And then, as the earnest Superman, wrestling with his conscience and making then-oh-so-valid points about the Cold War arms race and human frailties, he gives the film a weighty centre. A scene at the now deserted Kent farm is touching and there is even the revelation that, without his parents, he now seems to be in the habit of revealing his identity to Lois for some love and advice, then mind-wiping her (again) with a super-snog! She is not, it is strongly suggested, entirely unaware of this arrangement...Lastly, Sidney J Furie is a very capable director and his work shines in certain scenes... while elsewhere you are left musing sadly on what might (should) have been. The double date is superbly handled &#x96; for example, there's a lovely shot where Clark quick-changes into Superman through a car parked outside revolving doors. And dare I say that the sequences where the 'Nuclear Man' goes on the rampage, around the world and then on the streets of Metropolis, are actually better handled, with more sense of scale and jeopardy than the three Kryptonian villains' not dissimilar activities in Superman II. Then there is the careful way Superman's famed all-American persona is, in this film (only, out of the five), balanced against a sense of him actually being an international figure, fluent in all languages and looking at the planet and the human race as one whole. In the opening scene we are presented with some Soviet cosmonauts who are shown to be 'just like you and me', neatly setting up the film's entire premise &#x96; which is eventually tied up with even the defeated Luthor asking an Eisenhower-quoting Superman if the Earth will be vapourised in WWIII and being told that, as always, the planet is on the brink with good fighting evil.So in conclusion It's nowhere near as good as the original, epic Superman, nor does it work with anything like the brio of Superman III, which is pure entertainment in my book. But it scores over Superman II, which for me feels like it was too old-fashioned even upon its initial release and seems even more compromised in its mix of what works and what jars. While in last place I am afraid I must put the disappointingly wet and unimaginative Superman Returns. "},{"Title":"Was better than Superman 3","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Although this Superman is not as good as the first two, it is definitely better than the third one. Kudos to Christopher Reeve especially for trying his best with what he got to work with in this film. The script itself was promising, with the nuclear power angle very interesting, but because of budget constraints, it was poorly executed (the same thing happened with Star Trek V The Final Frontier). It was nice to see Gene Hackman back as Lex Luthor and Margot Kidder having a bigger role as Lois Lane (versus in the 3rd film). And I happened to like the score by the great Alexander Courage (the original Star Trek series composer), with from what I heard uncredited help from John Williams with Nuclear Man's theme. Just for effort, this film deserves at least a 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"INTERESTING AND ENJOYABLE FILM","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  If you've read my reviews of the previous Superman films you'll know that I have nothing but praise for them. Well, I have praise for this film as well.Firstly, Nuclear Man is an awesome villain and probably the scariest supervillain I've ever seen. And it was good to see Gene Hackman back as the evil but likeable Lex Luthor.(POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD) This is a movie with an interesting theme. A young boy asks Superman to rid the world of nuclear weapons which Superman does. However, at the end of the film Superman attends a press conference and tells the press that world peace is not a gift that he can give-humanity will have to work for it. He also pinches a quote from an American president (I don't know which one) by telling the world that, There will be world peace one day because the people of the world are going to want it so badly that their governments are going to have no choice but to give it to them. True words eh? Anyway, I thought Superman's speech at the press conference was a nice touch to the film and it gave out a strong message-that peace must be worked for.Back to the film now-the battles between Superman and Nuclear Man were great. Does Superman beat Nuclear Man with his fists? No he doesn't. Once again he uses his brain to defeat Nuclear Man.This was a great movie which I had the pleasure of seeing at the cinema in 1987 and I really can't understand why it has been criticized so badly over the years. It was a great movie. I wish there would have been a Superman V and there probably would have been if the excellant Christopher Reeve hadn't suffered his awful accident in 1995.Chris Reeve is the definitive Superman "},{"Title":"A flawed, though enjoyable movie","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  My rating - 3/5 stars CONTAINS SPOILERS Released in 1987, Superman did very poorly in the box office, because of bad reviews and because of some people's experiences with Superman III. John Williams replaced Ken Thorne - He and Alexander Courage made terrific music, possibly the greatest in the entire series, but unfortunately not on CD. Superman IV, a Cannon Group Inc./Golan-Globus Production, directed by Sidney J. Furie, and featuring the return of Christopher Reeve, Gene Hackman, Margot Kidder, Jackie Cooper, and Marc McClure, a story by Christopher Reeve, Lawrence Konner, and Mark Rosenthal -Christopher Reeve returned as the Man of Steel, on the condition that he could help write the story. He came up with a very sensitive theme - nuclear disarmament.After receiving a letter from a boy wishing that Superman would rid the world of nuclear weapons, Superman decides to put the plan into action, and with the approval of the world leaders, he hurles the missiles into space. Unknown to him is the fact that Lex Luthor planted a device on one of the missiles, with DNA from a strand of Superman's hair. A nuclear creation emerges from the sun, and makes his way to Earth. Nuclear Man proves to be Superman's biggest challenge yet. He destroys everything in reach to have fun, and gives Superman a nuclear beating. Although Superman proves to be a better fighter, Superman is scratched on the back of his neck by Nuclearman's nuclear nails. Bleeding for the first time in his life (with his powers) Superman becomes sick and disappears. He uses the green crystal for the second time (not too original) which returns his powers to him. Suddenly, we see a scene with Nuclearman destroying everything in sight, until Superman will tell him where Lacy Warfield (new publisher of the Daily Planet) is hidden. The scene basically pops out of nowhere, and leaves you staring at the screen with a blank look on your face. Superman pretends that Lacy is in an elevator, shuts the lights off, and hurls it into the moon. Superman forgets to do a double check to see if any cracks are in the elevator, and is attacked by a regenerated Nuclearman. Superman is pummeled into the ground (literally), while Nuclearman flies back to Earth. Nuclearman grabs Lacy, and flies up to space, his reasons unknown. He's a blond, buff, moron - What did you expect? Superman moves the moon (possibly causing tidal waves in the process) to cover up the sun. Nuclearman shuts down, and Lacy is left struggling to hang on to him, so she doesn't fall, then Superman comes out of nowhere and brings her back. He takes Nuclearman, and throws him into a nuclear reactor. One would think that this would cause a power surge, but every light in the city turns on, blinding everyone in sight, even though I'm sure many of the buildings didn't have their light switches on.The budget was cut in half, leaving the special effects group helplessly reusing effects. One of these reused effects seems like a cutout of Superman being pushed towards the camera on a stick (great way of describing it, DVDfile).The only thing that saves this film is a great story (the nuclear disarmament idea, DEFINITELY not Nuclearman) and some great performances, as usual, by Christopher Reeve and Gene Hackman. Margot Kidder appears as well, but doesn't get a whole lot of screen time.The old wise tale is that there was a screening of Superman IV The Quest For Peace in Orange County, CA. The viewers didn't like it, so they cut the supposedly 134 minute movie down to a measly 90 minutes. The TV version has 2 extra minutes of footage. It's possible that the extended cut is still out there - many fans have a theory that it was thrown in the fire. I think it may be out there - you never know if that one pimple faced college student had his mini camera handy when he attended the Orange County screening...  "},{"Title":"Worth a few laughs","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I recently watched Superman IV for the first time since...well, 1987, I guess. How time flies.I thought the first half-hour was actually pretty good - not luminous, but fine. The hostile takeover of the Daily Planet is interesting, and I enjoyed Superman's moral dilemma about the nuclear missile situation (some reviews suggest that Superman is all gung-ho about disarming the world; in fact, he's initially quite reluctant to do so).But after that decent first half hour, the movie pretty much falls apart. The Daily Planet storyline is resolved abruptly and unconvincingly - I simply can't accept that Muriel Hemingway's character undergoes a total conversion from yellow journalist to an editor with integrity. What exactly inspires this change of heart, besides the fact that she's hot for stumbling, stupid Clark Kent? The nuclear missile plot is also glossed over. I'm not exactly sure why Superman decides to abandon his disarmament mission; just because Lex Luthor's given him some trouble, suddenly he's not in favor of world peace? The movie simply doesn't explore his decision-making processes thoroughly enough.Another strangely underdeveloped plot line is the sale of the Kent farm. In an early scene, we find out that a big developer is interested in buying the farm, but Clark would prefer to sell it to a small-time farmer. This is actually a pretty nice segment, pleasingly reminiscent of the first film, but it comes to absolutely nothing, as the sale of the farm is never mentioned again. Huh? Some of these plotting problems doubtless arise from the fact that about 40 minutes were chopped out of the film before its release. However, I've heard that a lot of the missing footage is devoted to action, so it probably plugs relatively few of the aforementioned plot gaps. Anyway, what really matters is that the theatrical release is semi-incomprehensible.The special effects are another big minus for the film. For example, the same terrible green screen shot of Superman flying toward the audience is reused about eight times, and it's so bad that you didn't even want to see it once. I know this film had a limited $17 million budget, but for goodness' sake, I've seen better special effects done on much smaller TV budgets.And yet...and yet...I can't bring myself to hate this movie. At a mere 90 minutes, it's much pacier (and more sincere) than the plodding, dreadful Superman III. Also, it's nice to see Margot Kidder and Gene Hackman back in substantial roles after they were basically ignored in the previous film. Hackman's performance as Lex Luthor is always pretty funny, even if he's playing it on auto-pilot; I particularly enjoy the moment when he lights his cigar using Nuclear Man's radioactive aura.I don't even object to the presence of Mariel Hemingway, who is strangely sexy in this movie - though somehow I feel obliged to point out that an actress with a one-scene cameo as a teacher is actually the prettiest woman in the whole thing.Even the much-maligned special effects have a certain campy charm. And, you know, Nuclear Man is cool in certain dumb ways; he gives Superman a tough fight, which makes him at least somewhat interesting. He looks ridiculous, of course, but I don't really sweat his mullet as much as everyone else does. (When are we going to get over this whole childish mullet obsession, anyway?) Despite this praise, I should note that, toward the ending of the movie, Nuclear Man flies into space carrying Hemingway...and she survives, despite the fact that she's not wearing a space suit. That complete lack of realism, attention to detail, whatever you want to call it - I guess that's typical of the whole movie. But I still get a laugh out of it. "},{"Title":"No worse than the '60s comic books","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"       I don't know how many of you followed the comic books in the 1960s as I did, but this was the period when Marvel was getting all the comic book readers that were leaving DC in the dust.  That was because the stories got increasingly juvenile and silly, and tried to too hard to be decent and honorable and a teacher of sorts.  In other words... boring!    Yet even in this time, the DC comics were simple fun escapism and the artwork of Curt Swan made it palatable to the eye. The same could be said of Superman IV The Quest For Peace.  The budget was obviously lower and the platitudes higher (due to Christopher Reeve's need to make a statement about nuclear proliferation) but the film as its moments of excitement, particularly in the scene between Superman and the manufactured super-villain of Lex Luthor, a sort of Sun-Man.    I still prefer it to be second film in the series. That one, at least for me, really bit the big one. That's why I rate it higher than Superman II. "},{"Title":"I take back what I said","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I wrote a review of this telling you how bad it was. I changed my mind. I actually enjoy the movie. I used to watch it only to laugh at it, but it turned out later I wasn't watching it anymore to laugh. I love this movie. It's not as good as the other Superman movies in the series, but it is still good. I also used to say that Mark Pillow was horrible as Nuclear Man because of how corny he was. I was wrong. He is good as Nuclear Man because the way he is you would think you were reading a comic. Christopher Reeve of course is great as Superman and I enjoyed the acting of his co-stars. I complained about the special effects, but I read about how much trouble the filmmakers went through to get this movie finished. One thing though that still stands as something I dislike is one, the mistake in the end of having Nuclear Man fly Lacey Warfield up into space and two, the fight on the moon. There are some good moments in the moon fight, but Superman acts like a wimp in some parts and doesn't know how to fight. He stomps on Nuclear Man's foot, he takes Nuclear Man's head and brings it into his knee and he tries to kick(tap) Nuclear Man and it results in Nuclear Man throwing him. But one last thing about the scene that I love is how Superman walks over to the American flag and stands it back up. Great stuff. There are only plot holes in the movie because a lot of it was cut because of idiots in Orange County that didn't like it. Thanks to them we have a movie second rate to the original version. This could've been one of the best in the series. It is still very good though. If you want to collect Superman movies don't leave this one out. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  the most hated sequel in the superman saga is one of my favorites.i loved this movie from start to end with amazing acting and special effects.the story is exicellent(superman getting rid of nuclear weapons/lux luther creates a nuclear man to destroy superman) and so is the comic book style setting.gene hackman (luthor) and chris reeves(superman)give outstanding acting and so does margot kidder as lois lane.john cryer gives a goofy performace as luthors idiot nephew lenny.you also got those good special effects(they dont suck to me) and a comic book movie that kids will love.so sit down and watch  the 90 minute special effects charged movie that gives chris reeves final performace as superman.on a scale from 1-10 i  give it a 10!!!!! "},{"Title":"A Super Conclusion","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The fourth film of the Superman(Christopher Reeve) saga has Superman pursuing a greater goal besides fighting for justice and romancing Lois Laneeliminate the threat of Nuclear Arms on the World. This movie is one of my favorite Superman installments(after Superman 2).It has it all a original plot( Superman's quest for peace), the return of Superman's arch nemesis, Lex Luthor(played remarkably by Gene Hackman), a super villain just as powerful as Superman, Nuclear Man( the fighting scenes between them are outstanding), and new changes like the Daily Planet becoming a tabloid news paper. I was surprised to hear that this movie flopped at the box office and it was very criticized by fans, critics and viewers.In my opinion this film sunk because its message was very controversial.Even more Superman ceased to be an American exclusivity and look forward to every nations interests. The opening scene when Superman help a group of Russian cosmonauts in space , wow in 1987, i can only assume the thoughts of many viewers back then.The movie even suggested that there was an economical angle concerning the nuclear arms race(mainly through Lex Luthor).From my point of view, the reason this film flopped is because it meddled in to Politics.For many people super heroes belong in comic books, facing fictional problems( like for instance, an alien invasion).However it's very illogic to assume that Superman with all that power wouldn't take a stand on serious issues like nuclear arms and relegate to minor issues like saving a cat stuck on a tree.Many people expressed their dislike on this movie by focusing on the special effects.But not the entire movie has lower grade special effects, in fact there are only a few scenes.My favorite scenes like Superman worldwide chase of nuclear man, Superman missile round up in space, birth of nuclear man, metropolis show down have very good special effects. Nevertheless this movie didn't make it and it could be added to the list of films that flopped because of the audiences subjectivity.Botton line, yeah i like Superman 4 and i recommend it to anyone that haven't seeing it. In the other hand if anyone wants to see a Superman movie that's really Bad, see Superman Returns, this movie really sucks, and the irony is that it has great special effects.As anyone can't see, special effects are just one of several elements to analyze in a movie. "},{"Title":"The film that killed Superman? Give me a break","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I cannot stand public opinion about the fourth and final Christopher Reeve Superman outing. Superman IV The Quest for Peace, while not the best of the entire series, is better than Superman III and better than Richard Lester's cartoonish Superman II (in which Lois Lane actually says, I'm going to change into something more comfortable).First of all, people have claimed that IV is the most physically ridiculous of all four. This is not true. Yes, for a human to fly in space, they would have to survive being burned up leaving Earth's atmosphere, then survive the vacuum of space (in other words, two people would have been dead by the end of the movie). However, let's revisit the 1978 original, in which the Man of Steel flies around the world, making it spin backwards, which also makes time reverse. If that really happened, every living thing and object on the planet's face would be flung off into the cold depths of space.I won't linger on this anymore. Yes, The Quest for Peace has unbearable dialogue (in places), but it's classic Superman-- the cheese, the cheap effects, and the general cartoon feel. Plus, it does have Jon Cryer, in what is oddly his best performance of all time (you'd better believe it), and a solid message people still need to think about. In other words, come to believe a man can fly, stay for the inherent message of the movie we would have to be very stupid to nuke our own planet. "},{"Title":"Superman 4 is a fun-house of watching bad special effects, plot holes and actors looking lost at times.","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Clark Kent/Superman (Christopher Reeve) is still having saving people lives in Metropolis and sometimes the whole world, when he is flying. In the time, when the nuclear war might still happen between the American and the Russians. The world is still never safe and people still lives in fear. But when a young boy named Jeremy (Damian McLawhorn) thinks that Superman could disarmed the whole entire nuclear war by writing an personal letter to the Daily Planet. Superman sees in the boy's point of the letter, he decides to talk to the United Nations for peace on earth. But things are slowly changing, when Superman's number one enemy Lux Luthor (Two Time Oscar-WinnerGene Hackman) is having plans to kill Superman once and for all with the help of Luthor's nephew (Jon Cryer) by using a piece of Superman's hair by creating an super-clone named Nuclear Man (Mark Pillow). A super-clone so powerful that is radiation charged. Now Superman has to find ways to destroy Nuclear Man before he gets Lux Luthor.Directed by Sidney J. Furie (The Entity, Iron Eagle) made an amusing, intentionally campy if extremely cheap sequel to Superman films. This fourth movie was produced (sadly) by the king of low-budget pictures of the 1980's Cannon Films. Which Cannon Films were going down, when Superman 4 was produced after they were involved with box office disappointments like Lifeforce, Invaders from Mars remake and Over the Top. Originally Warner Bros give Cannon Films $40 million to produced the fourth picture but they only used $17 million to make it. They used the rest of the $23 million by producing other movies sadly. Special Visual Effects of this one truly did hurter the movie, there's only a very few F/X sequences were good but not many to make it memorable like the first two films. Also Superman 4 feels choppy at times, not everything is logical in the story. While many scenes hit the cutting room floor before it was release. If the producers or the director kept some of the scenes that make some sense in the story. The premise could have been much more.But on the plus side, what i feel make Superman 4 watchable is the good performances from the cast. Reeve is terrific as always in the title role. Hackman is a joy seeing him playing the villain. Margot Kidder as Lois Lane is also fun as well. I did like the new characters in the film played by Cryer as Luthor's nephew and Mariel Hemingway as Lucy Warfield. Which Hemingway plays the daughter of a billionaire tycoon who bought The Daily Planet and she also finds herself attractive to Clark character. Pillow isn't bad in his only film as the villain but when he speaks, it is unintentionally funny most of the time.DVD Version from the recent Deluxe Edition. DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an decent Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound. DVD includes an fascinating commentary by Mark Rosenthal (Star Trek 6The Undiscovered Country, The Beverly Hillbilles, Stephen King's Sometimes They Come Back). Which the co-screenwriter of the film talks about how Cannon treated the production badly, why the special effects looks so lame comparing to the previous films, character developments and the scenes were deleted from the picture. DVD also includes Deleted Scenes from the work-print (Which some are fascinating) but they don't including some of the deleted footage what Rosenthal mention in the commentary and the original theatrical trailer.Superman 4The Quest for Peace was a major box office flop in the summer of 1987. But it somehow find life on video and it's great entertainment for the kids. Reeve came up with the premise of this feature along with Rosenthal and Co-Screenwriter Lawerence Konner (The Jewel of the Nile, Tim Burton's Planet of the Apes, Mercury Rising). Which Reeve wasn't sure if he wanted to do another Superman film if Cannon Films will help produced one of Reeve's personal project called Street Smart. Which that film was notable for Oscar-Nominated Supporting Performance by Oscar-WinnerMorgan Freeman as the violent pimp. But Reeve at the time, he felt he could make it up for the Superman 3. For his career at that time, it seems to make it much worse. But i think for me anyway, i felt Superman 4 was improvement story-wise from the third film. Also nothing could top the villain Luthor as well, no matter what the screenwriter could come up with. Die Hard fans of the comic-books or the films might be more forgiving with this one. Joe-Dunton-Camera Scope (J-D-C Scope). (*** 1/2 out of *****). "},{"Title":"Actors try hard, but movie fails","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Superman IV is not nearly as bad as the reviews suggest. The actors try really hard, particularly Christopher Reeve, Gene Hackman, and Margot Kidder, to make it work. The movie is watchable and the musical score is good. The movie is an improvement over the disappointing Superman III. However, Superman IV has major problems. The movie has obviously been cut from its original length make it incoherent at times. The special effects are below the standards set in the first two movies (even the third movie had decent effects). Maybe if the movie were restored to its original length, it would be better. I can only give this movie a 5/10. I wished it were better and hope someday they do restore this movie to its original length. "}{"Title":"A decent story spoiled by haphazard movie-making.","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Superman movies are based on the Superman comics. Since they are comics, I don't expect them to be very deep and the science of super strength and flying are unrealistic, so we accept that. We also accept fairly cheesy dialog, because none of that matters.  However this Superman IV movie simply appears to be quickly and carelessly made. Some examples are;* The opening has a Russian spacewalker knocked off by a faster-moving satellite, so that Superman can rescue him. Two satellites in the same orbit have to be moving at the same speed. Plus, Superman's voice cannot be heard in the vacuum of space.* The flying shots are done poorly with blue screen.* Cables pulling people up or letting them down are clearly visible.* For scenes on the moon the pleats of a black curtain are clearly seen in the background.I am not one to be overly critical of slight goofs in film, but the ones in the film almost yell at the viewer, saying look at me!  Still, I don't think this movie is as bad as the average rating indicates it is. To me, a rating of 4 is about right. Even with its great flaws, it mostly was entertaining, and that's what comic books are for. "},{"Title":"Not *That* Bad","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I saw this movie when I was about 11 and liked it. Later I learned of all the scorn heaped upon it, and figured it was one of those shabby films that only seems entertaining when you're not old enough to scrutinize it in the least (e.g. the Ninja Turtles live-action movies). But I rented it today for curiosity's sake, and I still like it. I honestly don't understand why it's gone down in history as one of the worst films ever made. If any of them deserve scorn, it's Superman III. But that's a different review for a different day.I'm not going to claim this is a great film. It does have problems. Except for a few nicely-constructed models (particularly the Russian space station), the special effects are bargain basement. It doesn't have as many nice character moments as the first movies or Superman Returns. The plot doesn't flow naturally. The green crystal is an unsatisfying Deus ex machina (and really confusing in light of the first movie, although I think we're supposed to believe this is a separate crystal piece of the spaceship that we didn't see before &#x96; maybe they should've made it purple to avoid confusion). A number of things come up only to be dropped. And, perhaps most unfortunately, the real issues of the Cold War and nuclear disarmament aren't fully explored. But Superman IV is not a bad piece of entertainment, and it's refreshing to see a movie that depicts the world as a place where people can rise above all the hatred and evil and forge a better future.I could criticize this movie for being scientific nonsense, but the Superman movies have always been closer to fantasy than science fiction, and this isn't really any worse than the others. We have Superman talking in the vacuum of space and being heard by astronauts, but that happened in II with Ursa. And a lot has been made about how he telekinetically moves things in this movie by looking at them, but Zod did the same thing in II and that didn't seem to bother anyone. Him ringing the doorbell from the balcony to appear as Clark Kent once Lois turns her head is stretching credibility, and the part where Lacy is taken into space is stupid, but little things like that aren't what ruin a film in a series where heavy suspension of disbelief is par for the course. Lastly, none of the plot holes are that serious, and most of them are just a byproduct of the (admittedly clumsy) editing job done to improve the film's pacing and remove a braindead subplot.Now I'll focus on the positive things. The part where Clark playfully reveals himself as Superman to Lois, consults her for advice, then reinstates the mental block, is great. It was pretty much the only thing I remembered from watching the movie as a kid, and there's a reason. It's beautiful, funny, and provides insight into the Man of Steel's mind. The subplot with Lacy and her father is good for some laughs. The humor and drama are in a ratio that I consider good, as in Superman Returns and the Donner Cut of Superman II. Probably the biggest highlight is Lex Luthor. He may have natural hair for no apparent reason, but he's the same magnificent bastard he was in the two Superman films I love. The lines written for him and Gene Hackman's performance are both top notch. And, while I'm on the subject, Christopher Reeve does a great job too, although there isn't a whole lot to his role in this film (excepting the scene described above). On the minus side, Margot Kidder phones it in, and the rest of the supporting cast is so-so. Jon Cryer is wasted as Lex Luthor's teenage nephew.There is one thing that really annoys me about Superman IV The Quest for Peace, mainly because it baffles the hell out of me. Holograms of Kryptonian elders appear to Kal-El in the Fortress of Solitude, and none of them are the same elders who appeared in the first two movies. Makes sense, couldn't get the actors, y'know. Except John Hollis, who played one of the Kryptonian elders in those movies, is in this movie in a totally different role (Soviet general). I mean, seriously, what's up with that? The bottom line This isn't a bad movie. I don't know if I'd recommend buying it, but you should rent it if you like Superman, or if you want to show the kids something fun that isn't violent or obscene. It's a pleasant, optimistic, fairly engaging action-fantasy story, and it has lots to offer those who look to the '80s with nostalgia. And be sure to watch the deleted scenes, because one is better than anything in the feature. It's a clever bit of political commentary that depicts the Cold War arms race as an '80s arcade game, with all the quarters going to Lex Luthor and his fellow war profiteers. "},{"Title":"Don't be too harsh everyone!!!","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I will not succumb to the temptation of reminding everyone once again how terrible the special effects are and how many times one can see the supporting wires. Instead I will focus on the few good aspects of the movie. Chris Reeve is once again great in being superman and Gene Hackman is an absolute joy to watch as the menacing Luthor with only one thing on his mind Destroy superman. The references to the first two movies e.g.flying sequence with Lois Lane and the well known score remind us of why they were so successful.I agree with the nonsensical space sequence but not so much with superman moving the moon. It's a comic book movie after all and in the first film he managed to get the earth out of orbit! You know the whole idea of a man flying and being invincible is quite impossible so why don't you pick on that too? In superman's world anything can happen.However what is painful for me personally is Warner Bros not being bothered to refurbish superman 4 just like Lucas did with the original star wars trilogy(added better sound, new scenes e.g. Hayden Christensen at the end of the return of the Jedi). They could use modern technology and hide the visible wires and improve the flying sequences. I am sure it won't be expensive. Plus why not even restore the 45 minutes of deleted footage? Dick Donner did so in the first film and also later this year a new restored cut of superman 2 is coming out with all the deleted Donner footage. Why not patch up a low budget effort and restore superman's former glory?For the performances of Reeve, Hackman and the rest of the common superman characters I chose to give this film 5 out of 10 and I hope that one day we will see it patched up. "},{"Title":"Superman IV The Quest for Peace","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  There is a sort of stigma that surrounds this film.  Superman fans either love it or hate it, and the general viewer mostly despises it.  Indeed, in comparison to the other Superman films (1 and 2 especially), this entry leaves very much to be desired.  I tend to stand on the middle ground when it comes to an opinion on this movie, and I'll tell you why.Many people know the production history behind Superman IV.  The Salkinds gave up the rights to Superman and low-budget studio Canon Films eagerly snatched them up.  Christopher Reeve had previously stated that he would never don the red cape again, but with the Salkinds out of the picture and and the assurance that he could contribute to the script, he went right back to the role.  The rest of the original cast also came back, also because the Salkinds were out.  With all of this lined up and a great budget provided by Warner Brothers, Superman IV was slated to be a film that went back to serious tone of the original two.  Of course, Canon slashed the budget in mid-production due to bankruptcy and a disastrous screening in Orange County left 45 minutes of footage on the cutting room floor.  When it was finally released, Superman IV had been butchered, beaten, and severely under advertised.  The best intentions went awry, and for many fans, the Superman film legacy had ended on a sad and heart-breaking note.I agree, there is something sad and heart breaking about it, mainly that the movie was probably much more epic than what we were left with.  The 45 minutes left out of the film involved a titanic battle between Superman and a prototype Nuclear Man and established the sub-plots that connected the rest of the film together.  If such footage had been left in, the quality of the film could have been greatly increased.The other gut-wrenching thing about the film is the intentions behind it.  Reeve and the people involved had wanted to make a film that spoke to fans and to the world about the evils of nuclear weaponry.  Behind it all, the movie had a heart, and sadly, many people failed to realize it.There is no denying that there are some terrible moments in this film.  Many times can you see the strings of Superman and/or Nuclear Man and the flying is no where nearly as beautiful or inspiring as it was in the other entries.  On the moon you can see the folds in the black curtain of space and Superman is gifted with many powers that do not exist in the Superman mythos (he fixes the Great Wall just by looking at it).  Despite these numerous errors, Superman IV does have some great moments.  Christopher Reeve delivers a flawless performance of Superman and Clark Kent yet again and Gene Hackman is fantastic as Lex Luthor.  The movie should be watched, if anything, for the UN speech.  It is beautiful and carries a meaning in our current world.All in all, Superman IV is a technical disappointment in comparison to the other films.  It does, however, provide what the third film sorely lacked, and that was heart.  We should not easily dismiss this movie, however simple it may seem to do so.  May we hope that someday the lost footage will be restored.  "},{"Title":"A Mediocre Sequel","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Superman IV The Quest for Peace is a good movie, but it was a failure in my opinion. It was great seeing the Superman cast back together again, including Gene Hackman who we haven't seen since Superman II. This time, Alexander and Ilya Salkind were not producing the movie. Instead, Menaham Golan and Yoram Globus, the owners of Cannon films, were producing. If you ask me, the Salkinds knew how to make a Superman movie better than those two. In Superman IV, Superman hears the threat of Nuclear War over and over, and so he decides that he will rid the world of every nuclear weapon known to man. At the same time, Lex Luthor has broken out of jail again and this time, his sidekick is his dorky nephew Lenny. The two criminals create a device that they put on one of the nuclear weapons and that ends up creating Nuclear Man. Nuclear Man has the same powers as Superman but, the only difference is that Nuclear Man gets his power from the sun.While all of this is going on, The Dailey Planet is being controlled by a tycoon and his daughter who has her eye on Clark Kent.So Superman has a big job here SAVE THE WORLD FROM NUCLEAR DESTRUCTION!I'm going to say that, anyone who has seen the first three Superman films, then just go ahead and see IV because it would be a shame to not see the film that is last in the series. But, in my opinion, I didn't like it much. I think Alexander & Ilya Salkind would've made a hell of a last movie. "},{"Title":"Sad note for the Man of Steel to go out on...","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The final adventure of Superman is by far his worst.  Granted Superman III isn't much better, but at least it was not as contrived as this one. First of all, let's look at the good parts of this movie, it is a short list.  Christopher Reeve came up with an excellent story for this film and it reflected the times that the world was facing.  Riding the world of nuclear weapons was a good start, a nice foundation to build on; unfortunately there was not enough money to finish the film and it was released unfinished.  The other nice things about this film are the return of Lex Luthor,and the return to seriousness in the film series.  One can only wonder how this movie would have turned out had all the necessary funding been there. The special effects are just plain horrible, and the audience winces as Superman makes his 'dramatic entrance' by saving a space capsule from spinning into the Earth's atmosphere and rescuing a man falling into space.  Everytime Reeve is in flight, the animated Superman is obvious to everyone, and it is sad to see this; for the audience no longer believes a man can fly, but that a cartoon can instead.  So many scenes are deleted from this movie that it is confusing to understand just how certain key elements of the film are executed, or worse yet, why!The only scene which holds interest for a little while is the climatic battle between Superman and Nuclear Man, at best the scene gets a mediocre. So far this has been the final entry of the Superman series, and although the film is exceptionally weak.  Christopher Reeve once again sparkles as the Man of Steel.  He always gave an excellent performance as Superman even when the movies where sub-par, and that speaks plenty. At least the ending to this movie is done well with Superman flying out of the Earth and smiling at us as he flies off into space, protecting the world; that alone will always inspire some kind of hope to people.   "},{"Title":"How is this rated lower than Superman III???","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  My friends and I regularly sit down and watch an entire movie series in consecutive nights, and we just watched Superman IV last night and the third one the night before.  I can't believe Superman IV is not only ranked lower than Superman III, but that it's on the Bottom 100 list.  Granted, this is by no means a great movie or very good at all, but there are definitely more than 100 other movies that are worse.  Superman III is one of those, in which the opening credits set up the rest of the movie for failure (having everybody in town falling down, running into things, tripping over other people, etc. and not having that tie in to the plot is not a good start to a movie.  It is just ridiculous and tells the viewer not to give this movie any respect).  If it were me, I would put Superman IV at maybe a 4 or 5 (no higher), and Superman III at a 3 at the most.   "},{"Title":"Pillow Goodness","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Superman 4 the quest for peace?? OK the premise had potential - Superman saving the world for Nuclear disaster. If anyone who has read the Graphic Novel 'The Dark Knight Returns', will know that Superman does indeed save the world from nuclear destruction as Batman faces off finally against Joker. So Superman doing this and an escaped Lex Luther trying to make money from re arming the world has merit.But it is completely wrong! Lex Luther suddenly develops a unique talent for genetic engineering to grow a man from the sun. The films most funny point is its endless use of the same shot of Christopher Reeve superimposed flying towards the screen. When you monitor it, you see how often it comes up you start yelling use another shot!The funniest thing is Nuclear man played by the legendary Mark Pillow! He flies, he growls, he has retractable finger nails and is dubbed with Gene Hackmans voice! He looks like he is wearing a black nappy with bondage gear on! I think the growling is dubbed too. He is supposed to be as hot as the sun (floor melts under him) but when he kidnaps Mariel Hemmingway she doesn't melt in his arms or die from being flown through deep space by Pillow! This was just stupid, she looks down at the Earth from the Moon! What the hell????The whole film is just stupid, Hackman and Reeve just look bored and thinking of the money they will make! The flying scenes just look pathetic as seen when Superman takes Lois flying! Its soooo bad! The only saving grace is when Superman is clearing up the destruction left behind by Nuclear Man, not bad like the Mount Vesuvius eruption! Mark Pillow should join the legendary Dan 'The Man' Haggerty as he is so bad he is good! Superman Returns should be a return to form! "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Have we all been watching the same movie? In a franchise that was until this point fairly average, finally somebody decided to make a movie that was true to the comic books.From the moment the opening credits rolled I was convinced I was witnessing a film worthy of the best film Oscar, perhaps the fact it wasn't even nominated will remain the greatest oversight in film making history.High points A villain that offered evilness personified, campness and humour all rolled into one, chris reeve really excelling in a script finally worthy of the role, and a wonderful reprisal from gene hackman.Low pointd ended too damn soon. lol.Cinematography was exceptional, I really believed superman was flying. Music was spot on as always so no change there.How superman iv is so unpopular will always remain a mystery to me. I rate it fifth in my top five after godfather, seven samurai,rear window and the good the bad and the ugly.Pure cinema. Pure genius. Pure superman as he was intended. Stop everything and watch this movie. Faultless!!! "},{"Title":"Hey, Let's Uninvent The Atomic Bomb!","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Spoilers AheadLet's grant the givens, this is a Golan Globus movie which meant it had the lowest possible budget known to man. Reeve said, in interviews, the whole cast couldn't believe the effects. I have to take issue with the assertion that it is fine despite the bare bones budget. The premise is painfully absurd; let's grant the big S rounds up all the nukes, a trifle unlikely, but let's go with it. Is he going to spend the rest of his days getting them as people keep producing them. All movies are slices of their zeitgeist, this was made at the height of the No Nukes insanity near the late 80's in the US; it was a direct reaction to Reagan's Star Wars and MX missile deployment. Hey, Reeve was a kind, great guy but his knowledge of world geo-political realities wasn't exactly FDR's. The movie has some scenes with the always entertaining and gifted Hackman; the nuclear man scenes would have worked with decent effects. When I saw this, people, who weren't walking out, were laughing non-stop at the effects during the showdown between the two. What is so tragic is that Wanamaker / Hemingway were good. The movie sank because of the synthesis between the most quixotic premise ever conceived and the worst special effects ever seen in a motion picture. Yes, let's put the nuclear genie back into the bottle; when you watch this, remember the massive Coke problem in Hollywood at this time.Can you tell some people were snorting some serious blow when this idea was settled upon? There are good scenes with Wanamaker, who proved in Raw Deal that he could act. The triangle with Lois and Hemingway was showing promise. What the production team never learned is, what Carpenter showed in They Live and Escape From New York, if you don't have the funds less is more. Give the audience just a few scenes of good effects than lots of scenes of crappy effects. The other problem is the estrangement of this movie from its indigenous zeitgeist, after 9 / 11, this kind of peacenik suicidal idealism just doesn't fly quite so well. Reeve still plays the role well, we have much more of Lois and Perry, after their near invisibility in Lester's cheese-ball third one. I don't like either one, but truly, I prefer this to the third one. Hackman is so superior to Vaughn, no Pryor, plus the main group of Jimmy, Lois and Perry is back. Some movies just become so temporally incongruent, as time passes, that they fade away. If you really love Reeve and Kidder, watch the movie. Hackman has some good lines, though Cryer is quite annoying. When I see this tiny rating, you have to ask yourself what is would have been with good effects and not a retarded premise? Even in 1987, when Superman said he was going to rid the world of nuclear bombs for small fry's wish, people were giggling loudly. The effects were always blamed, along with Hemingway, but truly, the premise of the movie is patently absurd. What? He is going to fly around the world forever grabbing them as they are built again? I always felt bad for Reeve, this was our last look at him, he deserved much better than this. Better Than Three But Still Awful. Q.E.D. "}{"Title":"Such a shame!","Date":"16 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" SUPERMAN IV THE QUEST FOR PEACEOK... so everyone knows that this is the worst Superman movie ever made... but if you have not seen it in a while, you should watch it.It is still pretty rubbish, but it is not as bad as I remember.The story is not that bad... Superman rids planet Earth of all the nuclear weapons, and in doing so unknowingly creates a super villain named Nuclear Man thanks to arch rival Lex Luthor.The movie does star all the original cast, which surprised me. I knew Christopher Reeve was in it... and after reading his autobiography now know why. He said in the book that he only made it because the film studio wanted to make it and they said to him that they would only finance another movie he wanted to make if he made Superman IV. I will quote what he said in his book... The less said about Superman IV the better.Gene Hackman returns as Lex Luthor & Margot Kidder is back as Lois Lane. They all did good jobs as always, although Margot was a bit unsure in places. The other supporting cast were not great. Mariel Hemingway played the new boss of the Daily Planet. She was awful... not a great actress in this I'm afraid. But she was not the worst. Mark Pillow played Nuclear Man. Absolutely terrible. His acting was definitely the worst of the whole quadrilogy.The effects in this film were so bad. You could see that the budget of this film was so much less than the other 3 movies made. Superman flying was so bad that Flash Gordon was more convincing... and speaking of Flash Gordon... Nuclear Man looked like him... but more camp! Nuclear Mans outfit was embarrassing... it was not much of a super villains outfit. It honestly was just a bad character through and through.There are also some really bad scenes... there was a scene where a large chuck of the Great Wall of China gets destroyed and Superman fixes it just by looking at it and using some dodgy blue eye lasers. What the hell? Terrible. Also, there is a scene where Nuclear Man kidnaps a Lacy and takes her into space... WHAT? He drags her to space and not only does she not scream or even say anything, but she can breathe fine in space... erm... really? I know Superman was never meant to be realistic, but that is too much!When I was a kid I was a big fan of the Superman movies... but I think my parents protected me from this disappointment, because I don't remember this film at all... I didn't see this film until I was an adult. Haha. Thanks Mum.I will give this film 5 out of 10.It's a shame about this film... it was a very disappointing ending to Christopher Reeves Superman career. But no matter what he will always be a legend.For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"Superman 4 The Quest For A Bigger Budget","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Spoilers Ahead;Again, the scale is too small. Superman 3 is a minus 50 this is a minus 30. Golan Globus for all you young people along with Canon were the kings of awful movies in the 1980s. I had friends that the minute the big C of Canon came on the screen they got up and walked out. Golan Globus usually drew a loud groan from the audience. What killed the movie? Lousy effects are not a mortal wound look at Superman The Movie, the last scenes are you kidding? The riverbed looks like some kids sandbox. No, it was the 1980s age of the Evil Empire and Ronald Reagan. Ask yourself what is the demographic for superman movies? How about conservative republican Christian family people? Now, how do you think the naive peacenik nuclear disarmament which was in the papers every single day, all over Europe, went with this audience? Not too well. Look, to conservatives like me, superman being hijacked by the 80s version of hippie, tree hugging, Bambi kissing fruits did not endear the film to us. Yes, the effects were the worst I have ever seen. Beyond bad, but what the hell did the cast think? Had they ever seen a Golan Globus movie? Reeve whined about how they deceived him; come on, you see Canon or Golan Globus on your contract you are not going to be in OBLIVION? The film is much, much better than Superman 3. Gene Hackman is back with a much crappier sidekick; the bad acting Lenny. Nuclear man needed some control rods; he looks really constipated. Yet, Hackman is a great actor; he makes the film worth watching. Never let it into your inventory; come on, people will laugh at you. Do not embarrass yourself like that, but it is worth one viewing. Some of the Lois and Clark scenes, with the awful actress / model named after a great author who must be spinning in his grave, are worth watching. Unlike 3, this could be fixed. First, hire a real effects studio, rewrite the script DE tree huggerize it, fire half the cast including Radium boy, and you could salvage this crap. Superman 3 is beyond repair; all copies of the film should be collected from around the world and launched into space. They should then burn all the negatives. Any surviving cast members, writers and crew should be exiled. Their are a few scenes worth watching and Gene Hackman is always worth the price; I even watched THE QUICK AND THE NO TALENTED BIMBO. Just, have a few beers first, then prepare for a real drop off a cliff of cinema. SUPERMANUS CRAPAMUS "},{"Title":"Widespread injustice against a nice Superman movie the quest for acknowledgment","Date":"18 November 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The way Superman IV - The Quest for Peace is referred by critics and conventional wisdom is absolutely unfair. It is accused of killing Superman series, quitting Christopher Reeve's portrayals of the man of steel and delaying in two decades a new Superman film. Blame Cannon Films' budget constraints, not all the movie. Off course, Superman IV has flaws. Due to Cannon Films's bankruptcy, there was not enough money to resume properly an expensive movie like that (budget shrank from US$ 36 million to US$ 17 million. Therefore, special effects are much worse than the ones used in its prequels, and scenes have been filmed without appropriate conditions (scenario, extras etc). To summarize, the film has been released unfinished, as one of the actors, Jon Cryer (yes, Alan from Two and a half men), stated. Besides that, they invented some powers which are not this superhero's traditional ones, such as telekinesis (though, a power General Zod has in Superman II) or creating bricks with the X-ray (indeed, the Great Wall scene is particularly amateur). The super-villain Nuclear Man, although not visually bad, suffered with poor text and bad acting. I also disliked campy Lenny (22 years old Jon Cryer), Lex Luthor's nephew. Though, Superman IV also has merits, which should be acknowledged. First of all, its plot is interesting and not less sophisticated than most of superhero movies (not to confuse complexity with mess, as many recent superhero films have bad explained stories disguised as richness). Besides that, there are many nice jokes, enjoyable situations and good dialogs. Once again, Christopher Reeve does an amazing job as Clark Kent and Superman, and Gene Hackman and Magot Kidder also have great performances in their roles of Luthor and Lois Lane. Instead of pure empty action, Superman IV also brings an important message of peace and criticizes both USA and USSR for their stupid military over-investments. This trait would have also been reinforced if some very nice deleted scenes had been included in final cut (they are available as special features in DVD, together with horrible footage with the first version of Nuclear Man). Besides that, the movie also reminds how the press is responsible for the outcomes of ts reports. The final message is a praiseworthy support for political engagement. The bad fame of Superman IV has been so often sustained that people do not watch this film anymore, letting no chances for its reputation reconsideration. That is a shame. It is worse than excellent Superman I and II, off course, and, in my opinion, also than Superman Returns, but I consider it much better than campy Superman III and much truer to our dear character than revisionist Zack Snyder's Man of Steel. "},{"Title":"Fitting end to Reeve's Superman trilogy.","Date":"23 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is the fourth and final Superman film with Christopher Reeve taking on the role, where he tries to stop the spread of nuclear weapons and battles Lex Luther (Gene Hackman) and his super-powered sidekick, Nuclear Man (Mark Pillow).Though the level of excitement and intrigue of this film doesn't match the first two, it is almost on par with the third and is still fun and fast-paced with neat special effects that showcase Superman's powers and great action scenes, something that sorely lacks in Superman Returns.The nuclear weapons plot I thought was clever and unique to a Superman movie. Total disarmament of nuclear weapons may not be feasible in the real world, but Superman's quest for peace among all countries is well-intended in the film. Reeve is great as Superman and Gene Hackman gave us another thrilling performance as super villain Lex Luther. In addition, the fight scenes between Nuclear Man and Superman were awesome - Nuclear Man looked like a force to be reckon with as he possessed the same level of powers and same physique as Superman.Overall, I think this film is a fitting ending to the Christopher Reeve saga.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Superman 4","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I'm not about to solely bash this movie just cause pretty much everyone did upon it's release. Before I say anything good, I'm gonna start with the bad starting with the special effects for the fourth installment of this series which was very poor. When Christopher Reeve lands on the moon you can see the wires suspending him as well as in other scenes, the editing is cheap and many shots you can tell are the same or just look digitized. Also lets not forget when Mariel Hemingway is brought into space she dosen't die. Ya it's bad quality and is definitely the poorest film of the 4. But I have to say,the story wasn't that bad though a bit corny. Superman clearing the world of nuclear weapons and Lex Luthor creating a being named Nuclear Man to kill the Man of Steel. The concept of Nuclear Man was pretty cool but he could have been portrayed a lot better instead of....well an idiot, especially since he was created from Superman's DNA. It was entertaining when Superman and him duke it out across the world with Superman repairing the world as Nuclear Man destroys it (ignoring the fact that it was daytime in America, China and Russia at the same time another error thanks to the poor production) and of course the battle on the moon. It was a good storyline turned into a not so good movie. We all know it could have been much much better but thanks to the cheap production of Golan/Globus this is all we got. Nevertheless I still appreciate this picture despite it's craftsmanship and have always enjoyed my multiple viewings of it. "},{"Title":"Is this film so bad?","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have just watched the 89 minute cut of superman 4 and i've asked myself is this a stinker of a film or not and my answer to that is no i don't think it is.Why you ask when most of the world thinks it is well i shall tell you.Well it's world renowned that cannon were cheapskates and the budget was only 10 million on this film but that aside what Sidney j furie did with this film was i think a much better film than superman 3.I liked the story the acting i think was on par with the other films and i enjoyed the action scene's especially the fight around the world with the nuclear man and it kept me entertained however there are bad points about this film as much as it kept me entertained which included Lenny who was as about as much use in this film as a chocolate tea pot and THE NUCLEAR MAN what purpose does he serve in this film he is that bad that Gene Hackman has to voice him so i can only imagine Marc pillow was more wooden than a park bench and also when superman and nuclear man are fighting in space it's so obvious that they are on a blacked out stage.What really bothers me about this film is that somebody out there has the full 143 minute version and i think this is the problem with superman 4 the general public have seen a watered down version which in some places this film makes no sense where as the full version that was laughed at by critics in an advanced screening would make more sense than this version we have to put up with and lets face it the real critics are real movie fans who do not get paid for there views unlike these posh art house lovers who would dissect care bears the movie if they had the chance.In closing i would like to say two things about this movie (1) This film is voted one of the worst films of all time because we have a watered down version that makes no sense in places.(2)Warner brothers or cannon whoever has the rights to the full uncut version do the decent thing and give us the general public and superman lovers across the world the the right to view superman 4 the quest for peace in it's full uncut glory if not for us then let's have Christopher reeve doing what he does best in these films and entertaining us and believing that a man can really fly "},{"Title":"Desparately seeking re-cut","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I don't like the Salkind's.  I feel that they treated Richard Donner and many others members of the cast and crew with unforgivable dis-respect. However, I can't help but feel for them just a little when it comes to Superman IV The Quest For Peace.  Sure they may have bank-rolled Three, which was a bit of a turkey in its own right, but then they had to sit back and see Supe's fourth incarnation absolutely butchered by the God-awful Cannon films.  In fact, they were probably laughing.  'Ha ha, even we could have done better than that!'Superman IV really, really needs a major overhaul.  It'll never happen of course, but it would be fun to see it.  The forty-five odd minutes of cut footage could be judiciously re-integrated into the film, whilst removing or re-editing existing stuff. (get rid of Nuclear Man taking Lacy out for a quick spin in space for a start - she would have been dead long before she could see the stars!!!) Then get hold of the original source prints for all the effects footage and digitally re-composite them to eliminate all the horrendous matte-lines. Remove the wires from the flying shots, and re-film the opening credits, which are, let's be honest, lame in the extreme. Then re-master the entire print, and upgrade the sound to 5.1 (hell, even DTS), add a load of extras and release the thing on DVD.  I'd buy it!!!Okay, okay, I know I'm dreaming.  It'll never happen, just as we're pretty unlikely to see a Donner re-cut of Superman II.  But the way I see it, if Anchor Bay can do such a bang-up job on Supergirl, with a Special Director's Cut well over two hours long, Warners could at least treat the Superman-loving public to longer cuts of their favourite films.  Even if the deleted scenes were just that deleted scenes as a DVD extra.What do you think?End of rant - move along people, just go on back to your lives! "},{"Title":"Comic movies...","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Superman is a classic whether it is good or bad. I like the original superman sequels. Sure the graphics in the superman sequels back then was not all that great considering the time period. The acting by Christopher Reeves was excellent even if it was a little mushy for some people. Comic movies don't usually get high ratings compared to most movies. It is a melodrama, where good fights with evil. Sometimes some of us ask the question, what happens if you were superman and you had the choice of protecting or destroying the world. This movie was made for the child inside everybody whether you believe me or not. I might sound kind of silly but thats I think about superman. We all have some purpose for life whether for good or evil. "},{"Title":"not that bad","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Superman IV The Quest for Peace may not be as good as the first two Superman movies, but it is still pretty decent.  The acting is okay, the plot is followable, but the special effects are pretty bad.I give Superman             (1978) **** Superman II          (1980) ***1/2 Superman III         (1983) *1/2 Superman IV          (1987) **1/2 "},{"Title":"A Good Sequel","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This sequel is the third best in the series of four movies.  Great performances, special effects, and a good story make this film a must-see for Superman fans, and movie fans.The story is about Superman's quest for peace.  He rids the world of nuclear weapons to do so.  Lex Luthor creates a Nuclear Man to destroy world and so he can rule the world.  Meanwhile, Warfield Industries buy the Daily Planet and turn it into one of David Warfield's tabloid papers.  Will the Daily Planet regain its title as Metropolis's leading newspaper?  Will Superman defeat the evil Nuclear Man?  Find out in this action-packed Super adventure.I give it 8/10 stars. "}{"Title":"The quest for peace has begun","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I know it is an old film, and as Superman films go, not many people like it. But I would just like to say that I think all you idiots out there should have more respect. Superman IV is just as good as the others. I know you all seem to think that is bad because of this and that and what other reasons you may have, but you should all have more respect and just enjoy the film, regardless of its flaws.There are films coming out and being produced at this moment that are much more worse than Superman IV The Quest For Peace.No matter what you idiots out there think, I know this film is great in its own right. But all of you other Superman fans out there, just go back to your little chairs and read your comics, and leave legends alone if you cannot accept them! "},{"Title":"A chastening rewatch","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I typically used to give myself credit for being fairly smart when I was younger. I remember when this came out on VHS in Australia in 1989 I was really excited and I also really enjoyed it. But the Video Ezy in the Lithgow Valley Shopping Centre lost their copy in 1990 and so I was never able to see it again. Believing that I was missing some magical piece from my child hood, I went out to buy the 2006 Collector' Edition box set, with the 5 theatrical Superman films, and Supergirl. Knowing this film's reputation, I watched it first to find out whether it was the treasure I remember it being. Not only did I sit through one of the most atrociously made movies I've ever seen, but I also realized that when I was 8 and loved this, I must have been a moron.There's a famous story from on the set of this movie that Reeve walked up to one of his co-stars on their first day filming and said something along the lines of this is going to be rough, but just grin and get through it. Reeve, like so many of the people working on this, knew it was a dead movie walking before they got there. I've no idea of the budget, but I'm guessing it wasn't much, and most of what was there was probably spent getting Reeve and Hackman to appear. The most distressing thing about watching this is the deteriorated condition of Margot Kidder (Lois Lane), who we now know was suffering severe mental issues at the time.Hackman returns, and gives his usual solid performance as Lex Luthor, who in this one makes Nuclear Man (Mark Pillow. Yes. Pillow. And after sitting through this, his only film credit, you'll need one), a hair metal reject with long fingernails, to fight Superman, a clever idea seeings as Superman has become obsessed with ridding the world of Nuclear weapons. My understanding of this part of the story is that Reeve was anti-nuclear and so wanted the message in the film and this may have been the main reason he signed up to do it. This may be why Reeve appears to try a lot harder than I would have to make the most of this horrible script. But I can't really talk about the plot. I was overcome by numbness. The greatness of the first two films, Reeve's presence, John Williams' uplifting score It's all gone. Where had it gone so wrong? How had they squandered a hugely profitable franchise in just 5 or 6 years? It would be 18 years before anyone got another Superman movie off the ground. This is a cheaply made 83 minute funeral dirge. Reeve was right, this was rough, and all he and the cast and crew could do was grin and get through it. Fortunately, as viewers we have another option turn the damned thing off and never watch it again. "},{"Title":"A Superhero Film On Par With The SyFy Shark Movies","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The release of Superman 4 had many negative repercussions on those involved. Firstly it bombed at the box office, making only 15 million of its already low 17 million budget back. Secondly, it is recognised as causing the death of the live action superman franchise until Bryan Singers Superman Returns in 2006. Christopher Reeve even recognised this film as the greatest failure of his career. Unfortunately all this is well founded as Superman 4 is amongst the worst superhero films due to the film getting almost everything wrong, short of having Super nipples. It tried to steer away from the comedy of the Lester Superman, but unfortunately had neither the drama nor action needed to do so. Reeve had credit in this film as writing the story. However there is good reason why this was Reeves only film writing credit as with a story this poor there was never any chance of the film being a success. The films title is very literal in that Superman is on a quest for peace by attempting to get rid of all the nuclear weapons on earth by gathering them all up and hurling them in to the sun. Yes, the film uses the logic that nuclear weapons are the real cause of war and it has little to do with those who have the weapons.Throughout it really tries to rub it in the viewers face that nuclear weapons are bad, as demonstrated by the villain named Nuclear Man. He's created by Luthor when he puts Supermans DNA to one of the missiles that Superman is hurling into the sun. Through this Luthor harnesses the sun's nuclear energy to create him and attempts to destroy Superman. Why the film didn't just use one of the many already existing villains in the Superman Roster like Bizarro is simply to reflect the message of nuclear weapons. The problem is by trying to simplify the concept of nuclear war, the message isn't being fed to us as much as it's being forced down our throats. Beyond this I suspect that in the 80's people already had the knowledge that nuclear weapons were dangerous without the guidance of Superman. Mixed with this are a lot of pointless subplots which get no focus and many of which don't even get a conclusion. For example a girl named Lacy falls in love with Clark Kent for no other reason than the script demands it. A lot of time is devoted to antics such as Clark having to juggle a double date with both Lois and her by switching between Clark and Superman. But at the end of the film then it just feels like the film forgets entirely about the sub plot. Partly this could be because there are many scenes in the original that were either cut or unreleased due to budget being cut from 36 million dollars to 17 million just before filming was about to begin. This meant they could not film some scenes and others were unusable leading to a gaping number of plot holes in the films.These budget cuts also led to the film having awful special effects which are comparable to the special effects of films like Shark Attack 3. This is why throughout the film you'll see the same shot of superman flying several times as a way of cutting costs. These terrible effects lead to what I would have to call one of the worst fights in a superhero film with a mixture of the worst effects and the worst fight choreography I've seen in film. All they seem to do is throw each other and fly away. Mixed with this are some ridiculously over the top moments such as Superman repairing the Great Wall of China or putting back the statue of liberty. All of this goes together to making this into the worst Superman movie. I can see why this film ended the franchise for so long as failed in almost every way from the script filled with plot holes, awful special effects and the lack of humour making it the worst of the Superman franchise by a long shot. Saying that, this film does fall under the so bad it's funny category as it's funny to see just how many major plot holes there are ranging from a woman breathing in space to Superman going from near dead to one scene to alive and well in the next. But based on the political message this film was trying to be it was most certainly a failure. "},{"Title":"Decent premise, but budget shows","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have seen recently a lot of arguments about Superman 4, mainly from people who argue that the film's message of nuclear disarmament should trump any problems with effects and story development. No movie, however noble it tries to be, is above criticism if it fails to capture the viewer. And Superman 4's problems completely overshadow any of its noble stances.Let's start with the most obvious flaw, the special (used loosely) effects. Anyone (like those I mention above) who say effects are unimportant to the movie's message need more bran in their diets. Great effects are most important in films such as these to create the illusion that the man we see on screen is really doing what he's doing. The first two Superman films did this, and are classics. Superman 4 fails at even the most basic effects. The flying scenes are the worst; you can see the wires in several shots, and the one particular shot of Superman (and Nuclear Man) coming straight at the camera is seen over and over again. In addition, the effects for space (black curtains) are visible, and there are many examples of bad green screening (the scene where Clark and Lois fall from his balcony being the most blatant).The story is also choppy in its execution. The basic premise is that Superman (Chris Reeve) is trying to destroy all nuclear weapons to protect Earth, but Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) creates Nuclear Man (Mark Pillow) to destroy him. On paper, it's a good start. However, the story is littered with subplots that do little to nothing to advance the story (a direct result of editing 45 minutes out of what was released to theaters). Where did Lenny Luthor (Jon Cryer) come from? Why does Lacy Warfield (played uninspiredly by Mariel Hemingway) have the hots for Clark? How does the computer in the missile with the DNA for Nuclear Man know how to create him AND a costume from simple black material? None of these are explained, and it leaves you confused as to why these characters are important.The actors try their best with the material they have; Reeve turns in as good a performance as you could expect (though he isn't as svelte as he was previously, a minor quibble) as Hackman is good. As I stated, though, Hemingway is a bore as Lacy, and Nuclear Man will forever be identified with the 80s (not to mention Pillow never gets to actually be heard, since Hackman's voice is dubbed over his). That said, if the material was better, the performances would've stood out more.Then there are scenes which leave you simply scratching your head. How does Clark find another green crystal in the spaceship on his farm (didn't he take it out in Superman 1)? Another one is the scene where Superman repairs the Great Wall of China with...Super Repair Vision? I've never heard of him using that in the comics! Of course, the ultimate silly scene is near the end of the movie, when Nuclear Man takes Lacy into space...and she can breathe normally!!! Isn't that physically impossible??? Not to mention it's immediately followed by Superman moving the moon out of orbit to block the sun and take Nuclear Man's power away. Watch out for tidal waves, Earth!In conclusion, Superman 4 will be remembered as a cinematic failure in spite of its intentions to educate the world about the dangers of nuclear weapons. While the actors try hard, they can't overcome the obvious lack of care from the producers about developing the story and making the film look good. And when the producers don't care, why should the viewing public care? "},{"Title":"Could have been good","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is a truly frustrating film. Somewhere in this mess is a good film that isn't allowed to break free, haphazard and lazy direction from a mediocre director and two very lame scriptwriters make sure of that.The idea in itself isn't bad. Superman becomes active in disarming the world of nuclear weapons but his arch nemesis Lex Luthor still holds a grudge against the Man of Steel and devices a plan to get rid of him; by creating a super villain of his own.Reeve shares co-credit story this time around but he's not responsible for the terrible script. There are good things floating around but executed in the poorest manner. And what's more the special effects are terrible, I can't believe they saved money on that front. The film moves along too fast, clocking in at under 90 minutes and some interesting angles are not explored nearly well enough.So what's good here? Well, Reeve of course. He IS Superman and once again delivers a fantastic performance and shows all too well that he's way too good for this film. Margot Kidder is good as well but her role is minimal and Jackie Cooper appears all too briefly. So that leaves Hackman. Of course it's good to see him, he's a very good actor, but one can't help but think he got a big paycheck and simply did what he had to and nothing more. He doesn't look too excited.A wasted opportunity this film. Could have been very good but looks incredibly rushed and made without passion. But it's always good to see Reeve in flying action. "},{"Title":"Good intentions, bad execution","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" It really hurts to review this film. Chris Reeve came back to the character one more time. He brought a noble enough idea; Superman helping the world to disarm. But in the end, this film lacked no creative punch.The once ground breaking effects look outdated and mediocre at best. We once were made to believe a man could fly. Now it was old hat and nothing new or innovative was being done to take us beyond that.Everyone, to include Reeve, seem to be in this film out of obligation more than any other reason. We have almost all of the original cast here, but it was time to let Superman fly off into the sunset rather than give us this soulless endeavor. "},{"Title":"Epic disaster","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Not even Ed Wood himself could have made a more amateuristic film than what Superman 4 turned out to be. Worst bluescreen effects ever superman just seems like a blueish/greenish/reddish cardboard cutout sliding over the screen sideways much like the Terry Gilliam cutouts from Monty Python but here it's not meant to be funny (I think). Gene Hackman's Lex Luthor is nothing more then a clownesque nobody assisted by his 'slick' greaser highschool nephew. Superman's nemesis 'Nuclear Man' -created from superman's DNA- turns out to be a 80s hair-metal Neanderthal in spandex who's lines of dialogue consist mainly of 'Arrrghh'. Compared to modern day superman this one looks like a pyjama wearing nerd with his over-sized red underwear on the outside with matching plastic boots. I'm sure he wouldn't draw any attention in a gay bar. They always say films are made in the cutting room but here the editor must have shaken his head and thought there was nothing to be saved. Don't get me started on the plot christopher reeve co-wrote the story...probably when he was high on LSD or something. (Spoiler) At a certain point in the film superman gets rid of all the nukes in the world by plucking them out of the sky, gathering them in a giant ball and swinging them into the sun. Also people can breathe in space. This film is just a disaster of epic proportions and you really have to see it to believe it. I'm sure this is used in Film Schools around the world as reference material on how NOT to make a film. "},{"Title":"Fun, wholesome, not spectacular","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's hard to believe, but in the eight years I have been watching Smallville, this is the first full-length alternative version of the Superman story I have seen. I saw the third movie many, many years ago and enjoyed it a lot, mainly because of Richard Pryor. Lois and Clark was my favorite version of the story, and then there were some George Reeves reruns many years ago. I've never seen the first two movies. When they were on broadcast TV, I just wasn't interested. The first was on Ion, but I don't have it.This movie, though, was the first one where I saw nerdy, clumsy Clark and really enjoyed what I saw. The third movie had the character but I didn't pay attention.I especially liked Clark's efforts to keep Lois and Lacy from finding out he was Superman. I didn't care for this Lois, and her near-absence from the third movie was a positive. I wanted Clark to have a relationship with the beautiful Lacy, who sort of reminded me of Erica Durance.It was interesting to see Clark given advice by a female voice. I'm used to his mentor being male. These scenes where he learns the great truths he must know are always enjoyable.Gene Hackman made a great cartoonish Lex. I'm used to the darker, complicated portrayal by the excellent Michael Rosenbaum, but I normally prefer comedy. I can't say one is better than the other. And with the always enjoyable buffoon Jon Cryer as his sidekick, that's even better.I've missed seeing the morally upright hero in the blue and red suit who is known by all, and I enjoyed seeing him use his powers, even if some of the special effects were obviously just that. Right now, I mostly see a flawed hero in training who moves too fast to be seen, but whose deeds are known. There's something more satisfying about seeing this perfect person who, for reasons no one will explain, no one recognizes as looking just like Clark Kent if Clark just took off those glasses.I was disappointed with the portrayal of Perry White. I've seen much better acting.No, it wasn't one of the greatest movies of all time, and it can't compare to what I've heard about the first two. It was just a fun and silly adventure, one where no one gets hurt except Superman (who can heal himself), so the whole family can watch. Maybe some younger kids shouldn't see some of the implied violence, but even with incidents where people would die in real life, they come out all right, as if Tom Bergeron were narrating. "},{"Title":"Superman 4  The Search (and failure) For Decent Collaborators","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember when I first heard about Superman 4 being produced, and the names Golan/Globus were uttered. My first thought The guys who do the Chuck Norris movies? And, second It's going to be bad! When my roommate and I went to see S4 the week it came out, my thoughts unfortunately came true. From the glittery opening credits (glitter?), to (spolier alert!) Lex Luthor bring put back into his prison rock quarry (I didn't know they still had those), Superman 4 The Quest For Peace is simply a well-intentioned idea executed badly. Christopher Reeve's basic idea was a good one, but Cannon simply dropped the ball due to greed (using not only the original budget, but even MORE money given to them by Warner Bros., to shore up other failures, including He-Man and The Masters Of The Universe) and incompetence. Margot Kidder looks pale, with EXTREMELY mascaraed eyes, but she does manage to convey her love for Superman. Mariel Hemmingway had nothing to work with as Lacy Warfield, but she serves her purpose of being pretty (despite the odd costume designs that she, and everyone else, sports). Gene Hackman is sleep-acting through his role, but he still manages to make Lex snidely evil. The less said about Jon Cryer's performance, the better (The Dude of Steel? Boy, are you gonna get it!) As for Mark Pillow? You can't fault him too much- it was his first film, and he was picked to be the sex-appeal villain (plus, his cheesy costume does him no favors.) His lines mainly consist of mouthing roars that are post-dubbed by Gene Hackman. Chris Reeve is still Superman, and his performance is his usual best. The effects are amusingly bad- flying strings abound unremoved, the models look like just what they are-models- and some of them are just bizarre. Who knew Supes had a spare mesh bag put away if she should just happen to gather all the worlds' nuclear missiles and toss them into the sun? And, who knew the Earth's countries had THAT many missiles? Who knew you could move the moon out of its orbit without causing massive problems on Earth? FINALLY, who knew you could breathe in space? Lacy Warfield has no problems doing it while hanging onto the unconscious Nuclear Man! I could go on, but if you're reading this you've most likely seen S4, and understand about the effects completely. As bad as this film is, though, I find myself watching it again and again, maybe hoping that a Happy Film Fairy worked their magic and changed the film, making it better. Reeve and Kidder (as well as the rest of the film series' cast) do their best with what they have to work with. Once Chris Reeve had his accident and ended up in a wheelchair, my heart sank knowing he'd never be able to do another Superman film, and possibly end the series on a higher note than S4 did. But, Superman 4 is what it is, and (Spolier alert?) the Deluxe Edition DVD offers a bunch of deleted scenes(with stock music and unfinished effects)that show what S4 could have been if the premiere screening hadn't been so negative as to cause massive re-editing. The film would've made a lot more sense in certain parts, and (in my opinion), a lot more fun. S4 is bad, yes, but not repulsively so. Just to be able to see Chris Reeve and Lois Lane fly around the world again (albeit badly!) makes Superman 4 The Quest For Peace worth another viewing. It''d be nice to see the complete cut used for the aforementioned secret screening, but until that happens, we have this version. Which, for entertainment and nostalgia, is alright. Chris Reeve's heart was in the right place, but Cannon Films' heart was not. A shame.P.S. If you can find a copy of theInternational Version somehow (I recorded it on VHS from Superstation TBS several years ago), you'll see two scenes featured in the DVD Deleted Scenes section, but fully integrated into the film (full music and effects) Superman saves a little girl (actually, Chris Reeve's young daughter) from a tornado in what looks like Kansas (or possibly, Smallville) and, Superman saves Russian politicians from a nuclearmissle that Nuclear Man aims at them. "},{"Title":"See you in twenty...","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's very, very sad that Superman IV the quest for peace ended abruptly its franchise, because the idea of nuclear disarmament was a very good topic to discuss at the end of Cold war. With a severed budget, uninspired dialogs, plot inconsistencies, dull special FX (especially when Superman is suspended by thin wires on the moon and when Lacy Warfield is in space without a breathing apparatus) and a ridiculous and laughably villain, how a Superman movie can be enjoyable ? As far as I'm concerned none of these problems can resolve its own.The film is so much different from the previous installments, and I felt a little alienated and lost while watching it. However I liked some moments, the best ones were with the campy Nuclear Man who shouted more than he spoke (he looks more like an extravagant wrestler than a clone of Superman) The final line was very prophetic while being ironic, and I'm glad that Superman returns is far more better than this monumental farce...Steve Baillargeon "}{"Title":"The movie takes itself far too serious.","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The whole story and concept are just as ridiculous as the ones for Superman II & III but difference with those movies was that it was obvious that they didn't took themselves too seriously with as a result some entertaining B-movie fun. Superman IV The Quest for Peace however takes itself far too serious, which makes the ridicules story and concept seem even more ridicules. The movie could had certainly used some more humor and comical situations and characters.The movie had still quite some potential to be honest but the weak directing and storytelling makes this a movie filled with holes and loose ends. Some moments are just completely unbelievable and there are more than a few obvious goofs in the movie and the story.It's surprising to see that Gene Hackman actually agreed to return in this movie after his absence in Superman III. Not even he can give the movie a fun and light feeling. His character is terribly underused in the movie and the real main villain of the movie (Nuclear Man) is only introduced towards the ending of the movie. Nuclear Man is a pretty decent villain but he is simply introduced too late in the movie to leave a lasting impression.Not even Christopher Reeve and Margot Kidder seem to feel at ease in this movie. They were both great in the previous 3 Superman movies but they really don't seem to feel comfortable with this movie its script and dialog.The special effects look absolutely horrible and are by far the worst of any of the Superman movies.Yes, the movie does still have some entertainment value and it still has some good superhero elements in the movie but overall it's a movie not really worth watching. The directing and the script are weak and not even the normally fine actors can make the movie fun or believable enough. All that is left now is a silly, horrible mess.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Good intentions, bad execution.","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" You have to respect a couple of aspects of this movie. The fact that the entire cast (including Reeve) came back for it. The fact that they indeed had a meaningful message to tell (nuclear weapons are very bad). The fact that Lacy Warfield has the nicest legs I've seen since... well, in a long time.It's too bad the budget was like, a couple hundred bucks. Or at least it seemed that way. Since the sfx were awful, and they obviously couldn't afford some talented rewrites of the semi-OK script.Still, this movie is kind of fun to watch. And Reeve does his best to keep his acting talent as rich and crisp as it was in the first three Superman movies.Anyways, it doesn't really matter. 20 years later we are finally getting a new Superman movie.Folks, Christopher Reeve WAS Superman in the 20th century. Brandon Routh WILL be Superman in the 21st.Long live the legend! "},{"Title":"The Quest for peace, without much tranquillity","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Well to say that the final chapter in the Superman series was a big let down is an understatement. I have read many people's opinion on this movie and agree that it could have been a way better film. Though the film's theme does have some merit attached to it.Superman IV is about the man of steel grappling with his emotions of his now home planet, Earth. He is afraid the planet could suffer the same fate as his mother planet Krypton. Superman agrees to rid the planet of the threat of nuclear war. But the mastermind of the greatest criminal in the modern era, Lex Luthor, uses the Superman peace bid to create ciaos. His new creation is a Frankenstein like being, a Nuclear Man. Can Superman stop the Earth from blowing itself up?Actors such as Christopher Reeve and Gene Hackman were crazy when they agreed to do this film. I know that Reeve helped to write the story to this film, and the whole nuclear war theme was quite fine. But tell me if I am wrong, the big screen version never turned out the way it was suppose to? Reeve was good again as Clark Kent/Superman (but only when his feet were on the ground). The flying sequences in this Superman were atrocious. Scenes like when Lois Lane and Superman fly around together. These scenes look fake. The original Superman gave me the impression that this bloke really could fly. But this film makes a mockery of the Superman name. I must commend the speech of Superman to the world congress on nuclear war, it was quite touching and when you watch the movie up to this point, I thought hey this might be alright. But how wrong was I?Gene Hackman made the role of Lex Luthor his own. Yet, I am amazed he even wanted anything to do with reprising the Luthor role. Not that he was bad, but the film itself was. Hackman since then, has had to reinvent himself in films like Enemy of the state, which I enjoyed immensely. It is only lucky he didn't ruin his whole career. Another of his better films was the Quick and the Dead, starring alongside Hollywood beauty Sharon Stone. Margot Kidder was back in Superman IV and I did enjoy parts of her in this. Lois' emotions towards Superman were well acted by Kidder. Looking at Kidder's career since this film nothing really stands out to me though. Margot has had bad luck in the last ten years, being in a serious car crash, managing maniac depression and requiring psychiatric care. I do remember that she went through a tough trot.I will tell you which cast members weren't quite that super. First of all, Nuclear Man (Mark Pillow). It is fine to have a menacing look about you, but aren't you suppose to able to act a bit also? Pillow was a terrible choice in this role. The other point is that I haven't seen or heard anything of this guy since. The other crappy part to his role was that Gene Hackman supplied the voice of his character. The Nuclear man character was ok, but could have had a better actor playing him. Then you have the attractive actress Mariel Hemingway, who played Lacy Warfield. The daughter of tycoon David Warfield (Sam Wanamaker). As good looking as Hemingway is, her character in this was of no importance at all. Likewise Wanamaker, who just makes up the numbers, plus the whole take over bid of the Daily Planet didn't make much sense to me. Last of all I want to talk about Jon Cryer. He played Luthor's nerdy nephew, Lenny. He was terrible and a complete waste of time being in this film in my view. I also read somewhere, has anyone seen Jon Cryer since Superman IV? My answer to that is yes, in a film titled Holy Man starring would you believe Eddie Murphy, Jeff Goldblum and the gorgeous Kelly Preston.I have mentioned some scenes in Superman IV that I liked and that I disliked. Another favourite was when Lacy and Lois had a double date with Clark and Superman. This scene was well acted and cleverly done. Superman was up and down this tall building for the entire scene. Reeve's talent's again shone through with this. The only problem with this scene was that it totally gives away who Superman's secret identity really is. Anyone in their right mind should know after having a double date with the guy. The worst scene in the film is when Nuclear man takes Lacy Warfield after falling in love with her. Superman discovers that Nuclear man's energy comes from the sun and shifts the moon's orbit to block the sun. Meanwhile Lacy is dragged into outer space. I don't know who got this wrong, but no earthling can breathe in space without help can they? So why didn't Lacy die huh?The other dilemma this film had was that the budget was cut back. After a test screening, it was reduced from 134 to 90 minutes. I say that the edit button destroyed this film. Scenes were deleted or cut. It might (I stress might) have helped if I could have seen the whole film. I read the book to Superman IV and admit that I actually enjoyed reading it. I hope we get to see what was taken out of this film on the DVD of Superman IV.All in all this was a movie which probably never had a chance to succeed. With poor special effects, ordinary cast and a shortened version that really did kill it. I want to wish Christopher Reeve all the best in his recovery from his quadriplegia. I will always remember him as Superman, on the big screen and in real life. I am afraid to say that this film gave Superman a bad name.Rating 2 out of 5 Stars or 4/10. "},{"Title":"A good intention, a medium movie, a horrible production.","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Superman IV is a mix of good and bad things.The good things-1 The intention of the movie; its good, Superman X nuclear weapons is coherent because is one of worst enemies of humanity.2 The cast; Reeve and Hackman gives a bit of light in film, but Jon Cryer and Mark Pillow aren't good.The bad things-1 The production of film is poor, very poor, the FX effects, the flying effects are horrible for a Superman film. The Golan/Goblus production isn't competent in anyway.2 The plot could be better, much better...The nuclear Man, Superman talking in space after to save astronauts, Lacy Warfield in space, the Moon's scenes and Luthor's escape of jail are some examples of the mistakes in the plot, but some scenes like the Superman speech is OK.The film's intention is really good, but intention is never enough. "},{"Title":"and superman 3 is good","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" why does everybody say this film is cack? sure it's not the greatest film in the world but compared to superman 3 i'll watch this over that any day of the week.The problem with superman 4 is we haven't seen how it was or was not intended therefore the film doesn't make much sense but i personally think there is more standout points in this film than superman 3(1)Clark and superman simultaneously having dates with Lacey and Lois a really well made scene.(2)superman and nuclear man's fight around the world, silly but entertaining (3)russians in space singing my way, unrealistic but a well made scene.there are a few more but the point i'm trying to make is superman 3 has one worthy scene and that's the junkyard fight between Clark and superman.I truly believe when the deleted scenes come out this film will gain more respect but other than that i enjoyed it so balls to you all ha ha.coincidently i have a version of superman 2 with Richard Donner's footage which i recommend if you can get your hands on it "},{"Title":"does anyone know what...","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" disastrous consequences there would be if someone pushed the moon like that? The delicate lunar balance destroyed? No, we'd be better of with the nuke man..anyway, the movie isn't THAT bad. I've seen much much worse - If you have a hangover or get laid off or something, this is great pass-time.this move has its moments, names like Warfield, hostile takeovers don't work.. and so on..However, what is the deal with Lois lane.. she's not very pretty or sexy - she's just annoying(I think). But superman in this move, makes a lot of public appearances.. did he do that in the other ones?this line is just fill.. Regards, tor. "},{"Title":"Good intentions do not a good film make.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The fourth Superman movie has unconvincing, occasionally embarrassing special effects and a naive, puerile script. On the other hand, Christopher Reeve almost singlehandedly carries it along! Still dashing as Superman, still funny as the engagingly clumsy Clark Kent; there is a sequence in which he has to be both almost simultaneously (the double date) which is an example of perfect comic timing. Margot Kidder and (especially) Mariel Hemingway are also pretty good. But Gene Hackman is mostly a nuisance here (and that goes double for his sidekick), and the Nuclear Man would be more at home in a Hercules movie.     (**) "},{"Title":"Superman IV The Quest for a better movie (1987)","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  What the F-Word was this? This movie had some entertaining moments but that was like only 5% of the movie. I think this is the 2nd worst movie in the series but I'm not sure. I only saw the first hour of Superman III (I found it boring) so I don't know if it's the worst or 2nd worst. Anyway, this movie was so cheesy and barely faithful to the comics.Nuclear Man?!?! What the F-word was that? The filmmakers of this movie were complete idiots! If they had a low budget then why didn't they just have the movie be about the romance between Lois and Clark? They could have also done the action sequences TV style because I doubt a Superman show will cost more then a million dollars to make. What ruined this movie wasn't a bad script or a low budget but bad financial decisions. The filmmakers didn't use the $17 million wisely. What makes a good movie isn't the special effects. It's the story and the characters behind it. If I would have been 16 years older in 1986/7 I could have taken those $17 million and made a great movie!   *1/2 out of **** Stars  "},{"Title":"Hopeless and Inept, Superman IV is One Gigantic Misfire","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's a little amazing, really, how quickly the original Superman franchise eroded into bad comedy. This being the ground floor of that descent, it bears little similarity to the original film beyond several key casting choices and a spit curl. Christopher Reeve returns as the title character, of course, with Margot Kidder suffering an expanded role and Gene Hackman back from a one-film exile to ham it up once again as a clueless, underwhelming Lex Luthor. Filling the Richard Pryor why?! role from the previous film is Jon Cryer, better known as Duckie in Pretty in Pink, who plays some sort of pointless, meandering male twist on the Valley Girl stereotype that was rolling through culture at the time. I'm still not entirely sure why he was elbowed into the plot. This isn't aggressively bad like Superman III, it's just hopelessly inept. In fact, the core of the story has a lot of potential Superman, inspired by a letter from a young boy, destroys the world's nuclear armaments and discovers that some problems can't be solved quite so easily. It sputters and fails right on the launchpad, though, and soon falls back on a muscle-flexing brawl with some generic evil menace to solve the problem. Its grasp on physics, and reality as a whole, is so loose it's almost adorable. I'd pat my four-year-old son on the head and smile if he suggested we move the moon around to keep the sun out of his eyes, but for this film that's a legitimate solution. To say its answers make any sense would be an insult to sense itself. The whole thing plays like an easy answer to a complex problem, from the story to the editing to the acting to the effects work. These older superhero movies don't hold up to the rigors of time as a whole, but Superman IV looks particularly bad in a modern setting. Even the hero's indistinguishable costume seems cut-rate and fake, like they'd forgotten to commission a wardrobe department until the night before production. Head-shakingly pointless and dull, this film only seems to exist to kill time. Which, thankfully, it doesn't demand in great quantities. While the original cut came in at over two hours, some greedy last-minute cuts trimmed it down to a slim ninety minutes. Why the late edits? To ensure a few more showings each day at theaters nationwide. Of course. "},{"Title":"Literal kryptonite to the franchise.","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This film is a contender with Batman & Robin, claiming the title for the worst comic book movie of all time. Batman & Robin arguably did significantly more damage to the source material, ruining the legacy of Batman for 8 years. However Batman was gradually redeemed with The Dark Knight trilogy, the Superman franchise has been unable to recover from all previous bad instalments. Superman Returns was abysmal, Man of Steel was incoherent and unstructured and from a recent viewing of Batman v Superman, I can honestly say it wasn't a particularly good film, inheriting the same problems that made Man of Steel dull.The elaborate production phase and budget constraints are what made this movie to the gradual process of a colossal failure. The first 3 films, with the third instalment being the film that took the franchise downhill, featured revolutionary visual effects that were outstanding for its time period. This film however, the reduced budget is so evident with a notable deterioration in quality with the effects, as they look absolutely appalling. The same archive footage of Superman flying is recycled with every shot and flying sequences are in a straight line as opposed to the cinematography they were able to achieve in the first 3 films. Christopher Reeve continues to give a good performance as Superman, arguably being the only positive aspect of the film. With 40 minutes deleted from the theatrical version, the movie feels choppy, poorly edited and nonsensical. There were attempts to make a good film, but the premise did not pay off, and the film is devoid of any redeeming qualities. Final verdict, even rating it based on its genre, in general it is one of the worst movies ever made. "}{"Title":"Christopher Reeve's performance is the sole saving grace to this trainwreck","Date":"6 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is an insult and disrespectful to Superman, to the fans, it's even disrespectful to Superman III, which wasn't that good of a movie to begin with, but even that was better than this Z-grade, nonsensical, juvenile drivel.The plot ridiculously has Superman ridding the world of all nuclear weapons, while Lex Luthor is cooking up a Nuclear Man (who looks like the singer in some awful hair metal band) of his own to take down Superman once and for all. We learn, in the course of the film, that Nuclear Man has no power at all when the sun doesn't shine on him, so, he obviously doesn't come across as being very intimidating, unless one gets radiation poisoning from him. Or, scratched by his manicured talons.The effects are rock bottom, bottom of the barrel, and they are reused multiple times throughout, which only reiterates their ineptitude. Colour shifts, and changes in tone only make the poor film stock (due to the film's slashed budget) even more obvious. The photography itself is flat, centred, and dull, it never rises above looking like a television commercial.A problem this series had was coming up with worthwhile villains. Lex Luthor, and especially General Zod, were wonderful, worthy opponents in the first two films. In part 3, we had Robert Vaughn and Richard Pryor fumbling about. Here in part 4, we have a reject from a bad hair metal band, with Gene Hackman's dubbed voice, fumbling through poorly choreographed fight scenes with Superman.I give this film a 2/ 10, just for the fact that Christopher Reeve still puts in a good performance, unlike some other actors who, by the fourth go round, would just be phoning it in. "},{"Title":"Another bad Superman Movie. Marvel does so much better.","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Possible spoilers...First Problem After saving the Russian Cosmonaut, Superman speaks to him (in Russian). With no air in space to carry the sound waves, there would be no sound from Superman's voice for the Russian to hear.Second Problem Unilaterally disarming every country in the world is not Superman's decision to make.Third Problem Lex Luthor, The Greatest Criminal Mind of the Modern Era is, apparently, not smart enough to pronounce nuclear correctly.Fourth Problem Recreating bricks, with his eyebeams, to rebuild The Great Wall of China is not one of Superman's powers.Fifth Problem Superman just stands there and lets Nuclear Man blast dozens of vehicles, instead of jumping him.Sixth Problem How is publisher girl breathing in space?Seventh Problem If Superman figured out Nuclear Man's weakness when he was sick, why didn't he take advantage of it when battling Nuclear Man near the terminus line on the moon? "},{"Title":"The worst Superman movie ever made.","Date":"25 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The one biggest reason this movie sucks because stupid CGI.For an example look at when Superman is flying in front of the screen.I know this movie is old and all but I've seen classic James Bond movies that has better CGI and I think they don't even have CGI.At first I thought this was going to be a good movie but I was wrong.I just finished watch Man Of Steel and I wanted to watch the fourth Superman movie because I watched all but never got to watch the fourth one.I was half excited and half scared.Then my whole body stoke into wrath.There is one thing that Sidney got right.The people.Superman doesn'tcare if he is getting beaten but he cares if the people r hurt.So if u want to watch a good family movie please don't pick Quest For Peace.Movies u can watch is like Grown Ups 2 and 1.But please don't watch this one.One more thing.At the end when he flies out of earth this movie has the SAME ending as the last one but just different lighting.How stupid.I'm going to give Superman IV The Quest For Peace an F. "},{"Title":"Hot, nuclear garbage","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's interesting how the Superman and Batman film series followed a similar pattern. Both began with two great movies that changed the genre in different ways, both had a third installment with a different director which ended up having its moments but ultimately being a silly, hollow mess and both ending with a car crash of a fourth installment which ruined the credibility of the superhero genre.Yes, Superman IV The Quest For Peace is the 'Batman and Robin' of the Superman film series, except I can at least laugh at how bad that was. Superman IV is just....I'm not sure what I feel while watching it. Anger? No. It's too silly for that. At the end of the day, it's just a completely inept movie on the same level as Jaws The Revenge, and that's a fitting comparison as both are some of the worst movies of all time.The visual effects are staggeringly awful, with terrible green screen shots and the same shot of Superman flying towards the camera being used over and over and over again, there are dozens of plot holes (the UN are just.....OK with Superman disarming all their nuclear weapons? The Justice League animated show, a show far more intelligent than this by the way, handled that better), there are dozens of subplots that go nowhere like the integrity of the Daily Planets new owner of the girl who fancies Clark, Lois does nothing of note despite her expanded role except one lazy scene where they redo the plot of Superman II (with the same end result) in about two minutes (f**k this movie), Nuclear Man is the worst villain ever put on screen as not only does he look unconvincing but sounds it too, with his voice by Hackman (also playing Lex Luthor again in this movie) being a dodgy match for the actor and the awful, awful dialogue. The movies problems are literally endless, and it wouldn't be so bad if it wasn't such an assault on the eyes as well as the brain.This is not only one of the worst comic book movies ever made, it's one of the worst movies ever made. A lazy, cheap, badly edited, badly written, insulting, torturous, unbearable, corny pile of garbage.Want to know why Bryan Singer ignored Superman III and IV when making Superman Returns in 2006? Well, try your hardest to watch the two pieces of trash and you will not only FULLY understand why, but wish you could be able to forget them as well. "},{"Title":"The end of the franchise, and for Christopher Reeve","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" After going through the painful territory for Superman III, I have now gone myself to the stupidity territory of Superman IV The Quest for Peace. This is the end of the franchise, and for Christopher Reeve for playing both Clark Kent and Superman. The plot of the movie is pretty much lame, because it is really about Superman who is going to rigged the world of all nuclear weapons while Lex Luthor escapes from prison with the help of his nephew as they create their own Superman as he was born from the sun with all the nuclear solar powers to become Nuclear Man or something like that. Sorry for not giving you much detail about the plot, because the movie itself actually goes completely nowhere. Its amazing how this franchise went completely downhill, where you start off something amazing to a travesty. If this movie didn't killed the franchise, then the Salkinds didn't have to fire Richard Donner for Superman II so that he can finish the movie 100 percent, and have Tom Mankiewicz (on IMDb trivia for Superman III) direct Superman III; if it stays like, then it would be either a great trilogy or make four or five Superman movies so that this franchise would stay strong, and very much ended on a satisfactory note. But no, Donner got fired so the Salkinds would bring Richard Lester to direct Superman II (which I still enjoy, but Donner's cut is better) and Superman III so they would go into camp factor, and have Richard Pryor in the third movie. Now, for the fourth movie, the Salkinds gave up and sold it to Golan-Globus' Cannon Films to produce the movie, which it definitely makes matters worse. The special effects in this movie are just awful. How awful? The budget was originally 36 million dollars, but as Cannon Films was into financial problems, they slashed the budget to 17 million dollars as they kept reusing effects like Superman flying right into the camera and have it poorly composite. I wish if they hadn't slashed its original budget, so that effects wouldn't look like this. The only good effect is the same footage from the first three movies that ends with Superman flying into space, and smiles at the camera. You really if the effects for this movie are just as good as the first three, and maybe keep getting better at it. The movie is directed by Sidney J. Furie, who is a director that I am not familiar with has not done a great job on making this movie, and I wonder if he wasn't satisfied the way how the movie is presented; if he admitted it, then I would forgive him. The story itself isn't that well told, but it comes to a shocked that Christopher Reeve co-wrote the screenplay. I remember watching videos of him on YouTube, where he said that he wasn't satisfied with the third one so he can make a Superman movie that he want to see so it can be as good as the first two, and pretty much forget about three. I'll give him credit for that for at least trying to come up with a better story, but sadly it was not well executed as Reeve himself isn't satisfied with this movie as he hoped for the way he envisioned. The action isn't really that good either, and I really don't have much comment on the music so its really just there. This movie is filled with a bunch of errors like the child actor that plays Jeremy disappears out of nowhere, Nuclear Man kidnaps Lacy as he takes her to space as she can breath perfectly fine, Superman moving the moon, fixing the great wall of China and Superman getting sick as we never see how is able to recover, when he has that darn green crystal in his hands. Wow, movie! I mean, wow! Now, after my issues with this movie, is there anything that I liked? I hate to admit, but the movie is filled with great actors who very much wasted on such great talents. Most of the actors and actresses gave their all, but pretty much ended up by going into a bad direction. I don't have much comments on either Mariel Hemingway or Mark Pillow as Lacy and Nuclear Man, because they're just there and don't care whether they did good or bad. However, it is nice to see Gene Hackman returning as Lex Luthor as he did his best with a bad script, but don't think he did good as the voice of Nuclear Man which I find it pretty silly. I really don't care for his nephew as he is played by Jon Cryer. Margot Kidder does her best to as Lois Lane, and I really wish if there was more romance between her character and Superman. Oh, I forgot to mention that she does remember that Superman's real name is Kal-El as that erased memory kissed didn't help from the second one, and now Superman erases her memories again. Well, gee, that was pretty pointless. As for Christopher Reeve, it is sad that this was the last time that we ever seen him to play both Clark Kent and Superman, until his passing on October 10, 2004; he still is giving a great performance and whenever he is on screen you know that he will always be Superman as his legacy will live on forever. We surely do miss him, and I know many fans will still remember him. Even me. With that said, Superman IV The Quest for Peace hits the nail of the coffin for killing the franchise as he returns to the big screen in Superman Return, then he disappears, and reappears again in Man of Steel. I give this movie a 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The worst in a very tainted series of films","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This fourth instalment sees the return of Gene Hackman as Lex Luthor, as well as the introduction of evil fingernails and the most jejune stupidity in the franchise.There is a certain amount of enjoyment to be gained from watching Christopher Reeve, Gene Hackman and Margot Kidder go about their business like this was one of the first two movies, but at the end of the day the film's a total non-event. There's almost nothing worthwhile here.The awareness of the cast about just how poor the film was is both a good and bad thing. On the one hand, a little self-deprication and honesty goes a long way to redemption, but on the other, if they knew how bad it was, why commit to the starring roles? They weren't contractually obligated to do so (like Avengers actors are nowadays).The notion of Superman bringing about an end to nuclear war was kind of neat, so that initial premise had some promise, but unfortunately the whole thing takes a back seat and everything in the front row is just... Just awful, let's be honest.12%-Gimly "},{"Title":"Superman on a budget","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I first saw this movie as a teenager, and I can remember at the time thinking it was cheesy-looking and simple-minded. Seeing it again more than twenty-five years later, I still think the same way about it. The cheesy look on the movie can be blamed on the budget; it was slashed by more than half just before filming began due to Golan and Globus having financial problems. This results in some special effects being recycled, but even worse is that all the special effects look very cheap and shabby. Why does Superman's cape flap in outer space, for instance?While better special effects would have helped, the movie would have still suffered from its screenplay. It is very juvenile and simple- minded; it reminded me at times of the often goofy nature of Superman comic books in the 1950s. How can a mortal human survive at length in outer space without a space suit, for instance?Is there anything good about the movie? Well, the cast, despite the low budget and the silly screenplay, do manage to make their characters charming and likable. But their professional efforts don't help much in making the movie easier to take. It's no wonder the Superman movie series stalled after this entry for a considerable number of years. Though the next Superman movie that came out after this one wasn't that much better. "},{"Title":"A bargain basement sequel","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" A brief overview of the series up to this point 'Superman' is terrific, good-hearted superhero fare; 'Superman II' is tonally confused but enjoyable enough; 'Superman III' is... look, pal, I love it, judge me if you want. And then came 'Superman IV', a shoddy follow-up that won't make you believe a man can fly, but will make you believe he can be cut out with blunt scissors and pasted into various crummy effects sequences. This is, in short, a crappy end to a quality series.The story sees Christopher Reeve's Superman getting all political and vowing to rid the world of nuclear weapons after a school kid writes to him asking for an end to the arms race. But Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman again) has other ideas, and steals a strand of Superman's indestructible hair from a museum using an ordinary pair of bolt cutters in order to create his own superpowered creature. He does this by putting some silly putty and a strip of fabric into a box he then attaches to a missile, which Superman later throws into the sun. The computer inside the box uses the resulting explosion to create Nuclear Man (Mark Pillow), a tanned hunk with sharp fingernails and a fully tailored costume complete with cape, gloves and chest emblem. So Superman and Nuclear Man do battle while the Daily Planet is taken over by sensationalist editor Sam Wanamaker and his daughter Mariel Hemingway. Nuclear Man is, unfortunately, a bit rubbish. The whole idea of Superman getting smacked around by a villainous version of himself was covered in both 'Superman II' and 'III', and was done better in both. Nuclear Man flies through the Daily Planet building on strings, blows up a Great Wall of China made of Fimo, scratches Superman's neck so he catches a cold and, in one of the film's many lapses in common sense, kidnaps the only woman on Earth who can breathe in space.Some of the film's problems can be blamed on the budget getting slashed in half just before shooting commenced, and large chunks of the movie being binned prior to its release. Just the names Menahem Golan and Yoram Globus in the credits are a sure sign that all is not well in Metropolis. Sure enough, the visual effects looks as cheap as you like. The same shot of Superman flying towards the camera, poorly composited and two-dimensional, is used over and over again. Maybe the production woes account for inattentive direction, editing where half the shots don't match up and pacing that's all over the place. The action sequences suffer most of all, failing to maintain even a basic sense of continuity.Through it all Reeve is as watchable as ever, but he and the rest of the cast seem to be going through the motions. Margot Kidder gets hardly anything to do other than repeat the tandem flying sequence from the original movie, for no discernible reason and with rubbish effects. Marc McClure doesn't have much to say other than 'Golly, Miss Lane!' Hackman is subdued, and even his 'I, Lex Luthor, the greatest criminal genius of our time!' routine can liven things up. Honestly, though, I can't say I blame any of them for looking like they've had enough. Look at the disaster they're surrounded by.It's a shame the series ended on such a bum note. This cast deserved better. "},{"Title":"The worst case scenario for a sequel","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Oh the potential this movie had, Christopher Reeve and the original cast from the first two films were truly behind this one but alas that could not make up for the lack of budget and shoddy script. Poor visual effects aside, this movie is just hastily cobbled together from a few half-baked ideas that aren't fully realised, with the character motivations and the way certain plot points come to fruition not making a lick of sense.I understand that 45 or so minutes of this film were left on the cutting room floor, but having both watched the deleted scenes and read the original script for the movie, I have to say that even if all of the footage had been left in this movie would still have been a mess. I appreciate the idea of a scenario where an omnipotent superhero is put against a real world crisis but the way it plays out here doesn't do the premise justice, I would have much preferred it if the world authorities were resistant to Superman's plan for worldwide disarmament and were inadvertently united in the cause to prevent his interference, but instead there is no challenge, no moral panic, no humanity, it is just bear bones bad writing. Even so I have to say that Christopher Reeve's decision to focus the film on an overt anti-nuclear war message was a mistake from the start, not to mention it instantly dates the film and makes it come across as pretentious and trying too hard to educate rather than entertain.Yes the effects are terrible, yes the lack of money shows in almost every frame, yes the film would have been better if certain scenes were left in, but despite this every problem with the film boils down to the script. A competent writer would adapt a script to better suit a reduced budget, and while it may make sense to keep the original scale of the story if the budget was cut shortly before filming but in this case the budget was cut over a year before production started! And when that happens it is the responsibility of the writer to change the story so that the scale is less important, but rather the characters and morals are the focus. This happened with Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan, the budget was severely reduced and so the director rewrote it to focus more on the characters and less on the action, and that film turned out wonderfully, why didn't that happen here?! The film is a sad end to an otherwise classic (or half classic) movie saga and unfortunately leaves Christopher Reeve, the definitive man of steel, in a bad light. While the film perhaps tops Superman III for good intentions and being a guilty pleasure, it's far from the film it should have been. "},{"Title":"Wrong Idea","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" There is a new nuclear arms race underway. Superman is forbidden to interfere with Earth's internal affairs. However a little boy's letter and taunting from the paper's owner David Warfield, Superman decides to make a declaration at the UN to destroy all of the world's nuclear weapons. Lacy Warfield (Mariel Hemingway) is the new woman at the paper who falls for Clark Kent. Meanwhile, nephew Lenny (Jon Cryer) helps spring Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) from prison work detail. Using a strand of Superman's hair, Lex Luthor creates Nuclear Man.The movie is pretty boring and even more silly than all the others. There are a lot of problems with the ridiculous nature of this movie. Nephew Lenny is annoyingly silly. The premise of the world politics is stupid. The idea that Superman would reveal his identity and kiss it away just to ease his mind seems wrong. The effects may have actually gotten worst. However the biggest mistake is the idea that Superman would get rid of all the nuclear weapons.During WWII, Superman never really battle the Nazis or the Japanese directly. It was a matter of Superman not be a God like figure to direct and interfere with mankind's wars. If Superman is to act like God, then the reaction from the earth's political and commercial powers have to act more realistically. This movie is too silly and simplistic dealing with world politics. The whole thing is a wrong idea. "}{"Title":"Coming down in the world","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" 'Superman I - IV' is a classic example of how movies lose quality with each sequel (I voted 9-7-6-4 for them). After the first movie established a monumental myth, including the tragedy of Superman losing his fathers (both of them), the second and third movie were passable continuations with a lot of action. Jolly good fun, but not outstanding in any way. By the time of the fourth movie, there are still the same actors, but along the way all the depth was lost. Superman tries to hide that with a pretentious 'destroy all nukes' mission imposed on him by a little boy. Hackman, who was a brilliant villain still in part 2, audaciously trying to use the 3 powerful criminals from outer space for his own purposes, is now just clowning around with Nuclear Man, basically keeping up the 'I want to kill Superman' routine due to lack of other hobbies. Nuclear Man is one of the most ridiculous baddies one could possibly imagine, acting like the four year old son of Hercules in kindergarten. I enjoyed watching part I-III again after many years, but part IV really is a disaster, no wonder they stopped making further (cinema) sequels for the rest of the century. "},{"Title":"And the Superman Franchise Suffers an Embarrassing End...","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" In THE QUEST FOR PEACE, Superman finds exactly that. Following this box office bomb, the series would go on to rest in embarrassed peace until Bryan Singer would come along with a spiked baseball bat to beat this dead horse back to life in 2006. This movie is bad. Real bad. It's a miracle we still enjoy comic book movies after SUPERMAN IV did everything in its power to scare us away from them. It's hard to believe Tim Burton would come along a mere two years later and amaze movie crowds with BATMAN. Even Richard Lester, the man who pit Superman against Richard Pryor and a computer, would have nothing to do with this movie and the task of directing was turned over to a man named Sidney J. Furie, whose only other directing effort I'm familiar with is that lame soccer movie LADYBUGS with Rodney Dangerfield. SUPERMAN IV is a terrifying blend of poor special effects, hokey messages, and Jon Cryer as the most aggravating 80's stereotype to ever poison the big screen. This all about the nuclear crisis (or as Gene Hackman's Lex Luthor would call it&#x85;nucular) facing the world during the Cold War with all the major world superpowers on the brink of nuclear annihilation. A young boy's heartfelt letter convinces Superman to break his vow of non- involvement in the fate of Earth by disposing of all the world's nuclear weapons. Once that's out of the way, we get an hour of Superman doing battle with Lex Luthor's latest scheme Nuclear Man, a walking atomic weapon with a period-appropriate mullet.There's just so much wrong with this movie. I don't even know where to start. It's just bafflingly stupid. It can't all be bad, though&#x85;right? There's got to be some good stuff here. Let's start with that Gene Hackman returns as Lex Luthor and Mariel Hemingway is decently attractive as Clark Kent's new shoehorned-in love interest, Lacy Warfield. Well, now that we've got that out of the way&#x85;One thing that really annoyed me here is the same problem I've had with previous Superman movies. We get one plot for the first portion of the movie (in this case, the first 35 minutes is all about Superman ridding the world of nuclear missiles) and then the movie just decides to shift gears for the rest of the show (battling Nuclear Man). The movie has no real flow whatsoever. The whole nuclear disarmament angle, while relevant to the period in which the movie was released, is just too cheesy to be taken seriously. A wide-eyed youngster is asked how he would solve the world's nuclear threat Well, gee golly, I'd just ask Superman to do it. If that's not enough cheese for you, we have Jon Cryer (pre-TV fame) as Lex Luthor's nephew Lenny. Luthor has a history of surrounding himself with fools in the movies and Lenny is the most offensively bad of them all. With his bizarre 80's style and his surfer speech, you wish Superman would grab him by the collar, fly him out into space, and leave him on an asteroid somewhere. If that seems harsh, don't worry you find out near the end of the movie that anyone, not just Superman, can survive the cold, airless, empty vacuum of space. Isn't that right, screenwriters Lawrence Konner and Mark Rosenthal? I've accepted some pretty far-out concepts from the previous Superman movies, but that was only because they were fun movies (well, not so much with SUPERMAN III). This film doesn't get that liberty because it's nowhere near the level of its predecessors.There's just so much stupid about this movie that it'd take more than this comment section to go over it all. Thankfully, it's been covered ad nauseum in countless online reviews that tear this movie to shreds. Despite being released almost ten years after the original film, SUPERMAN IV actually has worse special effects than when it started. They're just horrible. The flying effects are the worst of the series. There's also the matter of the rehashed elements from previous films Lois and Superman go on yet another romantic flight over Metropolis (except the background images never quite match the flight movement of the two and it looks terrible) and we get another amnesia kiss to wipe Lois's memory of the event. The audience isn't nearly as lucky. We're left with the memory of Nuclear Man a creature mutated by Lex Luthor from a strand of Superman's hair, some fabric, one of those magical computers, and the sun. Nuclear Man generates an internal heat at the temperature of the sun without cooking those around him, goes inert when not in direct sunlight, and has radioactive fingernails. Still, I suppose it's better than Richard Pryor's supercomputer in SUPERMAN III. But not by much. The last 45 minutes or so of the movie are Superman and Nuclear Man battling back and forth a bit while Nuclear Man flies around the world creating messes for Superman to clean up with more arbitrarily created superpowers (i.e. his new Super-Rebuild-Walls-from-Scratch-o-Vision). It's all just embarrassing. And that's coming from me, a viewer. I can't imagine having my name forever seared into the end credits and having to admit I helped create it.SUPERMAN IV THE QUEST FOR PEACE is a comedy. It doesn't know it, but it is. It's laughably stupid with a plot the barely holds together and enough cheese to feed an entire third world nation. I enjoyed the first two Christopher Reeve movies, and I even found some high points in the much-maligned third film. But this movie has no real redeeming qualities and, worst of all, ended the Christopher Reeve/Superman saga on it's lowest note ever. "},{"Title":"Another Disaster.","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Just as fans argue which is the better film, Part I or II, so fans equally debate which is the worst, Parts III or IV? Well-intentioned but poorly produced and shockingly inept plot about Superman ridding the world of Nuclear missiles, only to be undermined by the return of Lex Luthor, escaped from prison, and then creating nuclear man to once again conquer the world. This plot is so silly, with ridiculous science and visible wires on the actors, that it's a wonder the creators learned nothing from the lessons of Part III, even if it did make money (sigh!). This film flopped badly though, ending the series on a sour note, though again a nice idea at its center.Christopher Reeve still delivers a sincere performance however; shame he didn't get the chance to redeem things with a properly prepared Part V... "},{"Title":"An insult to fans and a disgrace to the franchise","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Shall I recap Christopher Reeve's Superman franchise and the roller-coaster ride it was? It began with Superman in 1978, a strong, faithful adaptation of the comic book hero, bright and colorful, fun to watch, exciting in its action, and overall, a serviceable, genuinely entertaining piece of filmmaking. Its sequel was an equally strong film and, thanks to a refreshing but controversial change in directors, welcomed in a more satirical, comedic take on the comic-book character. It was fun and enchanting, if still accentuating the plastic kind-of qualities its predecessor had. By Superman III is when the character started taking a nosedive back to earth. The film lacked the great chemistry that was erected in the first two films, and focused predominately on a lame villain and an uninteresting character ironically played by the very interesting Richard Pryor.And now we have Superman IV The Quest for Peace, a cinematic disgrace to the character in every regard that could've been prevented if something called source-material-respect was implemented. The production history of Superman IV is heavily noted, with a lot of it being revealed in Reeve's post-paralysis autobiography Still Me. Reeve's participation was made possible by a convincing deal, but even in his heart he knew it wasn't right. The film was made by Canon Films who, at the time, had thirty movies in productions. Superman IV wasn't treated any different than other winners the company had set for release at the time like American Ninja 2 The Confrontation and Death Wish 4 The Crackdown. Enormous budget slashing, extreme cutbacks in nearly every film department, and the lack of interest in making a film that would rebound the mediocre response to Superman III all lead to the dismal product that is Superman IV.You can almost see it in the cast's face that they have little enthusiasm for the material they're currently acting in. Even Reeve, whose face gleamed and personality erupted when he did his first big scene in the original film, has seemingly checked out of this franchise. Gene Hackman's return to the franchise, too, feels forced and looks as if he is totally uninteresting with what is happening, and additional talent from Margot Kidder, Jon Cryer, Sam Wanamaker, and the lovely, beautiful Mariel Hemingway is all wasted on a third-rate script.The plot involves the Daily Planet newspaper being bought out by a journalist tycoon who favors sensationalistic titles over real journalism, leading to Clark Kent and Lois Lane's (Margot Kidder) job to be more about catering to the narrow-minded and stretching the truth rather than about honest journalism. Lacy (Mariel Hemingway), the tycoon's daughter, also takes a liking to Clark and his kind ways, as she desperately tries to throw herself onto him at every conceivable opportunity. And if that's not enough, Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) has returned, this time with his son Lenny (Jon Cryer). They are planning to create Nuclear Man, a man to battle Superman since they have failed numerous times on their own to destroy him.With a larger budget and maybe a studio that took this material seriously and recognized they needed a colossal rebound after Superman III, these ideas could've worked just as well as in the first two films. But under the stiff, clearly rushed direction of Sidney J. Furie (who already had several films under his belt when this was released, so I'm sure circumstances and time constraints were mostly to blame) and the effortless special effects (again, likely caused by budget constraints), this is an incredibly paltry effort to revitalize a franchise.Not to mention, a trilogy is understandable, but a fourth movie after the third film already seemed that the end was nigh? This seems like an outright joke in itself. Even the subtitle for the film, The Quest for Peace, leaves a person slightly confused. Wasn't that practically the ultimate goal in the last three films, whether it be peace and silence from Lex Luthor or Ross Webster's exhaustive computer hacking plan? Superman IV A Quest for Peace is a rather disingenuous ending to a franchise many loved and many adored until lackluster decisions were made in the franchise's latter half. While the series had always maintained sort of this plastic quality I have been talking about, where characters do what is mostly expected of them and there's little deeper, below-the-surface mystery, the first two installments of the series were fun and quite exciting. What it evolved into was something no fan asked for and no fan deserve.I laugh at how one of the opening scenes in the offices of the Daily Planet show the journalistic tycoon implementing controlling policies and budget cuts to make his vision of the newspaper. Something tells me that's how the production of the film went, with the tycoon being Canon Films and the angry staff the cast.Starring Christopher Reeve, Gene Hackman, Jackie Cooper, Marc McClure, Jon Cryer, Sam Wanamaker, Margot Kidder, Mariel Hemingway, and Mark Pillow. Directed by Sidney J. Furie. "},{"Title":"A sad end for Reeve's Superman","Date":"15 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The tag-line of this movie should be You will believe that a man can hang on wires in front of unconvincing blue screen effects.. The special effects are the least of this movie's problems though. The script is awful. It's a provocative premise, having Superman deal with a real world threat like nuclear proliferation, but here it's merely a bit of speechifying and a plot device to create our villain. At least Reeve and Hackman retain their dignity, and lend a little to this otherwise dreadful film, by giving game performances.* Note - One of the three stars I awarded solely for Mariel Hemingway's legs "},{"Title":"Finally watched the deleted scenes and they make this all the more tragic","Date":"13 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This review contains major spoilers on the deleted scenes so if you don't want to know before you watch them, stop reading now!This movie is every bit as terrible as they say. The tiny production budget from a studio that churned out cheap junk in the mid-to-late eighties really shows, especially in the special effects. Christopher Reeve really got cheated in the deal, as has been documented in several places. One of the few bright spots is Gene Hackman, who can't act poorly if he tried.Having grown up with Superman, I watch this movie every five years or so and enjoy it both for the nostalgia and the extreme awfulness, but tonight I watched the deleted scenes for the first time and they actually would have greatly improved this movie -- although it would still have been pretty bad.The scenes would fill in some gaping plot holes (for instance when Nuclear Man decides he wants Lacy Warfield, how does Superman know who he wants, versus, What lady?. Also, how does Superman know the dark will rob him of his power?). They also add a lot of depth to the story, such as Lex Luther meeting with the Russians and telling them peace is a capitalist plot, and banging his shoe on the table, followed by him meeting with the American military, telling them peace is a communist plot. We also get explanations as to why the characters are doing what they're doing. There are still emotional moments with Lacy Warfield's development as a person and even a tender moment and kiss with Clark Kent.The deleted scenes still have real weaknesses, such as Superman being a painfully obvious stunt double when being thrown by Nuclear Man One. The scenes with Nuclear Man are intended to be humorous, but they're a little over-the-top with silliness.I think the deleted scenes add the most where they make us give a damn about the characters and events, with some of the more tender cues from the original John Williams score.This movie is a real shame all the way around. It's a shame that it was a disappointment for fans and Christopher Reeve, and that it absolutely killed the franchise. It's even sadder since this was the last Superman film, followed by Christopher Reeve's awful fate. "},{"Title":"Superman Goes the Big C","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Superman IV The Quest for Peace (1987)** (out of 4) The death nail in the series finds Superman (Christopher Reeve) having to once again go up against Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) who has now wants to use Nuclear Man for his wild schemes. SUPERMAN IV turned out to be a huge bomb with critics, fans and the box office and it's really easy to see why. The first three movies were A productions and even though the third movie was awful, it at least was a Superman movie. This film here is in no way, shape or form an A production and in fact it's closer to a C. With that in mind, I think the film can be slightly entertaining as long as you don't take it too serious and are willing to laugh a bit. I say laugh because there's no question that Cannon slashed the budget as there are some pretty laughable effects throughout this thing. The C production also meant that this thing really did feel like those silly and campy sci-fi movies from the 1950s that people would be watching at a drive-in. I think on this level the movie can be somewhat entertaining but again, I realize that fans of the series don't want this type of movie and that's why they continue to hate it and probably just pretend that it was never made. The film's story is incredibly sloppy and bounces all over the place but I'm going to guess that this here is mainly due to thirty-plus minutes being cut off the running time. While that certainly hurt the story I must think that most viewers are happy they didn't have to sit through more than 90-minutes. The shorter running time certainly helps because the campy charm would be gone had this been longer. Reeve is still good in the lead roles but there's no question that everyone else seems bored. This includes Hackman who believe it or not was just coming off HOOSIERS. Jackie Cooper, Marc McClure and Margot Kidder are all just collecting paychecks but Mariel Hemingway does come off pretty good. Mark Pillow as Nuclear Man is a real hoot if you know what I mean. SUPERMAN IV will always be remembered as a complete and utter disaster but one really shouldn't take it too serious today. "},{"Title":"Superman IV The Quest for Failure","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The first two Superman films were critical successes, then Superman III disappointed fans, and then came this entry, Superman IV The Quest for Peace or as I like to call it, The Quest for Failure! Amid infuriated fans, this film killed the franchise and I can see the reason why.There are two things that try to save the movie but couldn't and it's that the cast from the original two films return along with some new additions (which is a good thing since they got rid of Richard Pryor from Superman III) and the music score from Alexander Courage (with the main theme from John Williams) is rousing. Besides, even those two saving graces couldn't save the stupidity that this movie had.The story is half thrown together by denying the physics of science and has a lot of plot holes. The script is beyond inconsistent, it drags itself in most of the scenes in it's 90 minute, the directing from Sidney J. Furie is not only terrible, but lacks a lot of focus, and the special effects are beyond dated (with the worst blue screen effects and the shots of Superman flying through the camera being repeated in almost the entire film).Superman IV The Quest for Peace is not the worst movie I've ever seen, but it's so terrible it makes Batman & Robin look like a masterpiece in comparison. To fans who grew up with the franchise, avoid this abomination at all costs if you know what's good for you and watch the first two Superman films. "},{"Title":"A mess... start to finish...","Date":"7 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Even Gene Hackman and Christopher Reeve couldn't salvage this disaster. And the sad part it, it didn't have to be this bad. If they could have portrayed Nuclear Man differently, including their use of Gene Hackman to voice him, if the plot holes were sufficiently plugged up, if the flying effects (at times) were not worse than the 50's television show and if the stupidity of having such things as Lacy Warfield (Mariel Hemingway) exist in outer-space without a space suit (and other such nonsense), it might not have been that bad. There were parts that I actually thought were decent. And there were good flying effects at times (although they were few and far between). I actually enjoyed seeing Gene Hackman portray lex Luthor again and he seemed like he was enjoying himself in spite of things. You know the story Golan-Globus Productions were nearly bankrupt and had too many irons in the fire (at the time Golan and Globus had over 30 films in production, were cash-strapped and they gave Superman IV received no special consideration). They slashed the budget for this movie from $50 million (US) to $17 million, and it managed to gross a meager $15 million at the box office. It killed the franchise for nearly 20 years. On second thought... It did have to be this bad. There was nothing that could salvage this mess. "},{"Title":"Clark's the oldest living Boy Scout, OK?","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" At one point, Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) describes his nephew Lenny (Jon Cryer) as the Dutch Elm Disease of his family tree. Well folks, you know where I'm going with this. Although for my money, this wasn't the worst of the Superman movie franchise. That would have been the third installment with Richard Pryor creating a new low in the annals of sequel history. But that's not to say they didn't try here (for a new low that is). Nuclear Man? Seriously? As outlandish as some of the concepts introduced by the comic books might have been, at least they maintained a semblance of continuity and consistency. Clark Kent would NEVER reveal his secret identity to anyone back in the day, until it came time to marry Lois Lane, but that was later on in 1995 (in the comics). And that business with Luthor cutting a strand of Superman's hair? You know, the hair that could support a thousand pound weight - very poor.For all intents and purposes, the franchise would have been well served to deliver the first two films and call it a day. Even Superman Returns managed to bother me with it's revisionist history, but at least it scored considerably better with it's story line and special effects. A more fitting send off for this one would have been 'Superman IV - Rest in Peace'. "}{"Title":"Laws Of Physics? What's That?","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The woman breaths in space. I'm going to say that again, THE WOMAN BREATHES IN SPACE! It just baffles me on how this even saw the light of day. Christopher Reeve, I don't care how much influence you can have in the script, you said it yourself The less said about Superman 4, The better. You would think that the special effects would get better as the series progressed, but no the effects this time around are beyond terrible. The story rubs your face into its anti-nuclear war theme, and the fact that they rehash successful scenes from previous instalments like Lois and Superman flying and the ever changing background of Superman flying towards us. This film is just beyond awful.Final Verdict I'm speechless for all the wrong reasons. 1/10. "},{"Title":"It's a Turd! It's a Lame! It's Superman IV","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" What a shame and disappointment for Superman fans. Even Christopher Reeve has described Superman IV The Quest For Peace as a; catastrophe from start to finish. Following the lukewarm critical reception of Superman III and the financial failure of Supergirl, the Salkind's sold the rights to the franchise to Cannon which was known for financing bottom of the barrel scripts on the cheap. From the start Cannon slashed the budget of Superman IV in half resulting in the loss of their experienced special effects crew and any hope of even approximating the magic and wonder of Superman The Movie. The terrific cast tries their best, most of all Reeve who is so charismatic in this iconic role and who also helped write the screenplay but in the end, they can't overcome the lackluster direction and studio tampering. The final nail in this film's coffin was Cannon's decision to butcher over forty minutes from Superman IV hoping to use the footage as the groundwork for an even cheaper Superman V. Thankfully, it never materialized and Cannon was facing bankruptcy the following year. "},{"Title":"Superman Iv the quest for nonsense","Date":"16 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" That alternate title just rolls off the tongue, doesn't it?Superman has always been known for it's...unique approach in turning 'science' into a deus ex machinae to achieve anything the plot demands, and in Superman IV the film takes the same approach to morals and international politics. Instead of just foiling super villains and saving the world as usual, the clowns at Golan-Globus decided to use the comic medium as a diatribe against nuclear weapons...for in Superman IV it's not dastardly super villains or cunning plots that are the real danger...it's just nukes. Nukes, and Lex Luthor.I shouldn't have to remind you that there's probably nobody on earth who isn't afraid of nuclear war. It's one of the scariest threats to modern civilisation. That said, the way this film simplifies the ideas of war and international relations is completely ridiculous. Forget that the threat of mutually assured destruction may have actually helped to prevent conventional wars, and forget that without nuclear arsenals many nations on this planet would probably be under serious threat, Superman IV takes the approach that things would just be peachy if all the nukes were just destroyed. Who's going to make sure nobody builds more, and who is going to stop nations like Israel from being utterly squashed after Superman takes all the nukes away? Who really cares? The movies approach to this very serious issue is completely absurd, and serves as a lesson on what NOT to do with your super hero movie. It's morals are as confused as the idiots who green lighted this idea.With that out of the way, there's plenty of other reasons to hate this film. The writing is laughable, the characters (namely Lenny Luthor) are annoying, and the special effects are horrendous. Unlike the first films, Superman IV over uses the same practical and green screen effects countless times. The movie's 'dumb' in the sense that science, once again, does anything the script demands. Humans breathing in space and Superman moving the moon out of orbit to fight nuclear man are just a couple examples of how childish this film gets. I can buy Superman's 'mind erasing kiss' or even him flying back in time if it's only happening once and a while, but in Superman IV every time I hear Luthor talk about how the sun is just a 'big bomb' or anything like this I just want to cringe.'Nuclear Man' seems like an interesting idea for a villain, but the way he's created and just about everything about him is hilariously bad. This villain looks like a surfer-dude in a bad, chopped up, power rangers costume. Thanks to bad special effects and terrible fighting choreography, the action sequences are about as boring as everything else about this film.If you enjoyed Reeves' other Superman films but haven't seen this one yet, do yourself a favour and don't. It's shlock with very little redeeming value outside of it's own hilarious absurdity. "},{"Title":"See you in twenty.","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Reeve is back because he wanted to make Street Smart. Hackman is back for goodness knows why. Pillow is in his only ever big screen appearance.It's not as bad as you would think, if you watch it in the right context.Luthor steals a strand of Supermans hair, and creates Nuclear Man, a villain with the power of the mullet, and a tan that George Hamilton would be proud of.In order to do this, we have a sub plot involving Nuclear weapons, a take over at the Daily Planet, and Mariel Hemingways eyebrows.If you watch it in context with the other movies, it stinks, it's the definition of a franchise killer, and you can literally see where Cannon cut corners and edited out over an hour of footage.Watch it as a bad film, and you will get a rich insight on just how fun a bad movie can be to watch. Bad effects, used blatantly more than once, sets that are hilariously awful,many a villain so ridiculous, you just can't help but laugh when he gives Reeve that dirty look whenever he gets hit.Plausibility is thrown out of the window, and at the forefront of all this is Reeve, being really sincere as the titular character, and trying to make the film work.He fails, and Hackman just stands around basically thinking Kerching!.It's fun to watch though, despite the lousy narrative, and the most ironic thing about this is one of Supermans last lines 'See you in twenty', almost 20 years after this, we saw Singers bloated 'Superman Returns'.See this, but see it for all the wrong reasons. "},{"Title":"An earnest idea sunk by a lousy studio","Date":"13 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" If you'd asked me, say, 10 years ago my thoughts on Superman IV The Quest for Peace, I would probably have said it's one of the worst superhero movies ever. A nonsensical mess of bad effects, sloppy writing and one faceplam after another. But time has been oddly generous to this movie, and it's still not nearly (read NEARLY) as bad as its predecessor.Don't get me wrong, it's still a mess. The plot herein has Superman in activist mode as he goes on an anti-nuclear-bomb crusade, ridding the world of its scariest arms. At the same time, the Daily Planet has just been taken over by a rich white guy and his socialite daughter (Mariel Hemingway), effectively pissing off Lois. Meanwhile, Lex breaks out of prison with the help of his nimrod nephew (Jon Cryer), and using Superman's DNA, hatches a scheme to make a bad Superman (this one born from the Sun, so he has really hot burny powers) to give our hero trouble. And he certainly does that, scratching Superman with his really long fingernails and making Superman come down with a really bad flu.The shoddy production values is where Superman IV derives its infamy. The Cannon Group was in financial freefall when work started on the movie, and as a result, the entire enterprise was cut off at the knees by the excessive penny-pinching. So the magic that Donner and his people put into making us believe that a man can fly in 1978 was almost nonexistent, here. Superman and Nuclear Man were obviously flying in front of a blue screen, shots were almost uniformly static, and the same shot of Superman flying toward the camera was reused again and again. Things like that tend to mar the overall look and taint impressions. There were also supreme lapses in logic, and some questionable feats of strength. For instance, Nuclear Man, after becoming infatuated with Mariel Hemingway, flies her into outer space. Superman pushes the moon out of its orbit, blocking out the Sun, and Nuclear Man faints from no power source. And there's Hemingway holding onto Nukesy for dear life for fear of falling ... while gasping in fear.Oh, and when Superman and Nuclear Man are fighting on the moon, the outer space backdrop is - literally - a black curtain. But at a certain point, these effects and (let's call them MST3K-worthy ) HUH?!s become woven into the fabric of the movie; part of the trashy B-movie charm of this really chintzy affair. One can certainly admire Reeve's devotion to the cause, as he was interested in the activist angle of dealing with the arms scare. The man does his best here, despite his lousy surroundings, and really does maintain his heroic posture. He is absolutely - without question - the film's glowing attribute. This is probably the ultimate best of intentions movie, and who knows what it would've been like at the planned 134 minutes (as opposed to the existing 90, a hackjob that creates an inordinate number of plot holes and inconsistencies). Maybe better, maybe worse. But we'll probably never know. I do think time has helped in clarifying the movie's odd appeal, especially in a historical context. Because I can 100%, unequivocally (and with a straight face) say that this is still miles better and more watchable than the torpedo job that is Superman III. One might think that a (reasonably) high rating stands in contrast to this film's skewered reputation. Maybe it's nostalgia (first Superman film I saw in the theater), maybe it's just for seeing Reeve own such an iconic (and intimidating) role. But this movie, misguided and cheap though it may be, does have an unexplainable charm.6/10 "},{"Title":"One Of The Most Underrated Films!","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Christopher Reeve, Gene Hackman, Margot Kidder, Mariel Hemingway and Jon Cryer star in this 1987 action sequel. In this installment, Superman/Clark Kent (Reeve) tries to rid the world of nuclear weapons and faces deadly enemy, Nuclear Man (Mark Pillow) created by Lex Luthor (Hackman) who escapes from prison. Hemingway plays Lacy Warfield, the daughter of a wealthy businessman trying to take over the Daily Planet newspaper. Cryer plays Lex's obnoxious nephew, Lenny who helps rid the Man of Steel. This is one of the most underrated films I've liked since I was a kid. Reeve had a decent story, but Cannon screwed up the film with cheesy effects and too many scenes were cut. It's better than the last film, Kidder has more screen time and I'm glad Hackman returned. I still recommend this. "},{"Title":"I cannot rate it as lowly as perhaps most people, but Christopher Reeve's final stint as Superman still turned out to be his worst","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The late Christopher Reeve is still widely remembered for his very famous portrayal of Superman, and Superman IV The Quest for Peace was the fourth and final film in which he played the comic book character on the silver screen. This movie was released eight years before the actor was sadly paralyzed by a horseback riding accident, after which he lived nine years as a quadriplegic and then died at the age of 52. The final film starring Reeve as the Caped Wonder unfortunately turned out to be a very poorly received one, and knowing that, I obviously didn't have high expectations before I watched it, even though the third film of the four turned out to be better than I thought. While I certainly don't think Superman IV is quite as bad all around as many others do, I still think it was not a good one for Reeve to finish with.Lex Luthor, Superman's old foe, is now in a prison chain gang, but his nephew, Lenny, helps him escape! The criminal plans to find a way to kill Superman so Earth's hero from Krypton won't be around to stop his evil deeds! He goes to a Metropolis museum with his nephew, where they steal a strand of hair from the Caped Wonder's head which is on display there. The United States and the Soviet Union could soon be engaging in a nuclear war, and Superman decides to prevent this by ridding the planet of all nuclear weapons, gathering up missiles and throwing them to the sun. Meanwhile, Luthor intends to use solar energy and the strand of hair he has acquired to create a very powerful, evil being that can rival Superman. He launches a missile into space with the new genetic compound attached to it, and the Caped Wonder throws this one to the sun as well, not realizing that this will complete Luthor's task! A creature named Nuclear Man then comes to Earth and soon begins to destroy! This fourth installment in the franchise doesn't start out so bad, with Superman saving a Russian astronaut, though this part already shows what the movie's special effects are like, which is one of the things Superman IV The Quest for Peace is highly criticized for. As the film progresses, more severe flaws start to show. I saw Jon Cryer in Pretty in Pink this month, and found that he could be very annoying in that high school dramedy, so I wasn't surprised when I saw that his performance in this film as Lenny was weak. In both films, he tries to be funny, but fails. The way his character here tricks the guards in order to get his uncle out of the chain gang is ridiculous! Another rather weak performance here is from Mariel Hemingway as Lacy Warfield, who has a number of lousy lines, such as, All men like me. I'm very, very rich. This character trying to win over Clark Kent, in such scenes as her lying on a desk in a flirtatious manner as she sees him coming, is another ridiculous aspect of the movie, and sadly, so is Nuclear Man, an unsurprisingly badly crafted villain. If there's supposed to be humour in this film, it also fails, as I kept a straight face throughout. Nuclear Man saying, If you will not tell me, I will hurt people, is the only part that ALMOST made me smile, and I don't even know if this is supposed to be funny! Another thing, how does the Lacy character, a human mortal, still breathe when she is taken into space?! As a superhero franchise movie, this fourth installment in the Superman franchise is not as bad as Batman & Robin, but obviously, that's not saying much. Many viewers might say that this final film starring Christopher Reeve as the DC Comics character is horrendous from start to finish, and if so, I disagree with that, as I would certainly be lying if I said I didn't find any tension in the film. I have to admit that I didn't find every single moment and every single cast performance to be poor (I didn't find anything wrong with Gene Hackman as Lex Luthor here, even though this time he had to work with Jon Cryer doing a bad job playing Lenny Luthor), and feel that I could rate the film five out of ten instead of four, even if many would think I'm crazy for that! Still, I would say Superman IV The Quest for Peace is a pretty lacklustre effort overall, with some memorably severe flaws. I'm sure it could have turned out a lot better if it had been more focused, and Reeve could have gone out with a bang. "},{"Title":"The Super Movie that killed Cannon films?","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The DVD version explains it all. Mark Rosenthal (one of the writers) explains in his commentary that the movie all but killed Cannon Films. (Too expensive and ambitious) There were a lot of great ideas they couldn't afford to film. The special effects look 2D and you can see the flying wires. A shimmering black space curtain from Lost in Space. Plot exposition would have explained why Lacy didn't die in space while flying with Nuclear Man Is there an air bubble surrounding super heroes? A comment like this would have make it more believable as to why she could breathe in space and didn't freeze to death.2nd Plot error There is no sun (or sunrise) on the dark side of the moon. The villain would not have revived. This short movie would have been ever shorter.Major plot error No one can cut Superman's hair except Superman, with his own laser-heat vision.If you think the edited movie is bad, just watch the deleted scenes on the DVD. The scenes with Lex Luthor and the prototype before Nuclear Man are just horrible. The film editors saved a very bad movie and made it at least passable. It plays better on the small screen.If you dislike this movie, don't even think of watching Supergirl which was another waste of a good franchise. "},{"Title":"The worst of the series but not a complete disaster.","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Its worth listening to the commentary track on the DVD release of this film.The editor of the film gives a candid recounting of the events that shaped the making of Superman IV which serve to help us understand what a troubled shoot it was.With all its problems, which i wont go in to here,Superman IV isn't actually that bad a picture.Sure,its silly,cheap looking and doesn't come near the efforts of Richard Donner or Bryan Singer but it still somehow manages to engage on some level.Maybe its Christopher Reeve,his interpretation of the character is inspired and is the reason the series has endured for as long as it has. "},{"Title":"Ouch","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Ouch, a 3.6 rating is low, even for this movie. Sure it's bad, but a 3.2?! C'mon...Here's whats wrong with this movie The special effects budget was cut in half right before filming, that's why the effects look so terrible. The movie was way too short, it feels very hasty, especially when you compare it to the first two films. I've seen the deleted scenes and i really have to say it's a good thing they were left out. Nuclear Man #1 is horrible. He's not menacing or scary, he looks stupid. Like a failed incarnation of some silly Frankenstein film.One of the biggest mistakes i have ever seen in a movie is one made in this film. Nuclear man 2 takes Lacy (a human with no superpowers whatsoever) into space. She doesn't freeze, hell she even breathes!! I don't know what the director was thinking.. This is careless film-making.But let's not just focus on the negative side. The movie also has a few good things. The original cast returned (Margot Kidder as Lois, Jackie Cooper as Perry White, Gene Hackman once again as Lex Luthor and of course, our hero, Christopher Reeve returning as Superman). The fight scenes were very cool but looked bad because of the horrible special effects. If you can ignore the bad stuff i mentioned above, it's still a fun film to watch.5/10 "}{"Title":"Starts OK but goes pear-shaped","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" (This review contains potential spoilers)I'm probably being generous with 3 stars, but for the first 45 minutes or so, Superman IV isn't a bad little film. Granted, it's instantly obvious the budget is a fraction of what had been used for the first 3 films, and Luthor's nephew is a terrible 80s teen dude! stereotype. But the opening sequences with Clark visiting the old farm in Smallville and the return of Margot Kidder's Lois Lane are both welcome. Mariel Hemingway provides a sexy third side to the film's romantic triangle ... but it could be argued a film like this didn't need that.It had been 10 years since the first Superman was filmed, and this gives the regular actors added depth as they played their familiar roles. Gene Hackman is an exception, playing Luthor a bit too low key for the character's own good. At about the 45-50 minutes mark, things start to collapse as the close-to-an-hour's worth of deleted scenes begin to take their toll on the film -- for example, suddenly Clark looks all grey-haired and dying with no real reason given. And while the battle between Superman and Nuclear Man is clearly inspired by the comic books -- and would have worked well in the comics -- in live action, it just comes off as silly. And when the filmmakers abandon any pretense to reality (by, among other things, having a human character survive hanging around in the vacuum of space) the film just falls apart.The film is worth seeing, though, for the byplay between Christopher Reeve and Margot Kidder. It's a pity the opportunity was lost in Superman III to expand on this more when Kidder was written out of the film. But, as the fourth entry in a franchise that began with the spectacular Superman I and Superman II, this film is an extreme disappointment -- though, at the same time, it's one of those films that seems ripe for the remastering/directors edition/upgrading routine that has been done with other films. "},{"Title":"Once you're prepared for some scenes that don't make any sense, and how bad it really is, its an Okay fill for watching when you have nothing to do.","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Okay, I saw Superman I and II, and thought they were amazing. I thought that I could expect the same from III and IV. I came onto the IMDb to see how high they were rated (I wanted to know more about them, as they no longer sold them in Australia, and I had pretty much no way of watching them)... Superman III = 4.5 Superman IV The Quest For Peace = 3.2 For a couple of months, I kind of avoided seeing them, afraid that they would ruin the first two movies. One night I got home from work to see that Superman III was on television. I stepped in just as Clark opened the door of his car, and hit Richard Pryor, and he gasped in pain. I saw the rest of the movie and thought it OKAY. Months and months later (Up until the point when I couldn't remember a single word of Superman III), I bought the Ultmate Superman Collection, and sat down and watched Superman III. It got pretty boring. I just zoned out of the movie. Then I saw Superman IV. I thought it was a lot more enjoyable (Probably because Margot Kidder had a lot more screen time). So All in all, an Okay movie to watch, if you have nothing to do. "},{"Title":"Superman IV Request to Cease","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This was just another Golan-globus bomb, in which they expected to make money off the name, similar to the godfather 3 or straight to DVD movies. It was depressing to know that this was the final harrah of Christopher reeve, especially when superman has a gut the size of a 6 month pregnant woman. There were so many scenes where platforms, wires, rewinding of film, and frame skipping were clearly evident. The first scene for example, when the cosmonaut got his head chopped off and in the next scene his head was back in place. The mistakes of this movie were unforgivable.It was just a horrible movie in which they didn't care how crappy they made it, just as long as they did and people saw it because of the superman pedigree. It was so horribly bad and had so many plot holes it resembled swiss cheese.With that being said, this is what made it entertaining. No matter how much this movie raises my ire I have to admit it was wonderfully entertaining and i recommend renting the movie so you can find all of the errors, similar to a where's waldo book (replacing waldo with errors). Even after saying that positive remark, i am led to assume this was the most poorly made superhero film, but at the same time manages to be one of the most entertaining. "},{"Title":"Superman iv could have flown!","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I must admit that when I first saw Superman IV at the box office I knew that it would flop! It was so badly made by the Cannon group and Sydney Furie! Even with the low budget it had to work with, I think a good director could have pulled off a more successful film! We have three Superman saves Lois Lane scenes, in the first film we have the helicopter scene which was edge of your seat suspense! and an awesome special effects scene in the pre-CGI era. The Eiffel tower scene in Superman II, almost as awesome! another edge of your seat suspensor, then we come to Superman IV, the Subway train scene, which I almost fell asleep through! come on Sydney! what were you thinking? If Richard Donner had made this film, it would have soared! The subway scene could have been suspenseful even on the low budget the crew was given to work with! So, you ask, why are you giving this film four out of ten stars? Because of the story, the performances of Christopher Reeve and Gene Hackman and the over all fact that I was glad to see another Superman Movie! The ideas that went into this movie were great! Superman tries to save humanity from itself! Perry White looses the Daily Planet to a competitor! Superman fights a villain created from his own DNA! If the filmmakers had anywhere near the passion for this material that went into the first two films then it would have been a very entertaining Superman movie! and it may have been the first Superman film to break 200 Million at the Box Office! But, it was not to be! I was hoping that there would be five Christopher Reeve Superman films and this film, sealed that fate! I have seen the new Brandon Routh Superman and I feel that the new filmmakers have a passion for the material, but the films story is weak! The special effects were top-notch and the cast is great! But I think the story ideas for Superman IV are actually better then the story ideas that went into Superman Returns! (However, it's good to see a Superman film in the hot 100 selling films of all time again). I would like to get all the film shot for Superman IV and find the special effects team for Superman Returns and get them to take out the bad special effects and re-do the Special Effects through CGI! How much would this cost anyway? "},{"Title":"Superman vs St. Louis Assassin - part 4","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" once again the acting is superb....well think good something was good about this film.1st the good news....there is a wonderful scene where superman and Clark Kent are on a double date together with Lois lane and Meriel Hemingway. that scene is classic, smart, funny, cleverly written and very well done. - (again I cant praise the acting in these movies enough-even part 4 has good acting in it) now the bad news.... the Clark Kent/superman double date scene is the hightlight of the entire movie.Nuclear man is so awful that its funny.I could not believe how poor the special effect were on this film. This is the only one of the 4 Superman movies where you can actually see his cables holding him up.the only thing worst than the special effects was the laughable script. C'mon...I could not believe my eyes when superman and Nuclear man were carrying Mariel Hemmingway around in outer space with no space suit on her (and yet she is okay)...not to mention the cartoonish action sequences (like the one where Superman stops a volcano by cutting a mountain in half with his X-ray/heat vision and plugs the top half of the mountain into volcano's mouth....which in reality would have only created more volcanic back pressure and would have only caused a much larger more violent eruption)how did this franchise get here. the first 2 films were standard setters..true classics in their own time, and although the 3rd film isn't in the same class as the first 2, the 3rd film is still very good..but Superman 4 leaves you scratching you head and asking yourself WHAT HAPPENED? "},{"Title":"The worst superman movie.","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  SPOILER WARNING!!!!!.....kids will definetely enjoy this one.....but it's a ridiculous movie.....mainly because of the nuclear man and lex luthor's cousin......those were just pathetic aditions to the movie.......nuclear man appeared in a ridiculous way.....and the way how lex luthor escapes out of prison is totally pathetic.......things like this are all over this movie.....it's dumb.......the special effects here are awful and so is the story......the thing about getting rid off the nuclear weapons was well intentioned but how they handled it was terrible....and bringing nuclear man was the worst thing they could've done.......the musical score isn't that bad, the bad thing is the main theme....it's totally screwed up, it just doesn't have the same power that makes all John Williams' scores excellent......the nuclear man theme is pretty good and it was composed by John Williams....but this can't make a movie rise up....and definetely not with this one.......the first two superman movies will be remembered.....but forget this one......* out of 5 "},{"Title":"Sorry, slip-shod final act.  *sighs*  How...sad.","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Where are the effects? Nuclear Man has to be the lamest bad guy in a long sad history of comic strip bad guys, to grace the silver screen. And Jon Cryer? Lenny should have been in a cage, not acting in a movie. Mariel Hemingway? I admire her acting talents and truly believe she is a very under-rated and under-appreciated actress, but she belonged less in this movie than Arnold Schwarzenegger at a baby shower. What was she thinking? And what happened to the budget? Where are those effects? Why does Superman fly like he no longer knows how? They couldn't afford another wire for his feet? And speaking of wires, when he lands on the moon, WHY didn't they edit out the wires?! Appalling!And what happened to Clark Kent? He was bumbling, but lovable. Now he's this dork who trips over his own two feet and can't carry on a coherent or half-way intelligent conversation? What happened? This has every aspect of a poorly-made B movie. How very disappointing.Did they put everything they had into Masters of the Universe and just say to h3LL with Superman? What? I do not know what anyone who was involved with this was thinking , but everyone should have just taken a breather, found a reality check, and done something else for 8 months instead. Margot Kidder, though still and always a bright beacon in every performance which I have ever had the pleasure to witness, looks drawn and tired; as though she is still in shock at having been drawn into yet another of these movies. And Mark Pillow?! WTF?! Look him up here on IMDb. He's done a grand total of....TWO things!! Nuclear Man in this and an appearance in some obscure TV show. Go figure. Again, with the low budget.The budget for this movie was obviously a paltry sum compared to the other three installments. A cheap and petty thing to do to Reeve. He deserved so much more from the producers of this travesty. And so did the fans.Do yourself a favor and just forget they made this one. Love 1, 3, and yes, even 2, but skip this one. Keep your love of Reeve and Superman intact.Premise In the face of the end of the cold war, America has decided to strive to be second to none in their stockpiling of nuclear arms. Superman has been enlisted to help save the world from itself, by a young student. Meanwhile, the Daily Planet has been taken over by the tabloid king from H3LL, and Editor Perry White (veteran actor Jackie Cooper) is chomping at the bit to knock the new owner cold.Furthermore, Lacy Warfield (Hemingway), the new owner's daughter, is after Clark, or Superman..or Clark?..or Superman?..so on a double date with Lois, Lacy and Clark and Superman...all have a really tragic time. Confused yet? So were the actors, apparently, as this scene was about the most ludicrous thing I've ever had to witness. This is where Clark Kent becomes an incoherent boob, instead of the lovable absent-minded, mild-mannered man we all admired./PremiseThis production attempts to be political, but it just does not manage to pull it off. The whole lack of budget and lack of quality throughout does not manage to do anything but damage the franchise, in my opinion, and was a bitter disappointment.However, do let me state, that the flaw was not in the writing, but in the direction. The premise was a good one. It could have worked. They just had their minds on MotU, rather than on Superman, where it belonged. MotU, while it does carry with it some cult following, was a total bomb in the mainstream audience. Not even Billy Barty could save it.I LOVE Margot Kidder's acting. But WHY has she never grown accustomed to those dentures? Or is that some kind of anomaly? Just a question.Additionally, there are a number of irregularities in this film. Did anyone notice the fact that they had it daytime in the US, Italy, and in China at the same time? Or that the capes billow even with no atmosphere on the moon? Or that the whole fight scene on the moon was slow motion to imply 0 gravity, even though gravity would affect neither Superman nor Nuclear Man? Or that the flag pole was irreparably bent when Superman was knocked onto it and yet it's straight as an arrow after the fight? Or that Mark Pillow was about the worst excuse for an actor since Arnold Schwarzenegger in Conan? Or that by moving the moon as he did, Superman would have destroyed Earth and everyone on it? Or that Lacy would not have survived outside our atmosphere with or without Nuclear Man's being conscious? Or that she would have burned up on re-entry, regardless of Superman's having her in his arms? Or that Superman now has the ability to hover in the air, rather than fly? When did that happen? Or that Superman can move fast as a speeding bullet, yet when he's fighting or trying to save someone, he's about as slow as an 80 year old Alzheimer's patient on gin? Wow what a disgrace.This sad attempt rates a 1.3/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"the best","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  people might think im thick but i think this is the best of the serious chris reeve does a great job again in his final superman film its a shame that 45 minutes was cut maybe in 2006 the full version will come out. CHRIS REEVE IS SUPERMAN "},{"Title":"If they ever do the Special Edition...","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  If they ever do the Special Edition of this movie, could they restore the 45 of minutes they took out in the original. Since recently deleted scenes were added to Superman The Movie, I think it is a good idea to do the same thing to this movie. The movie still sucks but a least it would make sense!  "},{"Title":"Superman Bore","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As a Superman fan since birth, I'm terribly disappointed in this film. Such a waste of good talent (Hackman & Reeves) and a waste of $17 million. If they wanted to give away $17 million, they could have written the check out payable to me. Christopher Reeves mentioned in his auto biography that he was basically forced to do this film in order to do Somewhere in Time. With this in mind, he still displayed a performance that rivaled the previous. Good job Mr. Reeves.As for the film, I continue to say What 4th Superman? "}{"Title":"Unfortunate End to an Entertaining Series","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Many people have written about this movie and how bad it is.  Well, it is bad.  Can't deny it.  Some of the effects are among the worst ever displayed in a major motion picture.  The script is chopped up so bad that some scenes wind up being incoherent.  One saving grace is the sincerity of the performances.  Christopher Reeve is still a believable Superman/Clark Kent, while Gene Hackman makes a pleasing return to the series as Lex Luthor.  It should either have just dealt with nuclear arms or the solar powered villain, not both.  The zany subplot with Mariel Hemingway falling for Clark is mildly amusing.I have heard/read a great deal concerning cut scenes and a grossly cut budget.  Why did they do that to Superman? Didn't the producers know that fans wanted to see a worthy movie, not a cheap imitation?The real problem was that the Salkinds left after #3, leaving the filmmakers with cheap producers, and not choosing a better director than Sydney J. Furie.At least #3 had entertaining elements, even if it did throw out the Lois Lane character and any trace of the previous two movies.  I liked the sweetness of the Smallville scenes and the humor provided by Richard Pryor; I even liked some of the special effects sequences.  But #4 is virtually a child's wind-up toy.  Reeve had good intentions with his input as co-writer and 2nd unit director, I'm sure.  He remains true to character.It should have been better.  * * "},{"Title":"Hurried, half-assed and slapdash","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  You know when you have to get a job done, say some homework or tidying your room, and you just can't be bothered to do it properly? What do you do then? You cut corners, you rush the job just to get it finished. The end justifies the means. Well, that's what happened on Superman IV. Everything comes down to how rushed this film was. The special effects especially are the sort of last-minute 'at least it's something' crap the BBC used to put into Doctor Who. An inexcusably lame movie, and yes, it even reaches the level of awfulness of (dun dun DUNNN)....Batman & Robin! On the other hand, this is the only bad Superflick ever made Superman, Superman II, Superman III, the pilot movie for Lois & Clark The New Adventures of Superman and the animated The Last Son of Krypton and The Batman/Superman Movie are all decent Man of Steel entertainment.  "},{"Title":"not as good as I-III, but a decent laugh","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is definitely not what the Superman Saga should be remembered for.  However, it is a decent idea and it does bring back Hackman as Lex Luther which is good to see.  However, his sidekick, Otisburg, must have read the script and opted not to audition!  The movie is inspired by Iran-Contra (Oliver North 80s) and the Cold War of the middle and late 80s.  Nuclear war is something that Superman opposes and he decides to rid the planet of all nuclear warheads.  As he is tossing the missiles into the sun like they are toothpicks, Luther has been secretely formulating a plan to use Superman's own DNA against him.  He steals a piece of Superman's hair (over his ears) from a museum and makes a potion that will react with solar energy to form Nuclear Man.  The concoction is fastened to a missile and when Superman throws it into the sun, Nuclear Man pops out and heads over to the moon (where Superman happens to be) and they have a brief battle.  Nuclear Man, controlled by Luther, decides to hit up earth and goes to visit his master.  Luther can control Nuclear Man by shutting the curtains and blocking the sun.  He gets his energy from the sun, not from eating hot dogs and Doritos in a bowl like humans.  Anyways, they have their usual battles and Superman almost is carved to death, but returns and throws Nuclear Man into a nuclear power plant which gives unlimited energy for 1,000 years.  Great ending!This is all, I seriously doubt there will be another sequel given Superman's (Reeve's) current condition of handicapped circus sideshow!   "},{"Title":"As it stands, less than brilliant.","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  There are often movies that come along in which you think, yes, it was bad and it could have been better. The thing with Superman IV  The Quest For Peace, is that never a truer word has been said. It COULD be better, and iam sure that in its entirety with the previously unseen footage in the 134 minute cut of the movie, it would be good. As it is i must judge a patchwork movie. That is the main problem, the movie is badly operated on. Forget the special effects, they work nicely and arent as bad as people and critics will have you believe, we have seen worse. The direction by Sidney J Furie and presumably Christopher Reeve is at best good. The acting by the regulars and fun performances from John Cryer as Lex's nephew and Mariel Hemingway as Lacey Warfield the love interest are acceptable certainly no worse than in any other sci=fi/action movie. And the plot, which has Superman fending off Nuclear arms from the worlds powers and defeating Luthors evil Nuclearman in the process is quite an exciting tale. The problem is that the movie is cut to ribbons. We see about fifteen minutes of what looks like Gene Hackmans best performance as Lex Luther, and Christopher Reeve's character comes over as vey wooden because we miss out alot of his characters development. As an 89 minute movie, Superman  The Quest For Peace is very lukewarm. As a 134minute movie, it looks to be alot better. Those of you who can get the extended version released, you know who you are. Help us, help yourself, get it released. "},{"Title":"Why is everyone so negative?","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I don't get it...this is my favorite of the Superman movies. Maybe I am just uncritical, or maybe I was too young to properly appreciate the first Superman movie when it came out, I don't know. This movie made me laugh a lot. Chris Reeve really gets to exercise his comic side in this one, especially as Clark. It's silly, sure, but where's the harm in that? Who really expects a deep, significant story out of this franchise, anyway? It's just brain candy for a couple hours' mindless enjoyment. Don't expect anything more than that, and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"What Woman&#x85;?!!!","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Let me see, it wasn't horrible. It's better than Richard Pryor's so silly routine that was called (Superman III &#x96; 1983), being more intense, less ridiculous and not boring. But the thing is unnatural matters, especially at the third act, interrupted and somewhat ruled.First you must know that before making it the first 3 movie's producer Ilya Salkind sold the Superman franchise to Golan & Globus of Cannon Films. Cannon Films was having many financial disasters back then, involving in something like 30 projects in the same time (!!). So the $36 million dollars budget had been cut down to $17 million, the already shot 134 minutes to 90 minutes, and Superman movie to not super !Although the story was promising, but some naive points were more than noticeable  Superman declares his real character again to Lois Lane, then flies with her again over the city, then makes her forget all about it AGAIN ! after! So what was the point??. How Lex Luthor knew the place of Superman to send him a sonic AND visual message ?! or does he know about the lead's alter-ego ?! A human girl who can go into outer space unharmed, with no science fiction to explain how she didn't die out of the lack of Oxygen. *Suddenly* all the world's nations without exception abandon their entire Nuclear warheads (America did ?? Now that's a wild science fiction !). Then look at this equation; put together Superman's genetics + Lex Luthor + nuclear missile + the sun = an evil super MAN (????). Side matters bothered too  like how the directing handled the battles artlessly. How (Mark Pillow) as Nuclear Man acted like a porn star in low grade Italian gladiators movie (with even the dubbed voice as well !). How (Jon Cryer) was wasted. And How ugly (Mariel Hemingway) and her legs looked !The collapse of Cannon Films was felt in the movie like it was out of it. The special effects went back in time to the old cheap B-movies and the worst, most primitive, TV shows. We can see the wires so visible over Superman's shoulders carrying him on the fake moon. Now the man of steel can rebuilt the Great Wall of China by only his eyes, or rescue some flying victims by just gazing at them !! Saying that that were new super powers is nothing but the stowaway's excuses!. In fact, knowing that it's the budget's problems more than any creative writing makes me laugh bitterly.Then the highest infamous matter. (Superman IV  The Quest For Peace &#x96; 1987) has what could make it an original example for an incomplete movie that has been boldly released internationally though. At one point the lead gets real sick, then at another he becomes so healthy??. Nuclear man sees a photo of Lacey, the new editor-in-chief's daughter, to be madly deeply desperately in love with her?? However nothing can outmatch what I see as the ultimate random scene ever made in which Nuclear man screams in the street asking the suddenly healthy Superman  WHERE IS THE WOMAN?!, and the last answers him knowing what woman he was asking about ???? No, it's not a flaw from the projector's worker. No, it's not the censor. It is Cannon Films getting poorer and poorer. Nevertheless, that produced one of the most purely surreal moments in film history ! This is the forth in the series. The third best for me after the first 2. And number 1 whenever I recall a Hollywood so glaringly incomplete movie ! "},{"Title":"Super... aw, forget it!","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Superman is my all-time favourite film and I immensely love Superman II. Superman III had its faults, but it was still enjoyable up to some extent. Unfortunately, this isn't the case with the fourth (and what we thought was the final) in the Superman series. First off, the special effects. One word FAKE! We have Warner Bros. to thank for that for selling the rights to Cannon Films who, instead of using the $40 million Warner Bros. gave them to produce the film, used only $17 million and used the rest of the money on their other projects. Next up we have (drumroll)... the numerous plot holes e.g. people being able to breathe in space without space suits. Did I miss something here? Thirdly, the editing. Oh my, that poor, poor editing. The cuts were so noticeable, I was wondering if I was watching a Daytime TV edit of a Horror movie. And finally, the acting. Wow. It was like something out of a school play (and a bad one at that). But, I suppose the actors did the best they could with the (truly atrocious) script.Superman IV doesn't even classify as a so bad, it's good movie. At least not when you compare it to the highly superior first two.Some people have said that this movie is worse than Batman & Robin. Trust me, it is not. Not even close. However, both Superman IV and Batman & Robin are the worst of their series. "},{"Title":"JFK High scene","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The only reasons I ever bought this movie were 1)to complete the set of Superman movies with Christopher Reeves and 2) the JFK High School scene was shot at my middle school (Croughton Middle School, Croughton, Northamptonshire, UK). Oddly enough only one of my classmates was in the actual scene. The other extras for the scene were brought over from the high school that was on the same RAF base.The overall quality of this film pretty much stunk. The special effects were way worse than the original two films. The effects were so bad that you could see the wires holding up Reeves and Nuclear Man. Pathetic! "},{"Title":"Tragic End To The Reeve Series of Films","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Superman 4 was intended to be a return to the High quality of the first 2 Reeve Superman films. Hopefully erasing the bad taste that Superman 3 left in the fans mouth. What resulted was a bad fun-house of special effects, a chopped up poorly edited movie, with a plot that went nowhere and fell flat on it's face. The rights to Superman were sold to the now non-existent, Cannon studio by Alexander and Ilya Salkind, (Producers of Superman 1-3) Chris Reeve after the disappointment of Superman 3, initially swore off reprising the role of Superman but after a sweet deal including story input was offered to him by Cannon, he signed on for the 4th. Reeve's idea was to construct a story where Superman felt obligated to try and rid the world of Nuclear Weapons and bring about peace. Not a bad concept but the screenplay that was written did little to flush out the details in an engaging fashion. Superman 4 centers around the return of Lex Luthor, who is broken out of prison by his incredibly annoying and less than bright, nephew Lenny. Once escaped he plans on ridding the world of Superman by creating a Supervillain, partially from Superman's DNA and once Superman is gone, he'll become something of a war profiteer. The result of this Supervillain is the corny and terribly conceived Nuclear Man. A being who looks like he stepped out of a bad 70's Disco movie, with his long teased blonde hair, big muscles and hokey costume. So Superman must defeat Nucler Man, foil Lex and save the day while preserving peace. The biggest problem with Superman 4 is how cheaply it was made. Cannon ran out of money during pre-production thanks to other films they were producing that were in need of funding so Superman 4's budget got reportedly cut in half. This results in wires showing, lifeless flying backgrounds, re-used flying shots and poorly constructed action sequences. Also reportedly, thanks to a failed test screening, roughly 40 min was cut from Superman 4, so there are many aspects of the plot, that feel rushed with questions unanswered. At the end of the day the movie is a massive letdown. Chris Reeve is the only real saving grace here, as he is always a joy to watch portraying the Man of Steel but the movie lets Reeve and the fans down, on nearly every level.2/10 "},{"Title":"I'm calling this review My Quest for anything remotely half-decent in this god-awful film","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" My 16th review for IMDb is here, for the readers who have been waiting for it. I'd guess that there's about 4 of you. ...Hey, the movie I'm about to review is a fourquel! Which means it's guaranteed to suck! Now, Superman is faster than a speeding bullet, more powerful than a locomotive, and able to leap tall buildings in a single bound. To describe this installment in his film franchise accurately, it's dumber than Paris Hilton without a brain, more laughable than Tara Reid trying to play a scientist (it doesn't matter what kind), and is able to induce mass audience confusion with a single plot hole!The Positives -Christopher Reeve and Gene Hackman are both in it, but in all honesty that doesn't save this film in any way whatsoever. -The plot's main premise (Superman tries to rid the world of all nuclear weapons) is interesting, yet completely wasted.The Negatives -Nuclear Man (who must be the lamest, most laughable villain I've ever seen), Jon Cryer (who somehow managed to not get burnt at a stake by angry fanboys), Mariel Hemmingway (did I spell that right? Oh yeah, I remember, NO ONE CARES!), the terrible visual effects (damn you, Golan Globus!), the terrible visual effects, the laughably bad logic (how can Mariel Hemmingway breathe in space when Nuclear Man takes her up there? And how do Superman and Nuclear Man's hair and cape flutter in nonexistent space wind?), the subplots that are brought up early on and are forgotten about until the movie's almost over and concluded abruptly even though they never went anywhere, the little boy who convinces Superman to get rid of all the warheads suddenly disappearing from the film entirely... do you want more? Well too bad, I've got better things to do!My 3 choice words -Extortion, shameful, torturous "}{"Title":"I don't know about you, but I think that Nuclear Man and Superman would make a cute couple!","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Wow, I honestly cannot believe how Superman became so famous if these movies were anything to go by, because the forth installment started off very well, but ended up with a ton of mistakes. It wasn't just the story, because the story worked very well, but not to spoil anything, but Lex wants a strand of Superman's hair that supposedly can hold 1000 pounds, he not only just cuts the strand from the museum, you'll see what I mean, but it also snaps in his hand. And that girl Lucy, somehow could breathe in space, not to mention, is it a good idea to hurl nuclear missiles at the sun? Well, Superman is still struggling to keep his identity, which miraculously no one has still caught onto yet, and they even changed how he makes people forget if they've seen the real him. Well, Lucy, the big time Daddy's girl is now the publisher at the newspaper company that Louis and Clark are at. When they receive a letter from a little boy asking Superman to destroy all nuclear missiles to save the world, but Superman has a bigger problem when Lex Luther escapes and makes Nuclear Man, a man who is as equally strong, with one flaw, he needs the sun to keep up.Superman IV isn't a bad movie, but it wasn't made too well, and it didn't seem too well thought out. Christopher Reeve also just seemed tired of doing Superman, it just wasn't his best. But if you are looking to finish the Superman series, then be my guest, but otherwise, I'd recommend to stay away, because it's not that well thought out.4/10 "},{"Title":"Superman IV Review","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Superman IV was poor beyond all belief, in terms of its special effects wires can be seen lifting and dropping pedestrians & thermal man, ill thought storyline and completed on a shoe-string budget. Each Superman movie lost its clout. Superman The movie was the best and when Ilya Salkind and Richard Doner fell out you could tell the quality of superman was poor from superman III onwards. Christopher Reeve should have not donned the cape for 4 times and left it hanging in superman 2. Virtually all scenes were recorded in a studio no real outdoor live effects, and a lot of things didn't make sense! Why did thermal man kidnap the new Daily Planet publisher?! where was he going to take her when they flew into space? why did she live and able to breathe in space? why was all flying scenes recorded against back drop blue screen? Why was a lot of the scenes for the daily planet recorded in Milton Keynes instead of New York City?! NO NO NO! Superman should be treated like its first film, in-depth smart and funny. Excellent cast and a big budget to make it real. This could have been so good if it had the budget. Some aspects were good such as the visit to smallville, the love interest with Clarke and Lacy Warfield,the take over of the daily planet, and the films theme of nuclear disarmament, and most of the original cast... Just done cheap cheap cheap. To any true superman fan a real disappointment. "},{"Title":"Very bad","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Isn't the entire basis of this film utter rubbish? The Ace Nuclear Treaty had already been signed in reality by Reagan & Gorbechov so the nuclear arms race was slowing down, not speeding up.The start is pretty dire. Again Lex Luthor has hair and how his nephew got anywhere near the quarry full of prisoners isn't addressed at all. That place would be crawling with armed guards. And the 2 cops in the car should have been killed in the blast as well.For someone so hot on law and order, Clark Kent certainly jaywalks a lot doesn't he? In both this and Superman II, he crosses the street illegally.And since when did London Underground trains start running in America? And Lois still hasn't learned her lesson? Superman never notices her unless he's rescuing her. She needs to stop trying to attract his attention at rescues. Makes you think she gets into trouble on purpose.Since when have newspapers been in the market of making money? They report the news.Superman's hair is only any good for DNA if it had a root, which they most likely didn't know back then. Oh, and if it can hold a 1000 pound weight, why can't it stand a pair of bolt-cutters? Funny how by this movie Lois seems to remember everything that he made her forget with the kiss in Superman II, so he has to make her forget with that kiss again. What is on his lips that does that? Jeremy with Superman was obviously filmed in New York, you could see the NYPD mounted officer and the square they were stood in was obviously near the World Trade Centre - The then HQ of the UN.The mistake of labeling a delegate ENGLAND, (We would be labeled United Kingdom, NOT England - that would be an insult to the Welsh, The Scottish, The Irish and The Manx).The missiles that the submarines fire would be useless to Superman in his attempt to rid the world of nuclear weapons. Test fires are never armed and normally don't carry warheads either.Does Superman know what damage he would do to the Solar System by throwing all those nuclear weapons into the sun? All that extra radiation that would be showered down onto the Earth. IDIOT! Jim Broadbent playing a Russian is very amusing. As well as the other arms dealer with the mustache who is very English, he appeared in Ever Decreasing Circles as Richard Briars' neighbor.The Sgt. York joke (when Lex is planting the device on the missile) is so quick it's missed by most people watching. No-one asked Luthor or any of his party for ID (highly unlikely in an area launching nuclear missiles. He'd be asked for ID then shot on sight for not having any, the military don't screw around with live nuclear weapons).How is it that Nuclear Man is a fully grown adult? And how did he learn to speak? Or fly? Plus he seems to know what his mission is Destroy Superman now!, without anyone having told him that vital information.Lois says to Lacey in THAT dress that Clark's not going to notice, no matter what you wear. Clark isn't gay, he's got eyes. And Lois had already described her as illegal. Jealous, Lois? Why Clark didn't change into Superman in the hotel's revolving doors instead of getting in the back of a car (Superman breaks into cars, yet more lawlessness by Clark Kent) I don't know.Oh, and how did Clark ring the door bell when Superman was still inside the room? If Nuclear Man is a clone from Superman's DNA, why doesn't he look like Superman? I don't see how Superman can stop a Volcano by plugging it up. Pressure builds up and the plug would just be ejected, it'd be a matter of time. Why not just do freezing breath inside the Volcano to cool it. Still plugging it but in a more natural way how real Volcano's become dormant.Why is The Statue Of Liberty in Metropolis? Just another sign this was filmed in New York. Oh, and I don't care how strong Nuclear Man is supposed to be or how sharp his nails are but he wouldn't cut Superman's skin.This attempt to show Superman with a human side had already been done in Superman II when he gave up his powers to live with Lois and got beaten up in the diner by the trucker. Try and come up with some new ideas? I like the very bad cut when Lex was holding the money that Nuclear Man set fire to then they cut and his hand was by his side, no longer up by his face. And we're always told glowing green crystals are Kryptonite but the one at the farm seems to help the very sick looking Clark? The fight in Metropolis between Superman and Nuclear Man is basically a rip-off of the fight between him, Zod, Non & Ursa in Superman II. He even uses that don't do it, the people line that he said back then.Exactly WHICH woman does Nuclear Man want? He's never met Stacey or Lois so exactly who did he mean? He knows nothing about either woman or what possible use they could be to him as hostages.They even copy fighting on The Moon which had also already been done in Superman II, basically this film recycled a lot of ideas from Superman II. As well as the ideas of a bad self and the duality ideas used creating an Evil Superman in the original motion picture.Can anyone tell me why Nuclear Man roars exactly like old style Godzilla from the Japanese films? For such a tough villain, Nuclear Man is defeated FAR too easily in my eyes. The film just ran out of ideas I guess. "},{"Title":"No, no, no, no!!!!","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Superman III was a definite step down after the first two excellent S-films, but was still watchable. This movie, however, is a turkey from start to finish. No wonder it killed the franchise for 19 years ('til Bryan Singer came to the rescue), it really sucks, sucks, sucks.There's only one thing I enjoyed, and that's the late, great Christopher Reeve, whose incarnation of the Man of Steel was once again pitch-perfect. Sadly, everything else is a 90-minute disaster from the dire script (it almost screams Hey, nuclear weapons are a bad thing, you know?, and it has some awful dialogue, such as You know what we can do with Superman's hair? A flying wig?) to the far from exciting SFX scenes (the same flying shot is reused at least four (!) times), The Quest for Peace is even worse than Joel Schumacher's Batman & Robin, which at least tried to be decent (Schumacher himself admitted he wanted to make it less clownish than it turned out).And let's not (?) forget the villains Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) is sidelined in favor of his obnoxious nephew (Richard Pryor, who was the bad guy in Superman III, had a bit more charm), and the frightening Nuclear Man (voiced, God knows why, by Hackman) is probably the most throwaway movie character I've seen to date.The premise was interesting, but not even Christopher Reeve could completely prevent this movie from crash-landing rather than flying. Apart from the leading man, Superman IV is about as interesting as a flying wig.3,5/10 "},{"Title":"Ruined a Movie, Ruined the Characters, Ruined the Series","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" You've heard from many different reviews how bad this movie is. But this is no ordinary bad movie. This was a Superman movie about one of the greatest superheroes of all time. This was the fourth in the series and expectations were high. Everyone involved in making this movie failed and let everyone down. Superman IV The Quest for Peace had a lot of potential to be a good movie, but it was put in the wrong hands.One thing that I must point out is how they ruined the film's villain. Nuclear Man could've been a great villain, but like I said, this movie was put into the wrong hands. What a lot of people don't know is that in the original cut, there were two Nuclear Men. The first was the inferior one that resembled Bizarro from the comics. Nuclear Man came from one of Superman's hairs. The deleted scenes of the first Nuclear Man were pretty good. The fight scene between Superman and the first Nuclear Man was very good. He gives Superman a rough time for a little while, but Superman is able to dispose of him quickly.This forces Lex Luthor to go back to the drawing board and create a new Nuclear Man. But rather than create him in the lab, Luthor creates the new one in the sun. The special effects were pretty lame, but for me, one of their brightest moments has to be the birth of Nuclear Man from the sun. When we first see his face there is fire in his eyes and it looks pretty cool. This is the new and improved Nuclear Man played by Mark Pillow. This is a handsome Nuclear Man with blonde hair and blue eyes. He is big and strong and all he wants to do is destroy Superman. Nobody will ever know how good an actor Mark Pillow could've been. Nuclear Man's voice is dubbed by Gene Hackman's. The first voice that Nuclear Man hears when he arrives on earth is the voice of Lex Luthor. He ends up taking Luthor's voice. I could understand them dubbing Pillow because if you've ever heard his voice, he sounds too nice to be a big mean villain. But I don't know why they had to dub his voice with Gene Hackman's. Giving him the stupid roar didn't help either. Sometimes Mark Pillow overacts with his facial expressions. I swear, I think this is the new man of a thousand faces. He has how many different faces throughout the movie. You would think it was all different actors playing the part. Mark Pillow has some good moments, but some of the best scenes of Superman chasing Nuclear Man around the world ended up on the cutting room floor. They also cut out good scenes involving Lacy and Nuclear Man. These deleted scenes in the original cut explained what woman Nuclear Man was after and why. Cutting out all of those scenes that they did, destroyed any last chance they ever had of this being a good movie. The Lacy and Nuclear Man scenes also added a lot more to the character of Nuclear Man.They didn't know what they were doing. If you're going to create your own Superman foe, make sure you do it right. Nuclear Man's costume is all right. But they had to go and give him these stupid long nails to attack Superman with. The point of giving him the nails was to pierce Superman's skin and give him radiation sickness. But nobody wants a villain with long radioactive nails.Another thing they really screwed up with were the fight scenes between Superman and Nuclear Man. The fights just came off looking gay. They have their final fight on the moon and you're expecting this titanic struggle. What a let down. I'll admit, the fight has a few good moments, but whoever did the choreography is an idiot.The greatest sin of this movie is what they did to Superman. Superman was completely ruined. I blame the producers, the director, the writers, and I'm sorry to say, I blame Christopher Reeve. The last time we saw Christopher Reeve in Superman III he looked great. He looked more muscular and he was better than ever. In Superman IV he is skinny and doesn't even come close to the way he looked in Superman III. If you don't want to see them turn Superman into a big sissy then stay away from this movie. In the fights with Nuclear Man, Superman fights like a girl and looks like the biggest wimp when he's moaning and yelling while Nuclear Man's murdering him. It's painful to watch the Man of Steel act this way. It's especially painful to watch Nuclear Man end the moon fight by hammering Superman into the ground. Did anybody realize how stupid that looked? Didn't Christopher Reeve realize how stupid he looked? Someone once said that the saddest thing in life is wasted talent. A great score here by Alexander Courage is wasted. Every actor was wasted. In John Cryer's case, he had no business in this movie. He ruined it with his stupid annoying act. In the Mark Pillow case, I'd have to say that his good looks were wasted. Mark Pillow was a handsome strapping young actor. I could've seen him playing He-Man or even Flash Gordon. He definitely had the look. As far as his acting, we will never know. This movie destroyed his career before it even began. I wish people could've shut down this project before it even began. They ruined a promising movie, they ruined the characters, and they ruined the series. "},{"Title":"Believe it or not, it could have been worse.","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Is Superman IV as bad as you've heard? Probably. It is pretty bad, but in my opinion, it could have been FAR worse. The performances are decent, aside from Nuclear Man. Christopher Reeve goes above and beyond yet again, despite a mediocre script. The plot is fairly decent, with the exception of Nuclear Man. Good sweet Jesus, this has got to be one of the worst villains in comic book movie history, and by far the worst Superman villain. He does a hell of a job of eerily sucking the hope out of any scene he's in. Superman III, while bad as well, is better than this. This is easily the worst Superman movie (And one of the worst comic book/superhero movies as a whole), and I don't understand how people can say Superman Returns is worse than this, or even compare the two. The plot holes are impossible to ignore. For example, how in the hell is Lacy Warfield breathing in space? Sorry, but I can't suspend my disbelief that much.Getting back to the title of my review, it could have been worse. The performances could have been worse, the CGI could have looked even more fake, and the plot could have stunk even more. So keep that in mind.It's no surprise at all that it took 19 years for Superman to reappear on the big screen. 3/10. "},{"Title":"Superman Bore is more like it!","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Poor Christopher Reeve. Talk about a hard life! But I'm sure if you asked him, (Through Jon Edwards of course) he would tell you his greatest regret was not mounting a horse on that hot, hazy memorial day in 1995, but making this film. It actually had me longing for the days of Richard Pryor and a crazy computer who eats people and makes them into robots. Yes this movie sucks. Lets go down the Sucky checklist, shall we? Superman trying to rid the world of nuclear weapons? Check. Lex Luthor and no Otis? check Crappy villain with stupid weakness (and for no reason Gene Hackman's voice)? check Jon Cryer? check No lois? check A stupid kid who couldn't out-act Vin Diesel? check OK... so now we have all our ingredients.. try making your own crappy movie! "},{"Title":"Superman IV The One Where You Can See the Wires","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Superman IV The One Where You Can See the Wires &#150; sorry, The Quest For Peace &#150; may have started out with the best of intentions, but new producers Cannon's escalating financial woes and penny-pinching resulted in the budget being literally halved by the time filming started, making a bad idea even worse with shoddy production values. If you think Canada doubling for New York is bad enough these days, that's nothing compared to the Go-Go Boys trying to pass of Milton Keynes, UK as Metropolis, USA. Indeed, Clark Kent's daily commute must be truly epic, since he goes to Metropolis via a clearly signposted Aldwych tube station in London.The Superman film that's best not spoken about, or not spoken about much, and cut from an original uncompleted 134-minutes to a very scrappy 89 minutes, it's one of those films where every expense has very visibly been spared. Rather than spend the money on a decent flying effect, they go for the old standing very still in front of terrible back projection plate while a wind machine blows your hair technique. These considerably less than special effects wouldn't have looked out of place on the old George Reeves' TV show. Some of the original cast have been tempted back &#150; a worse for wear Margot Kidder, Marc McClure and a very gaunt and unhealthy looking Jackie Cooper &#150; but aside from Gene Hackman none get much to do. Indeed, at times Reeve is unable to hide the look of disgust on his face as he tries to get off the set as quickly as possible (at least he got something out of the whole ghastly fiasco, only agreeing to put on the tights one last time if Cannon would back pet project Street Smart, although that film ended up doing a lot more for Morgan Freeman's career than his own).One scene where Superman and Clark have a double-date with Kidder and Mariel Hemingway almost works, but in any other film it would be pure filler. The only thing the film really gets (unintentionally) right is when Superman tells Luthor at the end See you in twenty. Well, nearly right, since this would be such a flop it would take 19 years for the Man of Steel to hit the screen again. Still, at least its failure ensured that Cannon didn't have the funds to go ahead with their much hyped other superhero movie, Michael Winner's Spider-Man, so we owe it a debt of gratitude for that if nothing else&#133; The recent DVD does at least include half an hour of uncompleted deleted scenes (though not the oft-mentioned visit to the Kents' graves) that show how much worse it could have been had the lengthy comic subplot with a moronic prototype Nuclear Man (played by UK soap star Clive Mantle like a cross between Frankenstein, a baby seal and a naked Bay City Roller) been kept. Only brief additional footage of Clark Kent suffering radiation poisoning shows the darker film intended. There's also a great and painfully frank audio commentary from one of the writers that makes it one film worth watching without the original sound! "},{"Title":"Verisimilitude Destroyed","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I got this as part of a boxed set of all four of the original Superman films. I have to say Superman The Movie is as great now as it was then, nearly brought tears to my eyes and made me nostalgic for the good old days.Then there was Superman II (the Lester version). I remember liking it as a child, but as an adult I scratched my head and wondered exactly what had gone wrong. The... what is the word? The verisimilitude was gone along with the thrill. And was that recycled footage at the end? I wanted for it it to be the same or better than the first one. It wasn't.Then there was Superman III. Lester in all his glory. All I can say is skiing down the side of a skyscraper? Superman can get drunk? You can make oil go back into an oil rig like that? And was that recycled footage at the end? Are you kidding me?But Superman IV. Dear God, Superman IV. Well, that is an atrocity of epic proportions. At its heart, somewhere deep, deep down (very deep) it had a somewhat good concept. Superman rids the world of nuclear weapons. Apparently, the whole it is forbidden for you to interfere with their destiny is right out the window. Superman says hand 'em over and the world goes no problem. Then Lex Luthor, in his brilliance, comes up with an idea no one else would have in the whole world. He's going to get better than nuclear weapons. In his genius he has come up with a nuclear man. Guess what the greatest criminal mind of all time comes up with for a name? Nuclear Man! And Nuclear Man has bizarre abilities the script doesn't have time to explain like electric fire eyes that sparkle and... I guess that's all. Plus, even though he is made up of Superman's DNA, he has Lex Luthor's voice (Lex must have used his criminal intellect to do that). Also he can fly and break stuff and, for no apparent reason, he likes Clark Kent's love interest (?). Perhaps his reason is that she can go into space and not die! Seriously, man. Then there's the mysterious scratch that Nuclear Man gives Superman, which makes him have the flu. To which he reacts like a complete wimp. This movie also reveals the secret to Superman's flying wires! The special effects people must have been saying, Slash my budget, will you? Well, I'll kill the Superman franchise good, that'll learn you to mess with me. And kill it they did because it took nineteen years for Superman to Return. There's so much more to rank on with this cautionary tale of How Not To Make A Movie but I'm sure I made my point.And was that recycled footage at the end? "},{"Title":"1000 Times Better than Batman & Robin","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Even tho i'm a massive Batman fan the old Superman series didn't have Bat Nipples and Bat asses it had a lot of awkward humor tho. Superman IV is for sure weird with showing a girl flying in outer space without dying and Superman pushes the moon in order to block the sun in order to defeat Nuclear Man who is pretty retarded but his theme music Rocks. John Cryer is in this movie and guess what? he is not as annoying as the people from the previous film also the Original Theme comes back for the Opening Credits. Sure Quest for Peace has many stupid things in it and the acting or direction isn't that perfect including that annoying same shot in every scene but it's still better than Batman & Robin, Catwoman and the new Fantastic Four also it has some good things in it for example that moment when Clark looks old and takes back his powers, or when he talks in the press conference even the fight scenes with Nuclear Man are pretty awesome. I'm not saying it's the best Superman movie ever made or anything but it's not that terrible either. I give it a 9 out of 10 for pure Entertainment and some good laughs and yes the hero deserved a better ending but for sure it deserved a better continuation also. "}{"Title":"Far from being the worst of the series, even if it's not particularly good","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Going into SUPERMAN IV THE QUEST FOR PEACE, I was totally prepared for this to be an unwatchable mess. To my surprise, this was a Superman film that actually dared to be about something. Yes, the special effects are cheesy and the worst of the series. Yes, Lex Luthor is back as the villain of the week, and Nuclear Man is one of the stupidest villains I've ever seen. But, one thing sets this apart from the other entries in the series this is a Cannon film, with all that implies. Cannon Films are best known to me as the home of several of Chuck Norris' early titles, and they're known for schlocky, low-budget stinkers that are so bad they're good. While I wouldn't quite put SUPERMAN IV in that category, there are a number of elements that, given a bigger budget, could have made this an awesome film. Even still, it's very watchable and certainly more entertaining than SUPERMAN III.The basic plot has Superman campaigning for worldwide nuclear disarmament. There's also trouble at the Daily Planet as a rich businessman tries to take it over and turn it into a vehicle for sensationalism as opposed to real journalism. However, Lex Luthor is back on the scene and isn't about to let Superman eliminate a lucrative business and creates Nuclear Man to take him on.First, the good, which is actually more than you would think. The story this time is a marked improvement over the silly one in SUPERMAN III. Christopher Reeve has a story credit on SUPERMAN IV, and I have a feeling that he was instrumental in the direction the film took. Addressing nuclear disarmament and war profiteering (to a lesser degree) was/is a timely subject, and particularly so in 1987 when the Soviet Union was on the brink of collapse. Granted, the bulk of this message is contained in two speeches that come off as straight-faced moralizing, but the fact that they tackled the issue at all is commendable. I also liked how Superman is treated as a more international hero than a purely American icon. Here we get to see Superman rescue people (who aren't Lois) in other countries besides the US. In terms of technical details, despite being a Cannon film the production values aren't too bad. Even the acting is perfectly fine (with one huge exception). In fact, most aspects of the production are acceptable except...The special effects, due to the low budget, are pretty awful. In particular, the flying sequences and fighting in space were very bad. Still, all of this is understandable when you consider who produced this film. What I didn't care for at all was Nuclear Man and Jon Cryer, who plays Lex Luthor's nephew. While he played a fun, quirky character in PRETTY IN PINK, Jon Cryer was absolutely risible here, and his character was annoyingly stupid. He also affects this accent which just adds to how much I hated the character. His presence made me long for Otis and Mrs. Teshmacher. Then there's Lex Luthor's latest creation, Nuclear Man, who his birthed when a missile carrying a strand of Superman's hair explodes in the sun. If that origin wasn't bad enough, his appearance was also ridiculous. Fortunately they had the foresight to dub Gene Hackman's voice over the muscle-bound non-actor who played Nuclear Man. The last thing I'll comment on is the length of the film. Basically, it could have stood to be a little longer and develop the high-minded themes that it dared to address.Overall, I was pleasantly surprised at how watchable SUPERMAN IV turned out to be. By no means would I consider this a good movie, but its heart is in the right place. It might have been hampered by a reduced budget, rendering the special effects more dated and cheesy than its predecessors, but the story and themes are an improvement from the overly silly SUPERMAN III. It also has a certain B-movie charm that allows you to overlook the sub-par production values. Bottom line, I'd sooner rewatch SUPERMAN IV than SUPERMAN III, but it still doesn't hold a candle to the first two. "},{"Title":"Not As Bad As Everyone Says","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Not as bad as what everyone says, not a patch on the first two movies, but still not the worst movie ever made. Allowances need to be taken in to account for the fact it's budget was slashed in half before a single frame was shot. Plot In A Paragraph Lex Luthor has escaped prison, and only has one thing on his mind. The end of Superman. Once Superman decides to destroy all the nuclear weapons in the world, Luthor sees any opportunity.I'll get what I don't like out of the way first. The plot, whilst a good idea in principal is a mess, the special effects are cheap and are often reused over and over again. Mark Pillow makes a poor villain. It's no surprise to see his career went nowhere. Clearly Milton Keynes is no substitute for New York (which usually doubles as Metropolis) Everything about it looks very cheap (costumes, set design, special effects)and apparently Lois Lane can now fly unaided and humans can breath in space. Now that's out the way, the movie has something's going for it, Christopher Reeve gives us one last performance as Superman, and is as brilliant as always. Gene Hackman returns as Lex Luthor, Margot Kidder is given more to do than in the last movie, Jon Cryer is fun as Lenny and the attractive Mariel Hemingway is a welcome addition to the cast too. I really liked her as a love interest for Clark, Jim Broadbent pops up here too, but he is not given as much to do as one would hope. The brilliant John Williams is back composing too!! Given the movies problems I'm going to count the running time as a good thing too.A sad end to the Christopher Reeve as Superman Franchise. From the minute Richard Donner was fired from Superman 2 it had been all down hill. "},{"Title":"Corniest. Film. Ever.","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is one of the stupidest ideas ever put to screen. First we have superman, not the hero from man of steel, but a mild mannered dork turning into a mild mannered dork. It was awful. It started with a dumb kid making superman collect all the nukes into a giant net and throw them into space, with the UN okaying it! Then Lex and some 80's guy somehow cut superman's unnecessarily indestructible hair and launch it on a nuke towards the sun but doesn't slow down or get caught by the gravity of a planet, instead creates Dolph Lugrendish in tights. And he wants to randomly kill superman without knowing him or that he came from him and they have the worst chick fights ever! By the way, unnecessarily indestructible hair. "},{"Title":"Is the world gonna be vaporized?","Date":"13 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Superman The Movie and Superman II were decent (if not a little dated and cheesy) adaptations of the classic comic-book hero. Then, Superman III came along, with so much absurdity and camp; I didn't think it could get any sillier or dumber than that. Then I saw Superman IV.Suffering from massive budget cuts, this film was cut down to a short, cheap, silly affair. Given the story, I doubt this movie would have been that much better with a bigger budget anyway. The film starts off with a few pointless character-building points and bits of Daily Planet drama (a subplot that ultimately could have been cut out completely without sacrificing much). For the last half or so, however, the film's real meat is in a long, epic, and rather silly clash between Superman and Nuclear Man. Oh, it's pretty cool to see a guy with claws shooting red lightning bolts everywhere, but all the encounters between this villain and the hero are made pretty short and stupidly. Among the absurdities in the film, one of the most defining testaments to this film's weaknesses has to be the scene where Superman rebuilds the Great Wall of China simply by staring at it.The best that can be said is that the film skirts along the so bad it's good threshold. It's not terribly boring or dull, just poorly executed. It is to Superman what Batman and Robin is to Batman (although I always found B&R a little more endearing).The plot for Superman IV gets a little pushy (and rather one-sided) with its themes of nuclear disarmament. It is ultimately a weak plot, with barely any characterization involved. As daft as most scenes are, it all comes off as shallow and forgettable.This film has its share of okay photography and editing. Christopher Reeve, Margot Kidder, Gene Hackman, and Jackie Cooper all reprise their roles admirably; Mark Pillow is deliciously over-the-top as the villain. Writing is not terribly great. This production has a rather weak array of sets, props, and costumes. Special effects vary from scene to scene; some look cool, others look terrible. The music score continues to repeat the themes already established by John Williams.Fun, maybe, but definitely the weakest and silliest film in the Superman franchise. Unless you're looking for something to make fun of, you best avoid.2/5 (Entertainment Average | Story Awful | Film Poor) "},{"Title":"Too Bad Reeve's Superman Ended This Way","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" There were reports that Christopher Reeve no longer intends to reprise his role as Clark Kent and Superman.Apparently,he only did this one more time on the condition that he would also star in a dark film entitled,Street Smart,a movie about a New York journalist lies when his fake story about a pimp describes a real pimp up for murder.Both movies,Superman IV and Street Smart were released the same year - 1987.It looks like that even Superman himself is no longer interested into wearing his cape and suit again.It only shows in this last installment of the film.Superman IVThe Quest For Peace is the fourth film in the Superman film series and the last installment to star Christopher Reeve as the Man of Steel.Gene Hackman returns as Lex Luthor as he creates an evil solar-powered Superman clone called Nuclear Man.In this film,Superman tries to save the world from nuclear destruction at the hands of Lex Luthor. In a speech to the United Nations, Superman declares he will rid the world of all nuclear weapons. Arch-villain Luthor emerges from prison obsessed with killing Superman and creates an adversary known as Nuclear Man. The two engage in a fight to the finish in various landmarks on Earth before taking their battle into outer space. In another development,when Lois Lane invites both Superman and Clark Kent to a double-date dinner, Superman's powers are tested so that both men can be present.Obviously,this is the least interesting of the four Superman movies done by Reeve.If the first two films were a classic and Superman III was entertaining enough for good laughs,the fourth film was definitely horrible.The performances of the cast were simply decent.Christopher Reeve does not look to be in top shape as the Man of Steel and he looks tired as Superman and Clark Kent,who was relegated from a bumbling man to a dork in this film.Aside from that,the other cast like Hackman and Kidder look uninspired in their portrayal as Lex Luthor and Lois Lane respectively.The others gave average performances.As for the story,the movie was definitely predictable from beginning to end. Nuclear Man was simply a horrible villain and the least interesting as compared to the Supervillains,the evil Superman and even Gus Gorman. In summary,the action is boring.The special effects look cheaper.And most of all,nobody appears interested in where the story is going.Sidney J. Furie's direction simply is lackluster.It was in the least interesting among all the films that has been shown including Superman Returns.Personally,I would rank this the worst film behind SupermanThe Movie,Superman II,Superman Returns and Superman III.Two words to describe it Simply Horrible.It was just sad that the late Christopher Reeve wasn't able to make up for this disaster unlike Sylvester Stallone,who made up Rocky V disaster in 1990 with Rocky Balboa in 2006 and the Rambo III disaster in 1988 with Rambo in 2008.I just wished that he got out of this role as the Man Of Steel with a great bang instead of this forgettable film feature.It was too bad that Chris Reeve's Superman has to end this way. "},{"Title":"A lamentable mess and a disgrace of a sequel","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I loved the first two Superman films, the third was okay, but this one was awful. Other than Christopher Reeve's assured lead performance and the rousing score, there is very little I can say that is good about this film. The special effects are incredibly cheesy and dated. The story is hackneyed, unoriginal and pretty predictable. The script is lamentable. The direction is stodgy. The pacing is uneven- there are parts that are rushed and there are parts that drag. The other acting is not even worth mentioning, as much as I love Gene Hackman I just don't buy the possibility he thought this film had a good script. Overall, awful and while not the worst sequel ever made it is a disgrace. 1/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The worst of the five Superman movies","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" There was only one thing that made this movie watchable. Christopher Reeve. He originally refused to star in Superman IV. If he hadn't starred in it, this would've been the worst movie ever made. Superman saved his life by using a green crystal that he found in Smallville. It was stupid that Superman could die by getting scratches on the back of his neck. If bullets, tanks and bombs can't hurt him, how can scratches kill him? It was even more stupid when the scratches turned him into an old man. Another stupid thing was when Nuclearman took Lacy Warfield into outer space and it didn't kill her. This was the only part of the movie that ticked me off. I did like the fight on the moon. I think it was neat when Nuclearman beat Superman into the ground. This movie didn't suck but it was the worst of the five films. "},{"Title":"Superman 4 The quest for...a decent movie!","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The fundamental problem with this movie is very simple. It was produced through Golan-Globus. They had to be, without a doubt, the worst production company of the 1980's, no, of the entire history of cinema! Every time they get there claws into a project and smear their trademark stamp of ineptness, you know that movie is doomed. This whole film reeks of there lousy choices and missteps. From the lame script and plot that makes Superman remove all nuclear weapons from the earth and send them into the sun. To some really atrocious supporting acting and not much better principal acting. Finally, the most cheese-ball looking super-villain ever on the silver screen. Nuclear Man, who looks more like some reject from Solid Gold. I could go on but you get the point. If you ever come across this movie and wonder if you should view it. Do yourself a favor and just put it down and run as far away as possible and never look back. "},{"Title":"Superman IV The Quest for Peace, MUST BE DESTORYED (spoilers)","Date":"23 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I generally keep an open mind when it comes to watching films, I can take most things with a pinch of salt and generally try not to take anything to seriously, however with this film I have to say that amount of plot holes and law breaking physics just forced me to hate it! Lets get the 'alright' out of the way, the acting. The acting in this film is at best decent, Gene Hackman returns and does a great job at Lex Luthor, and extra credit is given here considering the dreadful script. Christopher Reeves again does his job as superman but lacks the charm he gave in the first to films, again this could have been due to the poor script. The rest of the cast was pretty much average or under-average, very forgettable Now onto what made this film the worst film I have ever seen, when watching this film I couldn't help notice that the writers obviously were either drunk or just monkeys as there were some major oversights, for instance in one scene, the main villain flies into outer space with Lois Lane, with Lois somehow scream, even though there is a lack of oxygen in space. Other such oversights were a fight on the moon with throwing a rock hurts superman, somehow and the main villain being created from the sun with already dressed?? I could go on and mention more but well there are literally to many to mention The music was uninspiring, John Williams opted not to score this film and instead Alexander Courage was chosen. Don't get me wrong Courage was a great composer, but he seemed to to a half-***** job and I never got the feeling of something truly evil this film is an easy miss, I watched it just out of sheer interest of how bad a film can be, There is no need to watch it, take it from me you will never see a worse film and there is no need to see it. "},{"Title":"Superman falls on his Kryptonite sword","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have avoided Superman IV The Quest For Peace for 20 odd years due to the critical reviews it received following its release. It's only because it came with a Superman collection on DVD I plucked up the courage and decided to give a go.Fortunately my expectations were already low so I wasn't going to be disappointed, and maybe, just maybe, I might enjoy it and be on here saying What's the problem, people? It's not THAT bad. Oh but alas it is; it's horrendous and watching it for the full duration was painful. And no, not even the usually reliable Gene Hackman could save it.The acting, direction, editing, script and special effects are all poor. There are plot holes the size of craters and bloopers including clearly visible wires suspending Superman as he lands on the moon near the end and a human being alive and breathing outside the earth's atmosphere (the actress in question showing no sign of shock or surprise as if this is a daily occurrence!). Other things of note, Superman failing to arrest/grab Lex Luthor for being an escaped convict; a completely unbelievable and pointless love interest sub plot involving a very bored looking Clark Kent and Lacy Warfield; And probably the worst villain ever conceived in Nuclear Man.But what I dislike the most is the message/premise of this film which is that Superman has decided to make the world a safer place by destroying all nuclear weapons. Forgive me for asking, as noble act as you may think this is, but did Superman consult the elected leaders of the world about this? We, in the civilised world, possess nuclear weapons to protect our people from the bad despots and dictators of the world. How can it be a good thing but leaving the civilised world defenseless (even in a world where there's Superman)? In summary I hated this film, even die hard Superman fans will hate it. Those who wear Parker jackets laden with CND badges will love it. "}{"Title":"Whoops","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have nothing but good words for this movie - travesty, betrayal, cheapskate pennypinching tripe, these are all good words for it.Despite Reeve's input and his continued dignified commitment to the characters he portrays, this movie is fatally flawed by the lack of production budget, leading to poor effects work (and good effects work is pretty essential to a Superman film) and a lamentable script.This was the first movie I took my son to, when it first came out (he was a big Superman fan already at the age of 4 by reference to the other movies on video) and even he could see that this simply didn't measure up.I'm so glad Cannon went bust, and how I wish they had never got their hands on the Superman franchise I would rather not have had a fourth Reeve Superman movie than I would have had this one. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good.","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" First of all, I know that a lot of people hated this movie. Don't take my word for it, though, or theirs. Look on the back of the DVD box.It says ...(see) Superman save the Statue of Liberty, plug a volcanic eruption of Mount Etna and rebuild the Great Wall of China. Wow. This movie was so bad, the only thing they could put on the box is basically the entire second half of the movie. Whereas with Superman I & II they could say award-winning, and with III starring comedian Richard Pryor, this one has to give away the plot as a major selling point. No new big-name stars, no awards, no fun whatsoever.However, this one was the first Superman live-action movie I ever saw (I was 4 or 5 at the time), and I loved it, much as I loved Ninja Turtles back in the 90's. For this reason, I have to go easy on it; 3 stars may be too many, but there you go. "},{"Title":"Superman's Peace of...","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" 'Superman IV The Quest for Peace' isn't just the worst of the series. It isn't just the worst superhero movie ever made. It is quite possibly one of the worst movies ever made.This mess is simply dreadful, painful to watch and not even bad enough to laugh at; 'IV' is simply criminal. I can't even put a finger on what is the #1 worst aspect of this movie.It blatantly steals scenes from the first 3 chapters, mimicking whole chapters in mere seconds. It has literally some of the worst special effects that make the rubber Godzilla look frightening. (If I saw a very fake-looking Superman fly directly into the screen one more time, after the first 23 shots like this, I was going to vomit.) It has absolutely no sense of logic. Superman's hair can hold a 1000 pound ball, but is easily clipped with pliers. Apparently no one needs a oxygen in space. Superman can simply rebuild the Great Wall of China by merely looking at it, in addition to plugging up a volcano. The law of gravity doesn't apply here &#x96; so fly, Lois, fly! Nuclear Man's one weakness (shade) is only used when the plot needs it.The extremely basic plot (as this movie seems to be directed to kids 2 and under) is Superman decides after reading a Dear Superman letter to rid the world of nuclear weapons, so Lex jumps on the bandwagon to make a profit while cloning Superman in the form of Nuclear Man.I can say there's one positive to the hell that is 'Superman IV' this could have been even worse &#x96; take an extra 30 minutes and watch all the deleted scenes. Your mouth will drop further in disgust. And finally, though an abomination this peace of crap is, make sure you actually watch it a second time &#x96; using the audio commentary. Writer Rosenthal is (probably unintentionally) hilarious as he apologizes throughout his commentary beginning with minute one. "},{"Title":"Many glaring mistakes but....","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" ......nobody seems to have mentioned the fact that, along with x-ray and hear vision, he now seems to have the ability to rebuild things by looking at them (Great Wall of China) and lowering previously levitated, non-running away members of the public, back to the ground , once again, just by looking at them. That was the main thing that made my jaw drop. But it wasn't the only thing. Oh no. Somebody mentioned the action sequence when Superman moved the moon to block out the Sun. Well, aside from the horrendous effect this would have on the earth and the near impossibility of getting it back into the same place, at the same speed to maintain it's orbit, did anyone else notice how small the moon was as Superman grabbed hold of it?? If you freeze-frame and go up to the TV and draw an imaginary circle following it's circumference, you'll see that the Moon is about the size of a small shopping centre (when it's about the size of America) or Supes is about 700miles tall! Oh, and before I finish, when Supes is thrown by Nuclear Man, why does he a) scream? when he is used to flying through the air. And b) Not just stop in mid-air? I mean - what's the point of throwing someone who can fly anyway?? 24crt gold Priceless. "},{"Title":"Awful out of 4","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Superman does a lot in his newest adventure. Archvillain Lex Luthor, determined to make the world safe for nuclear arms merchants, creates a new being to challenge the Man of Steel the radiation-charged Nuclear Man. The two super-powered foes clash in an explosive screen extravaganza that sees Superman save the Statue of Liberty, repulse a volcanic eruption of Mount Etna, rebuild the demolished Great Wall of China and perform many more famous feats.Disappointing finale to the Superman series ends abruptly, as a rotten script tries to build again, but it falls and never regains it's style. This matches up with Troll 2.Rated PG for Violence.Awesomely Bad Scale * * * * out of 4. "},{"Title":"How bad is it?","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is how you ruin a franchise folks. Cheap special effects. Aging actors, well past their prime (margot kidder, Christopher reeve). Tired, boorish, comicish plot line. Script Bad Acting Worse What gives Superman the right to destabilize the world economy by removing all of the nuclear missiles? How is it possible that he has a Kryptonian council conference with the dead elders of Krypton? None of them knew that he went to Earth to begin with.How does Lex Luthor become a bio-chemist cloning expert?How do people breathe in space without spacesuits?Why does Lois Lane dress so poorly?Special Effects Superbad This movie gets my maximum DREK Rating of 100% Drek.A giant net in space capturing nuclear missiles? Need I say more?Superman, Supersucks! "},{"Title":"Take this one behind the shed and put it out of it's misery...","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" No. Just no. I refuse to believe this...film, for lack of a better word exists. I guess it was true that Superman IV The Quest For Peace (and what a joke that title is) was the final nail in the coffin for the Superman films, at least until it was rebooted with Superman Returns. While the first film could make you believe that a man could fly, here, you'd probably think he was sailing along on wires behind a green screen. So what was so bad about this film? For those of you who haven't seen the film, basically, it's about Superman stopping nuclear arms conflict and beating up a guy who was created from a strand of his hair. Oh, and there's some other stuff about Clark going on a date and some old guy trying to take over the Daily Planet. That's about it.Where do I begin? The lame storyline? The truly atrocious acting? The god-awful special effects? It honestly boggles my mind to see how the franchise went from a blockbuster starring Marlon Brando, Gene Hackman and Christopher Reeve, to a piece of tripe starring Reeve and Hackman as caricatures of themselves. It feels like everyone is just hamming it up in this picture, which is a shame because the actors could have done so much more with their roles.The plot is a total waste of time and space. Who cares about ever being in danger, because no matter who you are around the world, Superman will save you! Whether it's Russian cosmonauts in space or conveniently-timed subway train problems, it seems that Superman can actually sense problems in advance! That's...really stupid. And apparently, Superman is all-knowing enough that he can just ask every single world leader to disarm their nuclear arsenals, and that they will comply WITHOUT HESITATION. I mean, it's not like some of those countries based their entire economies on the development of nuclear power, right? Right? There are some really terrible special effects shots in this film. It's plainly obvious to see, because there is footage recycled from the earlier entries in the series, bizarre effect shots (most notably, one instance where Superman flies through space with his cape flapping (???), and another instance in which he flies through a subway station, and the extras don't even bother turning to look at him!), some truly horrid green screen work (in the Fortress Of Solitude with the elders and the 1/3'rd size Superman flying through the subway!), and just plain strange visual effects (Superman repairing the Great Wall Of China with some random green beam that came out of his eyes!). Needless to say, this is not the shining hallmark of glory in the FX department.Character development? Ha! Forget it! Superman still acts like a bumbling fool, Lex Luthor is STILL a conniving clown, and it actually looks like Lois Lane has regressed in intelligence and thought from the first film. Then again, there is Nuclear Man, who barely even has a vocabulary, so I guess we should be thankful for that development.Bottom Line It's terrible, no doubt about that. I give this film a 1 out of 10, the lowest rating. Seriously, ANYTHING is better than this. Go watch the first one to see how the character was done right. "},{"Title":"Could have been better!","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie could have been better, it does show in the movie that it was rushed. The special effects are reused and B grade only, they have could have done a better job at them, considering the effects in the first Superman movie were the the best I've even seen in a movie at that point of time. You can still see wires holding actor's up, the blue screen work was crap and cheap and you can even see the background curtain when Superman is walking and fighting on the moon. (Superman 3 wasn't the best either but it still had decent effects)Its was only released as a 90 minute feature, maybe the 136 minute Director's Cut would have been a lot better. Considering the another three movies run easy over 2 hours. Also the movie has a few flaws in it, (The girl in space at the end, Superman taking in space) That's a few of them. If they didn't rush this movie, I think it would have been better then Superman 3. This one killed the series! Just hope that Superman Returns re borns the Man Of Steel!Overall this movie is a popcorn Friday night movie and only worth watching once. 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Even with Christopher Reeve and Gene Hackman back,the franchize has died.* *","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I was fifteen when this film came out.And I liked it.Years later when I had seen the film on television,the film had lost its touch.The humor was gone.The action was spoiled due to really bad visual effects and the film was spoiled due to the villain that was presented on the screen.Nuclear Man has to be one of the worst villains that I have seen on the screen.The first two Superman films had really great villains that were even worth cheering for.But by the time Superman III came out we were given villains that were hokey and not even fun to watch.The casting,as in the previous Superman is off target.Anyone tell me what was Jon Cryer doing in the film playing Lex Luthor's nephew?Christopher Reeve is good in the film.But the lousy effects and story doesn't allow him to act like the Superman we knew and liked.The entire film is treated more like the filmmakers did not take the franchize seriously.The filmmakers for the first two films took the first two seriously and the first two were entertaining on a grand epic scale.The last two,including this one has none of the entertaining value the first two had.Superman IVThe Quest for Peace maybe alright for younger children.But when they grow up,they'll probably look back and asked why they chose to see this film. "},{"Title":"Yeah I know it sucked, but come on.  Atomic Man was kinda fun.","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  (spoilers?)Took me 17 years to finally watch it, but I did. And yep it sucked. But other than having Ms Hemingway breath in outer space... Ever since the first movie, Superman movies always defied Logic.But the movie isn't too well fleshed out. it's about 40 minutes too short. Too much was spent on the Newspaper takeover and too little on the foe. Which I liked. Which they'd made him badder. But instead he just did silly things. But leave your brain at the door and it'll be okay. What could we need anyway? God I hope when they come up with the new Superman it isn't a remake of the first.3/10Quality 3/10 Entertainment 7/10 Replayable 5/10  "}{"Title":"Anodyne and politically correct (spoilers)","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  In 1987, two third sequels were released that would promptly spell the end of their once popular franchises.  One of these was Jaws The Revenge which saw a bloodthirsty shark chasing Lorraine Gary into the Bahamas.  The other was Superman IV The Quest for Peace, which saw the popular comic book hero become the lead character in a politically correct and strangely topical tale.It was only a couple of years after the end of the Cold War, and people were discussing how to rid the world of the leftover nuclear weapons.  In this film, Superman (essayed for the final time by Christopher Reeve) takes a stand and pledges to do exactly that.  At the same time, his old nemesis Lex Luthor (a returning Gene Hackman) is sprung from prison and sets about taking revenge on his old nemesis for past defeats.  When Superman destroys a net-load of nuclear weapons through hurling them into the sun, he inadvertantly (through Luthor's devising) creates Nuclear Man (Mark Pillow), an Aryan blonde terror who sets about being destructive at his scheming master's command...The story lacks the epic scope and wonder that framed the first two Superman films and even it's topicality doesn't quite save it from being forgettable.  Technically the film is still reasonably well shot but alot of the effects are overly cheesy and cartoonish and have not dated very well at all.  On the dramatic side, many of the film's scenes are strangely void of the vitality that marked the earlier films, especially scenes in the Daily Planet, which nevertheless has an interestingly futuristic look to it.Of the actors, Gene Hackman makes the most of a wasted return as Lex Luthor.  Margot Kidder has some touching scenes in the company of Superman/Clark Kent.  Although they can never be together, the bond between them is still strong.  Other returning players are on form, particularly Jackie Cooper as a visibly aged Perry White, the Daily Planet's editor, who gamely tries to stop a greedy mogul (Sam Wanamaker) turning his beloved newspaper into a downmarket tabloid.However, Jon Cryer is forgettable as Luthor's nephew Lenny, vainly trying to fill the comic relief role that Ned Beatty and then Richard Pryor assumed in the first three films.  Mark Pillow looks fearsome as Nuclear Man but is possessed of so little acting ability it is little wonder he has never appeared in a film since.But the film, and indeed the series, belongs to Christopher Reeve, who remains the definitive Superman.  Whether flying through the air with Lois, preaching world peace, or in bed snuffling after getting a hiding from Nuclear Man, Reeve will always be the yardstick by which measure his successors in the part (including Dean Cain in the bland Nineties TV series which turned the comic book story into a soap opera).It's just a pity he ended his tenure as the hero with a whimper and not the deserved bang. "},{"Title":"Morals were strong, but....","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  After the wonderful, yet underrated Supergirl, it seemed as a hope for another installment in the Superman franchise was never to be seen. Until Christopher Reeve decided he didn't want the part about Superman to end with the horrible aftertaste of the third film, so he co-wrote this one, about nuclear missles and such. Said to be the best Superman ever, this film would add new characters to the great old, and classic, while new troubles and excitement would abound.Thus, Lex Luthor, one of the greatest criminal minds of all time was brought back. But...something went wrong. Warner Brothers agreed to distribute, but not produce. So Reeve and co. went to a small pciture company, Cannon pictures and set up a deal for a 36 million dollar project. However, the stakes were high, and Cannon wanted more money to do other projects, so they slashed the budget of Superman IV, leaving only a puney 17 million to work with. Finally, after the project went underway, special effects and blue screen shots were re used, opticals were used shy of wires, and thus the wires were exposed. The blue screen looks terrible, blue outlines around everything on screen, and furthermore, the film was cut by 34 minutes to ensure it would do good. It didn't.Though it had great morals of no more violence and weapons, and had a few good moments with Lois and Superman, the REAL chemistry was just not there for alot of the returning cast. And Mariel Hemingway is as carboard as it gets. Furie's directing could use a better take as well. All in all, if Superman IV had a better director, better supporting cast(nuclear man was a terrible actor!), and bigger budget, then this film would have done about as good as Superman, Superman II, and Supergirl. But alas, Superman IV was a failure and the franchise ended. But what a wonderful franchise it was. The world is blessed that such a series could grace and soar the silver screen! "},{"Title":"Not too Super, but very funny!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie has got many problems but I can't just accept that this is to do with a low budget. Basic errors are made all over the place in terms of editing and shooting and how the story hangs together. There are also parts to the story that simply are not plausible. They should definitely have left the film at full length just to make sense of it. Towards the end of the film we see a shot of Nuclearman looking at a picture of Lacey on the front cover of 'The Daily Planet' proclaiming the 'new publisher' (talk about slow news day). Then Nukes flies off to see Superman in the street and greets him with Where is the woman?! How does Superman know who he's talking about? Apparently he does though; Give it up, you'll never find her. Another problem is defining Superman's strength. Whenever he fights Nuclearman, particularly on the Moon, he gets beaten senseless. This doesn't make him look very heroic. Also, he struggles to hold up the statue of liberty when it gets dropped by Nuclearman, yet he can push the Moon around with great ease! Add this to Lacey breathing and having her hair blown in the space wind and it's none too clever. Superman's flying scenes are all the same shot over and over just pasted on different backgrounds, and his hair always gets magically combed after brief scuffles. There is also another shot of the Earth from space and it's back to front! The Arabian peninsula is west of Africa, this is very sloppy. I could go on, but what for? I love this film its very funny and Hackman is still great and puts in loads of effort. In truth it's a brilliant spoof of it's own early efforts and well worth a watch if only to spot mistakes. "},{"Title":"The story had promise, but here is a good example of sloppy movie making.","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As in all movies inspired by comic books, we the viewers don't expect a very deep message, and we accept that the science used is 'funny science' (as in the BTTF movies). I always was an avid reader of Superman comics growing up, and enjoyed all the Superman movies. But this one not as much as the others. The production values are so poor here that it is barely enjoyable. NOT a '1' movie, as 20% of voters seem to think, but I rate it '4'.Some SPOILERS are contained below, please do not read...* In the opening sequence, two satellites in the same orbit are moving a vastly different speeds, which is impossible. Also, Superman's voice cannot be heard in space.* The blue screen flying shots look very artificial.* We can clearly see pleats of a black curtain background for scenes on the moon.* Cables are clearly visible whenever people are lowered or pulled up.Sometimes I visit the 'goofs' board on IMDb, and laugh at some of the ridiculously nit-picking things people spot. But in this movie, they are not nit-picking. They are so obvious that they draw unnecessary attention to themselves, enough so that we wonder if they are purposeful. Regardless, it is still mostly entertaining, a worthwhile tribute to the comic book, but not a very well done movie in total. "},{"Title":"It's not THAT bad....","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  C'mon, compared to the horrible prequel, Superman the movie, and even worse, its sequel, Superman 2(gag), the film's ALMOST watchable.  But still, with effects that are even cheesier than in Superman 2, and a half-##### plot that's almost as bad as the first two films, it's best to not bother.  The only good thing about it is that the score's not completely butchered like it was in Superman 2.  All in all, it's best to forget the Superman movies ever existed. "},{"Title":"Should Have Been Bombed Instead","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Sorry excuse for Christopher Reeves' last time as The Man Of Steel. Superman decides to help with the nuclear crisis by getting rid of the bombs, but Lex Luther has other ideas, and uses the bombs to create Nuclear Man. There's also a subplot where The Daily Planet is taken over by a tabloid. The new owner's daughter (Mariel Hemingway)has the hots for Clark Kent (WHY?). Margot Kidder looks tired as Lois Lane and the SFX are crappy. Even some of the situations are borrowed from previous films (Superman pleads with Nuclear Man to stop because The People will be harmed, just like in Superman 2). The acting is laughable and the plots are just as bad. Rent the first 2 instead and leave it at that. "},{"Title":"Christopher Reeve's FAULT!!!","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  A lot of people hate this movie and cannot believe what Warner Brothers and etc. could have been thinking. Well, I was around when this atrocity came along and everyone knew it was going to stink. Instead of taking something(plot/storyline) from the comic books (there were many to pick from this is Superman for heaven's sake!) Christopher Reeve did not want to make a fourth movie. I can see his point, it had been awhile since part 3, and that showed how tired the series had become. I will admit I do not know how it ever got off track, 1 was great and 2 was better! But I digress, anyhow, Reeve would not come back, until Warners gave him a barrel of cash (Superman was the only thing he did that would pay anyway) and he had to have total control over the storyline. Yeah, Chris Reeve in charge of the story! Talk about handing the keys to the asylum over to the patients! Under what circumstance would Reeve do the story? Only if it had an anti-nuke story line. He was a big no-nuke guy at the time. So there. Wondering why part 4 stank? Reeve and his silly story line, and also no Ilya Salkind to produce. He screwed up on part 3 a bit, but he would never have made a Superman film as bad as this. Stink-ola! "},{"Title":"A bungled script","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Imagine the mid 80's Superman is hot, Christopher Reed is considered a hot actor, the idea of promoting world peace by getting rid of all nuclear weapons seem plausabile; what could go wrong by making a movie combining all 3 ideas. PLENTY.  The script was bungled up from the start the idea that 1. Superman would listen to a grade school kid on his idea to remove all nuclear weapons and 2. The politicans would allow Superman to remove nuclear weapons, seems lame and unbelievable even from Marvel Comics. So next Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) creates a nuclear monster to fight Superman. I know for a fact that orginally there was supposed to be 2 nuclear monsters, one created from a nuclear bomb and the second created from the nuclear furance of the sun. But the producers decided to to use only the solar nuclear villian. So we have Superman fighting a villian dressed in red sequins and gold polyester. This is in addition to Superman's confusing relationship to Lois Lane (does she knows that Clark Kent wears the Big S?) Finally the sidekick for Lex Luthor (his nephew) looks and acts like a punk rock reject. So Overall the worse of modern Superman movies, but better than the movie Supergirl. "},{"Title":"----","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Salkinds had sold there Superman rights to Cannon Films and that company made the Superman IV  THE QUEST FOR PEACE, Warner Brothers had given Cannon a quite big budget but the company had used it to make other films and the budget was cut heavily before shooting, so this is a lowbudget Superman movie, does it sound logical to you? not really for me either, Christopher Reeve agreed to do the project if he could work on the script and if he could be the director of the second Unit, Cannon also agreed to release another Reeve movie the other cast members reprised the roles from the earlier movies, Gene Hackman was again Lex Luthor and Margot Kidder was Lois Laine. This time Lex Luthor escaped from jail with the help of his idiot nephew Lenny(Jon Cryer). Meanwhile Superman gets a letter by some little kid who wants him to destroy all nuclear weapons in the world, Superman does that. Meanwhile Lex creates  Nuclearman who just wants to kick Supermans butt, Most of the Crew from Superman 1-3 where hired for this one but the lack of money forced the producers to fire them and get cheapear workers,and that shows, The flightscenes are horrible ,just Bluescreen none of the great front projection shots-that made us believe that a man can fly in the earlier movies. And the wires are visible many times during the film, that destroys the illusion. Chris Reeve is still as great as ever as Clark Kent/Superman and Gene Hackman still a great Lex Luthor.And the music is still  nice to listen to. The orginal version is about 125 min long but WB didn't like it and asked for a edited version, Cannon edited it to 89 minutes, and cut out most of the plot(there was 2  Nuclearmen originally)and that makes the movie even stranger to watch, some scenes just don't make any sense!, Still you should  watch the movie to see Chris Reeve doing a superb job again as Superman.     "},{"Title":"Not great","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I must admit I really liked the first 3, but this one just doesn't seem to work. It's missing the enjoyment of the others. The characters were not that good and the script could have been better. I can only give it 3 out of 10 for special effects. "}{"Title":"Absolutle Atrocity!!!","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film destroys everything that the great 1978 original worked so very hard to create!  Terrible in every respect and unbearably hard to sit through.  What convinced Reeves to do this film?  It has a well-intentioned story, but it has no follow-through whatsoever.  The actors look bored with very little energy in their performances.  The Nuclear man is the lamest, repeat, lamest villian in this series, if not in any comic book movie. Other things that I noticed1.  They used the same flying shot of Superman (flying directly towards the camera) over NINE TIMES in the film (with different backdrops) 2.  Horrible continuity and editing.  Superman appears to fly away from the Great Wall of China and the next shot has him on the ground using some sort of reorganizing vision (some sort of unknown super power?) to fix the wall.  Embarrasing. 3.  WORST PART OF ALL!!!  During the fight on the moon, if you look closely enough (at least on the DVD copy) you can actually make out a black curtain in the background - obviously this was supposed to be a black, sky background.  Look closely and you'll see the curtain!!  Obviously, the producers were strapped for cash!!!DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME WITH THIS ONE.  LONG HAIL SUPERMAN 1, 2, and a partial cheer for SUPERMAN 3.  "},{"Title":"Well intentioned but poorly made sequel","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Superman IV The Quest for Peace is quite possibly one of the sweetest bad movies ever made.  Good intentions seem to permeate the entire film, perhaps in a desperate attempt to erase the bad taste that Superman III left as a result of its rampant sexual innuendo and low brow humor.  Christopher Reeve is, of course, superb as the Man of Steel and in many ways is the only thing that makes the film watchable.  The rest of the cast seems bored and a little desperate at the same time, and the extremely poor quality of the visual effects make for plenty of wincing.  It really is a shame, because although the story is fairly campy, it could have been made into a real special effects extravaganza, as well as making a good (albeit belabored)point about the destructive nature of nuclear weapons.  This film has plenty of heart, but sadly misses the mark on so many important levels that make the first and second movies so wonderful.  In the end, it is an improvement on the third film, but not by much.  "},{"Title":"Just bad!!","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out when I was 11, all those years ago in 1987, and boy was I disappointed.  Yes it did have a good message about nuclear disarmament and the stupidity of the nuclear arms race, but the message is severely flawed by a weak script, shoddy acting, and a storyline gone sour.  Even at 11 I knew that in space, no one can breath(except for Superman and Mariel Hemingway, I guess!), and why was it that Superman's hair can hold a thousand pound ball, yet it can be cut with a simple pair of bolt cutters. I feel bad that this was the last Superman movie and that it had to be such a bad outing.  Watch  Superman 1, Superman II, and yes, even Superman III if you truly want to see the Man Of Steel in all his glory.  If you want to see a classic film on the folly of nuclear war, watch Dr Strangelove.  "},{"Title":"listen","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  ok this movie was not a good effort. But there's one scene where SUPERMAN gives that speech about ridding the planet from nuclear threats. and hell that speech gives me shivers every time I hear it..it's one of the best speeches up there with al pacino's 'any given sunday speech', bill pulman's 'independence day' speech and the 'armageddon' speeches. watch this movie for the sake of watching chris reeve be the real superman and listen to the things he says. Man I wish we had real heroes in this world "},{"Title":"Ridiculously bad.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I cannot believe how much I loved watching this movie when I was nine years old.  The problem with this movie is that its flaws are so glaring, and it lacks the fun, fantastic, escapist sensation of the comic books that the first two contained.  I mean, not only is this film without logic, but is utterly ridiculous with the whole nuclear man thing, or taking a woman up to space without _anything_ happen to her body.  Sure, the third movie was silly too, but that at least has the saving grace of being _intentionally_ so.  And I like Richard Pryor.And when it's not being rediculous, it's contrived and pedestrian, like the Superman/Clark/Lacey/Lois fiasco in the middle.  This plot was just poorly strung together, and it sounds more like a soapbox for an anti-nuclear weapons cause rather than anything for a movie.No other film series that started so promisingly with its first two have turned into such utter crap.  Superman I and II were fantastic.  III was a disappointment, but it wasn't bottom-of-the-barrel like this.I mean, at least Batman and Robin had some cool visual effects. "},{"Title":"PAINFULLY UNEVEN!!!","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As a kid, when I'd watch this movie, I'd think it was great! What 5-year-old wouldn't? But now, the thrill is gone. I always try to enjoy this movie, but find myself being irritated by the fact that every good scene seems to followed by a bad one.How can you enjoy a movie when it keeps jumping from crap to class? To give an example the scene at Lacey's (Mariel Hemingway)apartment was ridiculous, it was tedious, you get my drift. Then, Superman meets Lex Luthor for the first time in 6 years. The scene was TERRIFIC!!!Both actors showed how well they could hold up after all these years. Then, NUCLEAR MAN shows up, and supes and nukie battle in what has got to be one of the worst, irritatingly prolonged battles ever.There you have it.WHAT'S GOOD- Performances, story(basic), some of the lines (but not enough, though),WHAT'S BAD-F/X, editing, loose ends, plot holes, fights.(2,3,4 all attribute to some notorious editing (from 134m. to 89m.)While it isn't even as good as part 3, if you're a die-hard fan of everything superman, then this movie will have to do. Superman The Movie-***, Superman II-***1/2, Superman III-**1/2 Superman IV-**  "},{"Title":"An abysmal movie that even Christopher Reeve can't save","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Reeve wrote the story for this one, transferring his true causes in the real world on to screen. But Superman is a fantasy, and perhaps you shouldn't attempt to bring reality into a fantasy. Maybe it would have worked with Richard Donner directing, and John Williams doing the score. Even Richard Lester would have made this movie a whole lot better. If they had spent some money on some decent effects that were available in 1987, then this movie would have been worth making. The effects are decades behind the level of the first, yet this one came out almost a decade later! Reeve does his best, but every other aspect of the movie is a complete failure (the original version was 134 minutes, proving so bad at test screenings they cut it to less than 90 minutes - big improvement!). It would have been a lot better to remember Reeve's Superman movies as a classic trilogy, instead of a four-part series that ended in doom.  "},{"Title":"Oh no...","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The fourth installment in the Superman series has our hero swearing to rid the earth of all nuclear weaponry. The special effects are downright bad,and there are obvious problems,such as when Nuclear Man takes Lacy Warfield into outer space,for one cannot breathe in outer space,and would also be frozen to death almost instantly. A very weak story in what was originally a good series. Stick with Superman I and II. Leave the rest alone.* out of **** "},{"Title":"Lacking in Various Areas","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  There are various things that are lacking here, the plot can't seem to emerge from certain points of idiotic storytelling.  For example there's a scene in which a human being is taken into outer space without any astronaut gear.  Along with that, the dialog at times gets corny e.g. the line If you don't tell me were she is, I'll hurt people!  And seeing the charcater Nuclear Man growl like a wild animal and mug are perhaps things that could garner in some unintended laughs.  Things could have been fleshed out better with the plot which gets to the fact that the movie contains various plot holes.  The action scenes in Superman IV often seems rushed and sloppy (this is very appearent in a around the world battle sequence which itself feels like padding for a film that's already lacking in the plot department).  The special effects in Superman IV are shoody on a regular basis.  The flying sequences lack in grace and there are about two things that stand out about the flying sequences.  When there's a head on shot, the only thing that appears to move are the cape and the fact the a blue screen was used looks too obvious (not to mention that the lighting looks unbalanced and there's occasional static during the flying sequences).  When there's a wide angle shot, it looks like dolls were used.  Another effect that are worth pointing out are shots that look like stock footage (which is recycled throughout this film), among others.  I can't point out every effect that I felt was below average, but you got the idea. "},{"Title":"Why? Oh why?","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Superman IV The Quest for Peace is the WORST entry in the series and quite possibly one of the WORST movies ever made. The plot Superman (Christopher Reeve) wants to rid the world of nuclear weapons while Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) breaks out of prison and creates Nuclearman (Mark Pillow) to kill the Man of Steel. While making a point to get rid of nuclear weapons is terrific, the movie is an absolute mess. Ok, let's see. First, the special effects. You think that special effects would get better in 1987, WRONG. When Superman and Nuclearman fly, they look like paper dolls pasted onto the screen, the only thing that moves are the capes. I never knew special effects can be THAT shoddy. Worst f/x, when Superman rebuilds the Great Wall of China. Second, acting, with the exception of Chris Reeve, Gene Hackman and Margot Kidder, the acting is horrendous, especially by Jon Cryer, who plays Lenny Luthor and Mark Pillow, the infamous Nuclearman. I mean, you just have to laugh when Mark Pillow growls and howls up in the air. Third, the situations. Why doesn't Mariel Hemmingway explode when she is taken up into space? What happened to her after she is taken back to Earth by Superman? She is never seen again after that. Why doesn't Superman put the moon back in place? Why does Lex Luthor have hair? I thought he wore a toupee. What happened to the little kid who was against nuclear weapons? He was never seen again either. Where did Superman get that huge net to capture all of the missles? There are more holes in this plot than in a piece of Swiss cheese. Which is also what this movie is CHEESY. If you love the Superman movies though, I would buy this just to complete the collection and nothing more. Only watch it if you want to finish the Superman story. "}{"Title":"Some people learn, others don't...","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  (Warning spoilers for Superman II and IV ahead)Alexander Salkind & co. wisely pulled out of the Superman franchise after the lukewarm reception of Superman III and the box-office failure of Supergirl.  Alas, Christopher Reeve showed no such wisdom, and as good as he is playing Superman, the story he co-wrote for TQFP is abysmal.  The Superman loses/regains powers and Superman tries to convince Lois that he & Clark are different people set pieces are recycled from Superman II, where they were both done much better.  Nuclear Man seems to have been invented just so Supes has someone to fight, and the Lois flying scene also seems put in for its own sake.What's the worst thing?  The aforementioned crystal in this installment is introduced in the first 10 minutes of the film, and it's an obvious deux ex machina to pull Supes out of a jam later on.  Granted, the one in II is also a deux ex machina, but it's nowhere near as blatant when Kal-El lost his powers in that episode, you had no idea how he would get them back.  In TQFP, you can see it coming from a mile away.P.S. Supergirl is a much better film than this dreck, and I'm in fact looking forward to getting the full version available from Anchor Bay, based on what I've read from Amazon. "},{"Title":"My honest opinion...","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  After reading the other 'reader reviews' I am hesitant to praise the movie. Though they have a point when going on about film's  inconsistencies.  I mean at the end when Supes pushes the moon(and forgets to push it back!) in order to block out the sun's rays.  Duh!  After all, he has had all Kryton's knowledge instilled into him before he was four and at 18 had the total accumulation of all knowledge spanning the 28 known galaxies presented to him and was asked to study and learn them. So why not use a blanket instead? The special effects were shoddy and at times the script was corny.  I'm always here for you, you know that and you'll do the right thing no matter what, you always have! But I found this film not as bad as others have made out.  It's a very light film and at the end of the day it is science fiction.  In the comic world, Lex Luthor had a brain transplant and came back as his own son!  Why not let outlandish plots such as these live in the movies too?  If you guys are so into realism then simply look out of the window.  See, that's boring! Reeve is great as usual though I couldn't help noticing his Kent character has changed a little.  Gone is the higher voice and akwardness.  He and Lois have developed a bond and have more respect for each other.  Can you see her asking  if there's anything she can do to help in the first 2 movies?  The characters relationship  have(I feel) unintentionally matured and in Superman II Clark was supposed to be very jealous of Superman and when Lois mentioned that 'when a girl's seen Superman in action, Niagra Falls kinda leaves you cold' to where clark gets jealous and Lois apologises and admits she has a one track mind.  Now in this movie Lois actually tells Clark that she loves him  which isn't what Clark really wants to hear.  By the way, how old is Jimmy Olsen supposed to be?  He looks a bit to old to be a cub photographer. The music was good, if a little weak. Alexander Courage did a better job than Ken Thorne, who in his defense, had a small orchestra to play with.  I especially liked the music where Supes takes Lois out for a fly.  In surroundasound this sounds marvellous and the quality is better than in the 1st 2 superman movies(typical). It is too obvious that there were loads of of scenes cut out and the movie is severely handicapped as a result.   If the original cut was boring - so what?  at least it would of made more sense.  Wouldn't that of looked better and gotton more respect?Personally I thought superman III was more boring than this, that film had to much footage of the bad guys and was to heavy handed.  This film tried harder and had more heart.  Leonard Maltin wrote that the sincere performances helped and I agree. Mark Pillow and the guy who plays Lenny fail of course.  The casting associate obviously picked the wrong guy's name out of the hat but I guess that's life.  I can think of lots of films worse than this which include just about every other film Gonan-Globus produced. My conclusion?  A simple harmless film which should keep the kids quiet for 90 minutes, and for the Adults?  Well isn't that obvious?  Go watch the 1st movie instead. "},{"Title":"Best movie of all time","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Forget about Citizen Kane, this is by far the best movie ever made. The technical construction of the movie is superb with some of the best special effects ever done. And oh my god, what a story line! You are gripped from the opening credits to the end, this movie is why I started loving film studies. "},{"Title":"The Death of Superman","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This sequel was uncalled for.  Christopher Reeve's writing contribution was okay, but the movie only gets a 3.9 on a scale of 1 to 10.  I'm sure the writers meant well, but didn't expect such a negative backlashing.I won't go into detail on this except, I can watch it, but it's also a disgrace to the talents of Reeve, Hackman, Cooper, McClure, And Kidder from the other Familiar Warner Brothers Superman Movie Actors.I would recommend waiting, if this movie is released on DVD, for it to get a bargain bin price.  Perhaps Superman Lives (2000) can do more than make up for this travesty in the series. "},{"Title":"Can you say 'Turkey'?","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  After sitting through this really miserable excuse for a Superman movie, I had to ask myself a couple of questions like after Nuclear Dude fights Superman the first time and ends up nearly killing him by scratching him with his nails,  then why in the second fight doesn't he simply scratch him a few more times?, another one is why does Superman (being so protective of human beings and all) pull the elevator (containing Nuclear man) out of the top of a sky scraper causing tons of rubble and debris to fall down onto the street below. These idiotic scenes are just part of this cheapo, thoughtless bargain bin sequel that looks as if it were thrown together overnight.  This film makes the third one seem like a classic. "},{"Title":"sucks","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  On the logistics alone it's an awful movie.  Let's see, where to begin. Ah, yes. When Superman removes all nukes in a big net(since everyone knows there are only about 20 nukes in the whole world) no countries seem to care.The Nuclearman? C'mon. That is completely below stupid.Now the fight scene.  The Nuclear Man takes a woman into space who not only is immune to the intense cold, no air, and no pressure of space but is also so heavy she falls in space.  Now for another lesson in astronomy.  Did you know it only takes a few seconds to get to the moon. Yep, and no matter where you land on the moon you will invariably land on or near the spot where Neal Armstrong landed. Awful  "},{"Title":"Just plain stupid.","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The first Superman movie was excellent.  Superman 2 was good. Superman 3 seemed like a comedy because Richard Pryor was in it. Superman 4 is totally awful for two reasons Nuclear man was a loser villain with long, sharp finger nails, who had a crummy costume, and a bad attitude.  The plot seemed hard to understand. The only good part was at the end when Superman threw Nuclear man into the nuclear reactor core. Too bad this film didn't join him.  I give Superman 4 an F for having a hard plot and a totally lame villain.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As a big fan of the first two Superman movies, I have to say that this movie is just about at the bottom of the list.  It's possibly the worst movie ever made. "},{"Title":"Well, it ain't likely to become a cult classic...","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I didn't hate this movie, although after reading all the other user reviews I'm almost embarrassed to say so. It is undoubtedly the worst of the lot, but I guess I'm just too much of a comic-book junkie to hate any Batman or Superman movie. One thing they both have in common is that NOT ONE of the movies has a script HALF AS GOOD as a typical Batman or Superman comic. Anyway, if you're not a comic-book junkie maybe you should watch something else instead (like the first two Superman movies). "},{"Title":"Up, UP and a BOMB!!!","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  How can one say how bad this film is?  The legend of Superman is so eminently campy that filmmakers have sullied his reputation with Superman III and Superman IV The Quest For Peace.  But this one takes the cake. Originally, the storyline was promising.  It had to do with Supes' inner turmoil.  Should I play God? he thought.  Should I destroy all the nukes?  An awry experiment by Luthor makes his mind up.  But this movie focused on the Neanderthal Solar-Man.  And it totally reeked. "}{"Title":"Superman Couldn't Save Me From This One","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This Movie Is Awful In Every Aspect The Plot Is That The Man of Steel crusades for nuclear disarmament and meets Lex Luthor's latest creation, Nuclear Man. Okay To All Superman Fans This Is An Awful Movie I Am Nowhere Near The Ultimate Superman Fan & I Despise This Movie It Deserves To Be On The Bottom 100 This Is Without Doubt The Worst Comic Book Movie I Have Ever Seen(& I've Seen Batman & Robin & Howard The Duck(Which Was A Good Movie))Okay I May Not Be Leonard Maltin But I Mean It When I Say This Movie Is Really Awful The Most Ridiclious Part Is The Double Date When Lois Goes Out With Superman & Lacy Warfield Goes Out With Clark Superman Disappears Then Clark Appears Right Outside The Door & Those Two Idiots Thought They Were Different People Oh God Christopher Reeve Killed His Career With This Better Be Something Memorable As A Good Movie Like Alec Guiness Did With Star Wars. My Note To All People Out There Is Don't Watch This Movie It Is A Bad Idea. "},{"Title":"Utterly hilarious","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Every single other comment for this movie has not given it anything more than a 3 out of 10. I can only assume that they watched the movie believing it would be any good.Superman movies have always been campy (yes, even *before* that lovable hack Richard Lester threw his half-baked lot into Superman II), but people thought Superman III was the ultimate, the final, the only possible depth to which the Superman series could sink. It was unabashedly a comedy and it performed poorly, so the Salkinds left the series forever and handed the producing duties over to Menahem Golan and Yoram Globus, two wild and crazy guys from Israel who *just* wanted to illegally funnel funds from Superman IV and cut corners everywhere. They did so, and the film bombed at the box office.But it shouldn't have. The problem wasn't at all with the script, the acting or the movie itself; the problem was with the people who saw it. They were expecting a serious Superman movie. What they got was the most unintentionally hilarious movies of all time, an understated classic of bad cinema.There is only one way to watch this movie, and that is to watch it with friends and mock it endlessly. Despite the large-ish budget and well-known character, Superman IV would do very well as an episode of Mystery Science Theatre 3000 (a 90s TV show dedicated to mocking B-movies). It has everything bad eighties hairstyles, completely illogical plot lines and more failed special effects than an episode of the old Doctor Who. Strings are easily visible, a police car magically appears out of thin air, Superman is referred to as The Dude of Steel and people seem to be oddly capable of breathing in space, not to mention the dialogue You know what I can do with a single strand of Superman's hair? You can make a toupee that flies! If you're not as immature nor as odd as I am, the effect may be replicated by making a drinking game of the movie or inhaling illicit substances, but how it happens is not important. What is important is that this movie should not be condemned as a horrible serious movie, but be respected as a fantastic, if unintentional, comedy.See you in twenty, indeed. "},{"Title":"an improvement over Superman III","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" this movie had a better storyline than number three.(actually there's two story lines).it isn't as silly either.the problem though,lies how cheaply made it is.the special effects,if you can call them that,are laughable.the acting also seems to suffer here.it seems the actors knew they were in a a poorly done movie,so they may as well put as little effort as possible into their performances.frankly,to me,most of the actors look embarrassed to be there.i will say that choice of villain was good,but the character himself is too over the top for me.plus,the fight scenes are way too protracted.the movie does also get a bit sappy at times,which i guess you can expect given its subject matter.still,it was a bit too much for me.however,despite its problems,i like this movie more than number three.for me,Superman IV is a 5/10 "},{"Title":"Whoa!","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I'm a big Superman fan, but this one...even I couldn't love. However, there is something about it that made it a little more endearing than the previous 3. Maybe it was just the fact that I wasn't expecting anything great with it. Superman seems to be so jovial throughout the whole movie, except when he get's the beat down from Radiation Man, or whatever they coined the other guy. It kinda seemed like Christopher Reeve and Margaret Kidder were just having fun with this one.Truthfully I don't really like any of the old Superman's for various reasons, but I can at least respect them. In this one, they just made up super powers that Superman doesn't have, which I could even go with if they explained it.My main beef with this one is, the bad guy, this Radiation Man, is supposed to be powered by the sun, and his powers are basically the sun's energy...and Superman get's his power from the yellow sun...therefore when this guy hits Superman with the energy then it should actually make Superman more powerful, but instead it gives him the flu???? If you're a Superman fan at all, you can watch this just to say you have seen it, but you probably won't like it. If you don't know much about Superman or his story and background, you may actually like it OK. "},{"Title":"I've seen better film on teeth.","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Awful. Horrible. Ridiculous. Any negative connotation you can think of will apply to this movie. My review of Superman III was pretty scathing, but this movie is beyond my wildest nightmares of ridiculous-ness on film. We all know that the special effects budget was sacrificed to shoot this. But what is a fantasy movie like Superman without the special effects??? C'mon!!Gene Hackman (one of my favorite actors) was turned into a sissified 2nd rate thug. He never appeared to have the greatest criminal mind of our time or most diabolical ruler of our age type of demeanor. Why, Gene! Why? Why did you do this role? You're still the man, though. I saw 'The French Connection' for the first time this weekend, and loved it.Christopher Reeve (one of my favorite actors and since his passing, one of my favorite people) was decent. Although I hated hearing him bellow, No! Don't do it! The people!!! I cringe every time I think about it. At least they got is hair the right color this time.Nuclear Man...WTF!?!??? Okay...okay...okay. Let's, for a brief moment, assume that his character was a good idea. Could they have found a worse actor??? I think not. Nuclear Man If you don't tell me where she is...I will hurt people! And this line was delivered after Superman's teeth gnashing line, Don't do it...the people!! But since his character and casting of his character weren't good ideas, I won't let it go that easily. WTF!?!?! WTF??!?! OMG!!! Stupid all the way around! Jackie Cooper as Perry White Is it me or did all the characters look drawn in and sullen. But no one more than Perry White. Not only that, as with Lex Luthor...what happened to the tough editor of the Daily Planet? He was watered down and punked out.It was good to see Lois back. Glad you got your issues with management squared away, Margot.Even the dumbest of directors would have to think that Earthlings MAY have an issue with being carried to the moon. Or perhaps air and warmth are not important to humans.I guess I'm done. I only have a 1000 word limit. "},{"Title":"The last remnants of sense disappear in a film of two messages... one more heavy-handed and preachy than the other","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" As much as I hate to go with popular consensus, I must admit that it is quite accurate in the case of this film... it blows. It blows with the power of its title character's super-breath. Oh golly me, how it blows. Nuclear Man looks and sounds(apart from the fact that his lines being spoken in Gene Hackman's voice, for no apparent reason) like something out of one of the Conan movies. Superman defies logic and science(yes, I know... but he does it more in this one than in the two preceding it put together), as does the film. And worst is the moralizing. The plot is quite poor. This is most definitely a sequel... and one that shows signs of a series that should have had the plug pulled several films back(right after the first, some would say). The writing displays a general lack of creativity. Luthor is brought back... slightly louder and less charismatic this time. We are introduced to Lenny, portrayed by Jon Cryer. I, for one, did *not* need to see this man playing a teenager. He's much funnier in Hot Shots and on Two and a Half Men. And what was with the complete and utter waste of Jim Broadbent? The man hardly utters a word in this film, and his screen-time is so small, he could have been an extra. I haven't seen much of him, but even from that(BlackAdder and Moulin Rouge), I would gladly sign(or perhaps even start) a petition to legally change his name to Funny Man. The humor takes the leap out of the campiness of the previous effort, but the plunge in writing and directing keeps the audience consistently underwhelmed. The film is hardly dramatic... the action sequences dire and unengaging. The writing scrapes bottom so hard that it goes right through, with no stop in sight. How many different similarly-abled beings is Supes gonna fight before actually facing a villain we *know*(from the comics), other than Luthor? I realize that Lex is his arch-nemesis, but it's as if these writers have gone to extreme measures just to avoid doing what is arguably easy(simply hand-picking a villain already known), but also what the real fans want. How many decades of history does this character have? It shouldn't be difficult to find someone suitable. The writers of the old series of Batman films managed... four times, no less. Granted, they also managed to screw up basically every film but the first, but they did have the assistance of Joel Schumacher, a director without any sense of making a comic book come to life as a film. Back to this failure, sorry, film... the effects are worse than ever before. The budget is quite clearly to blame. The attempts at drama or comedy are usually cringe-worthy... as is the nature and heavy-handed delivery of the two messages. It just winds up sounding incredibly preachy. Yes, we get it... nuclear power is dangerous, newspapers should be about news, not making money. Now stop trying to be morally superior... that, incidentally, is *not* what movies are about. The acting is fine. All in all, this just really doesn't have anything to offer. If you want food for thought on either message, read up on it or watch a documentary about it. If you want to see a good(or even passable) superhero film, look elsewhere. Consult the fan-base for more info on which of the previous films in this series is better, or go with another hero(or check out Singer's vision, and hope that he gets to keep making them as long as he does as good as he has with the first). I recommend this to fans of admittedly bad movies, as that is the only way this has any value at all, and as a lesson in what *not* to do when making a good film, for directors-to-be. 1/10 "},{"Title":"It's a bird, it's a plane, no its a flying piece of crap","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I am being really nice here by giving this one a five. The only reason I give it a five is when Superman addresses the UN at the end of the film saying that it was up to the whole world to stop nuclear war, not just one man- being Superman. Gene Hackman did what he could. There wasn't really much to work with for him in this movie, but he still pulls of Luther well. Christopher Reeve pretty well always does Superman okay, no one can dispute that. But, the rest just sucked.I know it was the 80's, but why the hell was John Cryer acting like such a putz? The great thing about the first two films (other than a couple of minor things) is that its pretty well timeless. The guy who played the Nuclear Man was the worst bit of acting I'd ever seen. It was like watching Arnold buying a happy meal at McDonald's.Honestly the whole idea of the bad Superman was touched in Superman III. If they wanted to do something different, they should have just went with the whole bizzaro thing. Which could have been interesting. The characters all lacked substance. Even Superman. Not only that but he has powers that don't even exist in the comics. Like putting the Great Wall by looking at it. This movie really sucked. I'd rip into it more, but I like Chris Reeve too much, and to rip into the film that he wrote seems wrong to me. So, just don't watch this. Even the Dean Cain series was better than this. "},{"Title":"Super-awful!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  You should know better than to involve the infamously cheesy (and now thankfully defunct) Canon Corp. with your movie.  Those overseas geniuses who brought us captivating stuff like American Ninja and Death Wish 4. Not to mention discovering Jean Claude Van Damme so he could poison the history of movies with his low-grade schlock.  Don't get me wrong, I am a connessiour of film cheese.  American Ninja and Invasion USA (another Canon laugher) are a couple of my favorite guilty pleasures.  But in no waydo I want the great Superman lumped together in that category!  What the hell was Warner Bros. thinking?  I and a zillion other 10-year-olds idolized this flying God and jam-packed the theater that July weekend in 1987. Adults, too!  Proving that there was still a big audience for the series despite a four year hiatus.  And we're supposed to believe Warner Bros. wasn't expecting this!  Thus letting Canon and their piggy bank budget take over and crank out a truly sorry addition to any movie series ever?!! Unbelievable.  I could just see the big wigs in the screening room yelling at each other I can't get it to look any better!  You slashed the budget, man!  Of course it's going to look like a cardboard cut-out being superimposed over outer space!  And it's this faded-blue shot of Reeve we actually see repeated a few times.  Sad.  Which is not to say all shots came off amatuer.  The landing are ok and some of the take-offs.  But mostly it makes you wince.  Or you're distracted from the abysmal effect because it's occuring to you that if Mariel Hemingway was taken into outer space just in her business suit her head would explode.  Or you're growing increasingly tired of 'Nuclear Man' groaning like a werewolf over and over.  Or the stupid and silly looking dub-job they do of his voice.  Or his Freddy Krueger nails.  Even Reeve at times seems to be going through the motions with old stand-by lines like Don't do it!  The people!, only kind of half yelled.  You're bound to love his WWF moves on the moon, stepping on the bad guy's foot and then driving his knee upwards into his leaned-over head. Ah, geez.  Long gone are those days of donning a red towel around your neck and soaring around the living room.  If this had been the first film in the series?  Yikes.  Oh, the plot.  It has to do with Hackman creating this new nemesis thinking it will finally get him world dominance, riches, whatever. So as Reeve is busy ridding the world of nukes, he inadvertently lobs one into the sun with the bad guy's DNA inside of it.  Once it hits the sun, the guy is born and comes to earth to bug his eyes and talk like Gene Hackman. The cast is decent enough, as Reeve is still winning in both roles, Kidder returns and is adequate, and Hemingway is gorgeous.  But you don't come for that.  You want action and awe inspiring shots.  They nearly had one, where Supes and Lois fly alongside a train through some picture-esque mountains. But when you're distracted by the horridness of the blue-screened actors, it really takes away from the moment.  The only good shot is the final one....which they lift from the original, as they did with all the movies final shots!  It just adds to how embarrassing it is to have your first movie from nine years earlier actually boast better special effects than your newer movie.  I'd love to see a part five, with today's advances in movie making.  But now the trouble lies in who to suit up in the blue and the red, with the unfortunate loss of Mr. Reeve.  Superman V The Quest For A New Actor. "},{"Title":"I loved it when I was a kid...","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" ... but maybe that's because I was too young then to notice that this was less of a movie and more of a PR exercise to chide The Arms Race. That is a valuable point to make, but a successful franchise where the majority of the fanbase are kids IS NOT the place to make it. Older comic book fans were disgusted, and maybe I would be if I were to rewatch the film today. The point is, at six years old you don't tend to question or notice this blatant propaganda. However, even at six I remember thinking that Nuclear Man had a fantastic presence. I obviously didn't pay much heed to his acting...It is sad that the Superman franchise makes up the highest profile hits of Christopher Reeve's career. The first couple of movies were great, the last two less than, but I sense he was capable of achieving much more in his field; especially when 'integrity' looked to be one of the lowest creative priorities by the time it came to this outing. Stick any kid under the age of, say, 8, in front of this and they MIGHT be entertained. Unless they're a child prodigy; in which case they'll probably run up something better with the camcorder inside an hour. Don't blame me if your kid is of above average intelligence and hates you for subjecting them to this. Adults? Do I even need to tell you that you should probably steer clear... ? "},{"Title":"Give me the girl, or I will hurt people.  OUCH!","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As weak & as lame as Superman III was, it at least had a few redeeming qualities.  The ONLY one I can think of for this embarrassment is the scene where Clark has to entertain Lacy, & Superman has to entertain Lois at exactly the same time in 2 different places/rooms.  I squirmed as I sat through this - how low the Superman movie franchise had sunk in 10 years!  Superman I sparkled with suspense, humor, drama and romantic chemistry.  Supe IV has a California surfer blonde Nuclear Man who talks in Incredible Hulk-speak and manages to carry Mariel Hemingway into space where she continues to breathe normally!  This piece of dreck is a low point in the careers of Sam Wanamaker (father of actress Zoe Wanamaker, BTW), Gene Hackman & Jackie Cooper.  Chris Reeve tries but the writers and director failed this one.  Poor Margot Kidder looks haggard in this too.  Skip it, skip it, skip it & just watch Superman I & II. "}{"Title":"The end of the Super movies","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Superman I & II were the best and Superman III was somewhat decent. But Superman IV was really bad. The special effects are horrible and poorly done. Even Christopher Reeve, who gives his final performance as the Man of Steel, can't save this movie with his great acting. On the other hand, Gene Hackman's performance as Lex Luthor is lacking and leaves something to be desired. The story, which has Superman getting rid of the world's nuclear weapons, is okay but poorly pulled off. The Nuclear Man character was very bad. It is a shame that a movie series that began with such entertainment value and fun had to end in such a horrible sequel. "},{"Title":"String Me Up...","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie has more visible cables than a suspension bridge. It's movies like this that prove that killing a franchise is easy. Don't waste your time with this chock-o-slime unless you want to insult your intelligence. Rating 1/2* out of *****. "},{"Title":"What happenned?","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Superman IV The Quest for Peace is a very bad sequel to one of the best movies out there.I didn't like the third movie, but I hate the fourth one the most. This movie stinks! And it's very boring to watch.I fell asleep while watching this movie. It's that boring. You should just watch the first movie instead.I will give this movie No Stars out of ****  "},{"Title":"Then die like you deserve to!","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The years have conferred cruel nicknames upon it, Superman 4 F*ck's sake!, Superman IV Rest In Peace, The one I didn't see and so on. In fact part 3's Annette O'Toole (Lana Lang) delivered its most devastating critique, remarking simply they made a forth one? Yes, these cine-bullies have rounded on the third Super-sequel like a whore to a City Trader's wallet and though the criticism should be immense, it isn't the horror some would tell you it is&#x85;though it's pretty close.So how did a movie that made $350M in domestic adjusted dollars do a Jaws, and spawn such a miserable third sequel? What was it about the year 1987, did someone kill all the best filmmakers that year? The Quest for Peace plays like a bloody knife in your husband's raincoat, suggesting we should be looking for bodies rather than apportioning blame. Blame is the game though so here we go &#x96; Having killed the secret of their success by firing Richard Donner and his script doctor Tom Mankewitcz, the Salkinds, those Icelandic imbeciles with next to no understanding of what made Superman work, had cocked up Superman III by turning it into a camp escapade with Richard Lester throwing the custard pies. Imagining that the audience had lost interest in Supes rather than hating what they'd done to him in the 1983 instalment, they soiled the suite further by inflicting Supergirl on an audience still licking its wounds. When that failed the sultans of Santa Clause the Movie decided to get out of the super-business and sold the rights to Golan and Golbus, Hollywood moguls from, er, Israel, with all the creative zeal of a lobotomised organutang.1987 was a big year for the GG's as no-one referred to them on account of Golbus' rumoured resemblance to a horse. They were also making Masters of the Universe, another 'hot property' but the gruesome twosome were spreading themselves a little thin &#x96; in short, the money wasn't quite pouring in as they might like. With other projects requiring life support, these geniuses took much of the $40M Warners had given them for Superman and spent it&#x85;on something else!!! Possibly on air fares to Israel. The logic is obvious &#x96; why would you need to spend money on a Superman movie? Its total lack of visual effects or international locations would make it ripe for downsizing. Thus as the Reeve was lured back in exchange for amongst other things, story input, the budget was halved and the result speaks for itself &#x96; on a shoestring? The crew on this one couldn't afford string&#x85;or shoes.The total and soul destroying shame of Superman IV is that it could and should have been a wonderful swansong for Reeve in the title role. His nuclear disarmament theme, much derided, was in fact an honourable stab at giving the man of steel a meaty, real world problem to solve as well as returning the series to the more serious tone of the first two films. Unfortunately the script has no intention of doing serious, generally veering from infantile to ridiculous. It's the kind of screenplay that says 'we're not getting paid enough here' (which they probably weren't) but worse, 'we don't give a stuff'. But poor though it is &#x96; little wit or character development to be found here, what really kills Superman IV is the aforementioned budget. Even at a truncated 86 minutes it's embarrassing to watch a movie which feels so amateurishly produced and poorly made. The visual effects are, for the most part, atrocious. They would have dated instantly; in fact much of the work could be bettered today using the most basic effects software available. Unfair perhaps but given the quality of SFX at this time, the lack of money spent on them is unforgivable. If anything is going to pull you out of a movie, no matter how good the story or likable the characters, its seeing the strings &#x96; in this case literally. Reeve as ever is impossible to dislike and makes the worst of it bearable but the sheer thriftiness of it, Milton Keanes doubling for New York for example (!), is enough to incite you to crush Golan's Globus' with extreme prejudice. From the rubble there's also a fairly decent score by John Williams and Star Trek's Alexander Courage but even there it sounds as though the budget didn't stretch to an orchestra, the music having a tinny, synthesised quality to it in places. Brutalised in production, murdered in the editing suite with over 40 minutes excised (but in sympathy to the editor he must have had plenty of unusable footage, much of which he'd reluctantly have to have locked into the final cut) this last Superman (not counting Returns as it doesn't count this) is an abject lesson in poor production management and how to slay a cash cow with utter unmitigated contempt. Christ, Reeve probably laughed harder on the day he was paralysed. "},{"Title":"Superman IV The Quest for Peace","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The first is of course the greatest, the second was good fun, the third was silly, but this fourth and last for the leading actor who years later would have a tragic horse riding accident is the one to speak of the least, from director Sidney J. Furie (The Ipcress File). Basically Clark Kent aka Superman (Christopher Reeve) returns home to Smallville, and to the space capsule that brought him to Earth, and instructed by the voice of his mother Lara (Susannah York) he removes the luminescent green Kryptonian energy module, its power can only be used once, and refusing to sell his farm he returns to Metropolis. At the Daily Planet the newspaper has been taken over by David Warfield (Sam Wanamaker) and his daughter Lacy (Razzie nominated Mariel Hemingway) is the new editor, Perry White (Jackie Cooper) is fired, and Clark realises nuclear threat increasing between the United States and the Soviet Union he knows as Superman he must intervene, Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) gives him support and advice. At the United Nations a meeting is called by Superman, he promises that he will collect and get rid of all the nuclear weapons in the world, he manages to collect them in a gigantic net in space, and with his super strength he hurls it into the sun to explode. Meanwhile Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) has been broken out of prison by his slow- witted teenage Lenny (Two and a Half Men's Jon Cryer), and returning to the city he has a plan to steal a strand of Superman's strong hair from a museum and with DNA genetics technology on a missile fire it into the sun and create a develop a new super-human. This plan works, and from the explosion of the weapon flies out Nuclear Man (Mark Pillow, voiced by Hackman), a super-human with all the powers of Superman, as well as electrical solar charges, but he is only active in sunlight, and eventually he fights with his rival. Scratched by Nuclear Man's radioactive claws Superman is infected with radiation sickness, and this is when he is forced the use the Kryptonian energy module to cure himself, and meanwhile the solar charged villain has a crush on Lacy and wants to be introduced, or he will hurt people. Superman manages to trap him in an elevator when the sunlight disappears, but Nuclear Man breaks out again when the light returns, forces the hero into the surface of the moon and kidnaps Lacy, but the superhero returns and the two rivals fight in space, Nuclear Man is defeated when Superman forces an eclipse, deactivating him, and he is destroyed in a nuclear plant core. Perry White returns as chief at the Daily Planet and Warfield is lessened in position, Luthor and his nephew are returned to prison, and Superman knows that nuclear weapons cannot be stopped entirely, but in a speech to the nations he assures them that one day governments will come together and make peace, and he flies away to continue to save people and have other adventures. Also starring Marc McClure as Jimmy Olsen, Damian McLawhorn as Jeremy, William Hootkins as Harry Howler, Jim Broadbent as Jean Pierre Dubois, Stanley Lebor as General Romoff and Robert Beatty as U.S. President. Reeve is alright in his blue tights saving the world and in spectacles being awkward, Hackman looks to be having fun as a bit more pantomime villain, and Pillow is silly with the dubbed voice of Hackman as the anti-superhero in gold and black tights. The story is filled with ridiculous ideas and terrible moral or whatever messages, the acting is lame, the special effects for the flying and fighting sequences, even explosions and city destruction, look like hardly any money went into them, and overall it is clunky, and ultimately killed off the series, thank goodness things have improved somewhat in recent incarnations, a crap and worthless fantasy adventure. It was nominated the Razzie for Worst Visual Effects. Pretty poor! "},{"Title":"Second Best Superman","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Caution SPOILERSThis is my second favorite film in the series, I really like it. Christopher Reeve is in top form as the Man of Steele/Clark Kent. He has the amazing ability to make us believe he is really Superman. I have heard that he was unhappy when he learned of the low production values, but he never shows it, he is truly a great professional actor. The rest of the regular cast turn in okay performances, and the newcomers are mixed. Mariel Hemingway is good, Sam Wanamaker is okay and I can't rate Mark Pillow because I haven't heard his voice, and his physical acting was mediocre. This film really doesn't belong in the bottom 100. My rating 91/2 out of 10, ***1/3 stars (of four) and a B+ "},{"Title":"An Unfortunately Dismal Conclusion to an Outstanding Series","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Richard Donner's original Superman stands as one of the great movies of all time. His care for the legacy of Superman, as well as his superior skills as a filmmaker, made it the definitive portrayal of the Man of Steel, and that holds true to this day.Superman II, while lacking Donner's special touch from the original, was a worthy successor, and delivered a solid action/adventure movie with excellent performances by all involved, particularly Reeve and Hackman.Superman III started to go downhill, but not irrevocably so. It was a great deal more hokey than the first two, clearly intended to be more of a comedy than anything else. But it's watchable.But Superman IV was where they lost it. This was the Superman series' attempt to make a relevant social point about nuclear weapons. Not the best way to build a Superman story. Add to that the fact that the budget was slashed, the writers sub-par, the special effects lacking, and the movie chopped down from its original running time to barely 90 minutes, leave this film to stand as a dismal failure. It's sad that what began as such a great series would end this way.Save yourself the misery. Watch Superman and Superman II, even III if you feel like a watered-down version. But leave this one alone. "},{"Title":"Blasted film!","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Let's just face it. The first two films were good, the third was very awkward and this film is a time-waster! Hehe. Talk about an enemy named Nuclear Man (I thought he should be called Zuperman simply because hiss N looked like a Z), who's simply a rip-off of Superman...just on the nuclear side that is. The story is the most pathetic Superman story of all...in any form no less. Some scenes are totally unrealistic like when Nuclear Man had a woman hostage and went to outer space...you should see how unrealistic it is. Gene Hackman's back but his performance is nowhere near his past Superman performance...too bad because his presence went to waste with this blasted film. Christopher Reeve had his last Superman performance which is good because in this film he lost some of his Superman appeal and act and his age back then was related to that.Superman IV came out at a time when nuclear arms where a big issue (well...it still is today) and having Superman rid the world of them seemed like an interesting idea and a chance to show off Superman as a role model for the world. Well, seeing Superman gather those nukes and toss them at the sun was simply...very awkward and corny.It's just too bad that the Superman series of movies ended very badly with this blasted film. Heck, this one should have never been made.  "},{"Title":"Doomsday didn't kill Superman, this movie did!","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When Superman IV comes to mind, one often thinks of the pain associated with its viewing. My friend and I, after being stranded on a remote island in Papua New Guinea decided to search for entertainment. Instead, we found the Superman Series.To add a new effect we decided to view them in the opposite order (4,3,2,1). Strangely enough, special effects (which I will assume are supposed to evolve over time) improved (And Reeve's pot-belly appeared to vanish)! (By the way, to avoid embarrassment we watched them *very* late at night with curtains closed!)One also finds themselves asking where are the actors now?Perhaps Gene Hackman managed to resurrect his career after his potentially career-crippling experience in this movie. However, that big angry man that would occasionally growl (I am still debating with a friend whether the growling was also dubbed!), yes, the man they call Mark Pillow.Where is Mark Pillow now? After looking at his impressive filmography (QFP and some TV series (Alaska Kid)) one does seem to believe that QFP was in fact Career-Crippling.I have also had many a debate with a friend of mine regarding whether Pillow is constantly tormented by fellow workmates (don't try to tell me he is making his money by acting), friends (if he still has any!) and family (I won't be that cruel!) with infamous lines such as Where is the woman! and If you don't tell me, I will hurt people! (I know I would!)  It is often debated as to whether he was proud of his role in such a pitiful film. We believe that he was thrown out of a bar and landed at the feet of the casting crew who felt sorry for this drunken nobody. I will assume that these people (like Margot Kidder) have been committed.Unfortunately Reeve dared fate with a second shot of the line Don't do it, the people. after his ear-to-ear smile in Superman II (My friend and I believe that he was daring the phantom zone villains to beat up the innocent citizens of Metropolis with the dangerous irregular movement of a bus!), however while not smiling (this time anyway!) My friend and I were forced to declare the line as a Poor Reeve Call. Lines that we have always found useful in day-to-day life include Excuse me, I think your sitting in my seat! (II) ,Don't thank me, we're all part of the same team! (I),I won't let you down again! (II), Stop, that's enough, that's enough. You win, I'll take you to her! (IV), Give it up you'll never find her (IV) and Father, I failed! (II). If by now you think that we are the ones that should be committed, you are obviously taking these comments far too seriously. While being very accurate, they are humourous as well!So far we haven't really commented on perhaps the most atrocious element of the movie (the special effects)! Ok, I will even accept Lacy Warfield's survival in outer space (and yes, even falling relatively downward!) I know perfectly well that these things can't possibly happen (but then again, Superman couldn't possibly exist either (sorry!)) It is fiction. However, they could have at least made it look as if it were happening. Even the special effects in the first Superman Movie were better and it was made nearly 10 years ago! I may be picky, but I would expect the effects to at least be on par with those in Superman I.My friend and I were thinking of a wonderful parallel universe where an alternate ending to the second movie involves Superman being humanized again at the end of the movie so that he can pursue his relationship with Lois. This universe would be spared of the peril of a fourth Superman movie.However, perhaps it is advisable to look at why this movie was ever made. Reeve was not in the greatest financial position of his life and needed a movie that he would be guaranteed a lead role. Perhaps this was one of the infamous Tax write-off's. Needless to say, it was a mistake.Doomsday didn't kill Superman, this movie (Superman IV) did! "},{"Title":"Don't bother watching this, read on to find out why","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember seeing this film when I was young. I was 5 when it came out, I think I saw it a couple years after that. I remember enjoying it.I'm 22 now and I just watched it again (the DVD version). This movie is so ridiculous that it just annoys the heck out of me. I don't mind a silly movie now and then, I actually enjoyed the toxic avenger. This was because the movie knew it was ridiculous and didn't take itself seriously. This movie is a damned joke but it tries to be serious.There are numerous problems in this movie, I'm no film maker and if I could notice these problems then so could the writers! First off is with Nuclear man saying Where is the girl? ? What is he talking about? Why does Lois lane not understand that Clark and Superman are the same person? why can't she tell that if clark is sick then superman is sick? Is this how the comic was? If so that is absolutely pathetic. Why is that lady (sorry I don't remember her on screen name offhand) taken into space? why is she not killed? there are so many problems with this.Superman was such a great movie, and the film makers should be ashamed of themselves for ruining it all. I normally don't bother commenting on movies but I just had to come back and vent and tell you all how crappy this movie is. What a waste of time. "}{"Title":"As bad as the rest, but no worse","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Sadly, the entire Christopher Reeve Superman franchise has dated very badly since first release. I never saw the movies as a kid, so thus have no nostalgic affections for them; I watched them all recently, and was shocked by the naivety of the plotting and inexcusably poor special effects work.I know the first two films are regarded by some as classics, but I find them twee and dated. The third film is indescribably bad, and indeed the nadir of the series; THE QUEST FOR PEACE is thankfully the final of the Superman movies, and the good news is that it's not as bad as the last one. It's still incredibly lame, though, and I have to say that I only found it mildly entertaining because I treated it as a comedy throughout.The first half is dull, saddled with Reeve's grating slapstick as Clark Kent and Margot Kidder's own brand of screechy histrionics as Lois Lane. Gene Hackman is back and slumming it, although he's in it so infrequently that he doesn't fare as badly as the rest of the actors.The second half is where it gets slightly amusing, presenting large scenes of mindless destruction perpetrated by the movie's erstwhile villain, Nuclear Man (possibly the cheesiest, campest villain in film history). Cue the Great Wall of China exploding and a mini disaster scenario involving an erupting volcano. The effects are awful, but it's all quite funny, although nobody in their right mind could describe this as a good film. Add in some heavy-handed lefty politicising (of the same variety as Seagal's ON DEADLY GROUND) and you have a film that's memorable for all the wrong reasons. "},{"Title":"A very bad film yet not as bad as the abomination that is, Superman III","Date":"27 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Superman III is not considered to be the worst of the Superman films but now that I've seen Superman III and the abomination that is Superman IV, I can happily say that Superman III is simply far worse than Superman IV which is by no means a good film apart from the fact that it has a few good factors to it such as the returning cast, the character of Superman and the Superman like moments and the overall short duration of the film that ensures us that this film isn't as horrid and stinky as Superman IIISuperman agrees to stop the launch and use of nuclear weapons and begins to put an end to it but by a complete accident, he creates a man of nuclear referred to as NuclearMan whose one task is to kill Superman, under orders from a returned Lex Luthor.Superman is an iconic movie character, respected and even worshipped by some and often labelled the greatest superhero ever made and one of the all time great movie characters. Thanks to Christopher Reeve and Richard Donner, Superman is a worshipped character from the magic of the first two Superman films which portrayed him as an honest, courageous, courteous, brave and determined fighter whereas Superman III didn't really take the character anywhere and explore his sudden evil side. Whilst potential, terrible overuse of slapstick humor and a horrendous story destroyed the film to a point beyond repair. Thankfully, Superman IV got two things perfectly right about the film and that is the character of Superman and how is loyalty to Metropolis as well as Reeves' portrayal who absolutely nails it once more! It was almost a joy to see everything about Superman recovering since Superman III and this is quite simply, the only good aspect of the filmI've never criticized special effects in films and normally, I don't intend to. When you consider how great the effects in the first three Superman films are and how Superman II had a budget of over 50 million and that the latest instalment, which was produced seven years later, has less than $25 million, it is so definitely clear that this film was not to ever be made considering the box office and critical failure of Superman III. The effects in this film look beyond horrendous, even unwatchable especially sequences involving Superman or Nuclearman flying through space or Metropolis. It looks like a terribly edited version on Photoshop where nothing looks realistic enough to take seriously. Sequences involving flying around in Metropolis, especially a scene that ruins Superman in two ways involving Superman taking Lois for yet another fly around Metropolis is not only hard to take seriously, it completely destroys the magical moment from the first film and makes Superman a rather hard character to understand. I guess it's time to get used to him in Superman Returns but thankfully, this is the only instance where Superman is portrayed as a douche. Having taken her for a tour, he gives her a mind erasing kiss (which still makes no sense) in order for her to forget that he is Superman. Simply, the special effects looked horrendous. Even Monty Python and the Holy Grail, being a 1975 picture, had better effects of God!Whilst Christopher Reeve is outstanding as Superman and Gene Hackman is as usual, good as Lex Luthor, the rest of the cast simply aren't interesting even Marc Maclure as Lois Lane, who simply doesn't show the same enthusiasm and passion as she did in the first two. Clearly a bad sign! The acting comes off rather horrendous especially the voice of Nuclearman done by Hackman, who completely makes it truly ridiculous to take seriously. The new characters in this film aren't interesting. The entire story evolving around the Daily Planet is simply stupid and how the story unfolds there is completely ridiculous and to top it off, more and more annoying and one dimensional Superman characters are introduced. Even Lux Luthor himself is uninteresting throughout the film and Nuclearman is a complete waste of some potential.The story, whilst having potential, simply doesn't turn out to be anything special or even remotely, interesting. Much of the film is simply boring and thankfully, clichéd slapstick is not thrown into the film to make it worse! It definitely has a Superman feel to it and in some ways, had some great sequences such as the scene involving Kal-El's Kryptonian ancestors where they warn him to stay away from human affairs. However, this scene is completely betrayed later in the film and much of the individual scenes taking place in the film are completely unnecessary and are rip offs from the first two films.Overall, in some ways I cannot understand how loathed this film is yet Superman III is allowed a free pass. It just shocks me to see how this film is the most hated of them all but honestly, whilst a terrible film is made to be a great film when watching immediately after Superman III. A lack of stupid slapstick and a computer villain make this a better film than its predecessor but still not a good film by any means. "},{"Title":"superman iv rubbish","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember sitting on my seat at the cinema, waiting for the next Superman film to begin.Then suddenly realising what an real and complete load of rubbish this film is.The acting, well, apart from, Chris Reeve (bless him), Gene Hackman, Mariel Hemmingway and Margot Kidder, is awful, (Mark Pillow, stand to attention) The Effects, 25p, that's what they must have cost.All in all, this so called excuse for a film is awful.It's so bad it makes, Superman III, and Superman Returns look like classics.My advice, stay as far away from this film as you can.It is just plain awful. "},{"Title":"Oh dear Lord, no","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" There's a moment early in Superman IV that eludes to what the film was supposed to be Clark Kent returns to Smallville to talk to a real estate agent about the farm where he grew up, and it's actually a very touching nostalgic scene that invokes the spirit of the original Superman film. It's a simple conversation where Clark holds out to sell the land to a farmer and not a developer, and the agent (being friends with the Kent family) pitches a baseball for old times sake. Kent swings the bat and misses horribly as per usual with the alter ego, and no sooner as the real estate agent starts to drive away, Clark hits the ball into orbit.That scene (and it's underlying score by Alexander Courage) is the only indication of what Superman IV could have been and what it was supposed to be a return to its original cinematic roots. The return of the Man of Steel.Unfortunately, this scene is trapped at the beginning of a film that fails miserably. The scriptwriters may have had good intentions; however, their first mistake was turning Superman into their own propaganda vehicle. The Quest for Peace, clearly, is an anti-war message. There's nothing wrong with being an anti-war parable. The problem is that's all the film accomplishes. It attempts to show the impact of the decision Superman faces as he briefly receives counsel in the Fortress of Solitude, but the scene carries the weight of an afterthought which is a serious problem juxtaposed to the heavy handed safety awareness video that is the bulk of Superman IV &#150; Hey kids, just say 'No' to drugs and Nukes. The focal point rests with disarming the world, while the weight of such a decision on Superman's part remains in our peripheral vision. In another scene, Clark Kent steps off a balcony with Lois Lane, transforming into Superman as they fall. Afterwards he consults with her about disarming the world; however, it comes across as an awkward excuse to get in another romantic flying sequence between the two. A poor retread of the first film, one that's severely out of place in this film. Oh yes, and let's not forget the reprise of the magic kiss from Superman II.But wait, it gets worse. In addition to the anti-war parable, there's also a stern anti-corporation warning. The Daily Planet falls into the hands of a new corrupt owner, David Warfield, the billionaire tycoon who pushes sensationalism to the point of smut. This introduces the character of Lacy Warfield who starts out in daddy's footsteps, but almost immediately (and near inexplicably) falls for Clark and sees the error of her father's ways. This leads to the double date between Lois/Superman and Clark/Lacy. And with Lacy established, now she can fall into danger's way for the finale (although why exactly Nuclear Man develops a spontaneous obsession with her inexplicably remains on the cutting room floor.) Speaking of Nuclear Man, Lex Luthor's creation lacks any trace of menace. He roars, he snarls, he says kill Superman and I will hurt people, and he gives Superman a mean scratch, but he never really convinces anyone he poses a real threat. Their battle consists of flying around the world, Nuclear Man causing destruction and Superman routinely rescuing the bystanders &#150; where's the adrenaline? We basically have two Gods fighting it out across the face of the earth and into outer-space, and yet the whole encounter lacks any thrills &#150; that epic punch this fight deserves. Routine destruction, routine saving-the-day via boring, mundane cinematography, effects, and editing (thank Cannon for that one.) According to screenwriter, Mark Rosenthal, Cannon cut the budget down to a crippling level, and the proof is on the screen immediately with Superman IV's power point credits sequence, and let's not forget the one shot of Superman flying right at the camera that gets recycled no less than three times throughout the film. The loving attention to detail that sold the effects in previous entries? Richard Donner's Versimilitude? Gone. Sold out to Cannon's low-budget economy. And what about the epic disasters that Superman averts? In the first film he fixes the San Andreas fault, keeps Air Force One in the air, chases a rocket across the US, catches a helicopter, and reverses Earth's orbit. Here, in Superman IV, the man of steel stops a train by stepping on the subway track.Is it any surprise that in Superman IV, we no longer believe a man can fly? "},{"Title":"A Great Idea That Went Horribly Wrong.  Just A Crying Shame!!!","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember being little when this movie first came out. When you're about three or four, you think anything done by Superman is great because you never know what good taste is. Looking at this film more recently, I tried to look past the fact the film was a flop. Now that I've seen it as a young man, I know why it sucked. It's not just that the story was weak but the execution needed a drastic overhaul. It's too bad that the film studio didn't put more money into the special effects. I'm not going to mention what I mean by that for legal reason from this site so you'll just have to watch the film and see what I'm talking about. If only Richard Donner could've put in some of his input. "},{"Title":"Falls flat on the ground.","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" My Take The final nail to the franchise's coffin. The success of the first two Superman films and a few success of the third gave the guys at Cannon Film group and low-budget film producers Menahem Golan and Yoram Globus a chance to cash in to the craze. Well, they put everything they had, and made it look gimmicky and even spawned stuff from the original. Well, their high-flying success eventually turns into a disappointment for most fans and moviegoers. Only Christopher Reeve's final performance as Superman can possibly save it, maybe even not. The weaker plot and low-budget special-effects totally turn it into a dull sequel. It even borrowed stuff from the original and even the first sequel, like the romantic flying scene with Lois Lane from the original (instead of flying through dazzling moonlight, they fly over smelly fields of cattle!) If you expect something new in this sequel, don't. It absolutely has none. The plot is preachy, the performances are awful (Though Reeve still has enough strength to save himself) and the special effects are the most especially atrocious. Though it is debatable whether BATMAN & ROBIN, which was also the awful fourth entry of the BATMAN franchise, is any better. Rating * out of 5. "},{"Title":"A mess","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Superman IV The Quest for Peace is a disaster, less than ten years after the wonderful Superman The Movie the series has been downgraded to a cheap Cannon film. Most people know now that Cannon slashed the budget for this film just before it was to be filmed and it is impossible to make a Superman movie on the cheap. These films are very reliant on their special effects, we must believe Superman is flying and using all his various Super powers and this film just didn't have the budget to convince the audience. The same awful effect of a greenish Superman flying towards the screen is used over and over again, every special effect looks cheap and nasty. If thats not bad enough the story is very poor and makes little sense. I felt sorry for the actors and the director as they were on a loser from the start. Christopher Reeve looks like he knows he is making a bad film and gives easily his worst performance as Superman and even more so as Clark Kent, also he must take some of the blame as he came up with the dodgy rid the world of nuclear missiles story. Funny thing is even though the whole world knows Superman is going to pluck all the missiles out of the air and throw them into the sun they continue to launch them! Why not just say OK fair enough just take them all Superman, oh and by the way what exactly is going to stop the Red Army from marching across Europe now Supes? The UK for instance would have had no Nuclear Detterent??? But I don't really want to get bogged down in the whole Political side of this film, neither did Reeve's either as his story seems just an excuse for Lex Luthor to release the worst villain in any Superhero movie, Nuclear Man, or maybe Mulletman... whatever, he looks more like the lead singer of Whitesnake than a credible villain. Also on the acting side even Gene Hackman who is nearly always fantastic doesn't look in the mood to put the effort in. The less said about Jon Cryer and Marc Pillow the better, they are poor substitutes for Ned Beattie and Terence Stamp from the first two Superman films. What a shame Reeve's Superman ended up like this, best to remember him in the first two movies. "},{"Title":"Superman's pillow fight!","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" 1983's 'Superman 3' seemed to be the end for the money-spinning franchise based on the long-running D.C. comic. Christopher Reeve said at the London premiere We don't want to flog it to death like they do on television!. After attempting ( and failing ) to get a 'Supergirl' franchise launched, Alexander and Ilya Salkind sold the 'Superman' rights to the Cannon Group - Menahem Golan and Yoram Globus - the team responsible for tatty, forgettable movies such as Chuck Norris' 'The Delta Force' and Richard Chamberlain's 'King Solomon's Mines'.They lured back Reeve by offering him a bigger role in the new film's production. He promised a return to the epic style of the first movie, directed some second unit work and was responsible for the basic storyline - concerned at the escalating insanity of the Cold War, Superman breaks his vow of non-interference in other cultures by collecting every nuclear missile he can find and hurling it into the sun.In the meantime, The Daily Planet has been bought by David Warfield ( Sam Wanamaker ), a Rupert Murdoch-like figure who wants to drive it down market. His attractive daughter Lacy ( Mariel Hemingway ) has her eyes set on nerdy Clark. The newly-escaped Lex Luthor ( Gene Hackman ) creates a superhero of his own - Nuclear Man ( Mark Pillow ) - using D,N.A, contained in a lock of Superman's hair. N.M. looks like an extra from 'The Robe' and glows with the power of the Sun. With Reeve back in the cape, Hackman and Margot Kidder returning as 'Lois Lane' ( she was barely on screen in the previous film ) despite her earlier threat to quit, the new film looked to be a surefire winner. It was brave to make a film with a strong pacifist message at the time Reagan was in The White House.What went wrong? For one thing, the cheapness of the production is evident in almost every scene. 'Superman' movies should never look cheap. This is no more noticeable than the sequences where Superman destroys the warheads and where Nuclear Man is created - they are the same. Where did Superman find a fishing net big enough to take every warhead on Earth? The fight with Nuclear Man lacks thrills, resembling as it does a bargain basement remake of the scrap with the Kryptonian villains in the second film. Pillow is laughable as N.M., coming across like a Las Vegas male stripper with ideas above his station.The weak script shamelessly recycles ideas such as the 'can you read my mind?' scene from the first film. The lapses of logic are such a three year old year could spot them - how does Lacy survive being in outer space without oxygen? 'Peace' flopped and it would be 2006 before Superman was seen again, by which time Reeve had sadly passed on. The actor later attacked the movie on the B.B.C.'s 'Wogan' show, without referring to the producers by name. A heartbreaking finale to what had started out as a wonderful comic-book series. We can only give thanks that Golan and Globus never got round to making 'Spider-Man'! "},{"Title":"Just...Just awful. I mean...Just awful.","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Superman IV tells the story of a little boy begging to Superman to rid the world of Nuclear missiles. Superman is reluctant at first, but then agrees to do it. Meanwhile, Lex Luthor has returned and he has created a new villain for Superman to fight...Nuclear Man. Superman IV has a weak plot, weak acting, and is a very anti-climatic ending to the Superman series.Everything that the first movie did right is done wrong. The action is very trite, and not exciting to watch at all. The romantic subplot...There is none. Lois Lane has shrunk to a nothing character, while a new pointless love interest played by veteran TV movie actress Merial Hemingway tries to steal Superman's heart. Even the return of Lex Luthor couldn't save this movie. He becomes a secondary, pointless character, with none of the wit he had before. The special effects are actually worse than the first film, which makes this movie laughable. The Nuclear Man is a stupid villain that serves no purpose but to cause Superman a minor annoyance. The biggest problem this movie had was that it was way too preachy. The cast might as well have held their hands to their hearts and sang God Bless America.The acting is ridiculously bad. Christopher Reeve seems fed up in the role that made him famous, because he doesn't seem to try anymore. Gene Hackman plays the role of Lex Luthor the same as always, so I'll blame the script for his inadequacies. Mark Pillow (Nuclear Man) is so unbearable that I almost left the rooms during fight scenes.Overall, avoid this movie at all costs. That's all I can say. AT ALL COSTS! 1/10 "},{"Title":"The quest for peace of mind...","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Christopher Reeve returns as Superman, this time to do battle with Nuclear Man, who is a clone of Superman and has nuclear power sent from the sun, Lex Luthor has created Nuclear Man to wipe out Superman because of Superman's resolve to throw the nukes to the sun. Also aboard is Jon Cryer, the idiot nephew (Who is an even more obnoxious version of Ned Beatty's character) who ultimately makes this a painful venture. The problem with this lame duck sequel, is that Superman starts getting political. Now I can't speak for everyone but I prefer my superheroes heroic and willing to kick ass and save the world at a moment's notice, I don't want to see them go to congress to lobby against Nukes. What also kills Superman IV is the budget. The low budget kills what little credibility to be found, the villain Nuclear Man is awesome in his colossal stupidity. He certainly brings little menace to Supes and it's ridiculous that the climax involves Superman chucking plastic rocks at him. A low budget and a comic book hero is a deadly combo, the best that can ever happen is guilty pleasure fun. (1989's The Punisher and The Incredible Hulk TV movies) However in most cases they just hinder any enjoyment to be had. Also 1989's Punisher and Hulk movies, never tried to preach politics. All in all a sad way to see Christopher Reeve's last role as Superman. Say one thing nice, alright I'll bite, Superman IV is better than Batman and Robin, Supergirl and Captain America.* out of 4-(Bad) "}{"Title":"My childhood idol passed away","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I was only 8 when I heard of and saw the first Superman movie. Instantly he became my hero, my idol, everything I would have wanted to be when I grow older, you know kids' dreams everywhere in the world are very similar. Unfortunately, filmmakers of Superman series continuously have been giving their best to ruin my childhood's dream making only worse and worse movies, both by stories and by production. I would like to sue the makers of Superman IV, because they totally doomed my idol and my fascination. It is a crime above all crimes -- when you destroy a child's imagination and dream. Moreover, the death of Christopher Reeve affected me personally, 'cause I have always thought of him as of Superman. So I definitely lost my childhood heroes. "},{"Title":"Bad.","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is the worst film of the whole series.  I wish they could've not bothered making this film and leaving the series at three films as the third movie wasn't really that bad.  The special effects are cheesy and the story is pretty thin.  The first film is immensly superior to this fourth film in every way despite the fact that the first film was 10 years old at this point.  I wish studio heads would learn that when it comes to film series, sometimes it's best to quit while you're ahead.  That's perferable to creating turkeys like this. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever...","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  What can I say about this total piece of trash? I have no idea how it has garnered 3.3 stars. This movie was meant to be serious, and to deliver a serious message. It was not inteneded to be campy. That's why it's so bad. The acting is bad, the writing is childish, the dialog is painful, the special effects aren't so special, even the techno babble is ridiculous. I've stepped in deeper puddles. I consider myself less of a person for having seen this movie. I cannot imagine what a fine actor like Gene Hackman must have been thinking when he associated himself with this rubbish. Save yoruself 2 hours, go for a walk, play with your kids, plant a tree, or read a book. You'll be better off. -7/10 "},{"Title":"Don't forget to Check your brain at the door","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" .....If you want to have a good time with friends and laugh at the stupidity of this movie, than rent it, and sit back. If your want to watch a great film, skip it and rent Superman II ......the movie fails to take itself seriously when Lacy is floating in Space with out a space suit. And her re-entry to the earths atmosphere is harmless....I am too disgusted to talk anymore of this movie.....It is better than Batman and Robin, which isn't saying much. "},{"Title":" Nuclear Man won't escape me","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Christopher Reeve is awful as Superman in this pitiful adventure film. The supporting cast is pathetic. The costumes are ridiculous. One of the poor flicks in the genre, Superman 4 The Quest For Peace drops seldom adventures. 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A defender of this masterpiece.","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Okay, SUPERMAN 4, THE QUEST FOR PEACE is my favorite in the series. Nuclear Man couldn't be a better nemesis and Christopher is once again giving us the gift of flight. Margot Kilder, not my favorite in the cast (to put it lightly). Gene Hackman is the better than any Bond villan, anyday. This film actually carries a message, Nuclear war. Why is this film getting trashed? It is certanly better than SUPERMAN 3. Not SUPERMAN 2, for sure, but better then SUPERMAN anyday. The score wasn't John Williams, but was great, listen to that Nuclear Man theme. The flight effects are not the best, but the explosives and models are great. Like a comic book come to life.Watch this, if you have an open mind.(P.S. Does anybody notice that David Warfield looks like Gorge Bush Jr.?)  "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie was awful!  Pathetic.  Stupid.  Not worthy of the name Superman.  Plus, what happened to Lana Lang from the previous movie?Awful! "},{"Title":"Horrible - A disservice to so many years of comic genious","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Horrid.This movie is completely vile in every way. Basically, the plot (as it were) is a preachy, left-wing rant about nuclear disarmament that features Superman swooping in, in dictatorly fashion, to disarm the whole world unilaterally.  There are many, many stupid aspects of this movie that don't even deserve my regurgitation. For example -since Supe can erase Lois' memory with a kiss - why doesn't he just kiss Lex Luthor, the president (clearly meant to bash the president of the time) and everyone else causing all this great evil? -if letter-writing little kids are so smart, why aren't they running the country? -why does superman's cape flap around in space? -how could the blue-screen scenes in any one movie suck so bad? -why should we be scared of such an unintelligent and oafishly portrayed Lex Luthor? -Does Superman have DNA? He's an alien! -Why does the flying with Lois scene seem to last for half an hour? -Who the hell wrote this script, anyway?Stay away. Stay far, far away. This is not a funny bad movie, it's unwatchable. A preachy, contrived, eliteist rant from a long defunct political ideology.I rate it 0 out of 5 stars, and subtract 1 star from Superman 3 to make up for this abomination's damage to the series. "},{"Title":"A better tagline might have read, The quest for crap.","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is singularly the worst superhero movie ever made.  What were they thinking.  The special effects were awful, the dialog was awful, the villain was super awful.  Gene Hackman wanted nothing to do with #3 why did he think he ought to don the Luthor duds in this garbage.  My only advice is miss this movie.  Rent Captain America, whoops that was garbage as well.  How about going out and seeing Spider-man dozens of times.  I am going to go see it right now.  "},{"Title":"First half enjoyable, second half stinks","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  For years I've tried to stay away from Superman man movies because I caught the last half of it on TV on a Girl Scout trip. ( we were in a hotel in the Ozarks. I wasn't hauling a TV with a long extension cord in the woods. Though trust me at 13 I would  have tried.) Being the typical comic nerd I felt compelled to watch it. All the time all sorts of people in girl scouts passed in and out of my hotel room  and made a loud remark how much Superman 4 stunk. I've stayed away from the rest of the Superman movies for many years.   Now many years later I'm marrying a man who's a even bigger comic book nerd than myself at 13. So I've seen just about every superhero movie ever made. Yes out all the four superman movies this one does stink. The first half of the movie is corny, but it does have the general sweetness of the first two movies. It's good to see Margo Kidder back as Lois. The film is VERY 80's, but in a warped way it's adds to the cartoonish appeal. I enjoyed Lex Luther's nephew. He's wouldn't be out of place in the Bill and Ted movies. As silly as this sounds I like The whole plot of having the cute little kid wanting Superman to get rid of nuclear arms.It is silly, but likable.   Then Nuclear Man shows up and the movie goes down the toilet. Well, okay it's not totally the character's fault. Chris Reeve's performance through out the movie you can tell he doesn't want to be there. The special effects are cheesy. No,no, calling the special effects cheesy would be a compliment. But Nuclear Man does deserve to take the blame for the awful second half. He looks like a wrestler reject, can't act, has one of the worst costumes I've ever seen. Face it when a male bad guy has a better nail job than most of the women you know and that's suppost to be scary. Well something's wrong with the movie. Overall the worst Superman movie, but it is more watchable than Batman and Robin. I guess Warner Brothers has a pattern of making four movies off major DC characters. "}{"Title":"Should have been calledA Quest for a good Script","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"   I enjoyed the first 3 Superman flicks. Even though Superman IIIhad its problems, at least  it was entertaining, this cannot be saidfor Superman IV. The script was lame and the action was soboring that even  it's target audience (the PC crowd) could not beseduced into the theaters. It made it quickly to video and late nightmovie channels where it can be useful as a sleep inducer.  It's on my top ten turkey list. "},{"Title":"why it looked so cheap","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  i read in a article from total film that the original budget was $36 million. however thanks to Cannon suffering from many big budget flops the budget was scaled down to a trifle $17 million.when you consider how much Reeve and Hackman cost to appear in the movie.no wonder it was the worst in the series. "},{"Title":"Well... as long as you don't expect much","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie tries too hard to deliver some political message. The cheesiness of that really makes the movie worse than it already was. The whole cast seems to be going through the motions. This movie offers nothing new to the superman movies. It's surprising that the movies survived after the terrible 3rd movie, but this one shows that they didn't survive with much.  "},{"Title":"Be afraid, be VERY afraid.","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Ohmygodohmygodohmygodohmygod.This is bad, bad, bad.  Nothing saves this piece of pure drivel.  Even Reeve can't save this, not even the great Hackman can't save this.  Nothing works.  Stop the tape now.  You'll thank me, trust me.The plot revolves around the disarming of nuclear warheads by chucking them all into the sun.  This is a good idea, but of course there are numerous problems with this  1) what happens if a country abstains?  Does superman beat that country up? 2) every nuclear country STILL has nuclear weapon technology and knows how to make ISBMs, so what is the point of throwing nukes into the sun when any country can make more ISBMs?Anyway, after Reeve's pretty good speech, he goes and throws all the nukes into the sun - but this produces a stupid and very dumb bad guy called Nuclear Guy or something with solar energy.Superman and Nuclear Guy then fight on the moon - whilst BREATHING very loudly - this one scene is so bad it becomes funny.  But all this doesn't matter because all superman has to do is block the sun.Unfortuently it takes 50 minutes before we actually get to see Superman do this and throw Nuclear guy into a nuclear reactor.  This for some reason causes EVERY light to switch on.Huh - I thought this film was suppos'd to be ANTI-nuclear, now its pro?This film has NO good story, for an 1980s film, the sfx are the WORST I've ever seen.  This film is pants. Avoid.0/10. "},{"Title":"UGH!!!!!!","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Superman I and II were great, III was somewhat ok, but they probably shouldn't have made it.  Superman 4 was a blatant attempt to squeeze out whatever profits were left for a Superman movie.  All the other comments say something about Mariel Hemingway being taken out into space and being able to breathe and *NOT* implode.  But what seems to be missing is the part how Lex Luthor got the Superman DNA from a hair.  You see, Superman donated a hair to a museum to show how strong it is.  The hair was holding up a really heavy steel ball that weighed a couple of hundred pounds.  All Lex had to do was snap the hair with a simple pair of bolt-cutters!  Then when the ball hits the ground, it bounced a little bit!  What a bunch of c**p.  The part where Superman and Lois copy the scene from the Original movie where they fly hand in hand was really bad.  In the original, that was a long scene. In this stinker, the scene was a minute or so?  I can't go on anymore. Let's make this the #1 worst movie of all time. "},{"Title":"It was bad.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I think I saw this movie way back in 87 when it was first released, I don't remember. I recently went out and purchased the first two movies and I enjoy the first three moves (Sure the third one isn't the best, but it's watchable, plus the whole computer thing was cool). However this movie isn't watchable. It's bad. Someone else has commented that we shouldn't expect something deep and meaningful and he's right, but we should expect something entertaining. There was nothing entertaining in this movie.I caught this movie on WGN last weekend (It was Movies for guys who can do the MST3K thing on Movies) and I was at least expecting better special FX or Lex Luthor to be as good as he was in the first two movies, or Superman to be in shape, or a some-what intelligent villan in Nuclear Man and I expected the Fortress of Sollitude to look like it did in the first two. I could go on.There is talk of a 5th Superman movie. If you read the interviews with Kevin Smith, you will read that the WB execs are probably gonna continue the tradition as there was in this film, sadly. "},{"Title":"They Went to the Well One Too Many Times","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Superman III was a disappointment, but was likeable and watchable.  However, Superman IV is a pure mess of a movie that is dumb, overblown, and ultimately awful.  This time Superman (Reeve) is trying to rid the world of nuclear weapons.  After doing this, he inadvertently creates yet another super-villain.  Lex Luthor (Hackman) is the mastermind behind this development and his plan is to kill Superman so he can start selling arms to terrorist nations to make a boat-load of money.  To say the least, Superman IV is by-the-numbers film-making at its worst.  This film was not needed and was only made to capitalize on the success of the previous three.  A film that is only fair at best.  2 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Terrible. A complete waste of time...","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"   I really feel sorry for anyone who sat through this drek. The special effects are horrible, the plot sucks, and at times this film makes absolutely no sense. For example, towards the end there is a scene where Nuclear Man (?) takes a woman in to outer space, and she lives (!) Yet,  at the beginning you see astronauts in space suits walking around on the moon. They needed space suits to survive, so why didn't the girl? During one of the ridiculous fight scenes in space, you can actually see that the characters are standing on a flat surface, and the space backdrop has been superimposed.  Don't even get me started on the bad acting, and plot. Avoid this at all costs.  "},{"Title":"So disappointing","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It's such a shame to see the franchise reduced to this after the triumphs of the first two movies.I own all four of the films on video, and the difference between the first and the last film is terrible. The first film looks fantastic, the effects are spot-on, and the music is possibly John Williams' finest score.The last one however, uses awful superimposition techniques that make Superman look pasted on to the screen, and the music is a poor reproduction of the original themes.As for the story, I think it could have been made into a good film. It wasn't, though. I know everyone has already pointed out the ridiculousness of the scene where Lacy Warfield (ugh - crap name) is taken into space, but what really got me is that when the Nuclear Man stopped being able to fly, she started to fall downwards. Not downwards as in towards Earth (which was behind here in the frame) but downwards as in towards the bottom of the screen. That's inexcusable really.When I watch the first film now, I love every minute of it, and the 'Can You Read My Mind' scene chokes me up every time. The poor reconstruction of that in this film could ruin it if you didn't look at the credits.If you've never seen this film, watch the first one again instead. You'll be reinforcing a dream, rather than compounding a nightmare. "},{"Title":"A good film","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  SUPERMAN IV - THE QUEST FOR PEACE is a good addition to the Superman franchise. The story sees Lex Luthor steal a strand of Superman's hair, and sends it into the sun on a nuclear missile. This creates Nuclear Man, someone who has all of Superman's powers but he is evil. The acting is, just like in the other three good. I also liked the story. I don't know why so many people hated this. I give SUPERMAN IV a 10/10. "}{"Title":"one sequel too many (maybe even two)","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  One has to wonder why this movie was ever made. Surely the people behind the fantastic success of Superman and Superman II should have known better than to waste their (and our) time with this awful movie. The only reason I could think of is that Superman III was without doubt one of the biggest disappointments in movie history, and the crew may have tried to redeem themselves by changing the entire concept of Superman. It did not work and the fourth Superman ended up being a lot worse than the third one. My fantastic childhood memories of Superman will not be dulled by this one poor movie, however. Let's hope we don't see a Superman V any time next century. "},{"Title":"Quite simply the worst movie ever made.","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I've never gotten over this one; so bad that I couldn't even enjoy making fun of it.  If you endured the whole thing without either walking out, turning the channels, or turning off the VCR, I pity you.  >  There is nothing good about this movie, but perhaps the high point is the Look, uncle Luthor...  I'm breakdancing! line delivered by that heinous actor who played Duckie in Pretty in Pink.  This scene, like so many in QFP, is funny only in retrospect. "},{"Title":"Even Batman, The Flash, Spawn, & Wonderwoman couldn't save this film","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As soon as you see the film quality you knew this movie was going to be bad. Even the incredible awful Superman III was better this pile of dung. Do yourself and everyone else a favor, destroy this film in all viewable forms and be done with it.Ace "},{"Title":"Ouch!","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  What a stupid movie.  They go to the moon.  A human flies through space and her face doesn't explode.  She's dropped by radioactive man or whatever he's called and she fall downwards, not towards the sun, the moon or the earth.  Just down.  ???  There are technical problems and then there's extreme stupidity like this.  Isn't the boom mike guy sitting there saying Hey I learned in my 7th grade science class that that's completely impossible. "},{"Title":"What a mess!","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Superman movies have never been exemplars of logic or internal consistency. Even the first, best two had numerous problems. But at the same time, they had good enough plots, effects, and performances to make you willing to overlook the problems for the most part. Not so with this waste of celluloid.The effects are the worst part. One head-on flying shot is used at least four times through the movie! And it wasn't well done to begin with. The rest of the thankfully sparse effects were even worse, up to (or DOWN to) the ludicrous fight on the Moon.Very nearly as bad was the plot. When it wasn't utterly forgettable (85% of the movie), it was excruciating. It's hard to believe that co-writer Lawrence Konner was involved in the writing of Star Trek VI - The Undiscovered Country. There were reports that this movie suffered badly because it was cut severely for the theatrical release, but it's difficult if not impossible to imagine more scenes doing anything but making us squirm more in our seats.Then there was the acting. Mark Pillow as Nuclear Man I think that says it all. Ugh. Jon Cryer was somewhere between Pillow's performance and fingernails on chalkboard. Only somewhat less competent was the child actor whose character gets Superman to start questioning the wisdom of nuclear weapons. He was more wooden than the boy playing Lana Lang's son in Superman III.Would you believe TV Guide rates this movie above Superman III? This must be Bizarro TV Guide. "},{"Title":"Bad series drawn out too far","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The first 3 were bad enough so why make a 4th? Oh and the scene where these two guys battle is completely moronic. "},{"Title":"HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAH!!!!!!!","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This must be the pilot to the powerranger TV-series. Or the prequel to the movie of the power rangers. Unbelievable, this can't be happening!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Worse movies have been reported but not by reliable witnesses.","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Obviously when this movie was made they were intent on removing all possibility of having to do Superman V.  I have never seen such a bad job of writing, such poor performances by usually good actors, and such inept technical film making in my entire life.  The editing of the final fight between Superman and Sun-guy or what ever his name is the worst few minutes of film I have ever had the misfortune to witness. "},{"Title":"Tragic waste of money","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The person that suggested we watch this movie in 1987 promptly apolgised for submitting us to this hellish sequel.   Worst movie I seen in a theater....I'm still trying to get my money back from that theater. "},{"Title":"Superhumanly bad","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The only reason I can imagine anyone wanting to make this movie is because someone had a contract stipulating that it had to be made or someone else wouldn't get paid.  Every single aspect of the movie stinks, from the acting, to the cinematography, to the directing, to the sets, to the special effects.  Nobody involved seems to have cared how the movie turned out. Christopher Reeve put forth a bit of effort, but that doesn't compensate for Muriel Hemmingway's woodenness, and Dolph Lungren's annoyingness (or whoever played Nuclear Man).  The special effects were particularly awful, and it's obvious that the budget for that aspect of the movie ran out as some of the effects are apparently hand-drawn and laughably unconvincing.Do not bother watching this movie.  It will ruin your image of Superman and you will forget how good the first and second movies of this series were. They should have left it as a trilogy, in my opinion (though the third one sucked too). "}{"Title":"bad bad bad","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a movie that makes you wonder why they didn't just donate the budget to charity instead.   "},{"Title":"An embarrassment to the Superman franchise.","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" What Halloween III was to the Halloween franchise, this movie is to Superman The Movie. A disgrace that I have yet to see surpassed with any movie since it was released.This film is so bad, I watch it occasionally to make fun of it and I usually never finish watching. The special effects (I can't even call them that without giggling) are horrendous for a movie franchise of this stature. I have to wonder if special effects supervisor Harrison Ellenshaw ever found a job again after this movie. Personally I would have never wanted my name to be associated with this it. To save money, they even used flying scenes from Superman III.The whole movie looks completely fake and shouldn't be taken seriously. "},{"Title":"Superman IV The search for money","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Alexander and Ilya Salkind, Cannon Films and Warner Brothers tried to make a great film but this Superman movie is poisoned by more than Kryptonite, the plot was a mistake though I'm sure it sounded good on paper. The acting is sub par by Superman Standards, the director didn't even try to make it look like New York or Close enough to Metropolis, the visuals on the movie takes the termLow Budget to a whole another level,the story sounded good on paper like I said earlier, and all that was once great fell to parp. This movie series had started out good but after two awful sequels an equally awful spin off movie I think it's safe to say, The Man of Steel got rusted big time by this movie. "},{"Title":"Pathetic!","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Pathetic addition to the Superman series has The Man of Steel (Christopher Reeves) pitted against adversary Lex Luther (Gene Hackman), who is in cahoots with multi-millionaire Richard Pryor.How Pryor achieves his wealth is interesting and was copied in Office Space (even referenced by that movie, too). But it's ridiculous. He takes the half-pennies from co-workers' accounts and adds them together. How does he become a millionaire overnight? It would take a heck of a lot of half pennies to become a millionaire.The end is just plain ridiculous, where they are all in a cave and there's this sort of robotic humanoid attacking everyone. What in the world were they thinking?Sort of a guilty pleasure. It is actually the Superman movie I think of the most when I hear the word. Why? I don't know. I guess because it's so bad.0.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Entertaining...","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" ...but it seems like it has a thin plot, and some stuff isn't really logical. That doesn't mean it's not good!May have a spoiler!This time, Clark Kent aka Superman, fights a creation of Lex Luthor's...Nuclear Man.Not really good, but good, still 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"My, what a shame...","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Superman films ended with a whimper instead of a bang. The story is actually a lot better than the story in Superman III, but the film is ruined by poor special effects. If you managed to look past them, you might see the rather interesting idea of what might happen if a superhero got involved with politics (we see Superman brooding!). What's sad is that we've seen other film-makers, like James Cameron, make great films out of shoe-string budgets (just look at 1984's The Terminator), and yet these guys totally dropped the ball. Even star Christopher Reeve admitted that this one came out ersatz. But at least Reeve stayed with the series to the end, he didn't turn his back on it because he wanted more money or anything like that. And, for what it's worth, Reeve still manages to show some passion as the Man of Steel, which is a lot more than you can say for some other actors in superhero films, like the cast of Star Wars Episode 1 the Phantom Menace and Episode II Attack of the Clones... "},{"Title":"This is just terrible.","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Simply put that is how I describe this one.  None of the Supermans are really great, but they are ok.  This one is just awful...I mean where do I begin.  I might as well start with the budget...It just had to be extremely low.  His flying looked worse in this than in the first one.  Then there is the acting Reeve goes beyond mediocre in this one...here he sucks.  I am guessing it was the director's job that made him tolerable in the first three.  Not that anyone does a good job in this one including Gene Hackman who is also awful and just why did the feel the need to have Jon Cryer play his nephew?  Then the scientific errors.  Somehow a strand of Superman's hair can hold up all this weight...I think it was a ton, but Lex Luthor cuts it with bolt cutters.  Nuclear man takes a girl into space where there is plenty of air for her to breath apparently.  And speaking of the villan, did they try to make him as lame as possible or what.  This of course has to do with the plot, a whole movie devoted to telling us a nuclear war would be bad...Duh!  If Reeve thought this movie was going to cause world leaders to say Gee, we shouldn't start a war and maybe we should disarm, then he was fooling himself. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is by far the worst of the superman series. No surprise to me that the late Christopher Reeve had something to do with the writing of the scripts. Now what line springs to mind, ah yes, What's he going to say? Something wonderfulPure cheese.Very strange that superman suddenley becomes a tad stronger than in the second installment of the series, where he struggles to stop a bus full of people thrown at him by Ursa and Nom under the guidance of General Zod. Then, in this final trash film, he is able with ease to move a planet. Highly unrealistic.The most amusing part of this flick for me is when Nuclear man is using Superman as a nail, knocking him into a planet. He takes a big swing and then gently taps Reeve. It's so fake it's funny.Don't bother watching, hiring/renting or buying this film, it's garbage. Watch Superman II instead if you really must see a flapping cape. Enjoy some classic quotes from II........Throw it!, Throw iiiiiiitttttttttt!!!!! Luthor you poisonous snake! So you are a General, and who is your superior....? Come, come and kneel before Zod............ZOD!!!!!!! In return for your obedience, you will enjoy my generous protection, in other words, you will be allowed to live These humans are beginning to bore meR.I.P. to Christopher Reeve.Rating for Superman IV, 2/10. Awful "},{"Title":"Calling it bad insults things that are actually bad.","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Sometimes sequels are made for the sake of making money (see Rush Hour 2).Sometimes sequels are made for the sake of continuing a worthy story (see Lord of the Rings). And sometimes, sequels are made for no discernible reason. Such is the case with Superman IV The Quest for Peace. So much talent is wasted here. Jon Cryer. Mariel Hemingway. Sam Wanamaker. Even Jackie Cooper's Perry White is simply a caricature of a caricature. Margot Kidder's Lois Lane apparently had all of her brain cells removed by Superman's kiss at the end of Superman II. The movie is garbled.The plot is unclear. The characters lack motivation. And I picked all of this up at age 13. I remember riding home from the theater, having seen Superman IV while my parents saw something else. And boy, did I wish I'd gone with them once the movie was over, and I told them so.One last note a lot of users have bashed the character of Nuclear Man. They were right to do so; he's an awful character with an awful haircut (Crowded House called they want their bassist's hair back!). But even though the character was terrible, Mark Pillow's portrayal of him was somehow even worse. If you look up Mark Pillow on the IMDb, you'll notice that he has had a total of two other roles. That's two too many. Your average used-car salesman could have done a better job. And probably would have had better hair, too! "},{"Title":"The best Superman movie ever!!!!","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I love Christopher Reeve!!!! I loved the first three Superman movies. Superman 4 was the best because of one reason Christopher Reeve wrote the story himself!!!!! It was great to see Gene Hackman reprise his role as Lex Luthor too. The villain Nuclear Man was kinda lame though. LOL!!!! They should have either casted Smallville's Tom Welling as Clark Kent/Superman in Superman Returns instead of Brandon Routh, who bares no resemblance to Reeve WHAT SO EVER!!!!! Chris will alway's be remembered, especially after seeing not only him on two episodes of Smallville, but Annette O'Toole who play's Martha Kent on the show, played Lana Lang in Superman 3!!!! YEEEEEEHAAAA!!! Even though he is dead, he will always be Superman!!!!!! See this movie, but skip Superman Returns!!! Watch Smallville!! "}{"Title":"Part 4 is better then the first 3","Date":"29 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Don't get me wrong the first 3 movies of Superman are great. But this one is better. What is better then this one is Superman returns and Man of steel. Still this is a great movie. It has great acting. It also has a great story line. It also has great special effects. This a great movie. All the Superman movie are great. See all the Superman movies. The Superman movies are must sees. There are some of the best action movies of all time. I need more line and I am running out of things to say. This is a great movie. Great movie great movie great movie great movie. See it see it see it. There is a lot of action in it. See it see it see it see it. "},{"Title":"Oh dear!!!","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have only seen this film twice. Once when it came out when I was but a small lad of 8 years and now 20 years on.What a shame that this was the last film Christopher Reeves will be remembered for.I remember thinking that this was a great film when I was 8 but now... I can see the reason why it never made it to TV before. If anybody wants a copy on DVD mine is up for grabs on ebay.I want to keep my memories alive of how good the first two films are.No wonder it took them 19 years to get round to making the next superman film. They wanted to make sure everybody forgot about this pile of elephant excrement.If you are a fan of the originals and have fond childhood memories of this film do yourself a favour and AVOID THIS FILM like the plague. "},{"Title":"I figured the four of us could get together at my house for high tea, it's so sheik!","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Greatest line in the history of cinema.It's also great that they use the voice of gene hackman for atomic man.Nothing like having a solar powered bad guy. Basically, you just have to fight with him until it gets dark. You could just run from the guy until night and then shoot him in the head.Seriously, how did this film make it to production? Was Gene Hackman forced to do the film? Was he under contract?Actually, I think that the director of this film was Atomic Man. Think of the quote. Destroy Superman but first I have fun. The director clearly set out to destroy the franchise, but making something this bad had to be at least a little fun. "},{"Title":"Kryptonite Isn't The Only Thing That Can Kill Superman","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie did a pretty good job of killing his big-screen presence for 30 more years, at least!  FIRST OF ALL, IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE ORIGINAL PRESENTATION AND HAVE ONLY SEEN THE CLEANED-UP DVD, YOU AIN'T SEEN SQUAT!!! My comments will go towards the original theatrical/vhs release, the stuff before that attempt to clean it up on dvd.  That crap don't fly with me (no pun intended).  Where do I begin to complain?After watching this movie, I came to the conclusion that Superman's ability to propel himself at near limitless speeds (which look oddly slow in the bad bluescreen of this film) lies in his super-flatulence.  I say that because of the smell I noticed while watching it.  Where the hell did Superman get rebuild-the-great-wall-of-China-vision?!?  When did he develop telekinetic ray beams (when he lowered the citizens held aloft by Nuclear...ugh....Man). When did Lois Lane become a crack whore?  When did Perry White die, only to be reanimated?  When did Jimmy Olsen turn 45?  When did Christopher Reeve lose all the muscle from his previous 3 movies, only to show up at 135 lbs soaking wet for this one?  When did human beings learn to talk in space? Why didn't Mariel Hemingway implode when Nuclear...ugh...Man dropped her in space?!? When did Gene Hackman's career go so wrong?  Why didn't Mariel burn up in earth's atmosphere when she was carried in and out of it?  How the hell could Superman push THE MOON (a plot device stolen from a cartoon episode of He-Man)?!?  Why would a clone of Christopher Reeve look like a gay 1980s aerobics instructor?  Why did they reference a first Nuclear...ugh...Man when those scenes were cut?  Why did Superman's cape's S-shield peel apart?  Why did the wires show at all times?  Why did Superman go flying in front of bad bluescreen with a crack-addicted skeleton?  Why were a large portion of the flying shots stock shots from Superman II or III?  When did Superman become a fascist dictator, spitting on the sovereignty of not only the United States, but the United Nations (the mecca of all you commies out there)?  When did Nuclear War have ANYTHING to do with Krypton's sun blowing up the planet?  There are more questions, mostly relating to continuity of the movies, but I don't wanna go into them. This movie made me ashamed to be a SuperFreak--even at 12 years of age (when I first saw it).  The wires have been cut out of the dvd, the color's been enhanced (the original blue screen shots looked 30 years old, even in 1987), and the blue screen's been digitally 'repaired.'  If you want to see how this movie REALLY looked, get an old VHS tape of it.  They're everywhere. But, you'll see all the crap I'm talking about.  This movie will make you hate America's greatest pop icon. "},{"Title":"The quest for crap!","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Nothing I can say about this movie that I havent said about so many movies where sequels are made ,some shouldnt have sequels because the original wasnt made to have one and those that need a sequel to tell a continuing story.Superman 1 and 2 were good and entertaining but the problem with doing movies like this instead of say a Star Wars is for one ,Star Wars Movies are one long continuing story played out over 6 movies and even though alot of stories have been written about what happens after return of the jedi,they wisely stopped there as it gets to be too much pain in the butt to do sequels as the actors get too old and sometimes you dont have other actors who can replace them so the prequel idea was a good one. While Superman has been around in comic books for decades and lots of stories written ,I knew a sequel would be a must to continue his story and 2 was great but 3 and 4 done with different directors and studios flopped.I thought that Superman2 was fun but 3 and 4 terrible. Problem is terrible plots and the actors esp Margo Kidder who looked awful in 4,she looked so decrepit and she had a bit part in 3.Also Golan-Globus known for low budget action movies cannot do special effects worth a crap esp in Superman 4,alot of fake action backgrounds with characters so obvioulsy supermimposed you can actually tell by their faces. Another sequel is inevitable and i hope they get a good producer and director and please dont use Nicholas Cage as Superman , hes a fine actor but lets be honest, can you see him in the tights with that face ,Neither can I. "},{"Title":"The best Superman film","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Despite what critics say, this movie is amazing in it's own wright. The special effects were quite good for the time it was made, the acting was amazing even if this sequel is just a tie-in to the original story. The characters like Superman and Nuclear Man are not disappointing at all. The movie although offers a little story it's good because if you're an all action film fan than this film is for you since most of the story is about Superman fighting Nuclearman in several climatic battles across the world and even on the moon. It's a shame that not to many think so and besides this Superman film is an environmental film ifyou consider all of the nuclear talk here. We need to consider that this movie was produced in 1987. Cristopher Reever was an outstandingactor. There are only a few flaws on this film but trust me that you will love this movie. "},{"Title":"Arguably the best of the sequels!","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This third and final sequel to Superman is really a good movie. It has a good villain and and a good story. Sadly, This was Christopher Reeves last performance as Superman and it is a shame as in my opinion his performances as the Man of Steel were flawless! I truly hope this franchise comes back in the near future as I want to see a Superman film based on one of the greatest comic books ever, The Death of Superman. This would be such a incredible movie that I believe it would have people talking about for years though Batman vs. Superman is coming soon so maybe this is a start to get one of the greatest  film series` in history back on track! "},{"Title":"THE BEST OF THE SERIES","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I would rather watch Superman IV than any of the previous Sueperman movies. I think the battle on the moon was the most exciting moment in the entire series. I have seen footage of Nuclear Man 1 fighting Superman. The footage I saw was of Reeve and Clive Mantle smashing cars on either. It was a behind the scenes video. "}]