[{"Title":"A saxophonist who truly altered the direction of jazz history with his music&#133;","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Bird traces the life of Charlie Parker, a 1940's soloist jazz great whose improvisation abilities led him to become one of the most acclaimed figure in his own lifetime&#133; However, his self-destructive behavior and association with drugs and alcohol caused him to die before he could fully comprehend the public appreciation of his genius&#133;Eastwood worked with a cast of relative unknown stars, and managed to create an entire period piece on the relatively low budget show&#133;Sensitively acted, visually designed, this dramatic story of the troubled life of a man of tremendous warmth and compassion, Eastwood delivers a compelling portrait of an artist with an ambitious presentation of love including a magnificent score, and stunning sound&#133; (The film's sound captured an Oscar.) Whitaker gives an excellent performance, with an especially inevitable death scene at the age of 34&#133; Diane Venora is impressive as the wife of this great jazz musician&#133; Their last conversation by phone presented the legend Parker's with his conscientious of his near-death, his lost effort, his feeling of loneliness, but also his kindness, his love, and his care to his entire family&#133; A great scene not to be missed! "},{"Title":"I just love this movie...","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" There are certain movies that leave you dazed when you walk out of the theater. For me, Bird was such a movie.On a nice evening in 1988 I decided to take in a movie on the spur of the moment. I walked to the nearest theater (Fine Arts, Downtown Chicago) and looked to see what was playing. I had never heard of Charlie Parker nor his music, but I was developing a love of jazz and the movie being directed by Clint Eastwood didn't hurt.I went in, found a seat and had no way of knowing that, in a couple of hours, my life would be different.The music penetrated my soul in ways I could never express. I was in awe and filled with emotion as the music carried me away while the visions of Charlie Parker's life flashed in front of my face. When the final credits scrolled up the screen, I could not move. I was frozen to my seat, dazed, overwhelmed, completely awed. I couldn't get the music out of my head, songs were playing back as if I'd listened to them a thousand times. My mind felt as if it were orbiting the sun.. spinning round and round, bathed in this warmth of beauty.I didn't walk out of the the theater so much as stagger. I walked around for miles just playing over and over in my mind what I'd seen and heard and finally, hours after the movie ended I found myself in front of an all night music store where I bought the soundtrack and raced home to listen to it. No matter that I had to get up in the morning for work... no matter that the movie had ended before 10pm but I didn't find my way home until after 2am. No matter that I was dead tired from walking dazed miles in a haze of thought.I played that CD until I fell asleep then took it to work and played it all day... I played it constantly for weeks and then I started to buy other Charlie Parker CDs and reading everything I could about him. Charlie Parker is my favorite musician of all time, to this day, nearly 20 years later... and it began with this movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and Moving","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"29 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Those viewers who claim the film is flawed are missing the point. Screenwriter Joel Oliansky (who also directed the film The Competition) attempted (quite successfully I believe) to combine the elements of jazz music with the visual medium of film.  Rhythm, tone, the improvisational aspects of be-bop, all of these elements go into creating a movie unlike any produced.  It is not to be viewed in the traditional sense of linear story-telling.  The mood created by Jack N. Green's cinematography is completed suited to the atmosphere of the 1940's and 1950's.  As for acting, let us point out Forest Whitaker's Best Actor Award from the Cannes Film Festival and Diane Venora's Best Supporting Actress Award from the New York Film Critics.  This film resounds with fine filmmaking, headed by Clint Eastwood's passion for the music.  And what music!  Parker's original solos were cleaned up and integrated with modern musicians into a seamless flow. The picture won the Best Sound Academy Award (sadly, its only nomination). Look at this film as a tribute to a man and a music, a recollection of a brilliant yet dissipated life, and a kind of filmmaking rarely seen by today's audiences. "},{"Title":"A sincere but disappointing tribute to Charlie Parker","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"33 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Clint Eastwood's reputation as a serious filmmaker was given a considerable boost with this lengthy biography of jazz legend, Charlie Yardbird Parker, who Eastwood, a jazz aficionado, saw perform in Oakland, California in 1946. For this labor of love, Eastwood assembled an excellent cast including Forest Whitaker as Parker, Diane Venora--flawless as Bird's woman, Chan Parker--and, in a small role of one of the musician's flirtations, Ana Thompson (the cut whore from Unforgiven). With the aid of cinematographer Jack N. Green, Eastwood captures the neon burnished lights and darks of the night world Parker inhabited, and the music, featuring genuine Parker solos augmented by modern musicians, can't be faulted, but despite its merits, this Bird never takes flight.  It is long--too long--and the story it tells, though certainly dramatic in its bleak and uncompromising portrait of an artist whose music was often overshadowed by his drug addiction, weighs down too heavily on the latter than the former. Why is Charlie Parker so important?  That question isn't answered here, but another question--why was Charlie Parker dead at 34?--is addressed and answered at length.  There is potential on view here--Parker's struggle to survive as a musician in a culture that is more appreciative of rock and roll than of jazz is a minor thread that could have been expanded--but much of it is unrealized.  Bird is a handsome film, but its craftsmanship and artistry is defeated by the script.   "},{"Title":"Ornithology","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Bird will probably be most appreciated by jazz fans who come to it already familiar with Charlie Parker and his incalculable contributions to jazz and influence on generations of musicians that continues to this day. The script contains many shorthand references that might be lost on the average moviegoer -- e.g., Parker calls Dizzy Gillespie Birks, which was his middle name, but many people probably don't know that.But there is the music, and tons of it. There are extraordinary performances by Forest Whitaker as Parker, and Diane Venora as his common law wife, Chan. In many ways the film seems more a love story than the standard musical biopic. Chan was unfailingly supportive of Bird, despite his self-destructive drug use, alcoholism and chronic infidelity. He loved her in his own way, and I think she realized that she was in love with a genius who would forever be plagued by demons, and that she couldn't have one without the other.Clint Eastwood's love of jazz is well-known, and in Bird he provides a wealth of wonderful music, beautifully performed. The actual playing of Charlie Parker is augmented by accompaniment from contemporary musicians, and Parker has never sounded better. Eastwood also provides an unflinching portrayal of the complicated lives of jazz musicians, and the addictions to which so many succumb.Despite the mess that Bird made of his life, he remains a charming and sympathetic figure. And his music, years ahead of its time, and so complex that countless fledging saxophone players have attempted to copy his recordings note for note, will forever live on. "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this movie.","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I. feel that the person that wrote negative things about the movie Bird missed the point. He mentioned the fact that the movie didn't go into the interracial marrige of Charlie and Chan Parker. I for one am glad that it didn't. I hate movies that beat the audience over the head with the fact that people can't, won't,and don't except blacks and whites in relationships that are positive. I felt that even though Mr. Parker had an addiction to drugs and had a wondering eye at times, he truely loved his wife. Mrs Parker not only loved her husband the jazz musician but her husband the man and looked out for his well being as best she could. The movie never let me forget that he was an addict but it also showed his genious and creativity. I'd give it a 9 because there was an uneveness about it that made it less than pefect. I truely wished that they had shown more of how he interacted with other greats like Miles Davis and Art Blakey. "},{"Title":"Tragic story, great central performance","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The story of jazz great Charlie Parker. The film follows his rise from clubs to records and follows him across tours, drug abuse, personal loss and his eventual death. At the time of his death at 34 he was so eaten up by drugs that the coroner assessed his age at 65.This is a well put together film about a creative but flawed artist. The plot doesn't glamorise him too much, although it maybe sympathises a little with his addiction and doesn't show it quite as harshly as it could have done. That said he is a pretty unpleasant person when he isn't performing. The film focuses on his adult life, which is good as it saves us child actors running around and it means more time is spent on the important years. The covers a lot of time, but it doesn't feel rushed. His drug addiction is honestly handled and it shows both the ups and downs of his life as a user.The direction is pretty good, it's obvious Eastwood likes his jazz, and he uses the clubs well getting a great sense of mood. Elements are quite funny and this tempers the more tragic side of his life well. Whittaker is excellent in the lead role, but Diane Venora as his wife is not as good. She doesn't totally carry her lines in the same way - she's OK but you feel like something is missing. The rest of the cast come and go - there are good performances all round from a mostly low-key cast. The main star is the music, and it's treated with a lot of respect with Eastwood giving it plenty of time and creating a good mood for it to work in.Overall a tragic story well told with a good central performance and great music. "},{"Title":"Cool Soundtrack! Overall good movie but, flawed.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" If you like Jazz you can't 'not like' this movie. If you like Noir you will dig the overall look of it. My only problem is that Eastwood concentrates more on presenting the tragic side of Charlie parker's life and so we get a very dark and somber film. While we do get glimpses of Parker as 'musician', Forest Whitaker's, Parker as 'junkie', tends to weigh down the story. If Eastwood had to choose between highlighting the story of 'The greatest jazz musician of all time' or 'The premature death of a self-destructive Junkie', It's obvious which route he chose to take...the easiest one. Ultimately it becomes more a movie about Parker's relationship with his wife Chan, and less about Parker's relationship with Jazz. In my opinion, Clint doesn't really succeed at showing us why we should love the character of Bird and maybe this was not his intention; but if a separation of the personality (warts and all) and his art is necessary to show an honest depiction; then why not also highlight the music and allow it to speak for itself? In this case, by making it a more satisfying listening experience like Formans Amadeus or Tavernier's Round Midnight. The way they allowed the music be THE lead character of the movie.Still, the improved fidelity in the remix of the soundtrack makes some of these old recordings easier digestible for those who may be new to Parker's music. Incidentally, this is the best fidelity of Charlie Parker you'll find anywhere. On the whole this is not a bad movie; It is not a complete depress-fest like two other movies about drug induced pop culture icons 'The Doors' or 'Sid & Nancy'. Indeed this movie has its moments. There's a scene where Parker (blowing on his sax) wakes up Dizzy in the middle of the night to improvise on 'Now's the Time'. I also love the scene where he takes a gig with Red Rodney to play at a Jewish wedding. I wanted more of this type of interaction with his fellow Jazzers! "},{"Title":"Eastwood proves he's one of America's best directors.  Simply brilliant.","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" A dark and atmospheric biopic on jazz legend Charlie Parker, who with his fast improvisational style formed the sub-genre of bebop. Clint Eastwood directed this movie with a heart and passion that reflects back to his own love of the music which he has carried with him all his life and played a role in all his work. Eastwood himself actually was fortunate to have seen Charlie Bird Parker play in when he was alive. The film chronicles his life and has a tight focus on his self destructive behavior and the music itself. Bird explores the highs and lows of his journey. Playing to a sold out house in Paris, playing alongside Dizzy Gillespie, and earning a respect that few other musicians have matched. In contrast we see his heroine addiction, his suffering and depression resulting in several suicide attempts, the death of his daughter, and his wife's loving struggle to help save a man who's ill-fate was inevitable and irreversible.Forest Whitaker plays Bird with a lot of heart and soul. Even though I have no idea if it was an accurate portrayal in capturing the man's nuances, Whitaker's interpretation was superlative. Equally as good was Diane Venora as Bird's wife, who found enough strength for the both of them and tried to hold the family together in an un-winnable battle. There's lots of rain, lots of dark nightclubs, lots of street lamps reflecting the soaked streets, and lots of feeling in this one. Having just watched another biopic, that one on Ray Charles, it's clear to see Eastwood's was the real deal, whereas Ray was merely decent. Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Something sad, something happy, and long but never boring, it's one of the more honest tributes to a musician in film","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Clint Eastwood's direction was very suitable for the material in this film, dealing with subjects he cares much about (music, loners, risking on the edge), and his handle on Bird, for my money, was wonderful. It's not an easy film to take, and it asks a lot from one in the viewing (it's a big film, with a plot complex, but not confusing, but is rewarding for those with a good interest Charlie Parker and the days of 40's-50's jazz. It's arguable whether there might be flaws in some of the uses of symbolism or bits of dialog in Joel Oliansky's script. But it's strong points - Forest Whitaker's major breakthrough in the title role; the bountiful and superb collection of Parker songs on the soundtrack (with a fine score by Lennie Neuhaus); a keen eye for getting the atmosphere and lighting right by Eastwood - are worth the viewing. Like most films about musicians with demons in the back of their heads (i.e. Ray, The Doors, even Amadeus), there is a level of possible melodrama that has to be crossed. With Bird, Parker is an interesting subject with this, and is ultimately shown well to be redeemed by the music. Likely to become more appealing, or at least easier to take on a second viewing, Bird is a solid, inspiring movie, with a kind of feeling to it that is unique. A+ "}{"Title":"Not Jazzy Enough","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I feel as though the film did not do justice to the musically phenomenal life Bird went through. He was one of the most influential Jazz musicians crating an entire style of music. Which i felt was not portrayed fully. As one of the comments i've heard before stated it seemed they had a choice between Charlie Parker as a musical genius or Charlie Parker as a junkie and they chose junkie.I felt as though the musicians playing the bird solo's did a bad job reflecting his sound. As in Charlie Parker had a sound that filled up an entire room with complicated be-bop phrasings and with a blues background. While the musicians just had him playing fast notes most of the time which was sometimes difficult to hear over back ground noise, very unbird like.However i did enjoy moments of the film, that showed even Charlie Parker had to play some weird gigs.My last point is that it felt as though Chan Parker was portrayed as a stable part of bird's life, and was one of the central idea's of the film. As in the love story between him and his wife, with a love hate relationship. Which i think could have been less focused on and centralized more around Charlie Parkers music.i do understand that Chan actually helped the script writer to write the film so it may have been a somewhat biased perspective. "},{"Title":"Bop King found dead in heiress's flat!","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Thus read the headline in the Melody Maker in England in 1955.I read the front page article on the top deck of the trolley bus going to school and determined to play the rare Dial 78 s my best friend had loaned me to wean me away from Louis Armstrong that had been languishing under the All - Stars' double sided Basin St Blues for some time. Shortly after that I heard the Massey Hall LP with Dizzy and Bud Powell and moved Bird right alongside Louis in my pantheon of musical gods where he remains over half a century later. I am a great admirer of Mr Clint Eastwood both as a director and an actor and am grateful to him for putting his money where his mouth was and making Bird. Charlie Parker had the avid mind of the poorly - educated intelligence,he read widely,had eclectic musical tastes,improvised some of the most profoundly moving music of the second half of the 20th century but most of his adult life was ruled by a heroin habit. He stole,lied,cheated and pimped to satisfy it,alienated many who loved him and,of course,ultimately it killed him.The story of his life was never going to be the typical Hollywood biopic,rags to riches but still basically the nice guy/girl of childhood sort of stuff. Bird came from a world alien to most Americans of the 50s,harsh,violent divided along race lines,awash with alcohol and drugs,it would have been surprising indeed if he had passed through it unscathed. Bird is disturbing to watch,wonderful to listen to and required viewing for anyone wanting to know about the life of the second most influential jazz musician in history. Stan Kenton alumnus Mr Lennie Neihaus masterminded the soundtrack and isolated the Parker solos from their original background,re - recording them with contemporary musicians,arguably not particularly ethical perhaps,but the muddy 50 year old records still have some joyous saxophone playing mixed with pristine state of the art resources. Mr Eastwood doesn't bowdlerise Bird's life,he presents an uncompromising picture of an improvising genius unable to take control of his own life and unwilling to let others control it for him. "},{"Title":"Only For Hardcore Jazz Fans... But Still barely Worth It","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Being a jazz musician and enthusiast, I was really excited to see this movie. However, it ended up being a dreary and disappointing film that dragged on and on.The story line, as haphazardly arranged as it is, revolves mostly (and justly so) around Parker's debilitating drug addiction, but also around his marriage to Chan. However, it never mentioned his first wife, Doris. The film also tended to dwell (perhaps unjustly so) on his musical relationship with the white trumpeter, Red Rodney. It was surprising how little of it involved Parker's best-known musical partner, Dizzy Gillespie. Miles Davis, who collaborated with Parker a lot during '48 and '49, receives only a quick glimpse in the background during a recording session.I would have liked to see much more about Parker's development and childhood. Also, I felt that the movie could have used a bit more humor, seeing as Parker was one of the first truly interesting characters in jazz, even though that was, sadly, because of his drug addiction.Bird tends to drag on and on, with the best parts being when Parker plays on camera. I felt that the best scene was the performance at a Jewish wedding. That cracked me up, seeing Bird play a regular Klezmer song and then break into a wildly brilliant bebop improvisation. I don't know if that really happened, but it was fun all the same.Ray is a movie from the same vein as Bird, but far better. "},{"Title":"Mainly For Fans Of Charlie Parker","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The music in here is excellent and makes jazz appealing even to a non-jazz enthusiast like me. It better, because that's what the subject of the film is jazz, and Charlie Parker, in particular. Bird was his nickname, and Parker was a good subject matter for a film - not a pleasant subject most of the time, but for jazz fans the man is a legend.I thought the acting was good, especially by the two main people Forest Whitaker, playing Parker, and Diane Venora as wife Chan. My major complaint was that it was too long. To make a film over 160 minutes when much of it is a downer it tough to sit through. It's generally a story about what can happen to a man who is addicted to drugs, which is what happened to this giant of jazz. That's the part of fhis life that is emphasized,, so it makes this movie a very long, sordid tale, not a happy one. Unless one is a big jazz aficionado, one viewing of this would be plenty. "},{"Title":"Pleasure versus sacrifice","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The life of Charlie Parker is Christ-like, to the point of dying at the age of 34. Clint Eastwood does not insist on his youth and origins. He concentrates on the mature musician from the moment he gets into the profession (with a cabaret card) to the moment when he dies and gets out of it, still with his cabaret card, at least in his dying heart. Charlie Parker represents a very typical case. The musician is stepping out of real life with his music. He steps into another world where the weight of the body and the ethics of the mind do not exist any more, and that's why his music is luminous and so entrancing. We are literally swallowed up by that swinging force because it is from an out world that is beyond pure comprehension and that is only to be enjoyed. But to produce that joy, that beauty and that light the musician has to burn his own life slowly but surely till death ensues. Alcohol, tobacco, drugs, wild living and no regularity at all, insanity too of the psychotic type quite often are the companions and the tools of this musician and even the few friends he meets along the way, both other musicians, or women and men who just love him are not enough to stop the fire that consumes him, especially because without that consumption that burns him inside out he would not be able to play music, to compose music, to create music. Clint Eastwood really renders that psychotic world with a force and a power that makes the film too short even if it were two hours longer. We would like to just drown in that music and in that soul that feeds us that music as if it were the honey of paradise and the blood of life. But every single drop he gives us is a drop he loses in his veins. Till they are dry and the heart empty. A musician is always in a way committing a self-sacrifice of his life on the altar of our pleasure.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"I Love Jazz and Parker,  but not 'Bird'","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The subject matter is wonderful and the music is great.  I saw this movie shortly after it came out and was disappointed.  I watched it again after learning more about his life and having gained a greater appreciation for be-bop.  Well... I was still disappointed.Clint Eastwood directed this movie and it was clearly a labor of love. The script, however, didn't do the material justice.  Even with the charismatic Forrest Whitaker as Bird, this movie is a labor to watch.  "},{"Title":"Thirteen Ways of looking at a yardbird","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  There are so many ways of looking at this film, its players, the mileu, the music; it's overwhelming. I think Dizzy put the case very well they'll remember the martyrs better than the survivors. And yet, in another way Dizzy was not seeing another side of the power of legends. Charie Parker's legend however riddled with drugs, disappointment, and, finally an early death was more, absolutely more in his music than his tragic marriage to drugs. It wasn't the tunes he wrote (sometimes for peanuts) or the fragile, ephemeral fame he achieved; it was the approach to jazz he brought to the world. Like Louis Armstrong before him his voice extended the very foundation of jazz. His extensions of chord structure, phrasing, adapting classical elements lifted the entire body of music beyond bebop, and into a wider (world wide) musical arena. In another time and in another place he might have been Mozart (on a lesser scale, some might say; but his influence on future musicians was and is vast and continuing.) Busta who dumped his horn in the river might have been Solieri to Mozart; one man is simply born with it and to it; one song is memorable and another is not. Omitting all other elements of this powerful dramatic film it is important because it gives us a man--in a very memorable, and probably rlatively unrecognized performance (the man emoted beautifully, of course, but he even had the skill to simulate the fingerings and breathing while playing the alto sax very close to reality) of Forest Whittaker. Clint eastwood, himself a jazz pianist, gives us a movie vibrating with movie excellence and exposure to the music as it really was--is. The scenes in the clubs and studios, the banter among musicians, the dark alleyways, the noir walks through the rain . . . brought tears to my eyes. Of course I am only an old jazzer, and this is just one way of looking at a movie about a yardbird. beyond numbers for me. jaime, "},{"Title":"The Tragedy of a Musical Legend The Bird","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Clint Eastwood's love for jazz is clearly reflected in this marvelous piece of tragedy. 'Bird' is indeed about the one and only legendary Charlie Parker who lived a somewhat tortured life supported by his wife Chan, alcohol, substance abuse and jazz and yet he became the greatest give to jazz. His contribution remains one of the most essential to the music and he is one name that's required to be known by all jazz lovers. 'Bird' is one film that will especially appeal to jazz lovers.The cinematography and lighting adds to the 40s and 50s chaotic jazz atmosphere. However, I thought that perhaps Parker's solos would have been better left with the original music instead of integrating it with modern musicians. Nevertheless this is one minor flaw. 'Bird' isn't told in chronological order and I was a little confused about the time-line but quickly it got clear.I also loved the way Clintwood focused on the love story between Bird and Chan. There clearly was a deep love between the two but Parker was a difficult tormented soul and his wife always had a strong presence in his life, always being there for him despite his chronic abuse of drugs and alcohol and his infidelity. Forest Whitaker gives the performance of a lifetime. He's sublime but also ravaged and disturbingly tormented as Charlie Parker. I haven't seen 'The Last King of Scotland' but I wonder why it took years for this actor to get the deserved recognition. Diane Venora is just as good and in spite of having numerous good work to her credit, she too does not seem to get the deserved recognition.I think 'Bird' would have been a better film about Parker, had Eastwood shown more of Parker's contribution to jazz in 'Bird'. I was already a little familiar with Parker's works and influence. We do catch a very little glimpse of Parker's struggle in getting accepted as a musician. As a result, 'Bird' isn't exactly a 'complete' biopic. I remember watching another beautiful biopic called 'Iris' but was very disappointed that there was no mention of the great writers works. Perhaps Eastwood wanted to limit the film from exceeding the length (it's already longer than two hours) yet at places the pace is quite lethargic.Having said it all, in spite of its flaws, it remains a fantastic film that I recommend to everyone, not only jazz lovers. A fine piece of film. "},{"Title":"A representation of Charlie Parker's personal life","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I'm a jazz fan (all types) for 60 years and a sometime musician myself. I still listen regularly to Bird and Diz and many other jazz artists. When transcriptions are available, it is also enjoyable and educational to listen to a song while following the transcription.Bird is one of the top jazz musicians of all time, and it's good to have a movie made about his life and music, even a movie like this that falls well short of being a really good or excellent account. But then, look at how many movies there are about gangsters or even just Dillinger that do not tell the story that well either. It's very difficult to capture a life in a movie.I've also read a good many biographies and interviews that shed light on jazz musicians, including Bird, Diz, and others who brought about be-bop and modern jazz. From that perspective, I was disappointed that this screenplay didn't really capture the jazz aspect or Bird's significance, but instead focused at such great length on his personal life, tardiness and addiction. From the broader perspective, it did interject at least some material about jazz, did give a feeling for the vagaries of the life of a musician, did mention and introduce some of the musicians of the time (if briefly), and did present at least some of his work to audiences unfamiliar with it.The passing portrait of Diz didn't do him or his contribution to the music justice and it didn't even adequately show the relationship that they had musically. The actor playing Diz made him look too foolish, whereas Diz's humor always had a serious side to it. The movie script stayed with night club scenes mainly, not going into famous concerts to speak of, or jam sessions, or the working out of the music. It didn't bring in influences on Bird, or really show the progression in Bird's musical ideas.I did like how it brought in Red Rodney and the southern tour. That lifted the movie a lot. And I do think we got a feel for Bird's intelligence, wit and character. We may have gotten too much, however, of Chan and her role in his life. The title of the movie suggests a broad and balanced account of the man and his music. If he didn't act as if he wanted to live forever, or even to age 40, why should the movie focus so much on what appear as personal tragedies? Why not focus more on personal triumphs, which have to be in his music and its influence? All right, we see a guy throwing his alto sax away after hearing Bird, but this doesn't come close to showing all the musicians who wanted to sound like him. The naming of Birdland is cool, but Ornithology is cooler, and it's not in the movie.How much can we take of his drug addiction and hassles? Did we even learn exactly how this addiction began with a medical problem? It's rather muddled up in the movie. This movie felt long and repetitive after awhile. There was plenty of screen time to develop a different approach to his life and contributions, and maybe a future movie will take a crack at it.The music selection was not bad, but I do think it needed more thought in picking out original sound track material. I'd think long and hard about including the session in which Bird and Diz recorded Ko-Ko. There are some other recordings at this high and creative level that could replace what is on this sound track. Lester Leaps In gets a lot of attention in the movie, but it's not really Bird's best, and besides, it's associated with Lester Young (who is also in the top tier all-time greats of jazz). Perhaps a movie on Bird should simply have gone back to the older Hollywood style as in The Glenn Miller Story and The Benny Goodman Story. That approach which shows time and music linearly affords more opportunity to understand the man and his music. This movie was too jumbled up to do that. And although I am a great fan of noir and neo-noir, I feel that this movie didn't gain much from being so dark.A better movie in which darkness does work and which does reflect a jazz man's life and music is the one with Dexter Gordon that's fictional, and that's Round Midnight from 2 years earlier, 1986. In reading comments by other musicians about Bird in Reisner's The Legend of Charlie Parker, it seems this movie really missed the mark. "},{"Title":"This picture is dedicated to musicians everywhere","Date":"24 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Biographies are a hard genre to capture on film. Books can give layers upon layers of detail into someone's life, based on multiple perspectives. And even documentaries have more of an opportunity through interviews and archive footage to establish a person's background and contributions to their art form. But how do you honorably condense a person's life down to the standards of conventional cinema, especially if that person was as unconventional as Jazz icon Charlie Parker? Clint Eastwood's Bird opens with a quote from F. Scott Fitzgerald, There are no second acts in American lives. After a brief scene with no dialogue depicting Parker's childhood in Kansas City, the film flashes forward to a suicide attempt about six months before his actual death in 1955. This opening sequence establishes the tone of the film, depicting the complicated relationship between Parker and his common law wife, his drug addiction, and the music that he gave to the world. It is from this point that the film takes an interesting approach, telling most of its story in episodic flashbacks, floating around through different time periods, and even the occasional flashback within another flashback, further playing with the idea of time and memory. It is through this nonlinear approach that the film most resembles the art form that it is representing.Bird mostly depicts Parker's life with his common law wife Chan Parker and his relationship to musicians Dizzy Gillespie and Red Rodney, all of whom gave their input during the production process. Chan, whose unpublished memoirs heavily influenced the screenplay, provided Eastwood with rare live recordings of Parker for the film. One of the movie's greatest accomplishments is its detail to the time period. In one of the film's most remarkable moments, the camera in one long take follows a club doorman up and down 52nd Street, making you feel like you are in the 1940s world of Bebop. You practically get lost in the darkly lit nightclub scenes with the air full of smoke and music.The two lead performances are extremely captivating. Forest Whitaker balances several different moods in his portrayal as Bird, conveying how charming and interesting he was to the outside world while also showcasing the pitfalls of drug addiction, and how it eventually made him an unreliable performer. He also does a convincing job at mimicking Parker's stage presence, especially his ability to improvise on the saxophone. Equal praise must go to Diane Verona as Parker's companion later in the life, establishing a cool persona in the early days of their relationship, and an overbearing sadness during its final months. The scene depicting their last phone conversation, with Verona trying so hard to mask her awareness of what's happening and eventually breaking down is heartbreaking.Still, with its Jazz-like approach to the narrative, Bird comes off as slightly overlong. It is still filled with nice moments and wonderful scenes. When touring in L.A., Bird stops outside the house of Igor Stravinsky, where the two geniuses stare at each other from a distance. This is juxtaposed nicely with an early scene of Parker and Chan's courtship, dancing in a fancy club with white Jazz musicians who stop playing because they recognize the legend in front of them, perhaps embarrassed by the second rate compositions they're playing. What might be the film's best scene comes near the end with Gillespie and Parker on a beach at night. The former tells the latter that while he's trying to be a progressive, Parker is too busy trying to be a martyr. People always seem to remember the martyr more, Gillespie laments. Oh how right he was! "}{"Title":"Clint should stick to Spaghetti Westerns and drop the Jazz thing...","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Like most music bio- films - The Eastwood Bird film centered on Parker's romantic relationship.In this case, his relationship with Chan Richardson(after two failed marriages). Despite the fact they had two kids, the film made the relationship the centerpiece of his life which is contrary to all the other bio's I've read.If I remember correctly, Eastwood took the liberty of re-recording all the rhythm tracks... which sounded suspiciously phoned in from the wrong decade.If you want to find out about Parker, read Bird Lives or the Miles Davis autobiography. You'll realize how whitewashed Clint's film really was.Another thing, I like Whitaker but I didn't think his portrayal of Parker was much of a departure from his usual schtick. "},{"Title":"One of the best music biopics ever","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This is an incredible movie and one of the best music biopics ever. I was already a fan of Charlie Parkers music and I think that helps when it comes to appreciating this film. But, Forrest Whitaker's performance is incredible as are all of the others who so accurately portray the real life musicians of the film. If there is one detractor in the movie, it is the fact that there are a lot of flash backs and flash forwards and at times it can be a little hard to follow. I didn't get everything until I saw it the second or third time. Highly recommended. If you liked Coal Miners Daughter, Ray or Walk the Line or if you are a fan of jazz music, you will love Bird. "},{"Title":"A great man, and a tragedy that should not be forgotten.","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Anyone who really knows Bird's life understands it was, ultimately, a tragedy. I have read several books about Charlie Parker and listened to more than a dozen of his albums. The portrait Clint Eastwood creates matches exactly what I know of Bird's life. And the most wonderful thing is that, I believe, it conveys an appreciation of his music in a way that recordings, alone, cannot.(Possible spoiler ahead.) Bird was not destroyed by the first glimmerings of rock and roll any more than he was destroyed by the popularity of country and western. Classical is another matter. The key symbolism to understanding the tragedy is that, with his discovery of classical music, Bird began to realize how much more there was to understand and experience in the world. But he had lived for the intensity of the moment, over-indulging in booze and drugs. With just a little more time he would have beaten these demons with his enormous will power. But he did not have the time.There is a lesson there, based on a very real life that, until Eastwood's movie, had been virtually forgotten by most of the Black community and the world. See it! This is a great movie!  "},{"Title":"Fly Away","Date":"14 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Let's take a moment here and reflect. Clint Eastwood, Charlie Parker, and Forrest Whittaker. Has it sunk in yet? Well, by now, it should have. This. Is. Not. A. Good. Match. Period. I'm a huge fan of jazz, Charlie Parker,and music in general. I watched Bird after watching the awesome film, Whiplash. Only because the famous cymbal throwing incident was used repeatedly in the film as an epic, pivotal point. So, although I'd heard that this movie existed, and was not really very good, I still entered into watching worth an open mind and a musician's heart. While the music in the film was exemplary, the actual cadence of the film was awkward, stunted, disjointed, and contrived. The voice of the film changed rapidly and repeatedly, causing so much distortion and manipulation to actual events that the film appeared completely fictitious. Bird and Chan spoke almost completely in prose. And, while this may have been possible, it certainly didn't translate well onto the big screen. As with the change in voice and viewpoint, this quotable literary referencing was completely repelling. Especially, if the viewer had no reference point as to the author, let alone the work referenced. This awkward dialogue added to the general confusion of the film. At end credits, Eastwood thanks Chan for her contribution to the making of Bird. This would lead the viewer to believe the portrayal was to her liking. Although, I certainly doubt that fact. Forrest Whitaker's portrayal of Charlie Yardbird Parker was quite a stretch. Although I'm sure he acted, under close scrutiny, both by Eastwood and Chan, the character portrayal felt shapeless, shallow, and inconsistent. The struggle with addiction may have represented this discord, but, to this viewer, the message and actions weren't cohesive. The fact that Forrest Whitaker doesn't and cannot BE Charlie Parker is clear. An actor studies it's subject closely to try to portray the person clearly. There was not enough preparation to ready Whitaker for this role. The only saving grace was the character actors. These men and women were billed as minimal people in Parker's life. They were, in fact, major players that were under developed in this representation. Dizzy, the Baroness, etc. were brief spots of clarity in an otherwise foggy account of an extraordinary musician's life. Often, many films fall through this trap. The account of a great musician's life, clouded by the addictions and problems that dictated their lives. Janis Joplin, Jimmi Hendrix, Karen Carpenter, and others spring to mind instantly. As an avid musician, the excuse that Charlie Parker was great, only when addicted, is a cop-out. Charlie Parker was a great musician with addiction battles. Not the other way around. All in all, completely disappointed. And extremely happy that I didn't waste money on this dismal, biographical film. "},{"Title":"Innovative.","Date":"30 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" As an actor, Clint has his limits. His best moments come with scowls. But as a director, once he passed through his orang-utan stage, he took a lot of chances -- I suppose because he was now in a position to indulge his own artistic impulses.I mean, here is this story about a dead black musician. Not a funny and friendly and famously popular type like Satchmo Armstrong, but a radical alto saxophonist who was one of the sires of bebop jazz. Bebop didn't only give the public melodies it could whistle or romantic ballads. The emphasis was all on the performers and their improvisations, usually up tempo. You had to be a technician to finger your ax that fast and a near-genius to dream up so many variations. The themes themselves were almost disposable. The titles were whimsical throwaways -- Anthropology? It's not The Glenn Miller Story. On top of that, we have a frequently wrecked black junkie mating with a beautiful white woman -- Forest Whitaker and Diane Venora, respectively.Charlie Parker's wicked saxophone solos aside, it's a dark movie in almost every respect. Most movies of geniuses run along a familiar geometric narrative. Man (or woman) discovers hidden talent. Rises from obscurity to fame. Is brought down by inner demons. Recovers at the last moment through epiphany. Up, down, then up again. Bird's struggle with drugs and booze was a lifetime affair. His career had more ups and downs than a traveling block on an oil rig. As far as his recordings go, he seemed to play his instrument just as well when he was high as when he wasn't. He played just as well when they forced strings and an oboe on him.It's dark, too, because all the scenes are barely lighted. You can't see the faces too clearly. It ends tragically, too, as Charlie Parker's life did. And it's a squalid death. We don't see him sitting in a drunk ward like Kirk Douglas in Young Man With a Horn (read Bix Beiderbecke), his eyes suddenly widening, his face brightening, as he listens to a siren scream in the background and he says, That's it -- that's the NOTE! Somebody ought to do Parker's friend and colleague, Dizzy Gillespie, who passed through bebop into his own technical firmament. At least he played skillfully throughout his life, died peacefully, and had an extraordinarily subtle sense of humor. If he were elected president, he'd have changed the White House into the Blue House.If you haven't seen this and if you have some doubt about whether you want to listen to this kind of music, you might go to YouTube and find one of his three-minute recordings, preferably one with Dizzy Gillespie. "},{"Title":"Great tribute to a great musician","Date":"23 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Way before of his outstanding and recent biographical works like Invictus, Changelling and J.Edgar, this was the first serious film directed by Clint Eastwood, at that time famous for his westerns and action films. And Mr. Eastwood directs this cine biography of Charlie Parker with an impressive artistic style that pays a great tribute to one of the most important jazz figures.Landing on his first leading role, the amazing Forest Whitaker plays Parker, known as Bird, from his first gigs as musician way before of becoming famous as a regular on the Birdland to all his problems with drug addiction, his troubled life and ultimately to his death at age 34. Here's the artist in all his forms fighting against countless demons; surviving with his art, a true master with the saxophone, an true legend that couldn't decide between staying strong for his work and for his family or to succumb to all of his problems, someone who couldn't bear the tragedy of losing a child, and seeing how the music changed around him and around his other musician mates, most of them joining rock groups, trading their styles.Clint recreates the 1930-1950's period with a great visual sense, the right colors, all dark, an endless night that can be noticed as a reflection on Bird's life, a great darkness with few but powerful lights shining through. This movie always reminds of 'Round Midnight (1986), another great jazz film.What can be viewed as a negative point is the fact the film focus mostly on Charlie Parker downer moments rather than displaying his musical geniality, his performances (at least, the ones we're allowed to see are highly credible thanks to Whitaker's effort in the acting). It's a tough film to watch, very depressive. I don't find Joel Olianski's script a perfect work but it is a great achievement indeed. Since the story is presented through flashbacks (that weren't so well developed) most viewers will not find Bird an easy experience to watch. A more linear approach would fit better, it would make the film move with more quality, with efficiency and a certain appeal to audiences. Those who know about Bird will enjoy the film, I think, even though there's a certain lack of good facts about him, his partnership with Miles Davis, etc (And where's his memorable performance of A Night in Tunisia (composed by Dizzy Gillespie by the way)?But there's time to cover his marriage with Chan (Diane Venora), an loyal woman who managed to stay with the man regardless of anything; and his trip down the deep south with his black band and the only white member of it, Rodney (Michael Zelniker) was forced to play as a singer because of the place rules. Detail the guy couldn't sing! A light and funny moment in the picture.Jazz fans or not, at least watch it to see how great Clint is in directing this and see how a talent is born in front of cameras and I'm talking about Forest Whitaker, at that time known for his supporting roles in Fast Times in Ridgemont High and Good Morning, Vietnam, and here he has the role of a lifetime as Parker. Whitaker plays the character with conviction, not just the music and using the saxophone but the man's pain, his inner conflicts, his lovable side, to the point of of making a serenade to Chan while standing on a white horse. It is his most complete performance.Ladies and gentlemen, please enjoy the finest jazz brought by Mr. Eastwood in one of the most interesting films of 1988. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Hot, dark & faithful but over-long biopic of Charlie Parker","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Given that Clint Eastwood is, famously, an ardent jazz enthusiast, he should be commended for producing a film that manages to maintain some dramatic balance. It could be so easy to cobble together a hagiographic sequence of people being astonished and fawning at Charlie Parker's virtuosity and daring. Certainly, Eastwood uses the extraordinary extant recordings to great effect, illuminating pivotal moments both for Parker and his friends, colleagues and acolytes alike. Yet we also get the tawdriness, insecurity, filth, recklessness and pain, stripped of the romanticism that retrospect would otherwise confer on it.Sorry to say, I think that Eastwood does succumb to some indulgence. It's clear that he garnered considerable information from Parker's widow Chan. The scenes with Chan (well-played by Diane Venora) are too many and clog the drama, in deference to her contribution. The film is too long, despite its incorporation of the cultural changes of an America in the middle of the previous century. The well-constructed 'flashback' style sequences of heightened realism should have been sufficient to allow us space to breathe and reflect on his situation - as Parker himself is doing in those moments.Forest Whitaker's fine, hectic-yet-tempered re-creation of this most incandescent of musicians is as good as his Oscar-winning Idi Amin. The key is that he connects up all the mood lurches. One can tell that abandon, even self-destruction isn't far away, even as he plays. Yet the sequences of clear sobriety are not conducted by a Dr Jekyll whose Mr Hyde has been excised; the shadow - and the guilt - lingers.I appreciated Eastwood's adherence to the neon-fringed chiaroscuro of Parker's nocturnal existence (i.e. 52nd Street). The editing of the film is also nicely judged. If only the director had had the daring to really cut the film back and give us a BeBop-blast of a biopic. 5/10 "},{"Title":"His Eye Is Off The Sparrow","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" It's been claimed that this is the Best film about Jazz ever made and whilst the glib response may be yeah, maybe, but how MANY films about Jazz have been made, the tendency is to agree. What is undeniable is the fact that director Eastwood - a well-known jazz buff - has not been content with the four-bar taste of the music then cutting away from the band to a dialogue scene approach which is what fans usually get fobbed off with, here we actually are allowed to savour (assuming, of course, the music is our prime reason for watching the film) not only the genius of Parker but also the music scene as it existed roughly between 1945-55 and though he isn't named aficionados will know it was Jo Jones who threw the cymbal at Parker to register disgust. 52nd St - known as Swing Street - has also been lovingly recreated so already we have accumulated a host of positives, throw in the remarkable lead performance from Forest Whitaker and we are talking great movie. "},{"Title":"Tilted  away from the music","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I watched about a third of this and got so fed up I just put a Charlie Parker cd on instead. The movie looks great and the principals are good especially Forrest Whitaker but there's very little about the music and his interactions with fellow musicians and producers. That would be interesting, instead we get typical Hollywood romance/tragic romance stuff. Bird focuses almost exclusively on Parker's relationship with Chan and his drug addiction, Bird suffers because of that. It's kind of like the bebop version of Titanic. Eastwood is a good sometimes great (Mystic River,White Hunter Black Heart ) director but often he seems entrenched in Hollywoodisms, sort of Ron Howard on steroids. "},{"Title":"Anthropology","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Charlie 'Yardbird' Parker is one of the greatest musicians. Let go any mind's definition, throwing away any labels still stuck to the surface of it. If you read any of the Kerouac's novels you'll have a glimpse of who this man really was defined by his music ONLY, the rest is just another juggler's show, everything is ALL RIGHT! And now that this lesson is somehow categorized they call it Jazz or as they were then calling it with scorn, BeBop (since for the majority of the musicians or public, that mass of notes were just popping out without any sense or structure), but his music is perhaps purely a flow in time, a burst of creative energy, lines of poetry declared without restraint, truly a-no-ther space where you can feel stories and maybe meet unfamiliar characters, see uncharted places through different eyes, taste another flavor of an unknown birth just listen. Then it comes this movie directed with love, great acting, beautiful cinematography, excellent sound work, honest script storyline; still I cannot see the Bird fly! "}{"Title":"this bird can fly high","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Clint Eastwood, a figurehead in American cinema is also a jazz lover and connoisseur. It's no wonder that he was thrilled to bits to the idea to shoot a film on one of the jazz legends Charlie Parker, a prodigious as well as tormented virtuoso. In France, it's this film which definitely made the most stubborn newspapers ditch the following epithets fascist, macho, racist which stuck to Eastwood for a long time, especially since the Dirty Harry saga. They seemed to have forgotten that Eastwood was and still is a filmmaker whose richness of inspiration is solid. And this legend had its admirers and supporters among some French critics and filmmakers including Jean-Luc Godard!If one can see the title and read the synopsis to have an idea of what we're going to watch, one figures that Eastwood prepared a cozy programmed scheme to tell Parker's rueful life and that he chronologically, sedately shot it. But the filmmaker turns the elements and rules of the biopic to his own advantage and to startling results. The very onset is deceptive. One can see Parker when he was a child and then for a short sequence as a teenager. These moments passed, Eastwood doesn't fear to subvert the rules of storytelling and time which are shattered. His film toys with past and present with sometimes (fortunately not often) an absence of points of reference. Hence, the interest of being very attentive during all the work. Maybe Eastwood chose this device to capture Charlie Bird Parker's tormented mind in disarray. Sometimes, the director disconcerts a little more by inserting flashes inside the flash-backs. And how somber is the cinematography (I strongly advise Eastwood's aficionados to watch this work all lights turned off for a lot of scenes take place at night and in dimly lighted places). This cinematography with dark colors harks back to the films Noirs of the forties and the fifties and was perhaps tapped to suggest that Parker eventually got a raw deal in spite of his genius for jazz music and his fate is sealed. Another option would be to have chosen this type of cinematography to enable to Eastwood to fully savor his passion for jazz which shows through the concerts and virtually any time a piece of jazz is heard.Eastwood lets his talent of director shine and installs as much as possible a stylish, personal style to develop his own vision of the musician and the man Parker. A real virtuoso who tried to catch these short moments of bliss during especially his concerts. But also, a tormented mind, haunted by demons who developed a drug and alcohol addiction. His decay, his trouble with his addictions, his woes (the death of her little girl) are broached and treated with reserve, a dash of sympathy and Eastwood shelves any moralizing attitude. I must also admit that the possible scenes I had expected from the film (wild mood swings maybe caused by drug and alcohol, feuds with the women he knew) are softened from my standpoint.With such an unusual construction which puzzled the audience back in 1988, this film was doomed to failure but it didn't stop it from meeting well-reviewed analyzes and to be showered with praise. The Cannes festival didn't make a mistake by attributing to Forest Whitaker, the prize for the Best actor, another good example of Eastwood's generosity towards his actors to let them hold more or equally meaty parts than his. This generosity will be more conspicuous in the following decade. In France, Bird was the first Eastwood film to get a nomination at the Césars in 1989 for the Best Foreign film. Subsequent works the Bridges of Madison County (1995), Mystic River (2003) and Million Dollar Baby (2004) will also be in contention to get the Prize and the two last ones will (deservedly) hit the jackpot.This maverick biopic adds to Eastwood's canonical filmography as a director and his devotees as well as Parker's fans or any jazz fan shouldn't miss it. It's a novel piece of work in the biography genre and Eastwood won't think twice before thwarting codes of other cinematographic genres in the nineties with the revisionist Unforgiven (1992) or the superb a Perfect World (1993). "},{"Title":"An honest look at the life of a Jazz pioneer","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  First of all, Forest Whitaker must be commended for his emotional and very believable portrayal of Charlie Yardbird Parker. While some people may think that this movie was depressing and dark, I think that if you know the Bird's music, then you understand that the story was honestly told (and the lighting and heavy nature of many of the scenes only added to the overall vibe). "},{"Title":"Dry","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  A competent, professional piece of filmmaking from Clint Eastwood--and perhaps that's just what's wrong with it. A biopic of saxophonist Charlie Parker, Eastwood brings his solid directorial skills but leaves his passion at the door. It's easy to see Eastwood is mad about Parker's music--this is nothing less than a labor of love--but there isn't a lot going on in his telling of Parker's story and while it's never less than watchable, there's a pervasive feeling of bloodlessness at work. Eastwood and his screenwriter Joel Oliansky either are not concerned with or casually ignore some of the more interesting aspects of Parker's life (his interracial marriage, his drug addiction), preferring to present them mostly as non-issues and, as a result, there's a lot of downtime over the course of one hundred and sixty-one minutes. One wishes, after a while, that Eastwood would just let go in the way Parker the musician did; there's a lot of good material to get excited about, but Eastwood, in his cold, grim way, plays strictly by the numbers. There are good, if hardly memorable, performances by the leads, Forest Whitaker (as Parker) and Diane Venora (as his long-suffering wife, Chan).  "},{"Title":"Intense acting.","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Forest Whitaker makes a leap to stardom in this wonderful portrayal of  jazz great Charlie Parker. Diane Venora is marvelous as well. I felt the film was very long, but perhaps that's because I saw it at a late night show. There's no denying that Clint Eastwood is a great film maker, I just wish the lighting was a little bit lighter- I found it hard to see in some scenes, but of course that could've been the projector. Anyway, Forest Whitaker proves here that he is majorly talented and can carry a movie. I wish more people would cast him as the lead, as I find him fascinating to watch. The music is, of course, great too. Filled with jazz classics that will leave you reeling. I don't think it's suitable for kids though.  "},{"Title":"Great music...not so great story!!!","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw Bird as part of a Jazz Appreciation class.  The movie pays great homage to Charlie Parker and has some wonderful music in it.  So as a movie with jazz music in it, I give it a 10.As for a story I've got one word long very very long.  It took us 2 class periods to watch it.  And the class is 3 hours long.So as a review I really liked the movie because of the music not because of the story line.   "},{"Title":"too much rain","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Why is it that whenever directors want to convey sadness (or despair, or impending doom, or whatever) they bring on the rain. It worked OK in Blade Runner because the story took place in a future greenhouse world. But there was just too much of it in Bird. And I see that the just-released Road to Perdition is going to be drowning as well. Is it that Hollywood is located in a desert? "},{"Title":"Good But Way Too Long","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Don't expect that there will be something in this film that will keep you on the  edge of your seat just because Clint Eastwood produced and directed it.Instead, Eastwood cleverly brought the dismal life of jazz musician CharlieBird Parker to the screen by creating a great mix of historical fact, withintelligent acting. This movie is not the best film you'll ever see, but it's not the  worst. I would only recommend this movie to people who can sit for 3 hours and  be OK with that. Also, this is a good movie for people curious to know about the  stereotypical jazz musician's way of life. "}]