[{"Title":"S10 Reviews Bad Dreams (1988)","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cynthia (Jennifer Rubin) wakes up after being in a coma for thirteen years. She is the sole survivor of a religious sect who burned themselves up. But the leader of the sect (Richard Lynch) wants her back and will stop at nothing to get her from beyond the grave. There might be more to Cynthia's bad dreams but will those around her die before she finds out.'Bad Dreams' is a better than average 80's flick with a good plot and a nifty twist. Populated by some horror vets (Rubins and Bruce Abbott) and put together well by director Andrew (The Craft) Fleming. 'Bad Dreams' deserves more attention than it gets and the new DVD release is just the ticket. "},{"Title":"NOSTALGIA","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  For some odd reason I was the hugest fan of this film when it first came out. I made my father take me to see it over and over again. And to this say I still watch it every once in a while.I guess the main appeal of it when I was younger is that the villain  somewhat resembled Freddy Krueger and the lead actress Jenifer Rubin was from A Nightmare on Elm st. 3. The film doesn't offer much in the way of truly effective horror. But it makes up for it in creativity. It veers from the typical horror route going into a slightly more intellectual one and trying to induce psychological scares. Sometime they work and sometimes they won't. But at any rate the film is quite enjoyable with one hell of a twist ending.  Maybe it's the nostalgia I feel towards it or maybe it's still because it has such a kick ass poster. "},{"Title":"Bad Dreams on elm Street 3  )","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The First time I remember seeing this movie was back in the late 80s, when it was being played on HBO late one night. I remember at the time I thought the movie was pretty cool. I didnt see the movie again until about a year ago , when I picked up a used copy of it. Since then I have watched the movie a couple times, and I think its pretty awesome. its got some scary sences, and its definately got that old style 80s horror feel to it, which I miss. Its also crazy how similar this movie is to the 1987 masterpeice,A Nightmare on Elm Street 3- Dream Worriors. This movie's main star is Jennifer Ruben, who played Taryn in Nightmare 3...and just like in Nightmare 3, Bad Dreams is about a group of troubled kids who are in a mental institution, being haunted in there dreams by a burned boogeyman. It was cool to see Jennifer Ruben in another horror movie. This, and Nightmare 3, are the only two movies I can remember her in. Check out Bad Dreams if you want to see another cool late 80s horror movie. "},{"Title":"Pretty interesting and gruesome horror film.","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In the mid-70s,the members of the love cult Unity Fields sought the ultimate joining by dousing themselves with gasoline and committing mass suicide.A young girl blown clear of the fiery explosion was the only survivor.Thirteen years later,Cynthia(Jennifer Rubin)awakens from a coma inside a psychiatric hospital with only buried memories of that horrific day.But when her fellow patients start committing suicide one by one,her past slowly begins to come back to terrifying life...Bad Dreams is a pretty average horror flick.It's well-paced and visually interesting.The acting by Richard Lynch,Jennifer Rubin and Bruce Abbott,three actors ignored by the mainstream,is solid and there is plenty of blood and gore including knife through hand and some nasty self-mutilation.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very good thriller with loads of blood (small spoilers)","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Originality isn't really Bad Dreams' biggest trump but it sure is an ideal film in case you're looking for a few scares and/or chilling entertainment. The plot involves a spiritual sect with a textbook leader type that performed a mass suicide ritual in the 70's. One girl survived and she awakes from her coma 13 years later. Immediately after, she's haunted by hallucinations and nightmares in which the leader returns comes to tell her she has to fulfill her promise to the group and commit suicide after all. When she refuses, the leader leads other victims into death and he easily finds them among the psychiatric patients of the hospital. As stated earlier, the plot of Bad Dreams isn't very unique and borrows elements from over a dozen other (horror) movies. Mostly from 'Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors' (the image of the horribly burned leader even resembles the Freddy Kruger pizza-face!) and the group session looks inspired by 'One flew over the Cuckoo's Nest'. But who cares? Very few movies are completely original and at least this film offers spectacular amusement. Andrew Fleming's Bad Dreams upholds a good tempo, it has a great soundtrack (including a demented version of 'My Way' and a Guns 'n Roses classic during the end credits) and there's enough blood and gore to satisfy the most demanding horror buff. We see how people are getting burned, stabbed or thrown from high buildings. Two poor bastards even get hacked up in a ventilation system! Is that bloody enough for you? And yes, at some points, Fleming even succeeds in creating tension and eeriness. Especially the sequence where Cynthia has her first hallucination in the broken elevator is memorable. Last but not least Bad Dreams has a terrific B-movie cast filled with familiar faces. Jennifer Rubin plays the lead and she suffered from the same issues before in Nightmare on Elm Street. Bruce Abbott stars as a dedicated shrink and you'll unquestionably recognize him from the one and only Re-Animator. There also are neat supportive roles for Dean Cameron (Summer School), Harris Yulin (Scarface, 24) and even the lovely singer E.G. Daily makes an appearance! I say you better ignore the unusually large amount of negative reviews and give this one a look. "},{"Title":"Just plain fantastic","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the few masterpieces, when it comes to horror movies, of course does the movie borrow elements from, Nightmare on Elm street 3, but this one is far better, music, photography, acting and effects are class A. This must be Richard Lynch´s best role ever (Oscar worthy) Andrew Flemings direction is great, watch out for the scene where Harris Yulin (Deek Peasly from How the west was won-1979) gets crushed by a car, thats as much cinematic a scene can get. Lean back and enjoy.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"NOT an Elm Street Carbon copy!","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Warning possible spoilers! As with many films released in Hollywood over the years, this one is a victim of having a title that has no significance to the actual plot. Bad Dreams is just a flashy title to lure viewers, making them think it's another Elm Street ripoff. Forget about Elm Street. Watch this one with an open mind. The only similarities it has to Elm Street three are these A burned up psycho, a mental hospital (in which the patients are much more believable than the ones of NOES 3) and Jennifer Rubin. That's where the similarities end. The heroine of the film is not, in fact, having dreams, but hallucinations. You never once see her go to sleep and dream of this guy, he just shows up (usually conveniently after she's taken her meds. Hmmmm!) It is an excellent and smart psychological thriller, and completely underrated. And Dean Cameron, as always, is excellent, lovable, and funny in the role of Ralph, a horny teenager suffering from borderline personality disorder.  "},{"Title":"Interesting horror film has some neat ideas but it's certainly in familiar territory.","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cynthia (Jennifer Rubin) is been in coma for over 13 years. She's the only survivor from the Unity Field. It's a cult group that committed suicide, when they set on fire by the leader Harris (Richard Lynch). Once she wakes up from her coma, she's been seeing visions and having strange nightmare. Which it seems that Harris is trying to speak to her from the dead. Dr. Berrisford (Harris Yulin) thinks its best for Cynthia if she placed in a group session with Dr. Alex Karmen (Bruce Abbott). When Cynthia slowly starts remembering with the incident, now the patients are dying one by one. Now Cynthia is trying to stop the madness with the help of her psychologist. It seems that the evil spirit of Harris wants her dead. Which Alex knows that Cynthia isn't crazy and tries to end her bad memories.Directed by Andrew Fleming (The Craft, Dick, The In-Laws 2003) made an intriguing hallucinogenic horror film that has some effective horror moments and good performances by the cast. The premise seems a bit familiar to A Nightmare on Elm Street 3Dream Warriors at times. Especially when Rubin had a supporting role in the Nightmare franchise. Dean Cameron (Best known from Men at Work and Summer School) and E.G. Daily (Who's known as the voice of Tommy Pickles in the TV Rugrats) are also in the movie. Bad Dreams is quite impressive for two-thirds of the way but the last act feels rushed and out of touch with the rest of the picture. Fleming, who directed his first film handles like a pro on his first feature. The main problem, the screenplay by the director and Steven E. de Souza (Commando, Die Hard, 48 Hrs) could have been much stronger at times, especially towards the last act. But still, it's well made and horror fans will enjoy it. It's worth a look, despite some flaws. From a story by the director, Michael Dick, P.J. Pettiette and Yuri Zeltser. Gale Anne Hurd also produced it. She's best known for producing movies like Aliens, The Hulk and The Terminator. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Bad Dreams","Date":"1 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Bad Dreams is a fun late 80's horror film that feels a lot like The third part of A Nightmare on Elm St. Like that movie, Bad Dreams takes place in a hospital setting. The story goes that a girl named Cynthia was the sole survivor of a mass suicide in a cult community named Unity Fields. She ends up in a coma for thirteen years, but when she awakes, several of her fellow patients at the psychiatric hospital start dying. It appears like they are committing suicide, but could it be murder? The film is a lot like A Nightmare on Elm St 3, which also stared Jennifer Rubin. There is a burned man seemingly going after the patients, the doctors believe the people are killing themselves are refuse to think otherwise. Although it is similar, Bad Dreams is a decent horror flick with some gruesome moments.The hospital setting in a horror film is always fun to me. You would think it's safe, but it almost never is. The acting is pretty good in this as well. There is also a nice little twist to the story as well. The DVD is hard to find, I own the VHS. So if you come across this, I say buy it.8/10 "},{"Title":"Bad Dreams","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A influential cult leader, reminiscent of Jim Jones, Harris(Richard Lynch)seduces his communal group of worshipers to take part in a suicidal fire pact which explodes the house they live in..but, one survives, Cynthia(Jennifer Rubin)who awakens twenty years later to the care of Dr. Berrisford(Harris Yulin). Spending her days in a mental hospital without any family to speak of, Cynthis attempts to revive memories of her past before the house fire which took the lives of those she cared about. Her memories will assist the police in closing a case long spent open as Detective Wasserman(Sy Richardson), working the scene at that time, remains convinced that Cynthia's not the victim she seems to be. His feelings are assisted when members of Cynthia's therapy group, each known for suicidal tendencies, each begin killing themselves, with her nearby, believing she's a possible catalyst as to their sudden decisions to end it all under grisly circumstances. Before each member of her therapy group dies, Cynthia is either visited by Harris(..either as he was in the 60's or with charred burnt flesh)or sees him following them. Her assigned psychiatric physician, Dr. Alex Karmen(Bruce Abbott), doesn't believe in Cynthia's bogeyman manifesting from her nightmares to kill members of her therapy group and is convinced there's another type of motivation causing the strange suicides which have began to emerge. Karmen pursue the truth with odd resistance from his own superior, Berrisford, as Cynthia slowly falls prey to her hallucinations(..or are they?) of Harris who beckons to join his unity where those she once knew await her on the other side. If she doesn't end her own life Harris will continue to take souls..it's up to her.Slippery thriller, almost completely set in the mental hospital, where the viewer is to guess whether what Cynthia sees(..nightmare man, Harris, who pops up often to spook her)is real or a product of fantasy fueled by something malicious. Rubin's beauty is used rather well as she's often running around in a gown, conflicted and confused about her present mental state. Great villainous heavy Richard Lynch has a tailor-made star vehicle, often showcased in terrifying burn make-up, as the supposed supernatural killer causing the patients under Karmen's care to off themselves. Berrisford's philosophy and unorthodox methods of treatment for the patients under Karmen's care is of the utmost importance to the plot, but it's subtly infused within the story. While the similarities to Nightmare on Elm Street are striking(..Part 3 in particular which also starred Rubin in her first film and was set in a mental hospital), Bad Dreams ultimate twist at the end pries it apart from the Freddy Krueger franchise. Still, I imagine many will shrug their shoulders at this film as merely a rip from the franchise being that it concerns a nightmare man, with a burnt face no less, terrorizing Rubin. The title doesn't help the film's cause either. The film has a strong cast with Abbott(..fresh off the heels of Re-Animator), Yulin, as usual portraying the quietly malevolent and untrustworthy type of character who reeks of malicious intent, and Dean Cameron(Summer School)as a jokester with a nasty streak that explodes into violent rage at the very end when alone with Cynthia. Those familiar with Susan Barnes sweetheart in LA Law will find her very profane and confrontational patient Connie quite a polar opposite(..or polarizing, to be more specific). The gore is limited but there are inspired sequences of violence such as what one patient does to himself with surgical scalpels, the aftermath of a couple who decide to hurl themselves into the hospital turbines(..lots of blood spray spurting from ventilation shafts leave quite a lasting impression), and a suicidal leap onto the steps from an upper floor window. But, Lynch's burn make-up delivers the ultra-creepy goods. I think despite seeming unoriginal and rather familiar(derivative), Bad Dreams remains quite entertaining as the plot plays out and all the pieces fall into place. And, if anything, you have Lynch's tour-de-force performance to enjoy. Great little kill-fantasy played out in Karmen's mind after Berrisford fires him. "}{"Title":"REUnderrated 80's studio horror film.","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Creepy, surreal 80's horror head-trip. Slick direction coupled with descent acting, effective gore scenes, and true-to-life cult activity spices up this unappreciated horror gem. Critics savaged it, and it doesn't seem to have much of a following, but it leaves an undeniable sense of creepiness and dread when the final credits roll (to an early version of Guns N' Roses Sweet Child O' Mine.) Jennifer Rubin's sleepy demeanor fits well into this role, shortly after her stint on Elm Street 3 as a recovering heroin addict. Re-Animator's Bruce Cabot gives a decent supporting performance as the main character's doctor, who seems to have more than a passing interest in his socially defunct patient. It's not spoiling too much to say there is a twist ending that explains a lot of the weirdness going on throughout the movie. What do you expect when watching a movie about a bunch of patients in a mental ward? Good quirky performance by Dean Cameron, he of Summer School fame. Great tag-line, as well. U-N-I-T-Y...Unity...Join us! Too bad it never got an intended sequel...for 20th Century Fox was hoping to score a hit with the film as a continuing franchise, like that of the Elm Street movies. There's some good black humor thrown in for a couple of devious chuckles, but the trick to enjoying this flick is just to leave your expectations at the door and try to enjoy a good old-fashioned spook show. This is probably of the best things director Andrew Fleming ever did, as he went on to do other studio pictures like Threesome and The Craft. Great Soundtrack too! "},{"Title":"A good film in there somewhere","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hmmmmmmm. A burnt villain? A psych ward group slowly being killed? A sympathetic male doctor? Jennifer Rubin? Hey, this sounds exactly like A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 3 DREAM WARRIORS! And that is probably exactly what 20th Century Fox was hoping audiences would think with this attempt to cash in on the late 80s ELM STREET craze. It is too bad because hidden somewhere in BAD DREAMS is a good horror movie.With four writers getting a story by credit, BAD DREAMS reeks of shaping a object to fit the mold. Credited screenwriters Stephen de Souza and director Andrew Fleming present a fairly engaging mystery of a crazed doctor who is experimenting with various drugs on his patients to prove his theories on insanity. Unfortunately they unfold it in a scenario so similar to the third ELM STREET film that one wonders if litigation was ever pursued. Nowhere is this attempt more obvious than the sure to evoke Kruger title of BAD DREAMS. Shame no one in the film actually experiences bad dreams because all of the psychotic reactions are to drug induced hallucinations. I guess BAD HALLUCINATIONS didn't test well? The fact that nothing in this film comes off as original mars the plot's better aspects.To its credit, BAD DREAMS features a great cast. Female lead Rubin, last seen in A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 3 (!), may have hurt the film's chances of originality even more but she is good in her role. The casting of Richard Lynch as the cult leader is interesting if you know his back story. While under the influence of LSD in the 60s, Lynch actually did set himself on fire. Inspired casting or exploitation? You be the judge but Lynch is really creepy in the role. He keeps the character of cult leader Harris very sinister, something the ELM STREET series had long since abandoned with Freddy. Director Fleming should also get credit for casting Harris Yulin as the evil doctor. Yulin has very similar features to Lynch so it work well in the context of the story (Rubin sees Lynch in her hallucinations when it is really Yulin). Bruce Abbott, coming off his previous stint as a med student in RE-ANIMATOR (1985), graduates to a full fledged doctor and shows he is capable of carrying a studio backed feature, big sweaters notwithstanding. Perhaps the film's best performance is Dean Cameron as psychotic patient Ralph. Probably best known as horror fan Chainsaw, Cameron delivers some well timed sardonic comedy (a lot of which was improvised according to his website).On top of the acting, BAD DREAMS is a very well made film. Fleming has a nice visual style and handles the scares well. In fact, I would argue this is a better made film than most of the ELM STREET sequels (and it was actually made for less). Both the cinematography and editing are top notch. All of the murders are well staged with the 70s fire/suicide being the highlight. In terms of horror films, Fleming went on to direct the well received THE CRAFT a few years later. In addition to a creepy score by Jay Ferguson, The Chamber Brother's Time Has Come Today is used effectively through out the film to evoke the 70s.Unfotunately this experiment in flattery didn't get very far with audiences, raking in only $9 million at the box office. A paltry sum when compared to the previous year's A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 3 ($44 million) or the same year's A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 4 ($49 million). It may not be true in the real world, but in the cinematic world Robert Englund can take Richard Lynch any day. As it stands, BAD DREAMS is a time capsule to remind genre fans how much influence Wes Craven's creation had back in the day. "},{"Title":"Underrated horror movie","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Bad Dreams (1988) Directed by Andrew Fleming Story by Andrew Fleming & Michael Dick & P.J Pettiete & Yuri Zeltster Screenplay by Andrew Fleming and Steven E De Souza Review Bad Dreams is a late 80's horror movie that's often overlooked, it's got some good performances from Bruce Abbot, Jennifer Rubin and Richard Lynch. The rest of the cast do a pretty good job too.The movie does have a few similarities to A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 The Dream Warriors such has the burnt villain, the mental hospital and patients. The film has some pretty good FX such has the burnt body of Harris (Richard Lynch) and the gore effects. The PlotA young girl named Cyinthia (Jennifer Rubin) is a part of a love cult called Unity Fields who one day commit mass suicide by setting themselves on fire. Cyinthia is the only survivor and after 13 years she comes out of a coma and finds herself in a mental hospital. Her memories of what happened are suppressed but with the help of Dr. Alex Karmen (Bruce Abbot) she slowly begins to remember. Soon she begins to see Harris who tells her to join them otherwise someone else will take her place until she accepts. Has her fellow patients in the group begin to commit there own suicides it's only a matter of time before Harris will come to claim her soul, could Harris be back from the dead or could there be another explanation to Cyinthina's Bad Dreams.OverallBad Dreams is a underrated horror movie that should be seen. It's got an interesting plot, good gore and make up effects, good performances and a great twist at the end. Check this film out. "},{"Title":"Perhaps overlooked?","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Bad Dreams (1988) Director Andrew Fleming (The Craft) ***out of**** Review After barely escaping crazy cult guru's (able Richard Lynch) fiery suicide pact, Cynthia (the very gorgeous and likable Jennifer Rubin) finds herself awaking 13 years later, in year 1988. Trying to get on with her life, she starts to realize that her fellow patients in the mental hospital start dying in brutal ways, and start seeing hallucinations/dreams/visions of Harris, the burnt up cult leader. Is he back from the grave, vowing revenge for Cynthia's survival, or is something more sinister going on? Rather then going the cliché way in my review and bashing this movie for its direct influences from A Nightmare on Elm Street 3, I'll just say that they never got in the way of my enjoyment of this film. A lot of movies rip off others all the time, so I don't seem to ever get annoyed by these.The film has top notch production values, a very entertaining cast, and some warped out death scenes. You can see how the movie just wants to be a good thriller and does so almost effortlessly. I remember my dad buying a old VHS copy when I was 9 or so and not really liking it's cover, but since I didn't want to hurt my dad's feelings I stuck it up and pretended to be excited, and watched it, and ever since then I have a place in my (movie watching) heart for this, perhaps just based on that back story alone.One thing that I really enjoy is the actors. Lot's of familiar and likable faces in the house. I invested more into the movie by that way. I do admit the characters of the mental patients aren't fully developed enough though, I wanted to know more and see more about them, like the very sympathetic Lana (played quite well by Elizabeth Daily). She has a scene where she opens up her heart and I started liking her, but the movie is quick to get to the gore and kills and her plight is cut way to short. Same could be said for Dean Cameron and Susan Barnes.The directing by Andrew Fleming is basically there to serve the story, nothing to stand out. I would have preferred to see a director with a more unique visual voice (all of the Flemings movies never have stand out visuals) it would have made the movie more stand out, and his angles are pretty bland. Good scene transitions though.The soundtrack by Jay Ferguson was much appreciated and quite dreamy. Far better then his over the top attempt with Nightmare 5 Dream Child.The kills and gore are very queasy, and people who have dealt with a suicide or (god forbid) seen a suicide will surly be offended by this movie, but since I'm a avid horror fan I was never offended, but they certainly had cruel streak.Some flaws that hurt the movie are the lack of character development (as stated) and the movie's ending felt rushed, forced, and cut short. What happened to our survivors? I hate endings that never show the characters reactions after the events are over. One thing I will compare to Nightmare 3 is the ending, which was done there was well. Please take at least 4 or so minutes to better resolve our characters. The surprise in the end wasn't fully explored either, it somewhat didn't make much sense to me. What is this persons final goal when he succeeds? So maybe because I didn't want to hurt my dad's feelings at an early age, makes me warm up to this easier, or maybe it is just decent effort that can be watched from time to time. But be warned, this movie deals with suicide in a crude manner and surely will offend some. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly effective horror flick.","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Bad Dreams starts in the 70's where the Unity Fields cult, who believe in a perfect society created by love & trust, lead by a nutter called Harris (Richard Lynch) decide to make the ultimate sacrifice & commit suicide together. Except that is for a girl named Cynthia (Jennifer Rubin) who understandably isn't too keen on the idea, so while all the Unity Fields members are burning she manages to escape & is saved by the local emergency services. Jump forward thirteen years later & Cynthia wakes from a coma she has been in for all those years, having to adjust to late 80's culture & come to terms with the situation she is put under the care of psychiatrist Dr. Berrisford (Harris Yulin) & his assistant Dr. Karmen (Bruce Abbott) & regularly take part in therapy sessions. However it's not long before her old cult leader Harris comes back from beyond the grave to claim her & reunite her with those who sacrificed themselves...Co-written & directed by Andrew Fleming when I sat down to watch this last night I had never heard of Bad Dreams before & thought it sounded like some recent cheap generic low budget shot on videotape horror flick & expected the worse, as the film started the 20th Century Fox film logo came up & my interest instantly peaked & I thought 'wow, a major Hollywood studio, this might be decent', the titles ran & I noticed a few familiar names like Bruce Abbott from the Re-Animator (1985) series of films, Gale Anne Hurd who produced a lot of James Cameron's films like The Terminator (1984) & Aliens (1986) produced it while Steven E. de Souza who had only a few years previously wrote the likes of 48 Hrs. (1982), Commando (1985) & The Running Man (1987) co-wrote it in the same year he would write the absolute classic Die Hard (1988) so there was definitely some pedigree both in front & behind the camera here & it show's as Bad Dreams is a surprisingly little known decent horror flick. The script by Souza & Fleming borrows heavily from the A Nightmare on Elm Street series of films, a main villain who is burned & as a ghost comes back from beyond the grave to terrorise & kill people although one has to say despite the title he never turns up in people's dreams as he appears as a ghostly entity. The similarity with A Nightmmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors (1987) in particular is striking, the group of psychiatric patients fighting against a villain from beyond the grave, the doctors who won't believe them & the two films in general feel & look very alike. Then just when you think you have it all worked out as a simple Elm Street rip-off the film springs an effective if unlikely twist ending which comes out of nowhere & no reasonable explanation for it is given but it's certainly memorable. The character's are good, the dialogue is amusing & sharp, it moves along at a decent pace & there's one or two nicely gory set-pieces too. Much better than expected although I went into it with zero expectations so that wasn't exactly difficult.Director Fleming makes his directorial debut here (his only other horror film of note would be The Craft (1996)) & does a good job, the film looks nice enough with some nice sequences. The scene inside the Unity Fields house where everyone is set on fire is very effective & the special effects during this scene are also very good. There's some gore here, someone jumps out of a window & splats on the pavement below, someone slices their arms with scalpels & then stabs themselves in the stomach, there are burned faces, there's a ventilation system full of blood that spurts it out everywhere & there's a severed hand.With a very healthy sounding budget of about $4,000,000 this is well made with good production values & the special effects are impressive. The acting is good from a competent cast.Bad Dreams sounds like some cheap dull horror flick & at first it seems like an Elm Street film rip-off but it's more than that & once it's got you thinking you know exactly what's going to happen it springs a twist ending out of nowhere, I just wish it made a bit more sense. Definitely well worth a watch I reckon. "},{"Title":"Bad Dreams=excellent horror flick!","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The only survivor of a cult, all killed in a horrifying explosion caused in part by the groups cult leader (RICHARD LYNCH who's always fun to watch) awakens 13 years later in a hospital & soon finds the other patients in the hospital are meeting horrifying deaths that the hospital staff blames on normal suicides, but she knows there's more to it, especially once she starts seeing the dead cult leader pop up numerous times in her life. Is he really back from the dead? or is she plain crazy? BAD DREAMS was a well made horror item, that in my eyes is so much better than what passes for horror films these days. There's plenty of suspense, interesting plot twists, neat kills, good acting & direction & the make-up effects are also pretty good & the film moves at a brisk pace, always engaging the viewer from beginning to end. All that aside, I'm afraid I agree with the many fans & critics who say that this film bares an uncanny resemblance to A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 3 DREAM WARRIORS (Which also starred Bad Dreams own leading lady JENNIFER RUBIN) in fact the film comes off as almost a remake of that film, the badly burned maniac that's going about killing the suicidal patients in rather gruesome ways that the staff blames on normal suicidal tendencies, the sympathetic doctor who holds meetings with his patients so they can talk things out (& who like the doctor in ANOES 3 winds up being kicked out of the hospital) etc. the chain smoking patient, the patient who has a habit of cutting & stabbing himself with knives. Great fun for horror fans, especially for those who are disappointed with the current trend of lazy Hollywood remakes & play it safe PG-13 horror films.**** stars "},{"Title":"From one dangerous mind control cult to another","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A young women survives one death cult's mass suicide only to awaken from a coma 13 years later in the clutches of an even bigger death cult, modern psychiatry. The death cult she escaped sought Unity via self-immolation while the death cult of psychiatry seeks to cause her to self destruct through the miracle of modern pharmaceuticals.I didn't like this movie when I first saw it because the add campaign portrayed the Richard Lynch character as the next Freddy Kruger or Michael Myers but this is not really the case. This is really quite a smart psychological thriller with some gore and dark humor thrown in. Anyone who enjoys these elements will probably find something to like in this film. "},{"Title":"No sweet dreams.","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm kind of caught here. I somewhat liked it, but came away rather under-whelmed because it was all too familiar and there was something more interesting within this strange horror/thriller premise than what was chalked up. Even with some creative cracks, it should've been better. The story's direction seems a little uneven if it wants to go out to shock (a good amount of blood splatter is spilt), or play its cards for psychological torment. Something about it never entirely fulfils. The performances are the main reason this one doesn't slip off the mind too quick. The beautiful Jennifer Rubin is exceptional in brining out a vulnerable side, which is counter-punched by determination. Alongside her are a very good Bruce Abbott and a towering Richard Lynch brings an uneasy subtly to his menacing character. Harris Yulin, Sy Richardson, Susan Ruttan and an amusingly batty Dean Cameron chip in with durable support. Andrew Fleming's leisured direction is stylish, but has that breakable quality to it. Good use of lighting, colouring and composition in pockets drips of atmosphere. The material is enjoyable (if minimal), as the protagonist tries to overcome the hallucinations that might be because of her unstable state of mind or the simple reality of being haunted by a restless spirit. There's some black humour evident, but the by-the-numbers script goes about things rather seriously. As well it has a fine and compelling soundtrack to boot. The special effects and make-up FX stands-up well enough. A decent little film. "},{"Title":"This had some good moments.  Also a definite 1980's Slasher vibe.  But, overall I felt it was somewhat weak.  Blu-ray OK  A8  V7","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film definitely had the 1980's vibe going strong in it's look and feel. Usually, if you are one to like the 'Classic' Slasher films of that time period, you pretty much know what to expect. Unfortunately, although there ARE some scattered good moments in the film, overall I honestly got the impression that overall it just didn't hold together terribly well. The IDEA was pretty good, and for me anyway, ANY film that starts with almost a full rendition of The Electric Prunes 'I Had too Much to Dream Last Night' is pretty damn awesome. Some of the soundtrack choices were effective too. And, at times the director did create a nice mood. But, I don't know exactly what it was, probably the direction since the director usually has final control of how the movie comes across, flows, and ties together. You kind of got the feeling that the actors were just not quite really into it and I feel that that comes across in the performances. Also, there are many awkward moments where the patients would be acting odd or doing their thing, but to me, it didn't come across as believable. To me, many times it seemed like a number of odd, sub-par performances roughly strung together.Most decent Slashers usually keep a good pace and keep the action going so that the story moves quickly for the audience. I didn't get that here... I think that perhaps if it could have be tightened up a bit and if the performances elicited by the director and maybe the specific shots used had been done better, than the movie would have been much more involving and more entertaining. The only way I can think of to put it, to explain the overall feel that it gave me, is that it just didn't seem to 'Flow' quite right. But, like I said, it definitely had it's moments. But, I think just too many scenes were weak. For example, not giving anything away, but one scene with the hyper patient towards the end when he took Jennifer Rubin with him down into the basement or somewhere, the scene where he was throwing a fit dragged on and on and on and just really seemed like padding and was pretty stupid. Unfortunately, there were just too many weak moments, maybe not QUITE as bad as that scene, but weak all the same. Also, without saying too much, the 'twist' towards the end was an excellent idea and gave a nice added punch to the story. But again, it was almost too little too late... I really like the guy playing the young doctor (wasn't he the romantic lead in 'REANIMATOR') but even he seemed like he was trying REALLY hard not to sleepwalk through the film. Jennifer Rubin didn't impress very much; she just looked kind of stoned the whole time. She was a HELL of a lot better in 'NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 3' Also, it would have been nice to see E.G. Daily do a bit more too.So... just rating this against other Slashers, I really can't get too worked up by it. I felt that even though the premise was very good and even though there WERE some good moments in it, overall compared to most other average to decent Slashers, I just found this one a bit limp, mainly because it just didn't seem that sharply put together. The current rating of '5.5' is about right; I gave it a '5' because I couldn't quite give it a '6' In my honest, lowly and wretched opinion, I truly think that there are a LOT better Slasher films out there... "},{"Title":"Polished and effective despite being relatively by-the-numbers","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Bad Dreams has Cynthia (Jennifer Rubin) awaking from a thirteen year-long coma that she was put into when the leader of a cult which her mother was a part of led a mass suicide by fire in a remote farmhouse. As Cynthia tries to assimilate into life again, those around her in the hospital begin dying in mysterious suicides&#x97; and the fact that Cynthia is beginning to see the ghost of the cult leader lurking around doesn't make things look all that great.This was one film that has been on my to watch list for a long time, but I have to say it was a pleasant surprise and far exceeded my expectations. Surprisingly high-gloss, the film, directed by Andrew Fleming (who later found success as a mainstream Hollywood director) was released in 1988 by 20th Century Fox with the expectation that it would become a blockbuster and ignite a franchise of sorts&#x97; neither of these things happened, and for understandable reasons, but that doesn't detract from the fact that this is a really well-made horror film, especially by '80s standards.The comparisons to A Nightmare on Elm Street are fair enough, although the truth is that this film really doesn't have all that much to do with dreams at all&#x97; it's really about the traumatic effects dealt onto a young woman who spent her childhood in a sinister cult, which makes for grim subject matter as is. It is a slasher film in an unconventional sense&#x97; that being that the deaths are suicides&#x97; but the setups for each of them are based on the maneuvering hand of Harris, the malevolent cult leader's ghost. Lots of great special effects here that should be taken note of, and really nice photography. The film has a polished studio look that isn't particularly common for slasher films of this era. Jennifer Rubin plays the doe- eyed, flighty Cynthia convincingly, and Re-Animantor's Bruce Abbott plays her psychiatrist/eventual love interest; Richard Lynch is in stark opposition as the wild-eyed cult leader, who spends half of the film covered in gruesome fourth degree burns.Overall, Bad Dreams is an effective thriller and is a surprisingly classy oddball of the late 1980s slasher crop. While the film's victim count feels by-the-numbers, it is still an entertaining watch bolstering some solid performances and a visibly adept craftsmanship behind it. It's no surprise that Fleming found success with his later more mainstream pictures given what he was able to pull off here. Worth some attention from any fans of eighties horror. 7/10. "}{"Title":"Really enjoyed every moment of this.","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I actually quite liked this movie. For a horror movie that came out a quarter of a century ago it still proves to be scary. I haven't seen a cult horror movie in a long time and it was a welcome topic. Cults always have a way of coming off creepy and provide the perfect material for a scary movie. The scariest thing is when you witness the strong beliefs of cult members and just how trusting they can be.If your looking for a creepy 80's horror film (along the same lines as nightmare on elm street) then this is a great choice. It made me nervous the whole way through with it's eerie music and clinical setting. The actors also did a fantastic job. Surprisingly everything felt real and they completely immersed themselves in their characters. A must see for all lovers of vintage horror movies. "},{"Title":"It has some interesting plot points.","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Watchable, sometimes offbeat and humorous horror film that seems as if it intends to coast on the success of the Nightmare on Elm Street series but ends up going on its own merry path. It works best when our heroine is still trying to make sense of macabre events and is not sure what the truth is. The writing is silly at times, but there are also fun moments. Some of the special effects are bad, yet at the same time there's some hilarious over the top gore. Making it entertaining enough to watch are some great lines and a number of amusing, attention-getting performances.The movie stars Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors cast member Jennifer Rubin as Cynthia, who as a child had survived a suicide pact engineered by ultra creepy cult leader Harris (Richard Lynch at his best). Now she's a 20 something adult who's just awakened from a coma, and she's put into group therapy run by kindly Alex Karmen (Bruce Abbott of Re- Animator fame). Soon the people in this group start to die horrible deaths and Cynthia is convinced that Harris's spirit (which sometimes appears to her as a nastily charred corpse) is the one killing them.Rubin is appealing if not that good as an actress; at least she conveys a sense of naivety and innocence. Abbott is good, as is the excellent character actor Harris Yulin - a man who's always excelled at playing unbelievably smug and pompous jerks - as Karmens' colleague. Dean Cameron (Summer School) supplies a lot of the comedy, improvising most of his best lines (you have to pay attention to catch one of them). Susan Barnes and Sy Richardson (both from Repo Man), Louis Giambalvo (Weekend at Bernie's), ever adorable actress / singer / voice over artist Elizabeth Daily, Susan Ruttan ('L.A. Law'), and Charles voice of Roger Rabbit Fleischer all put in appearances as well.Co-written and directed by Andrew Fleming (The Craft), this is intriguing for a while - with a memorable revenge / black comedy sequence near the end - but ultimately comes to a humdrum conclusion. It does show off Rubins' beauty to great effect and can boast some good visual tricks and scene transitions. Oscar winner Michele Burke does the nicely grisly makeup effects.Overall, not bad; it may be worth viewing for devotees of 80s genre fare.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"88's Bad Dreams, is by no means, a bad horror","Date":"28 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I had just recently viewed this again, and I must say, it was another fun view. Bad Dreams is like another side of Elm Street. What I dig about, is it's intriguing storyline. Surviving a mass cult suicide, beautiful, innocent, virtuous Cynthia, Jennifer Rubin, wakes up after a thirteen year coma, (apparently we learn the longest is 37 years). She starts off her recovery in a mental ward, still clinging to her dead friends, one big happy family at the beautiful Unity Fields, out yonder, where they swallow all of that, you know. And one thing you'll never forget about Unity Fields, the devoted cult leader, Harris, played by the evil faced, Richard Lynch, an ugly Rutger Hauer'ish looking guy, the one true acting standout in this. Cynthia strikes up a kind of relationship, with her principal psychiatrist, Alan (Bruce Re-animator Abbott) the only one who really agrees this is the wrong environment for her. Cynthia's sanity isn't really helped, or convincing to others of the medical field, when starts seeing things, mainly a resurrected Harris, who keeps reappearing, sometimes in not the most the healthy states. Or poor young Cynthia could be delusional. And why are the patients, suiciding, one by one, some of them in pretty gruesome ways, a couple making a death pact, choosing to go through a mini turbine creating a blood shower, as you will. Is it Harris, taking them, for Cynthia not holding up her end of the bargain. I don't want to give anymore more away, just to say, Bad Dreams works just as well as a horror as it does a thriller. The familiar actors, though you would have to be more of a eighties type to know 'em, give their mentally unbalanced characters, spark and oomph, especially Dean Cameron, a comedic asset to this slick horror, that will surprise and appease gore hounds who hasn't vide'd this one. Harris Yulin, an acting treasure again gives a fine, performance, as a shady veteran shrink. You wouldn't think this film of b grade appeal, barely making a showing at the cinema back in 88, would surprise you with such an effortful storyline, but Bad Dreams does, it's title indeed one of sarcasm. It's a short nifty horror, that's bloody entertaining, especially thanks to that handful of patients, and Harris. "},{"Title":"One of the Better Slasher Movies of the Late 80s","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As any long time horror fan will tell you, by 1988, the slasher well that had been prominent earlier in the decade was pretty much dried up. Horror films from this period tended to be on the comedic side with less of an emphasis on straight horror. One of the films to buck this trend however was Bad Dreams. In the beginning of the film we see a young girl, Cynthia, a member of a cult involved in a ritual with her fellow members. The cult leader played by(Richard Lynch)is a Jim Jones/Charles Manson combination tells the group how they will be together as one following the ritual. What Cynthia soon realizes is that ol' cult leader man actually has mass suicide in mind. We soon witness various cult members dowse themselves with gasoline and set themselves alight. The house soon becomes a bonfire with the cult members trapped inside. The police and ambulances arrive but are there any survivors? In fact there is one survivor, Cynthia. Flash forward 13 years, Cynthia,now played by Jennifer Rubin (Nightmare on Elm Street 3), wakes up from her coma. Yes, she has been kept alive all of these years. She is now a ward of the state and lives in the hospital cum mental institute. She begins a group therapy session to readjust to after being in a coma that has spanned half of her life. The doctor in charge of the therapy, is played by Bruce Abbott (from the first two Re Animator films.)Cynthia meets the assorted oddballs who are members of the group. We have our kooky love birds, our bi-polar comedian/aggressor, our bitter conspiracy theorist, and two women; one who looks like a female Steve Urkel and a tiny brunette who apparently borrowed Jennifer Tilly's voice. Once Cynthia emerges from her coma, she begins to see her former cult leader in various places throughout the hospital. Is he still alive or is it all in her mind? The members of the group begin dying in mysterious ways. At first they are marked off as suicides but after a while it becomes apparent someone wants them dead.Does Cynthia's reawakening have anything to do with the deaths? If you read my review of Killer Party,you know I enjoy talking about songs in movies. Bad Dreams does not have anything as awesome as April or The Best Times of Our Lives, but does include Time by The Chambers Brothers. It's one of the more unsettling songs from the late 60s and by far the creepiest of the seemingly endless songs named Time. If you missed it the first time it plays in the movie, don't worry. You'll hear it again and again throughout the film.The acting, with a few exceptions, is one of the main drawbacks of the film. Jennifer Rubin, although easy on the eyes, does not exactly give a stellar performance. Her character in Nightmare on Elm Street 3 tells us that in her dreams she is beautiful and bad. She carries the beauty into Bad Dreams but the way in which she is bad has a different connotation this time around.That's not to say she is terrible by any means,but she's not exactly Amy Steele in Friday the 13th part 2.The notable exception in Bad Dreams is Ralph, played by Dean Cameron. He gives quite a good performance as the joke and sex crazed funny man one minute, and the startling psychotic the next.I've always enjoyed his work, especially his role in one of my all time favorite guilty pleasures, Miracle Beach, in which he co-starred with the super adorable Ami Dolenz. That's a review for a different time. Overall, Bad Dreams is parts hit and miss. I'm a slasher completest, and would find something good to say about the movie whether it was good or not. As a slasher it works for the most part. It's not the most obvious whodunit I've seen but it's in the top 10. My rating 6.5/10 blood pouring air vents. "},{"Title":"Lynch the Boogeyman....","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A sinister cult called Unity Fields commits mass suicide in a horrific manner - by fire - at the behest of its psychopathic leader, Harris. Only one woman named Cynthia survives to tell the tale. Now, 13 years later, Cynthia is having reminders of the life changing incident, as people around her begin to die one at a time. Cynthia finds out quickly that the ghost of Harris is back... to claim her.....Ironically called Bad Dreams, the film is essentially a remake of A Nightmare On Elm Part Three The Dream Warriors, everyone in the institution is haunted by the title of the film, and Lynch is essentially Freddy, burnt features included.And while its a watchable movie, and Dean Cameron is in it (and the best thing), it gets a little bland, and Rubin really starts to grate on you after a while.Lynch pops up every now and again in his Bonanza outfit, to say something sinister, and one by one people die, much to the perplextion of a running doctor, but the narrative doesn't compliment the story.There are a few standout scenes, the opening sequence is amazing, but it really falls apart when we hit present day... "},{"Title":"Bad Dreams (1988)","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cynthia (Jennifer Rubin, A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors) had 13 years of peace and security. Sadly, these years took place while she was in a coma. When she awakens from her long lapse, she is at loss with the world; and simply is not ready for the 80's. She finds herself in a mental hospital with an extremely vivid group of crazies. Quickly, Cynthia tries to convince Dr. Alex Karmen (Bruce Abbott, Re-Animator) that she does not belong there. However, he feels letting her problems out during group sessions will help her prepare from a fresh start. Sorry to say, it does not take long for Harris (Richard Lynch, Invasion U.S.A.), the sadistic organizer of Unity to come for Cynthia; and take her to a new light after death.Now first off, yes. Bad Dreams is a certainly not a unique story; but this is actually a movie that takes from others and succeeds, if not surpasses in creativity. The opening shot is purely an introduction of the cult itself and the suicide. Both aspects will haunt Cynthia for the duration of the film. Harris returns to her for one simple motive, because she survived. He wants her to join them in eternal bliss by killing herself. As long as she refuses to rejoin with Unity, a mental patient from the hospital will take her place in perfect harmony.This was the first film director Andrew Fleming (The Craft) tagged under his belt; and the movie has many interesting shots to offer. Flashbacks and old video documentations of the Unity cult are shown brilliantly, leaping back and forth from close ups of Harris' face to his brainwashed followers. The flashbacks of him are mixed into video footage of interviews with the sect. Harris' supporters are realistically disturbing casting an emotionless glare in their eyes and so convinced that all they feel is love.The flashbacks that Cynthia has to undergo are the most unsettling. While in the middle of a group discussion at the hospital (Cynthia, Dr. Karmen and the crazies), she is whisked away back to the cult house, the day of the tragic event. She lives the nightmare twice. All of the group members surround the room doused in gasoline waiting for death. Anticipating what is past the dominion of life as the flames begin to spread over the carpet and hardwood floor. Then the fire attacks. Lovers clench one another as they burn. A father and his two sons hold each other tight as they melt away. Some are screaming in torture, others are crawling across the floor still believing they are headed some place special. In the center of all the carnage stands Harris in flames, taunting Cynthia to come with them. This is one of the most grisly scenes of Bad Dreams, and one of the best.Between the years 1987 and '88, Jennifer Rubin could not seem to stay away from mental hospitals, nor could she get rid of homicidal maniacs with a massive burn scab for a body. First, she did Elm Street 3 then this gem. She is no stranger to the horror genre, yet her performance ends up being only decent. Cynthia's character comes off a little hazy; a deeper perception of unstableness with herself, as well as things around her should have been made clearer. Overall, Rubin does enough to get the job done; she just does not stand out. Bruce Abbott plays Dr. Alex Karmen, and you can bet his degree did not come from Miskatonic Medical School. He grows a closer attachment to Cynthia than the rest of his patients; because he knows deep down she does not belong there. Abbott, like Rubin does a well enough job to keep the story sturdy, but nothing to write home about.Richard Lynch usually plays the villain in films, and he has the ability to do so effectively. Harris is still a different role for him, though. He manages to pull off being evil and menacing with a touch of passive serenity in unison. His appearance also comes in two flavors, regular or burnt to a crisp. That is right; Cynthia is haunted by visions of Harris in before and after the fire aspects. Lynch stands out here, and his significance in the role is one reason the movie succeeds. Dean Cameron (Summer School) plays Ralph, the most intriguing of all the patients. He is blatantly honest, and extremely on edge. When his tension builds, he cuts a whole in his body to release his anger in order to calm down. Anytime Cameron is on screen in Bad Dreams, he steals the show completely. This character alone gives the film a truly uneasy mood.The makeup FX are handled by Michele Burke (Terror Train, Bram Stoker's Dracula, Interview with the Vampire), and some gory suicide style deaths are presented. The greatest achievement is the makeup job on Richard Lynch, though. Harris makes Freddy Kruger look like a pretty face. He is totally barbecued from head to toe. The little additions throw this film to the top of the gross-out scale, though. His right ear hangs from his head by a tiny thread of skin, teeth burnt brown around the edges, and one of his eyes blinded white. Scorched skin all over his face and skull are slightly peeled and curled up, like burning newspaper around wood in a fireplace. This character is no joke, and Burke did a fantastic job at making him horrendous as possible.Somehow, Bad Dreams manages to be unique, despite its similarities to Elm Street 3. Ultimately, it ends up being all together different, and refreshing. "},{"Title":"A minor gem that had the potential to be great","Date":"20 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's so frustrating when a film has some really strong elements, but the whole isn't as good as you'd hoped. So much goes into the making of a film and so often it ends up being a waste. The 1980s was the most prolific decade for the Horror genre, which was both a blessing and a curse. It was a time when movies were sequelized to death and concepts were repeated ad nauseum. Of course coping other works was nothing new then and doesn't always spell failure. The 'Nightmare on Elm Street' series was hugely popular at this time and influenced many other films, including this little known flick from the man who gave us 'The Craft' less than a decade later. What it isn't is a waste of time, what it is is an above average genre effort that borrows from better films, but isn't one of the many that's no better than a xerox copy.Pros Excellent performances from the cast and memorable characters. Director Andrew Fleming makes this pretty suspenseful. Nicely scored and some good song choices. Moves at a quick pace all the way. A few effectively chilling sequences. Plenty of the red stuff and some well done gore. A neat twist you won't likely see coming.Cons Plot wears thin. Doesn't exactly break any new ground. Some subplots and characters that could have used some fleshing out. Derivative of better movies, mostly 'A Nightmare on Elm Street 3,' which ironically Jennifer Rubin starred in.Final thoughts So many movies rip-off others and fail to stand on their own two feet. 'Bad Dreams' is hardly original and not one of the scariest movies you'll ever find, but the ingredients are combined well and the talent in front of and behind the camera is strong, making this better than it deserves to be. A very entertaining and creepy experience that's a cut above a lot of low budget 80s Horror.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Horror at the Hospital","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cynthia reawakens from a 13 year old coma after a tragic fire murdered off her fellow cult members called The Unity. She is sent over to a mental institution and placed in with the Borderline Personality therapy group. She begins dreaming and hallucinating about the leader of the Unity named Harris. Soon members of the therapy groups begin dying in apparent suicides. This may be because Cynthia made a pact to die with the unity, yet she survived.This movie had a similar Nightmare on Elm Street feel, but Harris is no Freddy. He is a genuinely spine-chilling phantasm, especially when he appears as his burned skeleton form in the elevators and hallways of the institution. The acting was convincing enough, and the leads did a very good job. The actor who played Ralph was the best. There is one cliché', the fellow patient who warns Cynthia There is no escape from him. And something similar. Not too mention the evil psychologist with bad intentions and a love affair.Overall watch this movie if you can. It deserves a B+ for how it is put together. I recommend this to any horror fan. "},{"Title":"Ignore the obvious Elm St references and you have an 80's classic horror","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Bad Dreams is a much better movie than it's given credit for. The problem is that it was a blatant attempt to cash in on the Nightmare On Elm St franchise and it's glaringly obvious, particularly with it's similarities to the third movie. I'll make my point with this list 1. Bad guy gets burnt alive and comes back to haunt people in dreams (although in 'Bad Dreams' it's more hallucinations really so I don't know why they called it such other than to attract Elm St fans.) 2. Both 'Bad Dreams' and Elm St 3 are set in very similar looking hospitals where they have group sessions and one of the patients is played by Jennifer Rubin. The patients begin to see visions/dreams of a burnt man before dying.3. At one point needing a hall pass is mentioned which sounded like a reference to Elm St 1.4. A doctor in this is the same actor who plays a doctor in Elm St 1.5. In Elm St 3 Phillip falls from a high window to his death which appears like a suicide. The same happens with a character in this movie and the music in each of these two scenes are strikingly similar.I'm sure there were others but you get the picture. Otherwise they're really very different movies. Bad Dreams lacks the imaginative dream sequences and really over the top fantastic deaths of Elm St 3 but it plays things very seriously and a result is at least a much scarier horror movie. The villain is played by Richard Lynch which is the most perfect piece of casting as he looks scary to start with; you see visions of him both burnt and not burnt and the not burnt ones are actually scarier! What I don't understand is why they created so many similarities to Elm St 1 and 3 as the movie is very strong in it's own right and by the end you realise it has little in common otherwise. Maybe it was the production company asking for a new Elm St style movie so they tried a little too hard to please them. Maybe if it wasn't for the similarities this movie would be considered a classic. In any case, this is an underrated 80's horror gem with a great plot and scarier than average. "},{"Title":"Imagine Freddy Krueger not having been a child molester but a hippie cult leader instead...","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As far as 80's horror movies go, this one is very decent. I'm sure that if I had seen it back in the 80's, I would even have rated it a bit higher. Like many fellow viewers on here already stated, the story indeed shows a lot of similarities to A Nightmare on Elmstreet, part 3. Jennifer Rubin looked beautiful as ever and gave a decent performance. Richard Lynch was perfectly creepy as the leader of the hippie-cult who comes back to haunt Jennifer's dreams. The killings among the mental patients were pretty gory and bloody. And the hippie-rock song over the opening-credits struck the right chord too (that rarely happens when you watch 80's movies these days). Even though the twist near the end was something I didn't see coming, I didn't like it that much. Still, this is a rather enjoyable and competently made late 80's horror movie.And here's a bit of trivia Cult actor Richard Lynch is known for his slightly disfigured facial features. These were the result of a horrible accident in the late 70's (I believe). Because of an LSD-trip gone bad, Mr. Lynch set himself on fire. Ironically, in Bad Dreams he plays a hippie-cult leader who sets himself, and his members... on fire. In the movie, however, he looks a little bit more 'burned up & crispy' then he does in real life. Great flamey effects, by the way "}{"Title":"typical eighties","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well well, this surely surprised me. I didn't know what to think about this flick. The cover showed me some deformed hand holding a face. I catched this at a garage sale, 3 movies for 1 dollar. So I bought it. Glad that I could put it into my collection. First of all, it's a typical era movie, the end of the eighties. The slashers were over and movie makers were searching for new things, so they decide to make supernatural flicks, with the most famous Elm Street. Bad Dreams isn't bad after all, it's watchable for everybody in the genre. The storyline is simple, a girl is in a cult, the cult made a suicide, she's the only survivor. And waking out of a coma she suddenly has bad dreams about the leader of the cult. It's bloody, not gory. The filming is perfect and the score is nice too, only at the end they stated My Way as from a band but it's Sid Vicious, sure of it. Perfect performance by the girl and the leader of the cult. If you can catch it cheap, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Years after being the soul survivor of cult leader Harris, (Richard Lynch) mass suicide, Cynthia, (Jennifer Rubin) wakes up from a coma and is placed into a group therapy session by her psychiatrist, Dr. Berrisford, (Harris Yulin) under the care of Dr. Alex Karmen, (Bruce Abbott) to adjust her to the new era. After being in a few sessions, she is able to recover her memories of what happened at the commune, which brings about a series of weird visions about Harris and her past. These convince her that he's back, which the staff doesn't believe her stories until a series of deaths strike the residents. Finally believing her story, they race to save her before Harris finds her.Good premise with good acting, but I was really confused why the movie ended randomly. Great movie though.Rated R. "},{"Title":"The doctor's are crazier then the patients in this hospital!","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Top rate production values make Bad Dreams a notch or two above the average blood-splatter horror movie with a fine and very convincing performance by Jennifer Rubin as Cynthia a Wacco-like, this in a film that was made some five years before the tragedy at Wacco ever even happened, cult survivor who ended up in a coma that lasted for 13 years.Being put in a mental clinic for borderline personalities Cynthia is suddenly visited by her former and dead cult Guru Harris,Richard Lynch, who died together with his cult followers in a flaming holocaust, that he started, back at their cult headquarters or home in 1975. Harris sometimes appearing to look normal or in other scenes looking like an undercooked barbecue spear rib keeps popping up with only Cynthia seeing him. You like Cynthia don't exactly know if your in the real world or some kind of dream world with a number of scenes in the film making no sense at all looking like their spaced-out or drug-induced hallucinations.Every time that Harris shows up one of the patient's at the hospital ends up killing themselves which causes Cynthia to feel guilty that she's alive and, like Harris keeps telling her, wan't to join him in the world beyond. Dr. Alex Karman, Bruce Abbot, takes a very personal interest in Cynthia's mental condition and wan't to have her put into another hospital where she can get far better treatment then in the clinic that she's now but his boss Dr. Berrisford, Harris Yulin, overrules him. Dr, Karman checking out Dr. Berrisford's treatment of his patient's soon comes to realize that he's purposely treating them with highly toxic and dangerous drugs that's diving them to madness insanity and eventually suicide. Dr. Berrisford is replacing Harris, Cynthia former Guru, with himself as her both lord and master. Dr. Berrisford is obsessed with cult leaders like Harris and his ability to have his followers do anything that he wan't them to do including kill themselves or kill anyone that he would order them to. This all seems to be the ultimate power trip for Berrisford, That's if he can achieve it with the use of strong psychedelic drugs.It takes a while to get used to the constant flashbacks and psychic visions in the movie but when you start to get the hang of it you just go with the flow and don't get distracted by Harris and his constant surprise appearances, as a human being or a swiss crisp rib stake. There's a series of really gruesome, real and imaginary, scenes in the film that will shock you out of your seat, or skin. The real surprise in the film is saved for the final few minutes where Dr. Karman, finally realizing what's going on behind the scenes in the clinic, has it out with the crazed and determined psycho Dr. Berrisford, on top of the hospital roof. Both battle it out in a life and death struggle over the life and soul of a very spaced out and detached from reality Cynthia. "},{"Title":"More like Mediocre Dreams","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's pretty obvious that Bad Dreams was an attempt to emulate the popular Nightmare on Elm Street films, with the ever-creepy Richard Lynch being the dream boogeyman. Unfortunately, while the filmmakers gave it a good try, the end results are somewhat bland and disappointing. For starters, the movie doesn't do a very good job setting up its heroine - we learn next to nothing about her that makes us care about her. With this in mind, combined with the fairly short running time (as well as some pivotal characters ending up having limited footage), this suggests that a lot of character development ended up on the cutting room floor. Despite this, there are also a number of really slow stretches here and there. As for the horror angle of the movie, I have to admit that I wasn't really creeped out at any moment - there is a contrived air to the moments of horror. Though I was somewhat uncomfortable about the fact that Richard Lynch's character is destroyed by a fire when Lynch in real life was severely burned in a real fire years earlier. I will say that for a low budget production, the movie is pretty well produced, looking slick and more expensive than it really was. It's too bad that the filmmakers' ability to squeeze every penny out of limited funds wasn't done with a better script. Though the fact that there are FIVE writers credited with coming up with this story should give an early warning to would-be viewers. "},{"Title":"decent enough,but not for the squeamish","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Bad Dreams is about a girl named Cynthia(Jeniffer Rubin) who survives a mass suicide,but is in a coma for 13 years.when she awakes from the coma,she begins seeing the leader of the cult.it seems he is still waiting for her to join him on the other side,and he will do whatever it takes to get her to join him.Richard Lynch plays the cult leader.i won't tell you exactly what happens but what results is a lot of blood and guts.if you're squeamish,you might want to avoid this one.if you've seen a lot of horror movies,then there will probably be nothing new to you in the gore dept.by the way,Susan Ruttan(L.A.)plays one of the patients in the hospital.anyway,i thought the movie was decent enough.it wasn't fast paced or anything,but it wasn't really slow either.it was somewhere in between.if you're into horror and you want pass a couple hours,you could do worse, especially if you catch it on premium cable,like i did. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Wannabe Elm Street entry","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Bad Dreams is a pretty decent film.**SPOILERS**Years after being the soul survivor of cult leader Harris, (Richard Lynch) mass suicide, Cynthia, (Jennifer Rubin) wakes up from a coma and is placed into a group therapy session by her psychiatrist, Dr. Berrisford, (Harris Yulin) under the care of Dr. Alex Karmen, (Bruce Abbott) to adjust her to the new era. After being in a few sessions, she is able to recover her memories of what happened at the commune, which brings about a series of weird visions about Harris and her past. These convince her that he's back, which the staff doesn't believe her stories until a series of deaths strike the residents. Finally believing her story, they race to save her before Harris finds her.The Good News This is one of those late-80s slashers that holds up quite well. It's overly simplistic plot is one of it's best strengths, making it fly by pretty quickly without too much of a downtime. That is one of the best features, as it never overstays it's welcome. This does have a couple of genuinely intense moments, such as the flashback to the mass suicide, the hallucination sequence in the parking lot and the final kill has some great attempts at suspense as well. Also of note is the sheer ferocity of the killings. Each kill is even more mean-spirited than the last, and this is incredibly refreshing. There is nothing to stop this from spilling more blood along the way. The recurring images of the burning man always keeps a little gore in the film, and the kills do as well. There's a very brutal stabbing in the stomach with a pair of scalpels, a stabbing through the hand that is quite brutal and the best kill is the sucked into a turbine and splattered throughout the rest of the sanitarium. All in all, this was pretty decent.The Bad News One of the things with this film is that it bares so many similarities to the Nightmare on Elm Street films that it could very easily be in that series and not feel very out-of-place. The whole aspect of the sanitarium is right out of part 3, and much of the incidental aspects are there as well. It's all pretty obvious when it's viewed, so there's no real need to spill it out. There's also a few little scenes that really irked me. The sequence of Karmen's hallucination is one of the few scenes that really bugged me, as the classical scoring is a nice touch, although the irony is a bit heavy-handed and tips the scene into full-blown camp. The ending as well could fall here, which is just a mess overall. It's completely mind-boggling and throws away most of the rest of the film, changing it around entirely but there's no real explanation required to explain it away. It's one of the worst problems in the film.The Final Verdict This is pretty good, and it was quite surprising how much. This isn't a spectacular film that unfortunately got washed aside due to too many Nightmare on Elm Street similarities. It's not that bad and worthy of a watch, but don't be surprised if you find yourself sporting the influence game quite frequently.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, and drug use "},{"Title":"Definite ELM STREET Clone Though Not Bad","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  BAD DREAMS is an okay horror that has a premise that pretty much tries to cash in on the Elm Street success.  BAD DREAMS tries hard to be an original and stylish rip-off of the ELM STREET movies, but instead turns into garbled tedious rubbish.  Richard Lynch, however, is perfectly cast and as usual makes for a sturdy villian.  The deaths were cool, the special effects pretty cool, and the plot passable at best.  The plot was a bit heavy handed though and was given too much plodding treatment.  Though no one could deny that this is an ELM STREET clone, one could argue at best whether it was a stylish one or not.  **1/2out of****For a not bad film that is worth at least one viewing. "},{"Title":"Dreams ain't bad enough","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A perfect example of the late-80s mediocrity that all but killed the horror genre.  A young cult member (Jennifer Rubin)is almost killed in a mass suicide.  She lays in a coma for several years, and when she awakens, she is plagued with images of the Cult Leader (Richard Lynch)reaching out for her from beyond the grave.  A totally unspectacular film that has only the always interesting Harris Yulin to recommend it.  The story is pedestrian, and the film is directed by Andrew Fleming, who would later bring us The Craft, in a wholly unimaginative manner.  A few last act surprises are thrown in at the end, but structurally they occur just where you'd expect them.  It is writing of the most formulaic variety.  The film was released in the era of A Nightmare on Elm Street, and the original ad campaign promoted the film as a new take off on that series.  And in some of the film's narrative conceits, you can spot the influence of those films. Yet, although this is more competent than that series was at its worst, even (or especially)the worst Elm Street film expressed more flailing ambition and memorable vulgarity than this very witless film ever comes close to. "},{"Title":"Slow start, but a great finish!","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Although this movie starts off incredibly slowly and at first seems like your typical annoying cult film, it picks up about 1/3 of the way in to be a great psychological thriller / horror. The cast of the movie (with the exception of a couple roles) is excellent. Jennifer Rubin is brilliant as always in her portrayal of the awakening Cynthia, and Dean Cameron is nothing less than breath-taking as he switches back and forth from delusional psychopath to happy camper.The problem with this movie lay with the underlying storyline. As a 30-something woman having just awakened from a long coma, Jennifer Rubin is a little too young for the role. (Knocking a few years off the coma would have helped.) The viewer soon forgets that when they get caught up in the whirlwind of activities going on around. There's a little gore in some parts, but what's a good slice 'em and dice 'em up horror without a little gore?If you enjoy Jennifer Rubin in this movie, you may also want to check her out in A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors (as well as the rest of the Freddy series), as well as a more serious role in the 1988 teen drama Permanent Record. Any Cameron movie is worth the watch, but for Dean at his peak, check out the hits Ski School and Summer School. The slow start doesn't hurt the movie at all, and the movie is worth at least a 7.2 on the ratings scale. "},{"Title":"A blatant rip-off of A Nightmare on Elm Street 3.","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cynthia (Jennifer Rubin), the only survivor of a mass suicide by hippie cult Unity Field, wakes from a 13-year coma to find the spirit of cult leader Harris (Richard Lynch) urging her to take her life to so that he can finally deliver the eternal bliss he promised to his followers. When she refuses, he starts to attack those around her.If you've seen A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors, then you're going to get a strong sense of deja-vu watching Bad Dreams with a horribly disfigured bogeyman who kills from beyond the grave, a group of mentally unstable people in an institution suffering inexplicably nasty fates, and Elm Street 3 actress Jennifer Rubin in the lead, the similarities are too obvious to ignore.After plenty of unexceptional Elm-street style death scenes, the film eventually attempts to distance itself from Wes Craven's iconic series by revealing its seemingly supernatural occurrences to be the result of mind-altering drugs dished out by an evil doctor; it's an ending that makes very little sense (precisely what the doctor is trying to achieve is unclear) and one which does nothing to alter the fact that this is a derivative horror at its most mediocre.4.5 out of 10, generously rounded up to 5 for the spectacular fire scene at the beginning, which features some cool special effects and a few impressive burn stunts. "}{"Title":"Why is it that in horror movies, anytime someone finds blood dripping onto them from somewhere above their head, they always turn and look up without moving an inch to any side to get out of the way?","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There is a blood dripping scene in Bad Dreams (one of the oldest tricks in the horror movie book but one which does not seem to ever diminish with each succeeding horror film, even up to today) that turns out to be probably the, um, chunkiest one that I've ever seen. Effective, I suppose, on a morbid level, since it avoids being nothing but a typical revelation of a brutally murdered body, but tiring in the way that it is executed (the scene, not the body, and no pun intended, of course). For some reason this reminds me of the scene in Joe Dirt where David Spade finds himself with a missile shaped septic tank strapped to his back, which ends up spewing its gooey contents onto his astonished head, and instead of attempting to prevent the sludge from bathing him from head to foot, he stands motionless, going `Wah! Wah! Wah!' and subjecting himself to the onslaught of the pasty substance. This is something that is easily avoided in real life (even if you DO somehow manage to wind up with a septic tank on your back), and the fact that Dirt makes not even the slightest attempt to avoid it reveals the scene as a weak effort to get a cheap laugh. Any blood-dripping scene in a horror film, similarly, is an equally weak effort to get a scare. In this case, a gross out scare, a brand which is inherently weak in itself.The blood-dripping scene in Bad Dreams strikes me, for the main reason, because the rest of the movie is not much of a horror film except for the occasional appearance of the cult leader from the beginning of the film turning up as a horribly burned corpse, haunting poor Cynthia, the lone survivor (as usual) of the tragic event at the beginning of the film. The movie starts off with one of those goofball cult meetings, where everyone decides to commit mass suicide in order to become one with each other, or some other such nonsense. It starts off by making a comment about the destructive power of stupid people in large groups, but then turns into this weird horror/thriller for the rest of the movie. There are a few effective scenes in the film, such as, ironically, the scene where Ralph, one of Cynthia's new roommates at the mental institution, tells her that whenever it gets to be too much for him, he just makes a little hole and it all goes away. He lifts up his shirt and reveals a map of scars traveling up his belly and chest, which is a huge turn from the horny teenage goofball that he had been portraying up to that point in the film (probably something that helped in getting him the role of Dave in the Ski School films of the early and mid 1990s, the films that he is probably best known for). But for the most part this is a pretty weak film.Bad Dreams fails as a horror film because not a single new idea can be found in the movie, which renders its horror content completely predictable and almost entirely without effect, and it fails as a thriller (although not as much as it fails as a horror film), because it crosses the thin line between horror and thriller, inserting too much gore and supernatural antagonism where it doesn't belong, and thereby coming off as campy at best. It is, however, more entertaining than other bad movies I've found in the horror section lately, such as Neon Maniacs, which has cemented itself as one of the worst horror films I've ever seen, and not even bad in that good way, like They Live or Texas Chainsaw or some of the Friday the 13th or Nightmare of Elm Street sequels. The tagline for Bad Dreams (the one on the top of the cover box, not the goofy `It's A Scream!' at the bottom) is a little interesting, in the way that it creates interest in the movie since you just have a natural urge to find out why someone would wish they were dead upon waking up (although this is also a pretty weak way create interest in a movie, especially a horror movie), but it also has nothing to do with the movie itself. Anytime a movie has a tagline that turns out to be a figure of speech, it tends to have the effect of leaving a bad aftertaste. The entirety of the suspense in the film, in fact, is derived from the fact that Cynthia does NOT wish she were dead upon awakening. The cult leader coming after her is the one that wishes she were dead, so if she really wished she was dead so badly all she had to do was give in and let him take her. This is, of course, not the case, and so we have a movie. But the strange thing about it is that, despite having almost no strengths at all, it makes me wonder if maybe horror films are SUPPOSED to be bad, at least to be memorable. This one wasn't all that terrible, but makes little to no impression. The acting is weak from everyone involved (even from the beautiful Jennifer Rubin, who strikes me as an actor who should have had a more visible career than she has had so far), and the directing is little more than pointing and shooting, but the movie is almost immediately forgettable. Maybe in swaying on the line between horror and thriller, Bad Dreams made the unfortunate mistake of landing right in that limbo zone between a truly great horror film and a truly awful one &#150; the zone of oblivion. "},{"Title":"It's OK.","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This Nightmare On Elm Street wannabe is well-directed by Andrew Fleming, but too derivative to make much of an impression. Some icky scenes, a few bad effects and much better acting than you're accustomed to seeing in this genre. Undemanding horror fans won't be disappointed. (**) "},{"Title":"pretty cool movie","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this 1 night on Cinemax & taped it cause it was pretty good. Its quite creepy, & the main cult leader is very creepy 2. The ending was a bit of a letdown, the main cop doesnt stay with them, he just lets the 2 survivors, yet attacked, alone 2 hug, etc. Well, if u r looking 4 a cool 80's horror movie-give this 1 a try, it is worth it. "},{"Title":"Too bad.","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've never heard about this film until my friend told me about it, so I decided to check it out. It wasn't too bad. It was a bit different than the usual horror I'm used to. I'm not sure if this would be classified as horror though. Maybe more of a thriller or something. Can't say I was really dissapointed with it, but it could have had more stuff.Starts off with this weird '70s cult gathering around an old house. Turns out they're getting ready to be burned to death by their faithful leader and they actually want it to happen. It's supposed to help them all become one with each other. What a waste. Everyone pretty much gets killed except one young girl, who ends up in a coma for 13 years. When she finally wakes up she starts seeing weird visions of the leader of the group and she believes he's after her.This wasn't a bad film. It had a pretty original plot and the death scenes were cool. There was an interesting twist at the end that made everything fall perfectly into place. The acting was pulled off well and it was a first to see actor Bruce Abbott in another horror film. Last time I saw him it was in the Re-Animator films.What I didn't like about the movie was the fact that it didn't have as much stuff going on as it could have. I just felt the film was missing something. There weren't any scary or creepy parts. Nothing that will really make the audience jump. I was rather dissapointed with that. Would have given this film a higher rating if more stuff was going on. Would have given it a lower rating, but I did find it interesting to watch and it did keep my attention going for a while. The twist at the end wasn't bad, but I was kind of dissapointed by it.   "},{"Title":"nightmare on elm street 3 part 2","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is really nightmare on elm street 3 part 2,but instead of freddy,this time it's a crazy cult leader invading teen's dreams. i like both nightmare 3,and this movie about the same though. this movie has some creepy moments,and it's well paced. if you like horror movies than you should check this out. i give bad dreams **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Carbon Copy","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Bad Dreams is an excellent bite of Nightmare on Elm Street.  The movie basically takes half the actors from NOES and throws them into a similar plot and Bamm the movie is decent.  Notice the title Bad Dreams  this alone gives away that the movie is similar to NOES.  To make matters worse the movie has a series of characters in a Mental Hospital, A direct copy of NOES 3.  And guess what??? half the people were in the NOES 3 and it even states that on the back of the box.  NOES 3 was a great movie so they completly copied the whole idea, switched around a little bit, and have a good movie.  The only reason this movie is good though is they took the elements from NOES 3.  The characters slowly die off just like in NOES 3. The  whole plot is based on a girl who has recurring nightmares of an ugly man just like in NOES 3. And guess how that man died? Yep, in a burning blaze of fire.  Finally, we have mental patients,  a bad man who burnt in a fire, a girl with special capabilities, and a single doctor who tries to save the patients.  What movie do we have here?  I don't know either NOES 3 or Bad Dreams.  Don't get me wrong the movie is decent, but if you like this you MUST check out NOES 3, because it has something this movie does not  FREDDY KRUEGAR. "},{"Title":"It's a Bore!!!","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well that is not fair.  It was not totally boring, but it was not exactly all that scary or even interesting.  The trailers for this one were clearly trying to capitalize on the success of the Nightmare on Elm Street franchise.  The promos for this one basically said if you found Freddy scary, wait till you see Harris...or something to that effect.  In reality it has very little in common with Elm Street other than a few dreams here and there.  The movie is set in I believe a mental ward and it turns into more of a mystery rather than a horror.  The only one who sees the dreaded Harris is the one survivor of his strange cult.  Basically, those in the mental ward are being offed and she sees him and thinks he has come back.  A twist at the end, but all in all a rather dull film with a few moments of interest here and there.   "},{"Title":"Only for viewers into cheap, ugly thrillers...","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ghastly horror item, which may have represented a dead-end for the slasher genre before Wes Craven revived it in the '90s, has cult-suicide survivor Jennifer Rubin spending thirteen years in a coma, only to awaken to a bizarre rash of deaths in her hospital ward. Although Jennifer shows promise in her role, and Susan Ruttan does well in a small part as a mental patient, this cruddy-looking B-flick is far more unpleasant than scary--what with tasteless asides, cheap effects, and googly-eyed Richard Lynch attempting to pull a Jim Jones. Good supporting players E.G. Daily, Damita Jo Freeman and Harris Yulin are sadly wasted. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"Terrible.....just plain terrible","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie may look interesting on the cover but as for the movie itself, I found myself bored to death.  This movie has some very lame characters starting with the throw in actors/actresses involved in the group which left me with the feeling of hurrying up with the killing off of these people so that I will not have to sit there watching their boring roles. Common, they had this guy going crazy in the basement throwing things acting like he can't control himself until he finally does myself a favor by ending my mysery of watching him goof off with his boring lines.  And the girl in the movie who was supposed to be young and in a coma and still looks the same age as before the coma just plays along with the movie and does not add anything to it.  First she acts as if shes ok and wants to leave the hospital until she has all these hallucinations about the leader of a cult that was the cause of her being there in the first place.  She finds out that the hospital nolonger can reach her parents and relatives so shes therefore doomed to stay in the hospital with these hallucinations of a man that looks like Rutger Hauer  tormenting her and the students.  She keeps hallucinateing that she is walking back to the house in which the cult thrived and this gets very boring as it keeps happening all the time.  This movie tries to reach the story line of Nightmare on Elm St. 3, even has a character that looks very much like one of the characters that played in that movie(probably is..) but it fails to do so. "}]