[{"Title":"A Sentimental Favorite","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"32 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was younger and for some reason it always stuck with me.  I'll always remember the music (the title song as well as the classical pieces used throughout), the vestibule of Mimi Roger's apartment palace, the scene of Tom Berenger having breakfast with his family, Lorraine Bracco's fiery performance as his wife, and the haunting opening aerial shots of NYC lit up at night.  I watched it again for the first time in probably nine or ten years and it was like visiting with an old friend or curling up with a good book you had read before.  You knew the story, but it was all fascinatingly interesting.  The plot here is pretty basic working class cop has to babysit upper class babe who witnesses heinous murder.  It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out how it all ends, but director Ridley Scott somehow manages to keep it compelling thanks to some great direction and wonderful performances from the cast.  Somewhere I saw this billed as an erotic thriller, which is way off base.  Scott keeps everything here extremely classy.  It's more of a romantic thriller and throwback to the noir films of the 1940's.  This may not be the best film you'll ever see, but it's one of the better thrillers of the 1980's, and a worthy testament to Ridley Scott's versatility as a director.  It's also nice to see Jerry Orbach in a supporting role that probably paved the way for his part in the never ending Law and Order TV series. "},{"Title":"average, but somehow very attractive","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has been one of my favorite movies.  I admit that this is not something that might be recognized by academy people. There is nothing new and original about the story and situation and it is rather easy to guess what would happen next. But somehow it is an attractive movie (to me?) and I keep watching it over and over (I have a video).  Actors are good and the view of New York is wonderful in every part of the movie.  Most of all music is superb! Ever since I first saw this movie, Someone to watch over me has been my favorite jazz standard.  One more thing.  If somebody else directed this it might have been VERY boring.  Great touch by Ridley Scott.  "},{"Title":"Underrated Masterpiece","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"29 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Queens, Mike Keegan (Tom Berenger) is celebrating with his wife Ellie (Lorraine Bracco), his son Tommy and friends his recent promotion to detective in a precinct in Manhattan. Meanwhile, in a fancy club, the socialite Claire Gregory (Mimi Rogers) witnesses the murder of the owner of the place by the powerful mobster Joey Venza (Andreas Katsulas). Mike is assigned to protect her in the night shift in her apartment in Manhattan. When Venza threatens Claire, the contact of Mike with Claire gets closer and conflicts him, dividing between the love for his family and the heat passion for Claire and the fascination for her world. Today I have just watched Someone to Watch Over Me maybe for the sixth or seventh time, and every time I see this movie, I conclude that it is an underrated stylish masterpiece. Everything works perfectly in this film. The story may be not original, the conclusion is quite moralist, but there is an important and unusual approach regarding the difference of classes and consequently of worlds, which is the basis for the conflictive romance between Claire and Mike. The direction of Ridley Scott is tight and perfect, as usual, using different angles camera and magnificent photography and shadows in the night, to express the differences between the two worlds. There is one specific scene that I love, when Mike is sat with his face half illuminated in the hall of Claire's apartment, totally confused and with his feelings divided. The cast is very inspired, and in my opinion, this is the best role of Mimi Rogers, amazingly perfect as an elegant, wealthy and needy of love woman and wearing a beautiful hair style. Tom Berenger is outstanding as Mike, and Lorraine Bracco is also fantastic in the role of a simple woman and wounded wife. The music score is awesome, highlighting the three versions of the song of George and Ira Gershwin, which gives the title of the film, specially the last one with the interpretation of Roberta Flack. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) Perigo na Noite (Danger in the Night) "},{"Title":"Tuant romantic thriller - equally stylistic and atmospheric","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A highly stylized crime thriller that also manages to work as a tale of adulterous romance in addition to an effective parable of the culture clashes that are apparent between the upper and lower classes. This is a film with multiple agendas, and Ridley Scott, best known at the time for 1979's ALIEN and 1982's BLADE RUNNER, is frankly an odd choice to direct such a picture. However, Scott proves himself to be up to the challenge, and film plays like a slightly abstract dream that isn't afraid to crash down into gritty realism on occasion. With his film noir skills perfected with BLADE RUNNER, Scott turns the focus from the future to an equally idealized version of the present (well, 1987 to be exact), but he maintains the same sense of visual menace and harsh industrialism.Tom Berenger has received a considerable amount of criticism for the irritating fake Brooklyn accent he delivers his lines in, but I overall I found him to be quite acceptable in the role. Even better is Mimi Rogers, who convincingly portrays the detached loneliness of the high society lifestyle without the benefit of screen dialogue that permits her to openly address such an issue. Jerry Orbach and John Rubinstein are also memorable supporting parts, but it is Lorraine Bracco who steals the picture as Berenger's feisty wife. Long before she was best known as Tony Soprano's psychiatrist, Bracco brought to the screen the ultimate portrayal of the modern wife and mother - loving but fierce, tough but compassionate, and not afraid to slap some sense into the man who has done her wrong.And I love Sting's opening rendition of the title Gershwin classic. "},{"Title":"Fine acting","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As other reviewers have noted, the story is none too special, quite generic. But even a generic story can be made memorable by good writing, good acting, and good directing; this movie has all three of those. Tom Berenger as the somewhat naive and vulnerable work-class junior detective. Mimi Rogers (who I did not even recognize initially, with the 80's hairstyle), as the upper-class murder witness. And even the supporting cast were all great. Nobody overacted, and no cliches. I credit the director, Ridley Scott, for keeping it low-key and believable. "},{"Title":"Routine, but actually quite good","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We've seen the script a hundred times if we've seen it once; happily married cop assigned to stand guard over a beautiful woman, cop falls in love with woman, etc. The difference with this one is that it actually works, even though you know how the story is going to go. Berenger is solid in the lead and Bracco fantastic as the fiery wife, while Rogers is sultry in a very classy way as the other woman. Andreas Katsulas is menacing and scary as Venza, which was perfect for this part. The classical music scores add a perfect touch, and the ending is actually quite thrilling. Something about this one just clicks, making it one of the better films of the genre. 7.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"So powerful yet so underrated","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" How has Tom Berenger slipped out of the view of Hollywood? This man is a real talent, who conveys the confusion and pathos of an untenable situation with passion, conviction and realism. Scott makes the tension palpable, and the supporting cast is so well rounded that IMHO it makes one of the best ever cinematic experiences. Mimi Rogers puts in a credible performance as a tortured socialite and the thrill of the chase makes for some startling and real scenes which keep you on the edge of your seat. If you want great entertainment without the hugest cerebral challenge (!) this is a fab way to spend an evening. "},{"Title":"Solid NYC Police Thriller","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Solid thriller about a NYC detective protecting a rich socialite from the killer that she saw in the commission of a murder. Tom Berenger, Mike Keegan, is great as a NYC cop, sporting a very good New York City working-class class accent, being assigned on his first case as a NYC detective to keep eye-witness Mimi Rogers, Claire Gregory, alive and well to identify the murderer Andreas Katsulas, Joey Venza, of a nightclub owner Mark Moses, Win Hockings, who was a good friend of hers. Det. Keegan falls in love with the beautiful, which is obvious to everyone watching the movie, Miss.Gregory which ends up almost wrecking his marriage as well as his job to no fault of his own under the circumstances that he was put in, the guy's only human! With Mimi Rogers giving one of her best performances as a woman who's life is turned upside down by what she saw. And Andreas Katsulas is terrifyingly effective as the psycho killer who's out to stop Miss.Gregory from talking to the police. Very good interacting between Tom Berenger and his wife in the movie Ellie, Lorraine Bracco, on how the rigors of Det.Keegan being a cop in a big city can create havoc for his family as well as his professional life with a frightening and suspenseful ending that strikes home in more ways then one.Someone to watch over me has a good story and great acting all around with Lorraine Bracco a real stand out in one of the best police thrillers of the 1980's. "},{"Title":"Stylish drama/thriller","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Brooklyn Detective Tom Berenger is assigned to watch over socialite Mimi Rogers after she witnesses a brutal murder where a high profile Mafioso is involved. Berenger gets caught between two worlds; the upper class one he takes a liking to and the normal one (with a wife and kid) in the slums of Queens which he seems to be tiring of.Highly stylish drama/thriller courtesy of Ridley Scott, who directs with his usual visual flair and examines the world of the wealthy seen through the eyes of a middle class voyeur and mixes in some solid suspense to boot. The drama aspect is well handled, pitting Berenger in a dire situation where he must ultimately choose between a life he's already made for himself and a life that can seem very tempting from his perspective.Suspense is also plenty with some fantastic sequences, particularly one inside Mimi Rogers' apartment, not too unlike Dario Argento's Opera in some respects (and even beat it by a year, I think).Tom Berenger does well in the lead, displaying easily the conflicts his character is facing, Rogers is a stunner and gives a subdued and convincing performance. The usually intolerable Lorraine Bracco gives a forceful performance, and one the whole her relationship with Berenger is not only well played out but wholly believable.Recommended. "},{"Title":"I'll 'watch' it again","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Brooklyn detective (Berenger) gets promoted & has new assignment - Keep watch over rich & sultry Manhattanite Claire Gregory (Mimi Rogers) becuz she witnessed a murder. NEVER pair up 2 good-looking people for night time (or daytime) close association no matter HOW solid one's marriage is!! And why not? Becuz THIS could happen! 'Watch' this film & find out.Berenger looks fit & handsome as usual, especially back in the '80's. Rogers should have gotten a better hairdo. Larrainne Bracco, a NY favorite of mine, is just great in this role. Jerry Orbach, Berenger's superior is another NY favorite of mine. Tony DiBenedetto (the big burly limo driver from My Favorite Year) was also 'on the watch' & played Berenger's best friend. The most annoying thing about this film is the slow awful tune sung by Sting here! When the credits role in the beginning, we're shown The Big Bad Apple in all it's glory, lit up in the dark like nobody's business! But that song makes you just want to fast-forward!! Arrrgh!! Then he sings it again at the end!! Arrrgh!!  "}{"Title":"Murder, Infidelity & Painful Consequences","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Someone To Watch Over Me is a visual treat with some exceptionally beautiful shots (such as those of New York City at night and a number of stunning interiors) which together with a marvellous musical score contribute strongly to the movie's incredibly rich atmosphere. Murder, adultery and class distinction are at the heart of the story and interestingly, no gloss is applied to the depiction of any of these subjects. Instead, the focus is on the powerful impact they all have on the various people involved.Newly promoted police detective Mike Keegan (Tom Berenger) is given responsibility for protecting a wealthy Manhattan socialite Claire Gregory (Mimi Rogers) whose life is in danger because she was the only person who witnessed the brutal murder of one of her close friends. The job involves Mike spending time in Claire's luxurious apartment and accompanying her to a variety of social events. He soon becomes attracted to Claire and her glamorous lifestyle; she appreciates the level of security his presence provides and soon the unlikely couple fall in love.Mike's wife Ellie (Lorraine Bracco) becomes suspicious about the nature of his relationship with Claire and his tacit admission about their affair leads to the break up of his family. Mobster Joey Venza (Andreas Katsulas) who had attempted to kill Claire immediately after she witnessed him killing her friend, then takes Ellie and her son hostage and what follows leads to the threat on Claire's life being removed permanently.Claire's comfortable existence changed radically after she witnessed the murder as she became more fearful and had her life threatened by the psychotic killer. The level of freedom she'd previously enjoyed also became considerably more restricted and her affair with Mike led to her stuffy fiancé being dumped and Mike's wife being emotionally devastated by what had happened.Mike's first assignment as a detective led to his life being put in extreme danger and also to him experiencing a great deal of emotional turmoil over his relationship with Claire. The effect this had on his marriage (which had always previously been a happy one) was also painful and his conduct and handling of the case drew severe criticism from his superiors. Ultimately the intensity of Mike's anguish and Claire's desolation are both incredibly profound.Someone To Watch Over Me is a romantic thriller which is beautifully directed by Ridley Scott and features consistently good performances by its talented cast. Lorraine Bracco provides the stand out performance as Mike's feisty, down-to-earth wife whose instincts are totally reliable and Andreas Katsulas' physiognomy and bearing make him the perfect choice for the story's villain. "},{"Title":"A Gershwin tune!","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The concept in a story about two people from two different walks of life getting involved in a love affair that will consume them, is not exactly new in mainstream movies. If one adds to the concept two attractive players to impersonate those lovers on the screen, the result will play heavily in the way an audience responds. If then, a murder is thrown in, it adds another layer to the film.Ridley Scott, is a director with a keen sense of style. He has produced a string of movies that have resonated with the movie going public, and Someone to Watch Over Me, his 1987 film, proves to be one of those favorites, if one is to go by the comments submitted to this forum. The screen play is by Howard Franklin. The excellent cinematography by Steven Poster pays tribute to New York City with the breathtaking aerial night shots. Michael Kamen added to the texture of the film with his music score that also blends music by Antonio Vivaldi and Leo Delibes' Lakme into the sound track.Although the mere idea of a rich socialite getting involved with a Queens detective is preposterous at best, one goes along with the possibility. We realize from the start they have no future together because the detective is pure polyester and the rich girl will not ever set her foot in the outer boroughs for all the money in the world. We realize from the beginning these lovers are doomed.The best thing in the film are the two leads, Mimi Rogers is an exciting presence in whatever she decides to appear in, as it's the case here. Tom Berenger, with his rough good looks is perfect for the awkward detective that can't resist a woman out of his league. Lorraine Bracco, who in this film bears an uncanny resemblance with Debra Winger, plays the wife of the detective, and is also a cop. Andreas Katsulas is at his best creepy self as the man who doesn't want to be identified and will do anything to get his accuser out of the picture.Ridley Scott delivers with his usual elegance and eye for the luxury most of us mere mortals can't afford. "},{"Title":"One of the most compelling cop thrillers of the eighties","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Someone to Watch Over Me is one of the greatest cop films of the eighties. It will never be fully appreciated nowadays, in which just action scenes, and not story, count. Ridley Scott brings back to the screens all the glamour of the noir films of the forties. Although Platoon is still Tom Berenger's best movie, Someone to Watch Over Me comes in second place. The plot is a little bit predictable, but Ridley Scott does such a great job and adds so much style to the film that we can forget the fails in the story and the cliches. It's about a cop from Brooklin (Berenger) who has to protect the life of a beautiful socialite, witness of a murder. They end up falling in love. The visual aspects of Someone to Watch Over Me - visual is a trademark of all Scott's films - are powerful and impressive, for the first time Scott showed the world of the rich and famous in a way never seen before. Ridley Scott told that he wanted to make Someone to Watch Over Me in the tradition of John Garfield's old noir films, and with the help of director of photography John Poster, his cameras deliver to us a bright, beautiful, sometimes menacing New York. The opening scene of the film, Sting singing Someone to Watch Over Me and the camera showing to all of us the lights of New York is one of the key moments of the movie. Someone to Watch Over Me stands to this day as a nice entertainment, and it certainly is one of the most compelling cop thrillers of the eighties, alongside Sharky's Machine, starred by Burt Reynolds.  "},{"Title":"Moody, good thriller","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A Manhattan socialite (Mimi Rogers) accidentally witnesses a murder.  The killer (Andreas Karsulas) spots her but she escapes.  A detective (Tom Berenger), with a loving wife (Lorraine Bracco) and kid, is assigned to watch over her.  They (understandably) become attracted and fall in love.  His marriage begins to crumble and the killer is still on the loose...Very good, forgotten thriller from Ridley Scott.  It opens with a beautiful view of Manhattan from above at night with a title song (a really great one) being sung.  As with most Scott films this one is visually stunning...it seems like a homage to the film noirs of the 1940s.  Most of the movie takes place at night...even the indoor scenes in Rogers' gorgeous, huge apartment are mostly in dark or shadow.  And there's TONS of fog in the outside scenes (Manhattan looks like London with all of that fog)  Along with a great jazz score the movie has a very moody, sensual quality that I loved.  Also it has more depth into feelings than is usually found in his films.Great acting helps.  Berenger (drop dead handsome, muscular, sweet) and Rogers (also drop dead gorgeous and kind) give two of their best performances (Rogers especially).  They're both VERY physically attractive and play off each other very well.  Bracco plays down the role of Berenger's wife.  I personally didn't like her--I found her loud, obnoxious and sarcastic...but we're supposed to identify with her.**DEFINITE SPOILER AHEAD** Here's where the movie makes a BIG mistake.  At the end Berenger has to pick between Bracco and Rogers.  He picks Bracco.  Wrong.  Rogers comes across MUCH better and kinder than Bracco does, BUT this is a Hollywood film and the hero can't leave his wife and kid.  The look on Rogers' face at the end was heart-breaking.  A bad misstep. **END OF SPOILER**I really liked this film.  It has a very interesting quality to it.  It was panned by most critics back in 1987 and didn't do too well at the box office.  Still, it's worth seeing.  This should have made careers for all three of its leads--but didn't.Also fun to see Jerry Orbach playing a policeman before he started doing the long-running TV series Law and Order. "},{"Title":"...Gershwin too","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"   There are moments of acute,excruciating terror, there is beauty (Mimi Rogers says it all there is opulence,elegance and class consciousness. There is added beauty Lorraine Bracco,beautiful, aspiring to lower middle-class respectability, with a New York accent that charms and makes one's heart smile fondly There is the astounding sudden evil violence of Andreas Katsulas as Venza. There is a nostalgic rapture as Mimi Rogers playfully dances/traipes a Manhattan street to the evocation of yesteryear as the strains of a 1920's refrain soothes memory's heart. Not least, there is the incomparable music of the incomparable Gershwin. To hear Roberta Flack render languorously part of the song's intro ...add her initials to my monogram is to salute existence. "},{"Title":"Predictability doesn't diminish enjoyment","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an interesting and appealing film primarily for the engaging performances of the three principals. Tom Berenger, Mimi Rogers and Lorraine Bracco, represent the blue-collar cop, the high-society lady and blue-collar wife to perfection. Equally responsible for the film's appeal is Andreas Katsukas' portrayal of a screen villain superior to any in The Godfather, or any of the film noir genre from the 1930's onward.There is really no mystery, from the outset, as to where the story is headed. Society girl witnesses killing, blue-collar cop is assigned to guard her in her plush digs, they consummate a romantic relationship, blue-collar wife gets hurt (and very angry!), and the killer menaces all.Jerry Orbach and John Rubenstein round-out the primary cast. Neither of these has an oversupply of charisma, and Rubenstein is singularly unappealing and uninteresting in the role of Rogers' big-shot boyfriend.Mimi Rogers is very attractive, if not the drop-dead-gorgeous/raving beauty female star. But I would regard her as an actress, and particularly in this role, as being as sexy and sensual as, say Sharon Stone, even in Basic Instinct. Berenger does the aw shucks, everyman type of character as well as anyone.The film's title song, one of Gershwin's best, has several versions during the film - and the one at the beginning, by Sting, is memorable. I first saw this film, not long after its release, and particularly enjoyed his rendition. Because not long before that, I had been in New York City, on business - and one Saturday evening, with a colleague and his wife, had dinner at the Four Seasons, where Sting and his party were at a nearby table.The next night, when I had flown home, he sang this song (a longer, complete version) on a television tribute to Gershwin.While this song has been used in other films (e.g. Beyond Therapy), it adds a great deal to the film, in a subtle way. "},{"Title":"Alien Homage","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a serviceable enough cop story/thriller back in the late '80s that showed director Ridley Scott was on his toes. Actors Berenger, Scott, Bracco, and Orbach were all in fine form. The one that stood out most though was Andreas Katsulas as the villain. I think Ridley Scott consciously picked him for the role because he resembled in action a kind of vicious Alien on Earth and an ode to Scott's career-making masterpiece. It's too coincidental that a pair of hands/claws grab onto closing elevator/spaceship doors and force them back open during the climaxes of both films. After seeing this movie, I was left with the thought that director Scott was a little full of himself. It's a good thing he went on to make the special, seminal GI Jane. "},{"Title":"Guess we are not going to the game.....","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Queens, Mike Keegan is celebrating with his wife Ellie, his son Tommy and friends his recent promotion to detective in a precinct in Manhattan.Meanwhile, in a fancy club, socialite Claire Gregory witnesses the murder of the owner of the place by powerful mobster Joey Venza.Mike is assigned to protect her in the night shift in her apartment in Manhattan.When Venza threatens Claire, the contact of Mike with Claire gets closer and conflicts him, dividing between the love for his family and the heat passion for Claire and the fascination for her world...Ho Hum, coming from Scott I was expecting something more stylish than a few canapes and a Fine Young Cannibals soundtrack. It's not that the film is bad, it's just so slow and tiresome that it feels like you're watching an epic.And it's the same old story. Rich woman witnesses a murder, gets a poorer cop to do the titular job, they fall for each other etc. etc.the only thing thats missing is Billy Joels 'Uptown Girl' being played every five minutes, to remind people of the class divide.So thanks for Berenger, Rogers, and Bracco for putting in such good performances, therwise this film would have sunk quicker than the Titanic. The chemistry between the three leads is so convincing, you would think that they were doing this for real.So all on all it's the weakest Scott film i've seen, just lacking in involvement or proper narration. "},{"Title":"This is what a movie experience should be","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has class, elegance, and excellence written all over it. It has three sharply drawn characters in the detective (Berenger), his wife (Bracco) and the murder witness (Rogers). The detective's conflict between his familiar and safe family life and the stylish world of the beautiful (and available) murder witness is heart rending, and one feels for all three characters in the story. But the detective's son turns out to be the key to the ultimate resolution of the conflict, foreshadowed early on when the detective and his wife are yelling at each other did you hear what I said? and a little voice from another room shouts out did you hear what I said?. An irresistible movie, it seems to get better with each viewing. "},{"Title":"A nice surprise","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I came across this one while looking up Ridley Scott's movies, and this one looked like one of his weaker ones, so I didnt expect much, but I was surprised.  The action was great, the music was cool, and the actors had great chemestry, Lorraine Bracco gave the best performance.  After seeing this, I think this is one of Ridley Scott's better movies, the ones that were supposed to be his best(Blade Runner and Gladiator) bored the hell out of me.  If you like a good action/thriller, give this one a try.  8.5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"An impressive description of NY upper class","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After Blade Runner R.Scott decided to play a film in one of the most played city in the world New York. In a different way from Woody Allen he described the environment where the upper class lives. Manhattan belongs really to another planet and the scene in the Guggenheim Museum is breath-taking.  "},{"Title":"Lacks Spark","Date":"8 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well I got to be honest here! If this movie wasn't directed by Ridley Scott there would be tons of reviews here destroying it and for good reason. Nothing about the movie stands out. The story is weak, predictable and other than the socialite\cop angle, its been done before and much better. I fail to see how anyone cannot guess the whole movie 10 minutes in. The murder plot makes little sense, its filled with holes and the actions the killer takes at the end of the movie are so unrealistic they're a joke. There's very little action, everything is slow from start to finish. Scott's direction is OK but the whole movie is far too dark. The acting is very solid, it really is a shame that Tom Berenger wasn't a bigger star because the man could act! The women deliver very good performances too. Its a pleasure to watch Lorraine Bracco and Mimi Rogers is hot as always. Jerry Orbach is not given much to work with but he really steals every scene he's in. The music is also fantastic, great soundtrack. Its hard to imagine that a movie with such talented people both in front and behind the camera could be so bland, predictable and devoid of any interest but its true. Its all too uninspired, safe, by the numbers with a nice happy ending wrapped in a bow. What a waste. "},{"Title":"Looks great, but the story's not all that","Date":"28 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ridley Scott's SOMEONE TO WATCH OVER ME had the misfortune to come out during a time when FATAL ATTRACTION was going to change the whole look of the psycho-thriller movie. Thus by comparison, this film feels very ponderous and dated. It's a mixed bag of a production, with some decent performances and a nice visual style, but it doesn't really do much we haven't seen before.It's clear from the outset that Scott is most interested in the dark and brooding cinematography here, because this is a fine-looking movie. The plot, which is about a cop who has to protect a woman who witnessed a mob murder, is less intriguing and indeed rather predictable. Tom Berenger is an acceptable hero and Mimi Rogers is ever-intriguing as the object of his desire, but I can't help but think there's a little too much romance here and not enough thrills. Jerry Orbach props up the supporting cast, as in so many films. "},{"Title":"Worth a watch (or two)","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked this movie but I did think the story was somewhat weak and not told in a truly great way.Its ending isn't to my liking, really. I mean Tom Berenger's character should have been rejected as far as I'm concerned. That would have been more interesting. Now, the guy had it both ways. He got to have his cake and eat it too. He got to have sex with Mimi Roger's character and he got to keep his cozy family with the kid and Lorraine Bracco's sympathetic character. This sucks to me.All he really got was a slap (punch?) in the face. His wife cried and got angry but then later he says I do love you and she takes him back. It's kind of sad. What does that mean, anyway? When he says I do love you? Does it mean It's become clear that when I meet another woman I like I might just betray you and jump into bed with her...but I do love you? I thought it was a weak line and it makes Lorraine Bracco's character come across as weak too when she decides to take him back. He should have ended up alone. Divorced. A dramatic ending is what it should have been. Not this sweet, lovely, reassuring Even after infidelity all can still be just as before ending. It's not powerful, if you ask me.I thought it could have been more erotic. It would have made for a more memorable movie. There's a moment where the villain approaches Mimi Roger's character in the ladies room. She's full bosomed and dressed classy. He puts his hand between her breasts, grabs her dress and pulls her towards her. This certainly kept me from nodding off. It was exciting. If the story would have been rewritten to accommodate more of that kind of thing it would have been awesome. Now, overall, it's a tad too restrained for a movie about seduction, in my opinion. Mimi and Tom have conversations and they look at each other...but the real magnetism isn't felt. Or at least it wasn't by me. There should have been a proper sex scene. Show us the passion!The movie does work but it's like you're looking from a distance to an extent. Part of the power of cinema is that you can be put inside the story and see it from an angle that you can't really in real life. This could have been used to a greater extent, I feel. It all could have been ramped up a bit more. Made to be more powerful than it is now. "},{"Title":"Predictable, but the acting makes it worth a watch","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not sure why SOMEONE TO WATCH OVER ME has never risen above mediocre, for me. It's certainly not because of casting. Rogers inhabits the role of the traumatized wealthy socialite, and she shares a taboo chemistry with Berenger. You don't have to sympathize with Berenger so much as see that the writing was on the wall and he's got in too deep stamped on his forehead. But it's Bracco who's easily got the sympathetic role in this movie; she suffers needlessly, and it's easy to root for her character. You want things in the end to turn out right for all involved - and even though they sorta do, there's little fulfillment. This is a pretty good mid-'80s thriller, stylishly produced, but it's an uneven Ridley Scott movie to be sure. It did turn me on to Winwood's Freedom Overspill, which was cool. And I did like Kamen's score. But hollow seems the best word to describe this.5/10 "},{"Title":"Not bad popcorn  thriller from Ridley Scott","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The story for this movie probably was written in 5 minutes &#x96; it's that thin. Someone to watch over me still manages to be a entertaining small movie. Mainly thanks to the director and actors.Ridley Scott directs it with passion , so the simple story is never boring and actually intriguing. It's also interesting how Scott can make a simple thriller visually attractive. Claire's house and the club are great eye candies . The art direction certainly deserves praise.This straightforward story actually has a heart and the writer Howard Franklin wrote the relationships here really well. Everything feels natural and real.Tom Berenger (mostly known for his performance in Platoon as the psycho soldier) gives a great performance as shy , down to Earth cop. He loves his wife and son , yet he gets tangled in a unwanted romance. Mimi Rogers is also great as the independent and feisty wife of Berenger. Lorraine Bracco makes her character really delicate and likable. The whole trio has a great chemistry together and they are the heart of the movie. Without their great performances the whole movie would fell apart.It's one of those small movies that isn't really amazing or great , but you can't help yourself and you like it for what it is. Not the best movie in Ridley's Scott career , but certainly not the worst. I give it 5/10. "},{"Title":"Glossy Murder Yarn.","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tom Berenger plays police officer and family man Mike Keegen, who is assigned to protect socialite Claire Gregory, played by Mimi Rogers, who has witnessed a murder related to the organized crime, which of course puts her life in danger. Despite their class differences, they grow to like each other, much to the resentment of his wife Ellie(played by Lorraine Bracco) Will Tom fall in love with Claire, and can he stop the assassins out to kill her? Directed by Ridley Scott(Alien) this routine film seems like a waste of his talents, though he does imbue it with a glossy style, the story doesn't deserve such special treatment, being fairly obvious and predictable, despite a good cast. Not a bad film by any means, just a thoroughly mediocre one. "},{"Title":"Tom Berenger At His Best","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember seeing this movie back in the late 80's on VHS, I rented it and watched it with my parents. I was blown away by Berenger's performance, to me it is one of his best. I can't thin of a negative thing about this movie, it is all positive. It had a great cast, great plot, and action packed from the beginning to the end.The film takes place in New York and it is about a woman, Claire Gregory, who is played by Mimi Rodger's. One night she is at some outing and accidentally is a witness to a murder. She tries to leave before she is seen; but bumps into something and the killer sees her. The NYC police naturally are involved; and when they find out there's a witness; the next step is taken. Enter Mike Keegan, Tom Berenger, is assigned to protect her.Once on the job things begin to heat up, at first it's fun and games, he escorts her to some shindig in NY. She buys him a tie before going so he looks proper.There he gets a glimpse of the hit-man after her. He feels bad that she got approached and threatened by him and promises he will keep a better eye on her.He is assigned the night shift and begins to like his job just a little too much, by mixing business and pleasure. Then things get complicated, his wife finds out he's doing more than protecting her. He gets thrown out of his house, marriage is in jeopardy, and he is the talk of the department. Then all hell breaks loose, his partner gets stabbed, his wife hates him and he/Claire need to fix a mess.The hit-man finds Mikes family and threatens them and it's up to Keegan, Claire, and the NYC police to stop this fiend before it's too late. This is a great movie for anyone who likes a little drama mixed in with their action. I would recommend this to anyone, you won't be disappointed and the ending is excellent. Kris L. CocKayne D "},{"Title":"Drags you in but disappoints","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you are reading this review you probably know the overall plot, and it doesn't bother me that it's been done before. But there are so many things in this movie that don't make any sense that it becomes annoying. The description of the movie tells you the rich socialite is being protected by an average NYPD officer so I hope it's no spoiler that the bad guy had numerous occasions to kill this woman but could never quite seal the deal. Some of which were comical in a sense(I could have done better.) Yes, it's a movie and to kill off the lady in the first few minutes wouldn't make much of a movie. It is pretty predictable up to the end which was way over the top. Most things in the movie seemed over done, say the stereotypical NY Queens wife and NY cop. Or scenes that just didn't seem to fit in. The scene with the wife fixing the carburetor just seemed misplaced. It does drag you in and you want to know where it is going, but it just wasn't a very enjoyable ride. "},{"Title":"distracting visuals undermine a decent romantic thriller","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ridley Scott directed this modern urban drama about a blue-collar NYC cop assigned to protect a beautiful murder witness in her posh uptown penthouse. True to any romantic daydream the two fall in love, complicating the policeman's family life, but in spite of its contrived scenario the film manages to offer a surprisingly sensitive (if shallow) story, with Tom Berenger turning in a likable performance as the kind-hearted, hard working cop from the wrong side of the tracks, unable to resist the gloss and glamour of socialite/sophisticate Mimi Rogers. As usual Scott overdresses the visual scheme of the film, and the stylistic excess detracts from the suspense and credibility of Howard Franklin's script, making 1987 New York City look a lot like 2019 Los Angeles in 'Blade Runner', with lots of chrome and steam and flashing neon (even in closed elevators). But after overcoming an awkward opening the screenplay settles for a terribly convenient ending there's nothing like having a murderous psychopath threatening your estranged wife to bring about a quick marital reconciliation. "}{"Title":"-","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pretty good, but dated Ridley Scott thriller. Andreas Katsulas absolutely outstanding as bad guy. Sting singing Someone to Watch Over Me makes me wonder why Sting has not recorded any jazz standards yet. Or has he? "},{"Title":"80s cool","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A working class, married cop is assigned to protect a rich socialite from a psychopath in Ridley Scott's 1988 film what follows is a completely predictable thriller, with indifferent acting, forced local accents and a conclusion that advocates keeping guns at home. Just about the only interest comes from the fact that some of the characters, and by extension, the film itself, are supposed to be cool, so we get a reminder of what cool meant twenty years ago. Most obvious are the haircuts bouffant for the men, perms for the ladies, although when a sequence is scored by a homeless man playing saxophone on the street, I couldn't help but smile. It's a bit scary to think that already two decades have passed since this film was made; but most movies of its time have not dated quite so badly. "},{"Title":"exquisite","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a wonderful movie, almost like an opera. Tom Berenger had the perfect look, New York accent, and mannerisms for the cop. Mimi Rogers was classy and irresistible as the woman in the high society apartment. The dilemma of their animal attraction to each other while knowing they had no real future together was haunting. The classical music underlined the tension beautifully.My favorite line in the movie was when the cop and his wife, Lorraine Bracco (who you knew would come through ultimately) were arguing in their home. The cop says did you hear what I said? The wife says did you hear what I said?, and their 10 year boy shouts out in his soprano voice did you hear what I said?. I knew then how the movie would end. "},{"Title":"ok movie if you like the movie's stars","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is about a cop who falls for a rich socialite who witnesses a murder.The cop is assigned to look over over her until the killer is caught.Eventually they both fall in love and have to decide between their separate lives!Ok movie if you like the films stars!! "},{"Title":"Underrated thriller","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SOMEONE TO WATCH OVER ME (1988) **1/2  Tom Berenger,  Mimi Rogers, Lorraine Bracco, Andreas Katsulas, Jerry Orbach,  John Rubinstein.  Style over substance from director Ridley Scott with cop Berenger assigned to 'babysit' socialite murder witness Rogers has some moments particularly thanks to the feisty Bracco as his Queens wife but lacks depth when in glitzy Manhattan. "},{"Title":"Absorbing Cop Story.","Date":"19 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is better than I'd expected.The general plot involves a happily married police detective, Berenger, assigned as a body guard for the aristocratic Rogers, who is a witness to a gang killing, the perp being Andreas Katsulas, who is real MEAN and enjoys puncturing his victim multiple times with an ice pick, not to mention slashing an expensive painting.You'll recognize Katsulas because he was also the one-armed killer in The Fugitive. His hawk-nosed features and beetling brows are unforgettable. Of course, Berenger and Rogers get to know one another and wind up in bed, much to the distress of Berenger's wife, Lorraine Bracco, in her first prominent role.What I'd expected was a routine cop shoot-out with an extravaganza of special effects, high speed pursuits, bath tubs of gore, and a middle interlude with the beefy Berenger and the mammous Rogers doing the beast with two backs in candle light on the other side of a pastel curtain. Complete schlock.Instead, it's a sometimes nicely observed story of an ordinary bourgeois guy from Queens, whose taste runs to beer, joking around with his loving but savvy wife, and wearing paisley ties to fancy parties. God only knows what kind of music he prefers. He probably thinks Kenny G is semi-classical. Some fun is poked at the aristoi's taste but a cello piece by Bach is nice and good use is made of Gershwin's title tune.The getting-to-know-you routine is improbably fast but in any case Rogers introduces him to champagne, so to speak. Berenger's flatfoot is awed by her multi-million-dollar digs, is embarrassed when her high-end girl friends tell him what a hunk he is, and is reluctant to drink cocktails, as he calls them, while on duty and to let Rogers buy him a new tie -- but he finally yields, as we all yield sooner or later. I approved of the way the writers contrasted Berenger's cramped and noisy home with the sybaritic splendor of Rogers' quarters.I also rather liked the relationship between the various cops who form the dramatic background. Berenger of course is violating the rules by banging the witness he's supposed to be protecting but when he turns up late at night for a tryst, during another cop's watch, there is no melodrama. The other cop simply gets to his feet and says, Tell me I'm dreaming. When Berenger is first discovered by another cop, the exchange is equally brief. What are you doing here? I'm screwed up, T.J. And it's done in LONG SHOT, not close ups of anguished faces.Not that some of the usual clichés are avoided. They worked before, so let's use them again, right? One example Bracco awakens alone at night. She's heard a creaking noise outside the house. She puts on her dressing gown, creeps down the darkened stairway, slowly approaches the window (while the violin strings are practically worn threadbare by suspenseful tremolos), puts her eye to a slit at the window sill, and . . . and . . . AND . . . BANG! A hand reaches out from off the screen and clutches her shoulder. It's her little boy, Tommy. Well, one more example. A body full of bullets crashes through plates of glass in slow motion.Berenger does his best, and he looks about right for the part, but when he aims for an emotion -- say, guilt -- it's like a hunting dog pointing at the pheasant. Rogers doesn't have much to do but look classy and she gets the job done. The most enjoyable performance is Lorraine Brocco's. She's an ex model and had little experience but she does a magnificent job. Watch the expressions on her face and on Berenger's when she discovers in the restaurant that her husband has been sleeping with his charge. Berenger doesn't really pull it off. She does. Nice casting too. Rogers has thin features and looks weaned on opera by Delibes, while Bracco has big blue eyes that are too close together, an enormous and absolutely straight nose, and an accent, that all add up to more than the sum of their parts. "},{"Title":"Nice song, shame about the movie","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film couldn't have been more 80's if it was wearing leg-warmers. Shot with all the depth and meaning of an MTV video, it's ludicrously plotted, poorly acted and surprisingly, considering it's a Ridley Scott feature, rather boringly directed if truth be told.Let's take the plot first and take your pick from the most far-fetched scenario, from the unlikely relationship between ever so rich, ever so posh Mimi Rogers and ever so working-class, ever so gauche Tom Berenger, to the mad murderer running about New York, coming back for lone witness, even after he's improbably let out on bail after a murder attempt, to the finale when Berenger's estranged wife comes to his aid in the most dramatic way and of course takes him back.As for the acting, I didn't detect any heat between the leads at all, a situation not helped by Scott deciding not to give us a big sex-scene involving them, which while I'm no advocate for X-rated scenes, felt something more could have been done to explain the unlikely liaison between the two of them. They make a good-looking couple, but their characterisations are too one-dimensional, Rogers as the poor little rich girl and particularly Berenger with his sub-Rocky like enunciation and dumb-lunk portrayal.I also felt there was too little action in the film and the intended suspense-ful bits were lacking in tension and th soundtrack an uneasy mix of jazz and pop, with the title song played far too often, no matter if it is in different guises.It's certainly a beautifully shot film but the colours are too ripe as if the cameras are in permanent soft-focus mode, over-prettifying the cinematography.I've struggled all through this review trying to avoid saying style over content, but there you go, I've said it...and I mean it. "},{"Title":"Stop Looking","Date":"29 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ridley Scott's Someone to Watch Over Me stars Tom Berenger as Mike Keegan, a detective tasked with protecting Claire Gregory (Mimi Rogers), a woman who witnessed a murder. Like most bodyguard fantasies, she's a wealthy socialite, and it isn't long before the couple are locking lips and trampling over class boundaries. Problem is, Keegan's already married. Much domestic squabbles then occur, before the film climaxes with a derivative hostage situation.Someone to Watch Over Me isn't as exciting as Kevin Costner's The Bodyguard, but it's just as unintentionally funny, with its breathless lovers, cartoon bad guys, poor script and syrupy score. Scott's aesthetic &#x96; call it MTV-noir &#x96; plays like a half-baked version of his other 80s movies (Blade Runner and Black Rain), complete with shadowy streets, midnight skylines and flapping trench-coats. The film has several action sequences, all dull due to Scott's shooting style, which lacks fluidity, possibly due to all the smoke machines and off-camera equipment necessary to sustain each shot. After a string of box-office duds (Blade Runner, Legend and Someone to Watch Over Me), Scott would hit pay dirt with his Michael Douglas thriller, Black Rain.7/10 - Worth no viewings. "},{"Title":"Waaaaaaay too predictable","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw this on Netflix the other night and I can't find anything good to say about it. It was slow starting, full of stereotypes, utterly predictable, and just boring. I kept watching thinking it'd have to get better. It never did.My husband, who is a big fan of police dramas, left the room several times while it was on. In fact, when he went to let the dog out, he didn't bother asking me to pause it. And in his absence, he didn't miss anything.Frankly, apart from seeing a very young and good-looking Tom Berenger, this movie was a total waste of my time. It wasn't even worthy of MST3K-ing - it was just bad. "},{"Title":"Expat - who never saw it in when living in Europe - Switz","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Recently saw this film in 99 -- did not find it dated in the least -- although my video rendition was clearly fuzzy -- I found that my appreciation of the content was most definately positive -- This is a great period film -- not so very much for the subject matter, necessarily -- but for the stellar peformances of the actors and actresses --there are so many great moments in this film. I did so like TB's Lay it back, Mack scene -- Seemed to say it all -- Adored this film -- Can't we see more of this genre ?? so personally directed and well-beloved ???  Lived in Europe for 5 years at a time when the only channels were TFI, TF2 with Patrick Poivre d'Avoir and Cristine Okrent, and some sort of other Swiss independant channel - no guessing - between 79 to 84.... MY BENT is CLEARLY to the great films that are being, and have been, produced in Europe over all these years -- One of the most adored actors at that time was Michel Piccoli -- Such a shame to see one of his original European masterpieces messed up by Richard Gere --- g-d bless him fom his efforts ---- SEE THE ORIGINAL EN FRANCAIS TO GET THE REAL FEEL FOR THIS INCREDIBLE FILM ---- In any case, although much maligned and ignored because of it's 'romantic' content, I would suggest that Someone... is a film well worth watching for its raw view of the real world of the working cop, the working poor,and the integrity that walks that thin line.  Just an opinion ----- as per jfl "}{"Title":"Thriller just entertaining","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A good plot premise from Howard Franklin and a likable performance from Mimi Rogers are about the only things going for this Ridley Scott film, Someone to Watch Over Me.The script is slow and sadly predictable. The usual visual splendour and fantastic cinematography that we have come to expect from Scott as a director of such fine films as Alien, Bladerunner and Black Rain, are all missing here.Although there was little scope with which Ridley Scott could have worked, he has only done enough to make this 'thriller' just entertaining. Just.Thursday, June 27, 1991 - Video "},{"Title":"Time Capsule","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Concept '87 all the way, from 'Fatal Attraction' to 'Lethal Weapon' and 'Wall Street'Spoiler minefield ahead...This was Ridley's second urbaneer and his most unsophisticated.  All three involve bad actors as leads and placing them in unfamiliar zones whether socially, culturally, and even physically.  In 'Blade Runner' he operated with replicants (fake people) in an unfamiliar world.  That was his excuse for the plot.  In 'Black Rain' he used real people in alien worlds--a mixture of 'Blade' and this.  All involve the environment to some degree, this has the weakest.As before, Scott fights with the cliches.  The characters are stereotypes, many scenes suffer from cinematic overkill (except there's no baguette in the grocery bags).  Then I found the purpose.  Scott made this as a primer, as with most of his post-'Legend' work.  He experiments with ideas and enhances them later.  In this case the prep was for 'Hannibal' and 'Thelma & Louise'...notice how the housewives got their revenge.Notice how Berenger exists in the left-to-right world and Rogers exists in low angle, right-to-left.  Watch as Berenger becomes seduced into her world and the camera suddenly shifts on him.  It's primitive here, but Ridley would refine it.Oh well, Scott knew where he goofed and worked on it while maintaining his control on light.  Meanwhile, Kamen does Vangelis and Simpson does her 'Platoon' edit job.Final Analysis = = Midrange Material "},{"Title":"Ridley Scott did this??","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" How could Ridley Scott make such a banal picture, awful dialog, completely predictable plot... There is a tiny redeeming feature in some of the photography, mostly the outdoor night scenes that can make the viewer think, right, that's the Blade Runner touch. If not for those I would have rated it a 1 rather than a 2.The luxurious apartment of the poor beautiful rich girl is, btw, an exercise in kitsch -- bad taste at its peak.If you haven't seen this movie, and want to watch it, DO IT WITH THE MUTE ON. Don't listen to the dialog under any circumstances. You will understand the plot, such as it is, perfectly well without it.It is interesting to see a much younger Lorraine Bracco, after getting to know her character on the Sopranos about 13+ years later. "},{"Title":"Very Average","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tom Berenger plays a tough cop in a movie directed by Ridley Scott . You can expect a lot with SOMEONE TO WATCH OVER ME but I'm afraid this isn't anything more than a very average movie . The plot is rather predictable with married cop Mike Keegan being assingned to guard a murder witness and then embarking on an affair with her . Of course since the average audience member wouldn't like it if their partner cheated on them Keegan's adultery is going to land him in serious trouble as it always does in all these type of movies . Perhaps Wes Craven and Kevin Williamson could make a movie called ON THE BEAT where a bunch of policemen discuss that two things cops must never do is have an affair with a character in a movie or go into a kitchen to get a drink of water since this almost always leads to movie cops being killed . Alternatively if film makers want to be even more radical they should do a movie where the only consequences of adultery is a guilty conscience It's not just the predictable script that makes this very average , as I mentioned SOMEONE TO WATCH OVER ME stars Tom Berenger and is directed by Ridley Scott but neither star nor director seem to do anything to embellish the movie . Berenger especially is disappointing and his unconvincing  Noo Yiork  accent seems to disappear halfway through the movie . It's by no means a bad movie but is very average and everyone involved in this has done much better stuff "}]