[{"Title":"A Writer's Comedy","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Owen loves his Mamma...only he'd love her better six feet under in this dark, laugh-out-loud comedy that both stars and is directed by Danny DeVito, with admirable assists from Billy Crystal and Anne Ramsey in the title role.Throw Momma From The Train is a terrific comedy, even if it isn't a great film. It's too shallow in parts, and the ending feels less organic than tacked on. But it's a gut-splitting ride most of the way, with Crystal and DeVito employing great screen chemistry while working their own separate comic takes on the essence of being a struggling writer (DeVito is avid but untalented; Crystal is blocked and bitter).Crystal's Professor Donner believes his ex-wife stole his book (the unfortunately titled Hot Fire) and can't write more than the opening line of his next book, which doesn't come easy. He teaches a creative writing class of budding mediocrities, including a middle-aged woman who writes Tom Clancy-type fiction but doesn't know what that thing is the submarine captain speaks through; and an upholstery salesman who wants to write the story of his life. Mr. Pinsky is probably the funniest character for laughs-per-minutes-on-screen, an ascot-wearing weirdo who sees literature as an excuse to write his opus 100 Girls I'd Like To Pork.Then there's DeVito's Owen Lift, who calls himself Professor Donner's star pupil even though the teacher won't read his work in class. Owen is a somewhat unusual character to star in a movie, a man-child in his late 30s who lives with his overbearing mother, Anne Ramsey, who calls him lardass and other endearing sentiments. In any other movie, we'd be asked to feel sorry for Owen, but Throw Momma From The Train piles life's cruelties onto this sad sack for laughs and expects us to go along. That's one big reason why this film probably loses a lot of people.For those of us who enjoy the humor of this character, even identifying with him, and take the rest of what we see here as a lark, it's not as big a stretch to go along with the bigger gambit this comedy takes, asking us to watch in amusement while Owen enlists Professor Donner's help in a plan to kill his mother. Actually, he first goes to Hawaii to kill Donner's hated ex, then tells the professor it's his turn to kill Mrs. Lift, swapping murders as seen in Hitchcock's Strangers On A Train.As a director, DeVito not only complements his actors' performances with scene-setting that places the accent on dialogue, he makes some bold visual statements, throwing in bits of amusing unreality to keep the audience on its toes (and away from taking things too seriously.)Also helping matters is writer Stu Silver, who keeps the laughs coming with his quotable patter. You got rats the size of Oldsmobiles here. She's not a woman...She's the Terminator. One little murder and I'm Jack the Ripper. Those are all Crystal's words, but some of the funniest lines, which work only in context but absolutely kill, are DeVito's and Ramsey's. Apparently Silver never wrote another screenplay after this, according to the IMDb, and that's a shame, because he had real talent for it.The best scene in this movie, when Crystal meets Ramsey, was actually used in its entirety as a theatrical 'coming attraction' presentation, the only time I've seen a movie promoted that way. Owen introduces the professor to his mother as 'Cousin Patty,' and when Momma says he doesn't have a Cousin Patty, panicky Owen loses it. 'You lied to me,' he yells out, slamming the professor's forehead with a pan.Of course, in reality the professor wouldn't groan out something witty from the floor, but 'Throw Momma From The Train' works effectively at such moments, when playing its Looney Tunes vibe for all its worth. DeVito hasn't disappeared from films, of course, but it's a mystery why he hasn't really followed up on the directorial promise of this movie. Maybe it's because, as 'Throw Momma From The Train's lack of mainstream success shows, his kind of vision isn't to everyone's tastes. That's too bad for those of us who can watch this over and over, and like it. "},{"Title":"A writer writes - well, he tries to, anyway","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Billy Crystal is Larry, a writer who hasn't written and is suspected of murder in Throw Momma from the Train, costarring Danny Devito and Anne Ramsey. The phrase black comedy was invented for this insanity, which is a take-off on Hitchcock's Strangers on a Train. In fact, Owen (Devito) gets the idea of having Larry kill his mother in exchange for Owen killing Larry's ex from watching that famous film. I saw the movie. Criss-cross, Owen tells Larry. Not that Larry knows what he's talking about until it appears it's too late - just like Strangers. Larry, a writing teacher, claims that his ex-wife, played by Kate Mulgrew, stole his book and put her name on it. She has become a big celebrity, appearing on Oprah, where she refers to Larry as a beast. Owen is in Larry's class. He lives with an abusive Neanderthal mother (Ramsey) and has visions of poisoning her, sticking a scissors in her head - you name it. It's not long after seeing Strangers on a Train that he's in Honolulu, stalking Larry's wife. While she's leaning over a boat railing trying to get an earring, Owen stands behind her and creeps up...Soon the police are looking for Larry to question him, but he's at Owen's where he's being encouraged to live up to his end of a bargain he had no idea he made. You know, criss-cross. There are several scenes copied from Strangers, which are hilarious. I especially loved Larry's confession to the sleeping Mrs. Lift, Owen's mother, similar to when Guy thinks he's talking to Bruno's stepfather.Crystal and DeVito are complete masters of comic dialogue and timing and will leave you laughing, often out loud. Ramsey is repulsively funny - a totally out there performance. Kim Griest and Rob Reiner also have roles - Griest is Crystal's girlfriend, and Reiner has what amounts to a cameo.The ending is very clever, and the whole film will leave you laughing. "},{"Title":"Overlooked black comedy.","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Black comedy isn't always an easy sell. Every now and then you get a black comedy that is hugely successful, like Fargo, for example. But usually they don't often find big audiences. People seem to either set their minds for intellectual comedy, or for serious mayhem. There doesn't seem to be a big market for a good mixture of both. Throw Momma From the Train was a fairly decent hit, yet few people seem to remember much about it in this day and age. Danny DeVito just about hit this one all the way out of the park back in 1987.DeVito plays an odd mamma's boy named Owen looking to rid himself of his outrageously overbearing and unpleasant mother whom he still lives with. The mother is played by Anne Ramsey, who passed away shortly after this was released, and she is quite a caricature. She is loud, ugly, rude, and overbearing. Though Owen hardly seems like he could take care of himself, he wants desperately to have his mother offed. He fantasizes about it in some truly weird scenes, but he clearly doesn't have the guts to actually do it himself. That's where Billy Crystal comes in. Crystal plays Larry Donner, Owen's creative writing teacher at a nearby community college. Larry is a paranoid would-be intellectual novelist who claims his ex-wife stole his novel and made millions off it. He is currently trying to write a new one, but cannot even come up with a decent first sentence. The night was.... Owen hears Larry wish his ex-wife were dead during an outburst at the school cafeteria. And borrowing the idea from Strangers on a Train, Owen decides to travel to Hawai'i and murder Larry's ex-wife. Once it appears he has done so, he expects Larry to return the favor and kill his mother. The resulting action is often quite funny, and even poignant. It's certainly never dull and often full of surprises.The acting is exceptional, even if Ramsey was a bit over the top. Crystal is as good as he can be, and DeVito has always been undervalued as a performer. The film relies on quite a bit of physical comedy which usually works, often painfully so. The film makes use of some truly innovative editing techniques in some scenes, and the off-beat tone is truly refreshing. I have often been critical of the late 1980s as being a time of artistic malaise and down right lazy film-making. Throw Momma From the Train takes chances. Both in how its characters are drawn as well as its general plot. How many comedies revolve around a son having his mother murdered? The film isn't too long, and it is chock full of laughs. Writers are apt to find it more interesting than the general public, but it can still be enjoyed by just about anyone. 9 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"A fun black comedy/thriller","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Throw Momma from the Train, could best be described as a newer version of Hitchcock's Strangers on a Train. Stu Sliver's script was creative and very darkly comic. Danny DeVito stars (and also directs) as Owen, a sort of dim-witted writing student who lives with his monstrous mother (Anne Ramsey). Owen's writing teacher, Larry (Billy Crystal) is having trouble with his writing career because his wife (Kate Mulgrew) stole his first book and made it her own bestseller and lives the highlife in Hawaii. After Owen constantly annoys Larry for days about his first story, he wrote from class, Larry suggests that Owen see a Hitchcock movie in order to write the perfect murder mystery novel. Owen then gets the idea from Strangers on a Train that he will go to Hawaii and murder Larry's wife, while Larry will kill his mother. But Larry has the motive, and with the police coming after him, Larry now has the opportunity to kill off the meanest old lady, he's ever seen, but realizes that she is harder to get rid of than both he and Owen thought.Throw Momma from the Train, I think is a fun comic adventure, both Danny DeVito and Bill Crystal are funny, while Anne Ramsey's Oscar-nominated role of Momma is hysterically frightening. There are a lot of laughs in this film, especially the classic One Hundred Girls I'd Like to Fork story. Kim Griest, Annie Ross and Bruce Kirby also star, with Rob Reiner, Oprah Winfrey and Danny DeVito's own father in law, Philip Perlman make cameos. This is a good example of classic black comedy. "},{"Title":"Mostly Fun","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Throw Momma From The Train is a good black comedy from Danny DeVito... Billy Crystal is great as Larry, a frustrated writer who wishes his ex-wife were dead. Danny DeVito plays against type as Owen, a childlike psychotic who allows his monster of a mother to run his life. Wouldn't life be simpler is these two could murder the women that make them miserable?The first two-thirds of the movie are funny, especially the scenes involving Larry's writing class. But somewhere along the way it becomes a frantic nightmare, with Larry fighting for his sanity while a kooky musical score blares incessantly on the soundtrack. And the inconsistencies of Owen's character are more than a little distracting.In the end, though, Throw Momma From The Train is an entertaining, original movie with some very funny scenes. It is worth checking out if you can rent it or see it on cable.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Motives, Alibis and Crisscross","Date":"26 December 2009","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The college teacher Larry Donner (Billy Cristal) is a blocked writer since his former wife Margareth (Kate Mulgrew) ruined him, stealing his novel that became a best-seller. He does not hide his hatred for Margareth, upsetting his girlfriend Beth Ryan (Kim Greist), who is an anthropologist teacher in the same college. While giving classes of Creative Writing, he is stalked by the student Owen (Danny DeVito) that wants to know his opinion about his crime tale. Larry tells that he did not like it, and explains that in every mystery tale, the murderer should eliminate the motive and establish an alibi, otherwise he would get caught. Further, Larry suggests Owen to watch Hitchcock's movies to understand the structure of a suspenseful story. Owen, who wants to kill his detestable mother (Anne Ramsey), watches Strangers on a Train and misunderstands Larry's advice, believing that his teacher wants to swap murders to eliminate the motive. Owen travels to Hawaii and while in a ship, Margareth falls overboard vanishing in the sea and is considered dead. However, Larry does not have an alibi and becomes the prime suspect, while the deranged Owen presses him to kill his mother as part of their supposed deal.Throw Momma from the Train is one of the funniest comedies of the 80's and a great tribute to Alfred Hitchcock. The direct reference is Strangers on a Train, but there are jokes with Vertigo (with the spinning camera), Family Plot (with the car without breaks) and other movies. The lines are excellent and there is an interesting point when Larry tells that every great romance or mystery has a train. Anne Ramsey is amazing in the role of a nasty and abusive dominating mother and the viewer will certainly feel sorrow and understand the insanity of Owen. Kim Greist is very beautiful and Kate Mulgrew is the perfect bitch. Billy Cristal performs an obsessed character with many silly and unreasonable attitudes but necessary to the plot. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Jogue a Mamãe do Trem (Throw Momma from the Train) "},{"Title":"Genius script, great acting, solid direction The ingredients to a great film.","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Larry Donner (Billy Crystal) has a crazy life His wife (Kate Mulgrew) stole his book and left him, he has a new budding romance with a girl named Beth (Kim Greist), he doesn't know how to start his book, and his students of his screen writing class are stranger than most. However, one student (Danny DeVito) is extra strange. He lives with his evil Momma (Anne Ramsey) and he can't get up the courage to kill her. So than he goes to Larry for help, making his life go from normal crazy, to extra crazy! Stu Silver should have done more! The dialog, the characters, the whole script is near perfect! And Danny DeVito has proved to me he's more than a great actor he's a great director! His kid's movie Matilda is among my favorite family movies and now this is one of my favorite comedies.It's a black comedy, most jokes are about murder, but it's damn funny! All of the actors are doing their full potential, whether they're main characters (Billy Crystal) or just one-bit minor characters (Olivia Brown).If you like comedy (Who doesn't?) than you'll like this! 8/10 stars. "},{"Title":"You Don't have a cousin Patty. You lied to me! BONG!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  For those that recall those lines, you also know how entertaining this film was.  What happens when you take Hitchcock style suspense and paranoia and mix it in with traditional ,theatrical style comedy.  You get Throw Mamma From the train.  This is the story about two guys with the same problem. Larry Donner (played by Billy Crystal) is suffering from severe writters' block, brought on by the success of the novel that his Ex-wife (Make Milgrew) stole from him.Owen Lift (played by Danny DeVito) is suffering from the ability to write because of his nasty, demanding, over-bearing mother (played by Ann Ramsey).Larry, who is Owens' creative writing teacher, tries to advise him on the the fundamentals on writing a good murder novel.  His one tactic is for Owen to see a Hitchcock film and understand the importance of motive and alibi.  Owen takes the advise the wrong way and thinks that Larry wants him to participate in a criss-cross murder plot for the other. And the mayham begins.Billy Crystral does some of his best work in this film as he goes through a rollercoaster of emotions from all the madness he endures. Danny DeVito comes through, not only as the simpathetic Owen (who is quite distant from his popular Louie DePalma persona) but also as director.  DeVito uses not only his keen understanding of comedy, but also some clever camera techniques.  Ann Ramsey is the quintessential mother from Hell.  She's so mean and nasty that she makes you want to jump in and squeeze the life out of her yourself.  The film is also complimented by the Art Direction of Barry Sonninfeld (director of the Adams Family films) and a memerable musical score by David Newman.Throw Mamma From the Train is slap-stick, suspense filled semi-classic that no fan of these talents should pass up.  "},{"Title":"Devito's Book","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Once again we have a film about writing. That's the first recourse for writers, and since Devito is a film writer, the book derives from a Hitchcock film. The mix is rather clever, but the humor is ordinary. What's different here is the mix. As with many book-films, the story on the screen becomes the story in the book, but here we have two books of the same events. One book is serious, the other -- Devito's -- simply comic. The serious book matches up with the Hitchcock film.This film is Devito's book. A simple popup -- how better to describe the humor of Crystal and Ramsey -- with a happy ending. "},{"Title":"Refreshingly Nasty","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A deliciously nasty black comedy about a middle-aged schlub (Danny DeVito) who wants to bump off his mother and hatches a plan to do so with a bitter divorcée, who wants to bump off HIS ex-wife. The movie is completely unapologetic in its cynicism, and gives us no one to like, but for once that works in the movie's favor rather than as a turn off.Anne Ramsey, as DeVito's battle axe mom, steals the show in a grotesquely funny performance. Even though she's a horror, you end up rooting for her, because it seems like she could kick both DeVito's and Crystal's asses at the same time with both hands tied behind her back.Grade B+ "}{"Title":"Murder Can Be Hysterical!","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Owen is a little nuts. His mother drove him there. Larry is distraught. His ex-wife stole his award winning manuscript. Owen wants Larry to do a little favor for him&#x85; Larry wants his life back. So begins one of the classic comedies of modern times. Excellently done in all aspects with absolutely nothing lacking. If you are a writer&#x85; if you have ever been screwed over by a girl&#x85; if you had a dominating bitch of a mother&#x85; if you love Woody Allen movies&#x85; you will LOVE this movie.The chemistry of this brew that makes it all work is casting, writing, direction, and TALENT! Something sadly lacking from most modern movies. Stu Silver wrote the TV sitcom Soap in which Billy Crystal also starred, so Silver's framed sampler-worthy lines are perfect for Crystal as Larry Donner, a writing class professor whose ex-wife has done him dirty. DeVito is perfect for his role as the harried Owen Lift&#x85; son of the queen of all bitter controlling mothers. Unlike most movies&#x85;there is not one square peg in the cast. Anne Ramsey makes the whole plot believable. It is hard to imagine the movie being so right with any other actress.Silver never forgets the cardinal rule of comedies&#x85; you never mix genres for the purity of a perfectly crafted movie. Serious danger does not belong in a comedy. You may take the audience on a roller coaster ride while making them laugh, but you never let the coaster leave the tracks. Everybody gets back safely for another ride in an amusement park&#x85; and this is an amusement park ride of E ticket quality! "},{"Title":"Well at least meet her. Maybe she'd be someone you'd like to kill.","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Danny DeVito is a national treasure. His film Throw Momma from the Train utterly delights me. I feel inadequate to write about this wonderful work. It is superb on many levels. Did I come at a bad time, Owen asks. No, this film provides a wonderful time.I accept complaints by critics about the film missing comedic veins or occasions. I do not think that the script is thin as much as parsimonious so that it can exploit the gentle whimsy at the core of the narrative. Owen is really a lovely fellow, with his childlike coin collection and joy at seeing cows. While I might want to know more about his momma, I do not need to know more than the sketch she is for the story. The twist on the coin collection is the counterpoint to the oppressive mother and former wife characters.As I said, the film is terrific. First, Danny DeVito is a great character actor, comedian, and director. Second, Stu Silver wrote a sufficiently tight if not relentlessly funny script. Third, Anne Ramsey's speech impediment caused by her operation for throat cancer somehow sounds the central tone of the film. Ms. Ramsey is over-the-top but it works. I have no idea why. Third, Billy Crystal is a master comedic actor. He is an underrated player in spite of his success. Fourth, Barry Sonnenfeld, the cinematographer, is one of the most gifted people in cinema today. Fifth, Michael Joblow's excellent editing is faultless. Sixth, David Newman cannot write a bad score. Seventh, all the players, except Ms. Ramsey, play their roles straight. I love the deadpan Kate Mulgrew as she creates someone you want to kill as much as you want to kill the nightmare momma Owen deserves to eliminate. Kim Griest provides the realism that make the narration emotionally grounded.I admit that sometimes the plot does seem a tad contrived&#x97;especially the train ride. I did not quite see why the players were on the train except maybe somehow to make the title seem appropriate. Some of the car scenes might be excessive and beside the point. The repeated joke about the first line of a novel wears thin. None of that really matters. The film is close to a ten; maybe I underrated it. "},{"Title":"Owen Doesn't Have Any Friends, He's Stupid","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If you had a mother that described you like that, you just might be looking to bump her off yourself. It's how Danny DeVito feels about Anne Ramsey, it's just how to put the plan in action.And his creative writing class taught by Professor Billy Crystal gives him the idea. That and a viewing of Alfred Hitchcock's classic Strangers On A Train which gives DeVito the idea to switch murders with Crystal who hates his wife, Kate Mulgrew, who not only is cheating him out of an idea for a book he wanted to write, but is also carrying on with hunky Tony Ciccone.Throw Momma From The Train plays out kind of like Strangers On A Train as DeVito seems to have carried out his end of the murder scheme. But Crystal's having a bit of a problem putting Ramsey down even with Danny's help. That woman might need killing, but she's going to take a lot of it.The only Academy recognition that Throw Momma From The Train got was an Academy Award nomination for Anne Ramsey for Best Supporting Actress. Ramsey lost to Olympia Dukakis for Moonstruck, but the film turned out to be her finest hour. Ramsey already had the throat cancer that would eventually kill her the following year, but look at the list of credits she managed to amass even after Throw Momma From The Train, she worked right up to the end.I've seen interviews with both of the stars of Throw Momma From The Train, Billy Crystal and Danny DeVito, and both have gladly conceded that Anne Ramsey's performance as the mother from hell both made the film the success it was and stole it out from under them. Their acknowledgment of Ramsey's talent and performance is the best possible tribute.If Marion Lorne in Strangers On A Train had been anything like Anne Ramsey here, Farley Granger would gladly have joined Robert Walker in disposing of her. Throw Momma From A Train is one of the best black comedies out there, should not be missed. "},{"Title":"A forgotten (by me) gem.","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I recently stumbled across this film again after many years while channel surfing and soon I found myself laughing to beat the band.I had seen it years earlier when it was new.I'm not sure why I steered clear of it in subsequent years.Maybe it's under-rooted disturbing theme of murder.At any rate,I found myself engrossed in this film.Despite being dark around the edges,it really is an entertaining film.Billy Crystal was still in his prime,as was DeVito,and Anne Ramsey was a delight as Momma..Now that I have revisited this comedy gem that I had apparently forgotten,I will be looking to put it on the DVD shelf in the near future. "},{"Title":"One of the best dark comedies","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Larry Donner (Billy Crystal) is an author suffering from writer's block. He hates his ex-wife Margaret (Kate Mulgrew) who stole his book, and published the best seller as her own. Owen Lift (Danny DeVito) is one of Larry's clueless writing students. He hates his hateful mother (Anne Ramsey). Owen keeps stalking Larry about his writing about murder. When Larry suggests Owen watch Alfred Hitchcock's 'Strangers on a Train', Owen assumes that Larry is saying that he will kill Owen's mother if Owen kills Larry's ex-wife. Then Owen goes to Hawaii to kill Margaret. The problem is that Larry has no alibi, the cops are on his case, and Owen expects Larry to kill his mother.This is a great dark comedy. Danny DeVito is terrific as the idiot. Billy Crystal is neurotic and angry. They have great chemistry together. Anne Ramsey is the best ugly bully. It's Danny DeVito's big screen directorial debut. He does a good job letting the actors room to work. It is well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"In a world where so little is funny anymore, we need movies like this","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" We're living in sad times today, in which it seems like every comedy movie and TV show is painfully unfunny and inflicted with cheap, crude, or poor humor. Most people don't know what it means to really laugh at a comedy, and these people desperately need to watch Throw Momma From the Train. I say with little hesitation that this is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen, from beginning to end. The comedy is so unpredictable and twisted just enough to make us laugh out loud many times throughout. Don't be fooled by the murder plot. The plot is not serious enough to make us care or worry about what's going to happen. The story involves a young man (Danny DeVito) who wants to get rid of his annoying, grouchy mother (Anne Ramsey, nominated for an Oscar in a role that was completely flawless, in my opinion) and does so by killing off Billy Crystal's wife, whom Crystal wanted dead for stealing his novel. I don't want to spoil the jokes and gags in this film, but all I can say is that you must see this film if you want to laugh. Fast-paced and genuinely, a real treat to comedy lovers, and the type of film you just do not see today.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Crystal and DeVito make a good team.","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When I watched this movie when I was a kid I didn't understand the premise of Hitchcock movies, and dark comedy. Now that I'm in my mid 20's it makes a lot more sense.I think the reason I like this movie so much is that the comedy duo of Billy Crystal and Danny DeVito make for some interesting comedy, both slapstick (the frying pan and car scenes) and verbal (the arguments/conversations over murder and writing).The story revolves around Larry Donner(Crystal), a struggling writer who has his masterpiece stolen from him by his wife Margaret (played by a surprisingly radiant Kate Mulgrew, aka Capt. Janeway from Star Trek Voyager).While he shifts between writer's block and teaching creative writing class, he meets with student Owen Lifts(DeVito), an aspiring writer and overgrown mama's boy who sadly still acts like a kid. He has toy train tracks, need I say more? Think of Failure to Launch, only Matt McConaughey is short, fat, and bald.Owen is stuck in his own life, with a demanding evil mother(Anne Ramsey) who he can't stand. He seeks Larry's advice on how to get out of it, and when he says to go see a Hitchcock film Owen gets the wrong idea that if he kills Larry's wife, he'll return the favor and kill his mom for him. Hilarity ensues while the two try to deal with each other's problem. Owen goes to extremes to kill Margaret while Larry, who refuses to agree to do his part of the plan, is driven nuts by Owen's mother.Throughout the film, Larry and Owen slowly but surely form a bond of friendship that is rare in dark comedy nowadays. One part of the movie I really loved was where Owen shows Larry his coin collection, and lets just say its more a sentimental collection than anything.The two main stars aside, the late Anne Ramsey is hilarious as Mama, and deadly with that cane of hers. She's a lot more comedic verbally and physically in this as opposed to her role as Mama Fratelli from The Goonies. So she curses like a sailor and belittles her son at every turn, but thats what makes her character so vivid. She makes her character the kind of person you love to hate.Another treat in this movie is the music of jazz great Brandford Marsalis, who plays Larry's neighbor and friend Lester. There is a great moment in the movie where he plays jazz for Larry, who is depressed and needs some good tunes to relieve the pain. Jazz can do that.In closing, I wish Billy Crystal and Danny DeVito would do another good movie together, but their kinda getting too old for the game I'm sad to say. This is one of those rare movies where both stars shine in their own subtle ways. DeVito's childish comedy and Crystal's sharp wit made this movie for me. 5 star comedy. "},{"Title":"I know that feeling!","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Had it with the one who raised you since when you were young? You just want her gone from your life? That woman is your mother. You should respect her, you should honor her, whether she's in sick or well. But that in times, it can be aggravating. Especially when she becomes very overbearing. That's how Owen(Danny DeVito) had to deal with in Throw Momma Fron The Train. His Momma(Anne Ramsey, 1929-88), is one of the worst. He trying his best to be a writer, and she is everything but grateful. Calls him a clumsy poop, a larda$$, and fat and stupid. For his friend, Larry Donner(Billy Crystal) he has his own woman problems, his ex-wife. She trying to discredit him. So what did Owen do? Push her overboard. What does he do? Help return the favor, get rid of Mrs. Lift! In the kitchen scene, I liked it where Owen called Larry, Cousin Patty. And Momma said, You don't have a Cousin Patty! and Owen shouts You Lied To Me! and El Cabongs Larry with the frying pan. Then comes the fun part when they where on the train and try to kill Momma Lift. That is thwarted, and she kicks Larry off the train. Well, everything back to normal, the ex-wife lives, but Momma kicked the bucket on her own. Maybe she should have seen the errors of her domineering ways. A fun movie it is, and the cast is great. A classic! 5 stars! "},{"Title":"So funny.","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" stars Danny Devito, Billy Crystal, Anne Ramsey, Kim Griest, Kate Mulgrew, Oprah Winfrey and Rob Reiner.After college class, teacher Larry (Crystal) wants his ex-wife dead and Owen (Devito) wants his momma (Ramsey) dead. When Larry brings up that he wants his wife dead, Owen knows what he must do for him, in order for a favor in return, for Larry to kill his mother. Devito is absolutely hilarious in this as the brain dead wannabe writer that has daydreams of poisoning his mom and sticking scissors through her head. He has a child like role that makes him seem more of a confused man than a killer. Ramesy was actually nominated for an Academy Award for this because of her wonderful performance as mean old Mrs. Lift. Along with having comedy, the film also has heart. One scene between Devito and Crystal starts off seemingly as a joke, but goes deeper, actually making me slightly sad. Danny Devito directed the film and did a good job getting the dark tone in to his direction. For any fan of comedies I recommend this.My rating B plus. 84 mins. PG-13 for Language, Sexuality and Violence. "},{"Title":"Dark comedy that is easily carried by the lead three's quirky characters","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Writing teaching Larry has writers block brought on by hatred due to the fact that his ex-wife stole his book and has gotten rich and famous off it.  One of his students Owen longs to be a writer but is browbeaten by his abusive aging mother. Larry is heard wishing his wife dead and later, in a discussion about murder mysteries advises Owen to go and see strangers on a Train.  However Owen takes this as a hint from Larry that this should swap murders and thus have no motives.  Owen kills Larry's ex, but Larry has no alibi.  Using Owen's house as a hideout Larry is pressured to killing Owens mother.The plot doesn't sound like a comedy and indeed this isn't a rip-roaring laugh at any stage, however it has a great dark comedy underneath and the story is interesting enough to fill a short running time.  It stays interesting right up to the end, but really it is the quirky characters that provide the interest and the comedy.  Owen is not really as ruthless as he sounds and really just misses his daddy &#150; he's quite a child in fact.   Larry has a less sympathetic core, but he is funny anyway.De Vito does well as Owen &#150; managing to make him lovable without taking away form the setup of wanting his mother dead.  He also does a good job with his first outing as director.  But Anne Ramsey steals the show as the fiercesome, yet fragile mother of Owen.Overall it's funny, but in a dark way rather than a straight spoof &#150; if you like the humour associated with Billy Crystal and Rob Reiner then this'll be right up your street. "}{"Title":"very funny film","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is basically a spoof on Hitchcock's Strangers on a train, which i thought was overrated anyway. The plot has Danny Devito going to see Strangers and then thinking Billy Crystal wants them to swap murders, For Crystal to murder his mother and Devito to murder his wife. Both Devito and Crystal are great and so is Devito's mother. This is Devito's directorial debut and it's better than the war of the roses.  "},{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Immensely dark comedy for its time, about writer Crystal and student DeVito plotting a criss-cross murder à la STRANGERS ON A TRAIN. Because of its smooth parallels to Hitchcock's 1950 class, overlooked motifs and subtle details on story development, THROW MOMMA has since become a fun movie to screen in film study classes. Unfortunately, the film's most colorful character, Momma Lift (Ramsey), is way underused; and while Crystal and DeVito are both fine as the leads, neither deliver a memorable enough performance to justify Ramsey's lack of screen-time. DeVito also directed.*** (out of four) "},{"Title":"She's dead. She had a killer. It works that way.","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In the best tradition of a twisted Hitchcock, this is a disturbingly funny movie that takes the Strangers on a Train concept and stands it right on it's head. I have to say, I get a kick out of Anne Ramsey, but ever since I saw her in 1985's Goonies, I've always believed that was really a man underneath her characters. Calling her ugly wouldn't be a very nice thing to say, but boy, she sure does make you take a step back.Devito and Crystal play off each other quite well here, this was back in their heyday as comedic actors. All Devito has to do is show up actually, he's just plain funny to look at; the voice and mannerisms are an added bonus. It's been quite a while since I saw this film the first time, so hearing that piercing, guttural Oweeeen was a perfect way to get me back in the mood for watching this flick again.Okay, so it's not even in the same league as Professor Donner's (Crystal) literature class, but you can have some fun with this one. There's even a twist ending of sorts when it's revealed that Donner's wife (Kate Mulgrew) isn't really dead. So it's actually a happy ending movie after all if you're a clever enough writer to spin it that way. "},{"Title":"The Night Was Humid","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A lighter reworking of Alfred Hitchcock's suspense classic, Strangers on a Train, Throw Momma from the Train with Billy Crystal and Danny DeVito is a black comedy that's all fun and entertaining though terribly morbid. It's dauntlessly funny, terrific at making light with dark material and having fun with it, and in doing such, it's a delightful viewing.Billy Crystal is the tops, really, I mean that, the tops playing the going wacky Larry who is a teacher of a small writing class and Danny DeVito is the greatest, really, I mean that, the greatest playing the fully deranged Owen who is a student in Larry's said writing class. Larry hates his ex-wife's guts, Owen wants his momma dead, so both Larry and Owen scheme up a plan, a criss-cross murder plot to take out one another's most despised persons so to make it look like that the crimes were committed by complete strangers, or at least that's what Owen thought.The plot of Throw Momma from the Train unfolds consistently nice and comically. It has a writer's perspective that especially speaks to writers but offers an interesting insight for all audiences. Throw Momma from the Train has a marvelous and creative camera lens, thanks to Danny Devito, really enhancing the showing of the story. Danny Devito did so well in his movie directorial debut. He has real directing talent! I'm just learning this!Despite of its potentially disturbing premise, it's not, and I really love Throw Momma from the Train and it's actually quite nice. In the end, all's well that ends well. The night was humid. The night was sultry. Hahahahaahaa! "},{"Title":"Criss-Crossed","Date":"26 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Danny DeVito took a turn directing this dark comedy, and also plays Owen, a put-upon middle-aged man dominated by his overbearing momma(played indelibly by Anne Ramsey) who attends the writing class of Larry(played by Billy Crystal) a frustrated writer with a horrid ex-wife who stole his novel and got rich as a result. Owen gets the idea to swap murders with Larry(directly referencing Strangers On A Train) which he doesn't take seriously, until his ex-wife is reported dead, and now wants Larry to kill his momma, though momma proves quite hard to kill... Though undeniably funny at times(Anne Ramsey in particular is superb) this film's ending undermines it, and was in desperate need of a rewrite itself...or is that the final joke of the picture? One of those films that is less than the sum of its parts. "},{"Title":"The night is sultry!","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is fun and cerebral, which is more than can be said about most comedies then or now. I don't know who to credit as the main voice behind the film, but it shows a confluence of talent that work with each other well and care to craft something vibrant with some intelligence.I'll have you imagine it as something between Rob Reiner (who produces here) and the Coens. Two writers faced with writer's block may be creating each the other's storyworld. This parallel flow is hammered early in the film with the symmetric shots of writers on their desks, puzzling about a story. Both are faced with an impossible living situation, both are hampered in their creative endeavor by a similar strain. One is a college professor, his block is largely mental, ego- recurring thoughts of his wife. The other is an unrefined simpleton who is still living with his momma, his block is this nasty woman and it manifests physically with slaps and abuse. We begin and end with the more complicated writer finishing up on the book we just 'saw'. A tad simpler and we'd be close to Princess Bride, harmless nested fiction for the pleasure of a world outside the norm. A tad more intricate and it'd be a sibling film of Raising Arizona, a dream complicated in the dreaming, with every cartoonish situation a bit blacker.DeVito's humorous omnipresence is great. "},{"Title":"Pork?","Date":"19 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Larry Donner is an author and writing professor who tutors people that want to write books. His life has become a misery when his ex-wife Margaret has published a book he wrote under her name and has become rich over it. Owen Lift, one of Larry's students, offers Larry to kill Margaret, and in return Owen, wants Larry to kill his mother. Larry thinks it's a joke, until he learns Owen has killed his ex-wife. And Larry has now become the prime suspect....Crystal has always been a great screen presence, and Kudos to Devito for taking a back seat and let the other actors take all the best lines and best scenes.It starts off pretty tame, we have Crystal, whining and moaning in every scene, and then Devito, the quiet oddball you know is going to annoy him, so far, so average.But then we get properly introduced to Ramsey, who is just brilliant in her role, and once Crystal has become trapped in Owens house, it never lets up.It's a really dark comedy, but it has such a sweet edge to it, which is evident when Owen talks about his father and especially when he shows Larry his coin collection, which is an incredibly touching scene.But hen Devito doesn't dwell on the sweetness too long, and soon brings Ramsey in to shout a random line (in one particular scene a very random line, which made me rewind several times to see if my hearing was okay).All in all, its a very fun movie, with a slow start, and a fond nod to Hitchcock, with a surprisingly schmaltz free ending.Very underrated "},{"Title":"A decent comedy about murder","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Larry is a writer; his problem is he can't write a word since his ex-wife stole his previous novel and claimed it was her own. Owen is one of Larry's writing students; his problem is that he lives with his aged mother who makes his life hell&#x85; they each need to find a solution to their problems. Owen writes a murder mystery but it isn't very good; it lacks the basics of the genre so Larry gives him a few pointers; give the characters a motive then hide the motive&#x85; like something from a Hitchcock film. Owen thinks about this and goes to see how Hitchcock did it by watching 'Strangers on a Train'&#x85; then it comes to him; Larry wasn't talking about stories he was talking about getting away with murder; they would swap murders so each would kill somebody they had no motivation to kill, just like in the film! He calls Larry to tell him he understood everything before heading to Hawaii and helping Larry's ex fall off a boat. When Larry hears he is shocked and worried; he has no alibi for the time his wife disappeared because he never imaging Owen was actually intending to do it and everybody knew he hated his ex. To make matters worse Owen now expects Larry to kill his mother!While this isn't a classic comedy it has plenty of laughs which isn't a surprise when it stars Billy Crystal and Danny DiVito in the leading roles. The story doesn't contain anything too unpleasant despite being about murder; the strongest image appears in a fantasy scene where Owen imagines stabbing his mother through the head but even this looks funny rather than disturbing as there is no blood and it doesn't look real. There is one sex scene but that too is played for laughs as Owen hides behind a settee while Larry's ex and another man carry on while making barking noises! There is some extra unintentional amusement there as the ex is played by Kate Mulgrew, who is best known for playing Captain Janeway in 'Star Trek Voyager' a character I can't image doing that! There are a couple of nice twists towards the end but I won't spoil those. "},{"Title":"OWEN!","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Throw Momma From The Train is one of my favorite movies. Mainly because Anne Ramsey's Oscar nominated performance reminds me of my mother. The plot is simple and silly, but works to produce a slapstick for anyone who has a nagging mother or ex-wife. It is an excellent comedy that is often at times under-rated for its humor. "},{"Title":"A Classic....","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Inspired by the 1951 Alfred Hitchcock thriller 'Strangers on a Train', Danny DeVito's 'Throw Momma From The Train' is one of the finest Dark Comedies to have hit Hollywood ever. A film that entertains big time! 'Throw Momma From The Train' is gripping tale of 2 writers, both who hate their loved ones. One, wants to kill his own Momma, the other, wants to kill his ex-wife. Now, the concept itself catches your attention. The film begins with a bang, and ends the very same. I enjoyed myself throughly in those 88 minutes, and I recommend this film to all Cinema Fans. DeVito's direction rocks! I have to write about the acting, so here it is Late Anne Ramsey as Momma, is outstanding. She is the soul of the film. DeVito is superb, enacting his part with spontaneous ease. Billy Crystal is good, as always. Kim Greist is fantastic.'Throw Momma From The Train' was a major box office hit during it's release, and has since gained a strong fan-following. Do I have to say anything else? Watch this classic, right away. Two Thumbs Up! "}{"Title":"Belongs to Anne Ramsey","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Danny De Vito shows us here he is definitely, indeed infinitely, a better on screen performer than off. He plays the part of Owen, a miserable would-be writer with a cranky old mother (delightfully played by Anne Ramsey) he would like to see dead. Billy Crystal is Larry, a very frustrated writing teacher who has an estranged wife he feels the same way about. So Owen, after viewing Hitchcock's Strangers on a Train, suggests they swap murders.As director though, De Vito's control is inconsistent as he wastes this clever idea, while his film lurches from the very humorous to the very bland. He and Crystal are okay in the lead roles, but the show belongs to Anne Ramsey as the cantankerous Mrs. Lift.Saturday, June 20, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was one of the rolling on the floor laughing movies I have ever seen.  Danny De Vito plays Owen perfectly.  Momma is excellently portrayed, and was one of the highlights of the movie.At the beginning of the movie it starts of differently then what you would expect.  Larry is trying to write a book and is having some troubles. Larry teaches a writing class and Owen tagged after Larry trying to get him to read his story.  Owen eventually asks Larry to kill his mother, and in return Owen would kill Larry's ex-wife.  The whole movie was really hilarious.One of my favorite parts of the movie is at the end when Owen writes Throw Momma from the Train.  Larry gets furious because he just wrote a book of similar plot.  It turns out that Owen wrote a children's pop-up book.I would really recommend this movie.  I gave it a 10. "},{"Title":"Very decent comedy with brilliant Crystal","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The one thing I really can't seem to forget about this movie, is its beginning classic comedy, brilliantly crafted. I love it. See it for yourself (no spoilers here! -). The sparring between DeVito and Crystal also glows in this movie, with DeVito as the perfect oppressed son. One of my favourites. Highly recommended for fans of Crystal. "},{"Title":"A hilarious classic with an outstanding cast.","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Just thinking about the movie, i laugh to myself.  Anne Ramsey plays an unforgettable part as 'Momma,' probably the most nasty, yet hilarious matriarch ever captured on film.  Danny Devito and Billy Crystal make a fabulous duo, bringing a true warmth to the film.  Though not exceedingly complex, the cute story holds your attention, and keeps you laughing the whole way through.  It's a fun comedy to lighten things up, and even will entertain the kids.  I give it my full recommendation. "},{"Title":"This is one of my top 5 favorite movies!","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is extremely funny - the character of momma keeps me returning to the movie time and time again!  I can't get enough of her dry lines ... like when she tells her son Owen to bury his friend in the back yard before he smells up the place ... and her suspicion that Owen is trying to kill her by giving her unsalted nuts!  It's hilarious!If you like movies such as National Lampoon's Vacation, Uncle Buck, or Planes, Trains & Automobiles, this has similar humor. It's a great, wholesome laugh ... a must see!  "},{"Title":"An exchange of favors in a funny black comedy...","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Inspired by Hitchcock's STRANGERS ON A TRAIN concept of two men swapping murders in exchange for getting rid of the two people messing up their lives, THROW MOMMA FROM THE TRAIN is an original and very inventive comedy take on the idea. It's a credit to Danny DeVito that he both wrote and starred in this minor comedy gem.ANNE RAMSEY is the mother who inspires the film's title and it's understandable why she gets under the skin of DANNY DeVITO with her sharp tongue and relentlessly putting him down for any minor infraction. BILLY CRYSTAL is the writer who's wife has stolen his book idea and is now being lionized as a great new author, even appearing on the Oprah show to bask in adulation he should be enjoying. Thus, DeVito gets the idea of swapping murders to rid themselves of these nuisance factors.Of course, everything and anything can happen when writer Carl Reiner lets his imagination roam with unending ideas for how the plot develops. And it's amusing all the way through, providing plenty of laughs and chuckles along the way, as well as a good deal of suspense.For devotees of black comedy, this one is guaranteed to please. "},{"Title":"Throw Momma from the Train","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film certainly had a catchy title, and when I saw it was directorial debut of actor Danny DeVito (The War of the Roses, Matilda), I was even more intrigued to see it. Basically Larry Donnner (Billy Crystal) is having writer's block, and he is very bitter towards his ex-wife Margaret (Star Trek Voyager's Kate Mulgrew) who has written a new book, and he is claiming that she stole the story from him. Larry's girlfriend Beth (Kim Greist), fellow teacher, of anthropology, in the school where he does a Creative Writing class, is really worried about him showing his utter hatred for his ex-wife. Owen (Golden Globe nominated Danny DeVito) is a timid student in his class, he has a similar dislike towards his horrible Momma (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Anne Ramsey) who treats him like dirt, and he is inspired by murder stories. He tries often to get advice from Larry on how to write a good murder mystery novel, and his teacher suggests to him seeing a (Sir Alfred) Hitchcock film, in his case he sees Strangers on a Train, and he gains the idea of swapping murders. So one night on a ship Owen supposedly pushes Larry's ex-wife over the side into the water, misunderstanding the advice, and Owen phones Larry telling him about the criss cross concept, eliminating the motive, and obviously about killing Momma. Larry realises he does not have an alibi to give the police if they ask him questions about his missing ex-wife, and he is obviously the prime suspect to a possible murder, and Owen is still pressing him to kill his Momma. Larry does eventually get to meet Owen's Momma, and he agrees she clearly has an attitude problem and no manners, but he tries to warn her about his unstable son, to which she of course does not listen and is just completely rude. After so many irritations from Owen and a near miss from the police Larry does come near to breaking point and agree to murder Owen's Momma, but on the train it all turns into chaos and after near killing and then saving Larry ends up in hospital. To his relief though ex-wife Margaret is found, she did not die, and her fall off the ship was an accident, and his experiences have inspired him to write a new novel, Throw Momma from the Train, a murder mystery inspired from what happened. In the end we see Owen, who lost his Momma to natural causes, and he has written a book himself, called Momma, Owen, and Owen's Friend Larry, but it is not about murder, it is a children's pop-up book, and he and Larry are friends and do on vacation to Hawaii with Beth. Also starring Rob Reiner as Joel, Oprah Winfrey, Branford Marsalis as Lester, Bruce Kirby as Detective DeBenedetto and Raye Birk as Pinsky. Crystal is good as the stressy and later panicky writer talking to himself and trying to get out of his situations, DeVito is also good as the timid student who gets the wrong end of the stick and has dark thoughts but is a nice guy, and Ramsey does almost steal the show as the monstrously nasty Momma, it is both a funny and a dark film that has an interesting murder mystery concept, but it is also a fitting joke filled tribute to the Master of Suspense, a great black comedy. Very good! "},{"Title":"real comedy","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In a really neat spin on Hitchcock, Larry (Billy Crystal) and Owen (Danny DeVito) lead unpleasant lives Larry's ex-wife has gotten rich by publishing a book that he wrote, and Owen has the most overbearing mother imaginable. When Larry tells Owen to calm down by watching Strangers on a Train, Owen gets the idea that they should do criss-cross murders like in the movie. And just like in the movie, Larry thinks that it's a joke, but Owen's serious.How they came up with the idea for Throw Momma from the Train I'll never know, but it's a hilarious movie. There isn't a dull moment in it. And that ending was a hoot. Crystal and DeVito are at their best, and Anne Ramsey is as much of a hag here as she was in The Goonies. A modern classic. "},{"Title":"Really quite funny and memorable","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I thought that the interplay between Crystal and DeVito was great. The movie is rather off the wall, but there are some unforgettable lines. Ramsey as Momma is vulgar and over the top, but also very funny and effective. The character HAS to be pretty awful for why else would someone entertain thoughts of killing his mother? Now Crystal's wife -- she is a slut whom everyone would like to receive her comeuppance, thus her role, though minor, is also effective, because it has to justify Crystal's ridiculous case of writer's block. While there are certainly dark moments, the movie is not depressing and, despite the murderous urges that the protagonists feel, they have redeeming qualities too.Overall, this is one of the funniest movies I can remember, one that I don't mind watching over several times. "},{"Title":"Didn't Do It for Me.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  College professor Billy Crystal and his student Danny DeVito are miserable due to bad female influences in their lives. So DeVito hatches a hair-brained scheme to have two murders convicted DeVito is to murder Crystal's ex-wife (Kim Greist) while Crystal will have to kill DeVito's mother from hell (a priceless Oscar-nominated role by Anne Ramsey). Crystal thinks that he talks DeVito out of the plan, but DeVito goes through with the murder of Greist (or so Crystal thinks). Now DeVito wants Crystal to hold up his end of the bargain in this somewhat disappointing comedy that was just never as clever or as humorous as it could have been. Crystal and DeVito get over-shadowed by Ramsey, but she is little more than a genuine scene-stealer. DeVito's uneven direction does not help matters either and in the end we are left with a could-have-been laugh fest. Instead we are left with just an average movie. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"this movie has funny sequences by Devito and Crystal,and crystal's literature class, but the other characters in the film, to be a bore","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this movie was wonderful, funny comedy with danny devito and billy crystal. i thought it was very funny when Owen kept on following  larry to ask him what he thought of his short story in larry's literature class.  witch was a very dark story. based from the conversation between larry and owen,  it made owen think that larry wanted his wife dead. from establishing a silly  plan, and eliminating the motive that  larry has for his wife for stealing his book title, and devito being fed up with his mother all of these years being mean to him. i thought it was very funny, when devito went to the movie theatre to see the classic hithcock thriller strangers on a train, and the scenes lines were being played over and over again to owen  about swapping murders criss-cross. criss cross, criss cross  over again. then, it was hilarious to see devito call crystal in different phone booths in hawaii. this film was  very funny, silly thinking to crystal that his wife was dead, and devito wanting his mom to be dead. it was too silly of a plan. this was a dark comedy with certain scenes to laugh, having a wonderful time to audiences who love devito and crystal. the characters of crystal's ex-wife played by kate mulgrew, was mind grating, and her character was annoying to watch. that also goes for crystal's girlfriend played by kim greist. who i think, is a very bad actress. these actresses make this movie hard to watch. but, other than that, this movieis recommended!  "},{"Title":"This was a meh film.","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I give this movie a 5/10. I have incredibly mixed reviews on this. So this movie is a comedy. It's not funny in the slightest. I laughed exactly once. I felt that this movie contained cliché after cliché. Maybe in 1987 some of these movie elements weren't so cliché. I would list them but I want to keep the review spoiler-free. I also thought the ending was incredibly stupid and predictable. The supposed twist about Margaret's fate was as obvious as all get out. That being said, although I didn't laugh, I did get very engrossed in this story. It left me wondering, was Billy Crystal actually going to do it? I found the crisscross idea very clever. This movie had potential, but it just wasn't the gem it could've been, in my opinion.The word that came to mind after the movie ended was Meh. Not something I'd actively seek out to watch again, but it was semi- enjoyable nonetheless.5/10 for mixed opinions. "},{"Title":"Cast Makes It Worth Viewing","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Throw Momma from the Train (1987) *** (out of 4) Dark comedy is a take off Hitchcock's STRANGERS ON A TRAIN. A writer (Billy Crystal) has his idea for a book stolen by his ex-wife who turns it into a major hit. He wishes he could kill her but his student (Danny DeVito) takes his talk serious and kills her in exchange that the writer kills his nagging mother (Anne Ramsey). With the talent involved this film should have been a whole lot better and even though there are countless flaws, in the end I can't help but find the film mildly entertaining, if disappointing. I think the biggest problem with the film is that there's way too much plot for a 88-minute comedy. We have so many double-crosses, plot twists and side plots that you could take them and use them in two or three movies. I think the film would have been a lot better had some of the plot been taken out and replaced with more laughs, which is one thing this comedy could have used more of. What does work is the chemistry between Crystal and DeVito. Both men really dig into their roles and turn in fine performances but they are both letdown by the screenplay. One of the first scenes involves Crystal suffering from writer's block and trying to complete the same line over and over. This scene goes on way too long. What does work is the early banter between the two actors as DeVito's character is constantly showing up at bad times wanting to know if Crystal enjoyed his bad stories. There's a very funny sequence when the two are discussing the so called plan that was only in DeVito's mind. Ramsey, who many will remember from THE GOONIES, turns in a nice, foul-mouthed performance and you can't help but love to hate her. Her relationship with DeVito, while mean-spirited, is also quite touching in a few scenes. Again, there's a lot wrong with this film but I think the three leads have enough going to carry the weak screenplay a lot further than it deserves. "},{"Title":"Under rated and very funny","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I am surprised people, after such lousy movies getting to be in the top 250 or just being in the 7.0's, I thought more people would get a kick out of Throw Momma from the Train. This was a great comedy by two terrific comedic actors, Billy Crystal and Danny DeVito. Together they made a great duo of insanity and obsession. Billy is a man who just lost his million dollar story to his ex wife and repeatedly wishes her dead, Danny has an insane and senile old mother who just abuses him. When Billy gives some misunderstood advice to Danny, Danny offers a proposition to Billy, if he kills his ex wife, Billy has to kill his mother. This is a crazy and funny story that can always get a good laugh. Please, sit back and enjoy this movie, people! It's a good one!7/10 "},{"Title":"Owen Loves His Mama","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS       Meet Larry Donner. Author and professor of a writing class at community college. Larry was struggling with his latest novel. He only got as far as the first three words The night was..., writer's block! Larry then found out his ex-wife Margaret had stolen one of his books and published it under her name so now she was getting all the recognition that was rightfully Larry's! He was furious.       Not far away, a naive young man, Owen Lift, a student in Larry's class, was also struggling to write a story. His momma was always on his case. Shouting and belittling him. Owen was becoming fed up. He tried to poison her soda once, and even considered stabbing her with scissors but he just couldn't do it, because, Owen loves his momma; in class, Larry didn't read Owen's story and Owen wanted to know why. He pestered Larry on a date with his girlfriend Beth, so finally, Larry discussed motives with Owen. Owen had written a two-page, two-character murder mystery. Larry told Owen to go see Strangers on a Train, so he did and he got the idea of doing a criss-cross murder because he had heard Larry shout that he hated his ex-wife and wished she was dead in the cafeteria so Owen followed Margaret onboard a cruise liner bound for Hawaii. Owen attempted to push her overboard, but she had fallen off by accident. After that, she turned up missing and everybody said Larry killed her. Owen met up with Larry later on and told him he must now kill his momma. Larry refused.       Larry stayed with Owen and soon met Momma. He and Owen tried several ways to kill her and each time wound up unsuccessful. Until finally, the three of them were on a train bound for Mexico. Larry finally got up the courage to push Momma off the train, but the one who ended up falling off was Larry. In the hospital, Larry got word that Margaret had been rescued and is engaged to her rescuer. Pretty soon, Larry decided to write a novel of his adventures with Owen and Momma. Owen did the same and in the end, Owen, Larry and Beth all took a vacation to Hawaii.        A pretty good movie. Anne Ramsey stole the show! She plays a perfect mean and strange momma. She's sadly no longer with us. She died in '88. Danny DeVito was good, so was Billy Crystal, although this wasn't one of his best roles. In conclusion, if you're a fan of DeVito and Crystal, or you liked Hitchcock's Strangers on a Train, I recommend Throw Momma from the Train!- "},{"Title":"A humorous take...","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you are looking for an artistic film, do not see this film.  If you are looking for a pleasurable, comedic movie, see this film.  Anne Ramsey will have you laughing so hard that you will be on the floor.  Danny Devito and Billy Crystal are quite a pair, providing comedic interludes at almost every moment...It's a dark comedy, but worth your $3.50 "},{"Title":"The story of my life.","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the greatest movies of all time. Teaming up Billy Crystal with Danny Devito and Anne Ramsey for this film was a stroke of genius. Their personalities all fit the roles they played perfectly, and the plot never grew tiring or cliched. The ending was not inevitable, it was as refreshing as possible in a murder mystery story.Look Larry, Cows! You're originally from the east, aren't you Larry? "},{"Title":"Hidden Treasure","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie sat in a dusty stack of videos in my house for ages before we watched it. We knew it was there- every time someone wanted to watch a movie, it was suggested. It almost became a joke... I know, let's watch Throw Momma from the Train... I don't know why it was always turned down, it just was. Little did we know what we were missing out on. It still befalls me why it took us so long...I mean it stars Danny DeVito, Billy Crystal, and Ann Ramsy (who we referred to as The Lady from the Goonies), an all star cast that should have appealed to everyone in my household. But there it sat for nearly ten years. Until one day it was suggested and we could turn it down no longer....It was like finding King Tut's tomb...No movie has ever made me laugh so hard, and I doubt any movie ever will. I had to rewind for almost every line because I was still laughing at the line that came before it, and lost ability to hear or pay attention. Not just simple laughing, either... the kind of laughing that expends more energy than running ten miles in the cold. The kind of laughing that you cannot control, that causes rolling around and spasms, and tears and snot running down your face because it's just that freakin funny. Once I learned the movie by heart I will say this effect has lessened, but I don't think I will get tired of watching it and finding new quirks in it to appreciate. I think that's all I can say. I would recommend this movie to anyone, but if you don't enjoy it please don't let me know, I will probably be offended. "},{"Title":"Great idea... some brilliant moments.","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand this movies distinctly average rating!?I really really enjoyed it, i even stayed up till early morning to finish watching it on late night t.vThere are three excellent characters here, excellent characters. Danny DeVito played a gem, quite a feat considering he was directing as well. His down trodden laughable at times character was brilliantly written and was surreal in a absolutely believable way. There ARE people like that, Owen was just on the line without crossing it.Billy Crystal's comic syle and sense of timing was PERFECT for his role. His frustration/comedy was interesting and captivating and what's more... you could understand his feelings. To really feel like you know a character is hard to achieve from the writers point of view, to find the right actor to pull it off is an art in itself and both were achieved here thrice over.Thirdly, who else could have played Momma? There is no one that can play this part so well. There is a style there unlike any other, something you love to watch, i found myself waiting for her to appear on screen... and not because the rest was bad, oh no, but because Momma's character was, again, so on the line without crossing it that it was excellent to watch.And what's more? A happy ending with new found friendships, no one getting hurt and everyone getting what they wanted in life... WITHOUT a big hunk of cheese tied on the end.Brilliant script, brilliant idea, perfect cast, great film.  "},{"Title":"Small-fry japery.         (Spoilers maybe...)","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, this is far from a bad film, and is lightly enjoyable in its way, but it is indeed far from much good in the final analysis.In this part-Hitchcockian take-off of a caper, director DeVito stars as the hapless Owen Lift, and certainly makes him a likeably rotund lightweight. The character, who exudes an almost childlike innocence and delight in trivia, is a good one; beset also by a certain lack of gumption and intelligence. Good to see such a different sort of character as a lead part in an '80s, American mainstream movie. Thankfully, the film does not resolve with a tacked-on, unlikely romance for Owen; how many times has this sort of thing happened? The ending is mixed; the business on the train anti-climactic and a little sugary finally, the pop-up book part lovely and the final would-be wisecracking over a sea foreground is a predictable attempt at the feelgood. The momma character is undeniably a little too irritating to my mind - yes, Owen's wishes are thus made perfectly understandable, but the character and voice are intensely grating after a short while; she just barks out almost unintelligible insults and is basically a pain. 'Tis a shame also that Billy Crystal gives a non-too-good performance here. His every reaction is pretty telegraphed, and the character never really becomes three dimensional. Well, he's passable, but as I said, it's a rather unsubtle, not too compelling performance. Few other characters make any sort of impression. The direction and script largely settle for the steady, rather than the startling.There are neat, slightly oddball touches and moments, snatches of dialogue and much promise in the early part of the film, but it's far from a classic, if a fair comedy. Danny DeVito deserves credit for a nice performance, but his film is not a great creation; the promise clearly there for it to be a light gem of a dark comedy is largely squandered.Rating- ***/***** "}{"Title":"A great comedy","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Throw Momma hasn't dated at all, it's as funny now as  when it was released. A genuinely eccentric comedy, that doesn't try too hard to be liked and is all the better for it, full of memorable laugh out loud lines. Even small characters are well written and beautifully played, like Billy Crystal's best friend's girlfriend, and a lovely cameo from Rob Reiner as Crystal's agent. A little bit insane and a lot funny. "},{"Title":"Reality?","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The thing about Anne Ramsay's Momma character is that it's very real -- I know of a few real cases (including within my own family) of the same behavior. Part of it is the terror of being alone, and the suspicion of being cast away. The scared older person is both viciously insulting and caring. They are grateful for the support their caretaker (often their own children) give, but the only way they know how to keep them is to berate them.Ramsay may be playing the Mother from Hell, but usually it's their own Hell they're living in, drawing everyone inside with them. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is, without doubt, one of the most under rated movies of all time - right up there with Catch-22. Absolutely hilarious - I think the only comedy I like more would be Raising Arizona and it's a close thing.Brilliant writing from Stu Silver yet he's done nothing since. It's a crime. Barry Sonnenfeld's cinematography is outstanding in the mold of his early work with the Cohens and the performances are just fabulous.And what can you say about Danny DeVito? The man is a genius! Of course, this is the first of many classic under rated gems from him as director and producer. Jersey Films continue to put out some of the best movies on the planet. Death to Smoochy almost snuck by me. Always read the director's credit!Whenever you see a DeVito credit as writer or producer, pony up and take a seat. "},{"Title":"Comedic Take Takes The Cake","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A lively comedy that was taken from Alfred Hitchcock's Strangers on a Train which has a clip showing at a Drive-In while they are on a kiddie train. Very entertaining and Devito's MOTHER!!!  I'd a pushed the bitch of a train years ago!!!  I give it a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Fails to Jell.","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a rip off but at least it's a shameless rip off. Director DeVito has Professor Billy Crystal talk Danny DeVito the actor into going to see a Hitchcock movie if he wants to learn about motives. DeVito sees the scene in Strangers on a Train in which the two stars agree, more or less, to swap murders.The reason DeVito wants to learn about motives and how they function in police procedures is that he wants to murder his foul-mouthed, ugly, domineering mother and get away with it. He can't, of course, because he so obviously hates her. But, as in Strangers on a Train, he decides to swap murders with Crystal. He'll kill Crystal's hated wife in return for Crystal's killing De Vito's mother.It doesn't work out. One thing after another goes wrong. The things that go wrong are supposed to be funny but most of them aren't. There's an abundance of slapstick, with people running back and forth in a frenzy, people hiding from others, people falling off ships, people hanging by their heels from a train.DeVito is a smart guy and a clever director sometimes. Anyone who directed the black comedy The War of the Roses can't be completely clumsy. But he's pretty awkward here, given to obvious shots of himself approaching the camera pop-eyed and wearing black gloves when attempting to snuff Crystal's wife. It's almost embarrassing.Crystal, too, can be extremely amusing as the ordinary guy swept up into some nightmarish scenario, as he was in Analyze This! I'd put off watching this because the trailers all featured the same shot. DeVito and Crystal are at the table. DeVito shovels scrambled eggs into their plates, then hits Crystal over the head with the frying pan. BONK! And Crystal falls down. I figured, If this is the best it's got, I might as well skip it. It's almost the best it's got. "},{"Title":"Dark comedy","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I remember seeing Throw Momma From the Train several times on TV in the early nineties. One of the cable channels seemed to show it at least once a year for a long time. And i have to admit i enjoyed it quite a lot.Danny DeVito is not a bad actor and usually he shows that when least expected. This is a very dark and bleak movie with a very warped sense of humor. DeVito directed this and he does it with a sure hand. While it's many times grim, often almost painful for the characters, it still never crosses the line and becomes distasteful. Dark comedy is a hard genre to master and while this is not one of the greats, it's still a good contribution to the genre. Billy Crystal is very good here as the pained author who is decimated to teaching a writing class (a class that also provides some of the funniest moments of the film).It's hard to categorize a movie like Throw Momma From the Train. While it's funny it's also tragic, and it's not even close to light comedy for a second. It all boils down to a matter of taste (like always) and i guess i'm the kind of person who thinks comedy is at it's most interesting when set against a dark background. That's why i like this movie i guess, others i think might be put off by it's theme.6/10 "},{"Title":"Strangers on a Train Meets The War of the Roses...","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Throw Momma From the Train is a simple dark comedy with lots of laughs.Billy Crystal plays a frustrated writer on the verge of collapse; Danny DeVito plays a man in one of Crystal's writing classes. Crystal's ex-wife is a *hag* to put it nicely, and Crystal hates her. DeVito, sensing this, offers Crystal a deal one night DeVito will kill Crystal's wife, if Crystal kills DeVito's nag of a mother. Crystal does, of course, refuse, but later, corruption deep in his heart makes him say yes. And so as things play out we see what happens when you try to throw someone's momma from a moving train.This story is an interesting character study; a story of evil, greed, revenge, ego, trust, doing what's right, but most of all corruption. We see Crystal's white-collar writer become ever-stressed with events colliding around him, and because of DeVito's constant nagging, he says yes. But we know deep down in his subconscious he wanted to say yes, and he's pleased that he said it to DeVito.This movie is a bit of a dark spoof on Hitchcock's immortal film Strangers on a Train, and it plays an homage to the film early on, when there is a theater playing Strangers on a Train. We see DeVito watching the movie, and a lightbulb in his head pops on. He gets an idea. Throw Momma from the train!Billy Crystal gives another convincing and strangely comical performance as a hassled writer on the verge of collapse. He has been so beaten down by everything around him that his inner-emotions come out and he agrees to throw DeVito's momma from the train. Danny DeVito directed this film excellently. He uses just the right touch of comic darkness to create a world of corruption and sickness. Everything is demented, but not to an extreme like in some other dark comedies. It has just the right touch of darkness that shone through in The War of the Roses.Not only is Throw Momma From the Train a simple tale of corruption and morality, but is also an interesting character study. Definitely worth catching on TV.3.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a pretty good film starring Danny DeVito, and Billy Crystal(probubly the funniest he has ever been). This movie has a lot of funny one-liners in it, and the cast is pretty good, although Rob Reiner wasnt really needed in the movie.  If you like Billy Crystal, and Danny DeVito, you will probubly like this movie.  "},{"Title":"great!!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be among the top draw psychotic comedy. It takes creative writing to a new high too. The characters are extremely hilarious and draw attention. The thing about this movie is that it will probably appeal to both kinds of movie viewers comedy & psycho. "},{"Title":"The night was ...","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was very funny, even if it fell apart a little at the end.  Does not go overboard with homage after to Hitchcock - Owen (Danny DeVito) was lucky he had Strangers on A Train playing at the local cinema, so the movie flat out tells you that that was the inspiration.  DeVito is very funny but also a little sad.  He has no friends and all he wants to do is write and have someone like his writing.  His teacher, Billy Crystal, is going through some serious writers block of his own and his wife has stolen his book and made it her own success, which also has him frustrated a great deal.Best parts are the book proposal by Mr. Pinsky (One Hundred Girls I'd Like to Pork) and all scenes with Anne Ramsey, who is so horrible that even Mother Theresa would have wanted to kill her, too! "}{"Title":"When Hitch Met Mitch","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Larry Donner (Billy Crystal) is an English professor struggling writer - at the outset of the movie, he has trouble finishing the first sentence of his novel - who is absent minded, feeble bellied, and recently divorced.  When he sees his wife Margaret (Kate Mulgrew) appear on the Oprah Winfrey Show to discuss her book, one which he accuses her of plagiarizing off his life story, he becomes incensed enough to yell I hate her!  I wish she was dead! in front of a large crowd, including some of his students.  One of them is the diminutive, dim witted, irritating, yet clever Owen Lift (Danny DeVito).  Owen lives at home with his Momma (Anne Ramsey), a woman so shrill and demanding, he has often considered matricide.  After Owen watches an Alfred Hitchcock movie when prospective assailants decide to criss-cross, thereby extinguishing any evidence of motives in their murders, he ponders whether to do the same thing with Larry.  A Hitchcock thriller this movie is not, as is  demonstrated by the lack of suspense as the plot progresses.  It is, regardless, an enjoyable movie.  Billy Crystal, as always, injects some memorable jokes and one-liners (ie. He does his book signings at Toys R' Us), while Danny DeVito's placid yet jabbering manner is as hysterical as it was as Louie DiPalma on Taxi.  Certain minor characters add comic relief as well.  One of Larry's students (Raye Birk) presents his proposed coffee table book entitled 100 Women I'd Like to Schtupp, or something along those lines.  DeVito even manages to get his father in law, Philip Perlman, into the script.  Throw Momma From the Train also previews two rising stars before he became famous, Branford Marsalis played a jazz musician in this movie, while Margaret's status on Oprah Winfrey's book club occurred long before her it grew to rival the Book of the Month Club.  In conclusion, well, I'm having trouble finishing this sentence so I'll just say that a writer writes - all the time! "},{"Title":"Just kill the witch yourself!!","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What would you do if you had a back-stabbing wife or a beastly, overbearing mother? You'd kill them, of course! But, you need to establish a really good alibi for their deaths, though. That's the problem Danny Devito and Billy Crystal must decipher in this hilarius flick. Crystal is Larry, a novelist whose pompous wife stole his manuscript, and Devito is Owen, a poor guy who gets picked on by his Frankenstein for a mother, played by Anne Ramsey, who has the best performance in the whole flick. The chemistry between Crystal and Devito are great, especially during the escapades in Owen's house, where Larry gets his nuts clobbered and get thrown down the basement, while Owen gets his face slapped on by Momma!  "},{"Title":"some very funny moments but that's about all","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" While this film got a lot of publicity when it debuted, I think it's not much better than an average film. The best aspects of the film are some of the funny little moments, but the film never seems to sustain them for very long and the overall film is a lot blander and uninteresting than you would assume based on the plot. The movie is a very loose remake of Hitchcock's STRANGERS ON A TRAIN, though comedy takes center stage instead of suspense.Danny DeVito lives with his mother--who is the vilest and most annoying lady on the planet, played by Anne Ramsey. In some ways, Ramsey is excellent as the easy to hate mom, but she has a serious speech impediment due to real-life cancer surgery that often made it difficult to understand her. She almost needed to be subtitled or re-dubbed in order to understand what she was saying. I actually enjoyed DeVito's performance the most as the sweet but simple-minded guy who finally had enough! Billy Crystal is a writing teacher who has DeVito as a student. They become friends, of sort, though it's obvious that DeVito puts far more stock in this than Crystal. Later, DeVito offers to kill Crsytal's evil ex-wife (Kate Mulgrew) if Crystal kills Momma. Then, the plot gets pretty weird--and I'll leave that up to you to see.Spread throughout the film were some funny, though not sustained moments. My favorite involved DeVito imagining a pair of scissors stuck through his mom's head! It sounds cruel, but it was done in one of the funnier scenes I have ever seen. I also like the one bit character in Crystal's writing class that keeps writing books about all the women with which he would like to have sex--it's pretty funny when he meets women and you see him penciling in their names in his book.A good but highly uneven film. "},{"Title":"I love it!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favorite comedies. As a writer I can identify with the characters and plus how can you not get a kick out of Momma. This movie is great! "},{"Title":"This could have been a good comedy","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It started off well then bogged down and putzed along to the inevitable ending.  Anne Ramsey was the ultimate Mother from Hell tho.  I gave it a 6. "},{"Title":"Better on performance than story","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a comedy version of Strangers on a Train. It works pretty well. I am a harsh grader, so the 3 rating reflects mostly on the characters and plot. The performances are extremely good, all of them. Of course, the two stars, DeVito and Crystal, shine most. Each performer acts well enough to play off of. The comedy works in a level just short of slapstick. DeVito characters work best when depraved. His character, portrayed as a writing hack, would probably be more real if he was published and lauded as much as most hacks are. His character would, in real life, have a great agent and multiple solicitations. The characters are one dimensional, which is okay in comedy. But Crystals's character is not written very well. His desire to kill the moma all of a sudden makes no sense at all. It looks like a pitiful attempt at humor. The pitiful attempts are not too often, and the movie flows fairly well. "},{"Title":"THROW MOMMA OFF THE TRAIN ** of ****","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Ok, I gave this Hitchcock remake ** because I liked the name. This film is dark, not funny, but dark. On the movie box, it says numerous critics stating the film is wildy dark a dark Hitchcock turn and darkly dark but never darkly funny. It's not even that dark. Billy Crystal and Danny Devito aren't having fun, you can tell that.**SPOLIERS**I just want to state that Momma dies, and I'm pretty sure when they kill her, it's behind the scenes footage.This review is for one purpose, stating that because a movie is dark, in no way means it funny.VERDICT ** of **** Not recommended "},{"Title":"Annoying and mostly stupid black comedy","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Gee, who would have imagined watching an annoying and hate filled dirty old hag with a grating voice for 2 hours WOULDN'T be a pleasurable experience? Throw Mama From the Train fails just as three other films failed that suffered a similar plight; The War of the Roses, Death Becomes Her and Mouse Hunt. All of these films expect the viewer to observe a disgusting and tragic event and be entertained by it, without giving any moral justification to stomach the tragedy. Throw Mama' might have worked had it been given a funnier script, a more light-hearted atmosphere, and had the rolls been reversed (i.e.) the killers been bad and the mother been good, such as in 1955's The Ladykillers. The contemplation of murder by ordinary people presents most viewers with an overwhelming obstacle. It is hard to sympathize with the actions of the two lead characters as what they were attempting to accomplish seems repulsive to anyone who possesses a soul. This problem could have easily been overcome had a simple adjustment been made to the story. Make the victims nice and the murderers bad. Crystal and DeVito are accomplished actor/comedians who could have pulled this off. DeVito did it for years on the TV show Taxi. The script is not funny enough to hold your attention and suffers from an obsession with sex, yelling 'slut!' every time Crystal sees or thinks of his wife being an example. Constant sophomoric sex jokes made me wonder what was going on inside the writers head, not his characters. But overall, the one element that kills this movie is the focus on the grating and annoying mother. I couldn't help but think how humiliating it must have been for Ann Ramsey to watch herself in the part. If you enjoy watching people clean toilets or kill puppies, then your ship has come in. Otherwise, save your time and money and watch a classic like A Shot In The Dark. "},{"Title":"Great cast can't save the unpleasant and grating plot.","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I did see this when it was first out and I didn't like it then and I don't like it now. I can appreciate the feelings of the many who do like this but my feeling is one has to be a MAJOR fan of black humer in the form of war of the roses to really appreciate this. As I am not a major fan of that humor(although there ARE a few exceptions) I found this almost offensive.The characters were unlikeable, the story wasn't just twisted(sometimes twisted can be fun) but irritating as well. And it was one of those movies that had me scratching my head, trying to figure out-what's funny about this?This would not make it on my top three worst movies ever but maybe on my top 10 worst ever. It has a relatively low ranking on here but some really positive reviews as well so it seems kind of love it or hate it. I hated war of the roses to, probably more then this so maybe the humor is just not my type. I would give this a 2 out of 10. But fans of the dark DARK comedy will probably love it. "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of ''Throw Momma From The Train'","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"9 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" THE GOOD - Anne Ramsey is a hoot as the brutal old lady whom Danny DeVito wants to throw off the train. She is truly a unique character. The black humor in here and the classic film references are always fun to hear. The story moves fast with no real lulls, so the hour-and-a-half flies by.THE BAD - Too much usage of the Lord's name in vain, especially for a comedy. Ramsey says GD at least four times while Crystal and Geiest exclaim way too many OMGs. This also is one of those films that diminishes a bit with multiple viewings. Once the shock of a few things seen in the first viewing is gone, is goes downhill somewhat. However, with all the references, audibly and visually, to Alfred Hitchcock films, it is always fun for a classic film buff to enjoy. "}]