[{"Title":"Action Jackson is a competently standard showcase for Carl Weathers' superhero cool&#133;","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Action is a proud man, a high-school track star, a dedicated cop, a sergeant who lost his lieutenant's stripes almost two years ago&#133; He jostles a conceited, two-faced, backstabbing mass murderer called Peter Dellaplane (Craig T. Nelson). Director Craig R. Baxley has not only carried it off, but makes you believe it&#133; One must also give some of the credit to Carl Weathers whose erect muscular body and his charm and good looks give some credence to the heroics&#133; The picture contains fun, lots of action, and two sexy women&#133; Vanity looked so gorgeous when she was shot up with heroin&#133; Stone met her husband after his first wife died and his son went to prison&#133; She thinks that he may seem greedy and arrogant but he remained loved by everyone, and the whole experience changed him&#133; She also thinks that Jackson is not so different from her husband, that both are stubborn, and both intent on getting what they want&#133; "},{"Title":"the return of the black action hero","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I did a quick search on the internet to see if my memory served me right, and apparently it has. By 1981, the Blaxploitation action film was exhausted. - Although Fred Williamson had made a couple of action films in the mid-'80s, these don't really count, because Williamson can't act and can't direct. The good news was that African-American cinema could say farewell to a stereotype; the bad news was that Hollywood wanted to find some way to say farewell to African-American cinema. The mid-'80s were lean years for anyone with dark-skin in Hollywood. One of the problems had been that people critical of blaxploitation had missed the fact that Hollywood only does two type of films with any regularity, the action film (Western, Sci-Fi, crime, etc.) and the sit-com (domestic comedy). The notion that Hollywood does dramatic or otherwise serious films is a myth Hollywood likes to drag out at the Academy Awards. So if you're not making action films or comedies, you're not in Hollywood.By the late '80s it was clear to everyone that African Americans (now constituting a sizable portion of regular movie audiences) were going to have to be represented on film again. But by then it was also clear that this audience wasn't going to tolerate being relegated to pimp and gang roles, at least not completely. For one thing, Eddie Murphy had broken the blaxploitation mold in 48 Hours and Beverly Hills Cop. I don't think anybody realizes that Murphy's roles in these films are a basic blaxploitation stereotypes, because Murphy clearly wasn't going to let himself be stereotyped. Murphy's popularity and savvy probably caused more anxiety than the anger of Melvin Van Peebles or Richard Pryor ever had, because it was clear that he was there to make money, something Hollywood could really understand.At any rate In 1988 the Wayans produced I'm Gonna Git You Sucka, a knock-down parody of the blaxploitation genre that pretty much assured that it would never raise its afro-covered head again. But it was still clear that African Americans needed a new action hero; so enter Action Jackson. The reason why this film is not better remembered as the return of the black action hero is clearly because of the script. This is paint-by-numbers formula movie-making; this script has been written and filmed a hundred times, and every action star in Hollywood has appeared in some version of it, all of the Baldwin brothers in turn, Sly Stallone, Kirk Russell, Seagal, Schwarzenegger, Brandon Lee - I'm sure the reader can fill in the titles of each actor's version, regardless how unmemorable the films may have been. This formula was a kind of rite-of-passage for anyone wanting to make action films in the late '80s - early '90s. So why not Carl Weathers?Actually, Weathers' performance in this film is quite good. It's hard to come up with a bone-breaking/rule-breaking cop who also happens to be suave and savvy (think part Dirty Harry, part James Bond), but Weathers nearly pulls it off. The decision not to play him with a 'black-english' accent and with no chip on his shoulder were exactly the qualities needed to leave the whole blaxploitation question away from the film at the time it was made. There are also some important ethnic transgressions here - we first find Vanity as the new mistress of the white bad-guy, whereas it's clear that Sharon stone's character has had a fling with Carl weathers'. Essentially, then, the film portrays a fantasy Detroit, where racism has indeed become a thing of the past that its all but forgotten. If only that were really true! But, again, that was exactly what was needed to get African Americans back into action films - i.e., back into Hollywood.The direction of the film is fairly tight. The characters are so two dimensional, it may not be noticeable but the performances are all pretty solid; the whole film is professionally produced and presented. Also, two years before everybody in America would discover who Jackie Chan was and that he came from somewhere called Hong Kong, there are some terrific stunts in this film. And I noticed that other critics have reported that both Sharon Stone and Vanity get naked in this movie; frankly, I find such comments tasteless. On the other hand, there's no denying the attraction some men will feel for such important examples of women taking proper care of their health.But the main point is, the film should be preserved if for now other reason, than because it was indeed the return to the mainstream of the strong African-American male hero; and we still need that in the cinema, and always have. "},{"Title":"Lives up to its title.","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The violence in this movie is brutal and efficiently directed, the action sequences spectacular, the main villain great and the hero, Carl Weathers, can hold his own when compared to other big action stars of the 80's. In short, Action Jackson has all the ingredients to be a good rental choice for action fans. If only they had avoided some of those needless digressions (like Jackson's fight with a junkie)....  (**1/2)  "},{"Title":"One of the Best '80s Action Flicks!","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I saw this movie back in 1988, I thought then & think now that it was one of the most action packed movies for this genre.  Carl Weathers plays a likable cop that goes after an unscrupulous high-end car manufacturer.  All of the characters, Vanity, Craig T. Nelson & Sharon Stone round out the cast nicely to make an enjoyable, action packed viewing experience for the 1h30m that it's on.  It wasn't mean't to be an academy award winner, but it set out to do what it was intended to do, and that's to be an action packed movie from start to finish.  If you can appreciate movies from the '80s, this one will be a welcome addition to any collector's library.  I am glad to see it on DVD, because I have played my VHS copy to the max!   "},{"Title":"not a bad movie","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Carl Weathers gets a chance to be an action hero in this very enjoyable 80's action movie.  There are plenty of fist fights, explosions, car crashes, and other action in this one, and I thought Weathers did a good job in this film.  The scene when he outruns a cab and rides on the roof of it was kinda dumb but still entertaining.  Craig T. Nelson does a good job as the bad guy.  There are plenty of familiar faces in this one including Sharon Stone, Bill Duke, Ed O'Ross, Sonny Landham, and many more.  In all, a recommended film, not the best action film of the 80's, but still a fun one. 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Great Late 80's Action Film That's A lot Of Fun! Just Check Your Brain At The Door!*Spoilers*","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Great late 80's Action Film that's a lot of fun!. The characters were all great, Especially Weather's and Vanity's characters. The Main villain was VERY menacing in Craig T. Nelson he does fabulous here. There is lots of action, and lots of funny one liners from Carl Weathers!. This has been Panned by a lot of people why? it's a lot of fun and i personally enjoyed it a lot!. The Direction is fine. Craig R. Baxley does a fine job keeping the film at a tight pace , cool camera angles and overall he did a good job!. There is a bit of blood and violence. a person gets some bloody cuts on there face from glass, knife in the hand, 2 knives in the chest, arrow in the back, 5 very bloody gunshot wounds, impaling, and someone gets hit by a car graphically. The Acting is great!. Carl Weathers is AWESOME here delivering those one liners like a champ, he had good chemistry with Vanity and overall he just entertained the hell out of me! and was perfect for the part he is an awesome actor and one of my favorites!. (Weathers Rules!). Craig T. Nelson is perfect as The Main villain he is very menacing and did a terrific job overall!. Vanity is GORGEOUS! and did surprisingly very well here i liked her a lot. Sharon Stone is STUNNINGLY GORGEOUS! and does good here too too bad she is rather wasted!. Robert Davi, Ed O'Ross, Mary Ellen Trainor, and Nicholas Worth are all good in there short roles. Overall i highly recommend this for a night of cheesy fun!. ***1/2 out of 5 (Barely) "},{"Title":"Great 80s Fun","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Okay, now what isn't there to like about a movie that stars Carl Weathers, Craig T. Nelson, a young Sharon Stone (scrumptious), Bill Duke, Vanity (good googly moogly) and tons of other recognizable 80s actors? Nothing! This movie rules. In the words of my roommate, you come for Carl Weathers and you stay for Craig T Nelson. Carl Weathers is great as straight ahead copper Action Jackson, but Craig T Nelson steals the show here as the evil Mr. Delaplane. He is such a twisted jerk that being the richest man in Detroit and having a young Sharon Stone as his wife isn't enough, he needs to shoot Vanity full of heroin, too. (Side note Vanity was extremely strung out on crack cocaine at this time, read Motley Crue's book The Dirt for more info.) The action and laughs are nonstop. If you love dumb 80s big budget action, this is a must see. 8/10. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good! Classic 80's nonsense!","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" There isn't much to say about this movie. It's so stereo-type 80's it's unreal! Carl Weathers (Rocky, Predator) plays Jericho 'Action' Jackson. Im just gonna leave it there because his name is just too damn awesome! This is full of explosions, fulls of fist fights, full of awful acting and one-liners and amazingly, has a half decent cast of big name 80's action stars like Bill Duke and Sonny Landham (both of whom appeared in Predator with Weathers and Arnold Schwarzenegger), and Robert Davy (Die Hard, Raw Deal, Predator 2). But the story is basically about Jackson, who has been demoted to a desk cop and hates it, and has to keep his old 'Action Jackson' rebellious days behind him if he want's to be promoted again. When he is trailing a sadistic businessman who is murdering all his union competition so he can take the head job, then you know his 'Action Jackson' gun-ho days are going to return to save the day! It really is fun, I recommend it completely. "},{"Title":"Would anyone like a bowl of macaroni and CHEESE?","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Did you get my joke? No? Well then let me explain it to you cretins out there who have never indulged in bad cinema. Mike Nelson, the genius who wrote for and hosted the insanely brilliant series Mystery Science Theatre 3000, published a book all about wonderfully cheesy movies that he liked to watch. Action Jackson was just one of those movies, and I am glad to say that while it is most certainly dumb and as predictable as a parking meter, it's just goofy enough to be fun. A lot of people think that when a critic calls a film cheesy, they mean it's bad. Not necessarily, my naive friends. Everyone likes to eat cheese every now and then, right? Heck, one of my all-time favorite foods is macaroni and cheese! Sure, we all like to pretend that we have refined tastes, munching on caviar and other such sophisticated vittles, but every now and then we just have to let our hair down and have a nice slice of good American cheese. And trust me folks, Action Jackson, is just dripping with the stuff. Just look at the plot A former lieutenant known for his hot temper and loose cannon tactics is reduced to a desk job (check). He has a bookish superior who likes to play by the rules and refuses to let our hero see some action until he shapes up (check). Then suddenly a new case opens up - it seems that the same man who cost Action Jackson's lieutenant position is up to his old tricks, but no one suspects him because he's a respected businessman (check). Will Action Jackson uncover the villain's dastardly plot, save the day, get the chick who he at first thought was annoying, and get that lucrative lieutenant position back? What do you think?! Come on, this is as by the numbers as you can get, people. This story has been done hundreds of times, and yet here it's still simple, dorky fun. Action Jackson is played by the man who trained Sylvesyer Stallone in the original Rocky, and Craig Coach T. Nelson himself is the bad guy. And to top it all off, VANITY is the romantic love interest! I could not believe it when her named popped up on the screen. Now I own two movies starring this horrible actress Today's feature, and the John Stamos spy disaster, Never Too Young To Die. What a small world, huh? There are explosions, car chases, groovy 80s tunes, and even a hotel manager whose lisp is so obvious that you can't understand a word he says. How can you go wrong? Trust me folks, this is not painful in the slightest. Well, okay, maybe Vanity's two songs can be zipped through via the fast forward button (check out her nasty hair!), but otherwise Action Jackson is a great B-movie for those rainy days.  "},{"Title":"Bad example of the good old days of action movies","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Im not going to beat around the bush here. This is a BAD movie. Terrible. God-awful, even. But I can't help myself. For some sad reason I like this movie. I mean, for one thing it's got absolute pearlers of dialogue, like this, If I had that guy's family problems, I'd have myself neutered! There's the guilty pleasure I have watching Carl Weathers trying to be tough. I don't quite know why he's so bad at it, I mean, it's not like he's teeny tiny or rake-thin or has a squeaky voice &#150; but every time he was supposed to be intimidating in this movie I just found myself giggling.And then there's Vanity. Again, for some sad reason, I find her really alluring. Never mind she's a former crack-wh*re turned born again evangelical preacher, in this movie she's got a sexy little body and a smoky bedroom voice. Nice.Another thing is, I always believe Craig T Nelson when he plays a sleaze. Check him out in Devil's Advocate. I can picture him sipping Maker's Mark bourbon while he jacks off to the latest Hustler Barely Legal issue. The guy just creeps me out.And I must say I enjoyed seeing Biff from Back to the Future as the dumb cop. Priceless.For all it's good points though, it really is very forgettable fare. Even now, having only watched it two days ago I'm struggling to remember the action scenes. I think it was really a misguided attempt to launch Carl Weathers into a leading man career of his own, after he did okay jobs in things like Predator, ie when his role was MUCH smaller. Sadly, when compared to other actioners of the time, like Commando, Lethal Weapon, Die Hard, it is a mediocre effort at best. "}{"Title":"Dry as a Saharan Desert, it was awful.","Date":"23 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm sorry but this is a complete disaster from cool to laughable and made me quit watching the film because of Reanu's crappy writing of killing Sharon off of the film, what a dick. I first thought that Sharon would be the main villain but no it was The Incredible's Craig T. Nelson as the main villain, in which he frames Jackson (Carl Weathers) by Nelson killing his wife (played by Sharon Stone. This was something that got me interested when I was 7 or 8, until now, it was just so horrible, I'm taking this quote from Frank Yablans on the Electric Boogaloo The Wild untold story of Cannon Films documentary how to describe Action Jackson. It was dry as a Saharan desert, it was awful. I liked Lorimar for Full House TV series, but this is just awful for giving us nothing but junk. What a piece of crap that it should've been owned by Sony not WB, and really, why did the DVD and Blu-ray covers of this film has Sharon stone in the background, she is killed early in the film, you dicks at Warner Brothers, you should've put Craig T Nelson in it. What such a dumb f**k "},{"Title":"Where the hell is Jackson?!","Date":"25 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Forget about Apollo Creed from Rocky and Dillon from Predator, the ultimate Carl Weathers feature is Action Jackson&#x85; why because he is the star. He plays a cop&#x85; not an ordinary cop, but one that has a reputation of doing things his way. Is that out of the ordinary? Ah who cares? Weathers in good fun in the tough as nails role. This time the action is set in Detroit and Weathers finds himself up against a wide-eyed Craig T Nelson. I don't know, but it felt like Nelson was always in some staring competition. It was those unblinking eyes. Truly a fitting bad-ass villainous turn; Hateful, smarmy and he knew how to work his charm. Who does he have working for him; quick moving assassins who look like they are out of some 80s rock band. Bad hair, reflective sunnies and little to say. Maybe it's their second job in between gigs, as they do seem to go missing midway through the film. There are some familiar faces in the cast too; ex-model / singer Vanity gives a sultry performance as a nightclub singer (with a steamy soundtrack to boot), Bill Duke as the hardened police captain that's always on Jackson's back, a unhinged Robert Davi as an old friend and a minor turn by Sharon Stone.The ludicrously pulpy story doesn't break any new ground (sometimes a little too makeshift and contrived), but it's gloriously violent, equipped with smart-lipped one-liners and works in some exciting action set-pieces (Ferrari driving in a mansion) within its urban backdrop thanks to Craig R Baxley's rigidly confident direction. "},{"Title":"Raw cartoon-like action without brains","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I thought the first 2/3rds of this movie was alright as far as action movies comes. Nothing great, but decent entertainment. It had a cartoon feel to it that I liked. That made it easier to overlook the otherwise ridiculous things like how cars exploded for no apparent reason and people could take several kicks and punches to the face with no effect. We got to see big man Jackson drop some funny one-liners, throw bad guys through windows and jump-flip over a speeding car.The end 3rd is were its gets sour for me. This is where Jackson and the good guys start killing of the bad guys. Example; Jackson and a friend has fought of a bunch of bad guys, now there's only one bad guy left with a flamethrower. Jackson manages to disarm the bad guy, so lets arrest him right? WRONG, lets drop a cool line and torch him! And in the end he gets a promotion for his murdering spree. Before that he has repeatedly been saying how Vanity is a junkie, like his murdering ass is any better. Some real warped morals in this movie. "},{"Title":"Apollo Creed with a gun","Date":"4 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" J Jackson is a cop in Detroit who went to Harvard but for some strange reason became a cop. Years ago he put away a child molester and he did it so violently that it got him taken down to being a normal cop. Years later the crooked father of the child molester is being voted in as man of the year and Jackson has to come face to face with him. He knows he is up to no good and goes on the trail and soon has the wealthy mans goons as well as his own people in the police department after him. He gets in good with the bad guys wife as well as his mistress and he wont stop until justice is done.I had seen this a few times and never thought it was hot, it has a decent story, great actors and a decent budget but it was just too mediocre to amount to much. Using the Carl Weathers fame to try to sell a legendary name like Action Jackson, was a gamble and the gamble backfired.The movie had a ton of clichés and fast cars, gun fights, drugs, nudity, fist fights and all that often makes a film like this work, but it just didn't mix it together well.The direction and production was okay, but nothing outstanding. Great actors like Carl Weathers, Craig T Nelson, Vanity, Sharon Stone, Bill Duke, Robert Davi and that little Asian guy who was a thug on 4000 movies in the 80's and 90's.I hated the bad music, I hated the clichés like the done to death top of the car scene where the hero holds on to the car in a high speed chase is shot at but always missed...it's done all the time.If you don't mind seeing mediocre then this is your film - 2/10 stars "},{"Title":"80's Action","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a cheesy 80's action flick. It is another one of those movies that is so bad, it's actually good. It's not your typical 80's action movie, at least not completely. It tries to be hip and modern for young audiences, and still appeal to adults. It's got a MoTown Soundtrack and some Slasher movie style music. Action Jackson is an entertaining movie if your in the mood for something fun. Don't try to overanalyze it and you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"If action had a name it would be ACTION.... Jackson!","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Some say he didn't even have a mother and he was created by NASA to be the first man to walk on the moon without a space suit, others say his mother was molested by a Yeti and he was their mutant offspring... Well their all wrong he's actually just the most bad ass cop in all of Mo-Town.  And he's out to kick some serious posterior on Martial Arts, Gang Lord Craig T. Nelson (ABC's Coach) and his gang of Euro- Trash 80's Super Assigns.  Carl Weathers is Action Jackson the Cop so bad the that he can beat the living cheese out of the crooks so badly that their ancestors will feel it 12 centuries from now.  He knocks a giant fat guy through a door! He throws some guy out a window with such force that the sorry punk flies through the window of the building on the other side of the alleyway! He destroys a cab by flipping over it for Pete's Sake!!!  Why do they call him Action?  Do the Math Brainiac!!!  SEE IT!!!    "},{"Title":"Aaaahhh, the late 80s...","Date":"20 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Aaaah the late 80s&#x85; when &#x95; The fact that a character's name is 'Action' Jackson didn't need to be justified. It just was. &#x95; We take for granted that Action Jackson is scary and awe-inspiring as peripheral characters tell us so. &#x95; Ditto the fact that his passion for his job and creative methods have resulted in him being demoted and his wife leaving him&#x85; &#x95; The bad guy is identified early. &#x95; Better still he is already Action Jackson's nemesis. &#x95; Better still, still. The guy responsible for his demotion and wife leaving him. &#x95; Unexpected and unnecessary nudity was both expected and necessary. &#x95; The bad guy has a hot trophy wife (Sharon Stone) and a hot mistress (Vanity). &#x95; Both of whom are more than willing to take their clothes off for little reason.Furthermore&#x85; &#x95; Women get out of the shower nude. Guys are wearing jeans. &#x95; Performing in a club with a totally see through top isn't noticed by anyone in the club &#x96; but those of us watching at home&#x85; &#x95; It doesn't matter if the hero doesn't actually say something funny or clever, as long as he and the other characters seem to think what he is saying is funny and/or clever. &#x95; Post-kill quips still need work though, no Hasta la vista Baby or Stick around here&#x85; (though How do you like your ribs was OK. The answer is apparently 'exploded'.) &#x95; Dangerous minions can time their hit and run assassination attempts to coincide with the came split second that their target walks through a door, despite traffic and the fact that they are hundreds of yards away with no possible way of knowing that this was the point he was to emerge&#x85; &#x95; I have to catch a cab' means a chase scene, with Jackson not only catching up but giving him a mouthful through the window of his speeding car&#x85; while still on foot! &#x95; Leading to big explosions and certain civilian deaths, none of which are mentioned again. &#x95; People get hit in the face and actually bleed. (Happens less on film nowadays than you think.) &#x95; Cheesy pop music on the soundtrack is justifiable for the fact that it was the 80s, the spiritual home of cheesy pop music. &#x95; Every character actor in the film is recognisable from another classic film of the era. In the first 10 minutes I saw minor roles filled with actors from Predator, Beverly Hills Cop, Red Heat, Back to the Future and seemingly half of the cast of Die Hard. &#x95; We know the big showdown will be a fist fight when we see the Bad Guy training in hand to hand combat. &#x95; A good body double can make you think that a 60 year old is a karate machine&#x85; why don't we ever manage to see his face while he pulling off these athletic moves&#x85;? &#x95; Stunt men are plentiful and disposable, and unnecessary CGI is not needed. &#x95; Movies were 80 minutes long and had a beginning, middle and end.Final Rating &#x96; 6 / 10. None of the above things are bad. Action Jackson is not in the same league as Lethal Weapon, Die Hard and their peers, but it is a solid formula action comedy, which proves that Carl Weathers had genuine on screen likability. "},{"Title":"A grittier Andy Sidaris film.","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ridiculous violence, people flying from punches, gun shots with explosions of blood and Incredible stuntwork are all the key elements that differentiate Action Jackson from the standard 80s action film more so than featuring an African-American lead. The shots during the theme song are a collage of Detroit's smoggy brown and gray landscapes, with emphasis on the Ford and Chrysler plants, that paint the whole film with a tone of late 80s urban decay. Jackson himself is an almost mute human tank, recently demoted and divorced for being... well... Action Jackson. Craig T. Nelson plays De la Plane, a successful car manufacturer who appears to struggle being an asshole, with his wife played by Sharon Stone, who dons a cakeface so needless and noticeable it's akin to a WASP version of Snookie. Fortunately, we return to the gratuitously outrageous violence, stunts and explosions made even more enjoyable when the murder victims are AWA members. Robert Davi plays against type as a really distressed person who wants to kill himself and only appears to exist as a storytelling device so Jackson can link De la Plane to all the violence in the movie. The film has a consistent structure of exposition followed by violence/action followed by exposition between scenes with some exceptions involving Vanity, playing herself with a different name, who uses nudity to bridge the gap between exposition and violence/action. She is also a heroin addict, which is interesting to see in a mainstream 80s action film that has no understanding of junkies. There seems to be very little cause and effect in the film outside of... De la Plane has someone killed and then Jackson finds out about that from someone who De la Plane will then kill. All the action, violence and stunts are ridiculously exaggerated and really outweigh the interest in the story - it doesn't matter that we know Craig T. Nelson is the bad guy from the get go and I'm pretty certain the viewer will not really care how Jackson pins the crime on De la Plane but you will be wondering when the next act of on-screen violence will occur or if Sharon Stone gets nude. Yes, but it could have been longer. Also, Herbie Hancock worked on the score, which is so interchangeable from other films of this genre I nearly forgot to mention it. "},{"Title":"Vanity is gorgeous plus lots of great small roles","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Vanity is unbelievably beautiful, and funny, from beginning to end and from stem to stern.She is matched by golden-blonde Sharon Stone. Both these gorgeous hotties appear topless! And there are many wonderful actors in small roles, including three of the greatest character-actors of the time Robert Davi, Ed O'Ross, and Nicholas Worth, the terrifying, rubbery-lipped basso who plays Dellaplane's butler.The screenplay is totally brain-free, written for stoned teenagers. (In this universe, it's EASY to break a heroin-habit!) But the action is hot, the women are sexy, the music is ultra-hip, and the villains are creepy. Great fun. Royal fun. "},{"Title":"A Tribute To a Movie and an Age !","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In 1988 the head of the action family Sylvester Stallone released (Rambo III). His archenemy Arnold Schwarzenegger made (Red Heat) and also the comedy (Twins). The third, yet less rich, brother Van Damme gave us (Black Eagle) & (Bloodsport). The family's black sheep Chuck Norris gave us his Horror of an action (Hero and the Terror) & (Braddock Missing in Action III)! The funny cousin of Hong Kong Jackie Chan released both (Police Story 2) & (Dragons Forever). The godfather Eastwood presented (The Dead Pool). And the family's old uncles Danny Glover and Gene Hackman made (Bat 21). Boy! That brings back a whole lot of memories! Also there was room for newcomers who dazzled us to frustrate us sometimes later Bruce Willis in (Die Hard), or dazzled us to frustrate us very  Steven Seagal in (Above the Law), or ones didn't dazzle us at all  Mark Harmon (The Presidio)!During 15 years after (Shaft - 1973) we didn't run into badass black action hero much. Eddie Murphy was a revival in (Beverly Hills Cop) but sorry, he was just Axel Foley (or Folly!). In1988 we had Sonny Spoon a TV show starring Mario Van Peebles. Yet, it was No Shaft either. Till Action Jackson came. Yes, (Carl Weathers) isn't one of the luckiest action heroes. But here he assured that he's one of the finest. And this movie itself makes us lucky to watch it. It's not the top of the top, but surely the top of the elite B-movies of the 1980s.It got the case's usual  The man's man police detective, inspector, lieutenant,.. whatever (did it ever really matter ?!!) + His cooperative or uncooperative, mostly black, chief + A relief of a sidekick (sometimes) + One violent totally crazy bad guy (every time !) + 2 sexy chicks (one dies, one stays; like all the Bond movies) + the action, the swearing, ALL the good old stereotypes and the must BIG finish = the good cop-in-mad-city movie; dirty Harry's next level; the modern maverick cowboy in the new wild west.You'd be so dumb if you waited for deep characterization, arguable moral choices, or serious issues (racism maybe!). As that's the ultimate blah in the great nonsense that these movies are. Frankly you won't read a book while being in a roller-coaster; however a few movie makers can make you do it. (Action Jackson)'s makers aren't ones of them, delivering pure brainless Hollywood fare and in above-average way.It is classic at being formulaic, episodic, and so HOT also. Wickedly it gives you no time to rest by making (or making up!) situation after another where the hero got to face a problem and hit some enemies anyway. Look at this series of unfortunate events and characters  a huge bodyguard, exploded flat, humans' cutters, noisy drug dealer, idiot police officers, jumping off a window, then threatening a girl by speeding a car to a wall, and ending this second act's sequence with  a sultry kiss! Do you want more? I know that I don't !(Weathers) not only got muscles but charisma and wit. (Vanity) had real sexiness and interesting songs (Baby Kiss Me, Undress Me...Ahhh, that's what I call it singing!). And with (Stone) it was too much sexuality for 1988 I think! The supporting characters and actors were smart. And there is a car that ascends stairs to the doorstep of the evil man in the nick of time (That was beautifully wild and put Mr. Bond's stuff to complete shame !).All the movie's elements pulled off a masterful action, funny atmosphere, making every moment bright explosive and stunning, materializing humid perfectly; look how when Jackson doesn't wear a red shirt, he wears red tie! Though, how the bad guy didn't know about the surviving Jackson? How he didn't notice him at the end party? And originally how Vanity's bodyguard knew about her place? But Naaa. The question to be asked is How to think in front of all of this ?! It's just an amusing time for any brain wants to get rest. So forget about that; the way you forget about Vanity's bad performance (How could she lose the Razzie of the Worst Actress for Liza Minnelli in Arthur 2 ?? That's historically unfair!) to remember, and concentrate on, her sexy presence ONLY.After more than 20 years still this movie isn't dated. Rather many of the action movies nowadays are! In fact if it was made today then we'd have  The lead, his girl, the bad guys all got to know Kung Fu, being hanged with flying wires all the time. After a lead who's a cross between (Dirty Harry) and (Bond) we'd have one who's a cross between (Bond) and (Superman) ! Extra hyperbole and violence. The plot twist (at least one!). A soundtrack crammed with rap. And really ugly heroines. With non-stop boring unnecessary CGI during everything; the explosions, the car chases, and maybe the backgrounds as well ! And don't forget the music video, the DVD with the Holy deleted scenes!, plus the assured parody after nearly a month of the release ! And maybe a low-budget sequel (with another lead a la xXx and The Punisher !).Aside from (Action Jackson), 1988 got some classic Action movies  (Die Hard), (Shoot to Kill). Comedies (Switching Channels), (Without a Clue), (Big Business), (Beetlejuice). Action comedies (Who Framed Roger Rabbit), (The Naked Gun), (Short Circuit 2). Or else (Stand and Deliver), (Rain Man), (Hawks), (D.O.A). Well, that's partly why 1988 is personally one of my favorite years, and why the whole 1980s cinematically one of the greatest decades. "}{"Title":"Tough cop cleans up the streets","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This urban drama delivers thrills, non-stop action and mayhem. Carl Weathers is a Superman in street clothes and benefits from stunt work and spectacular chases and crashes and does well enough to be believable. When Jackson loses his lieutenant stripes he becomes a rogue cop with an attitude. The film lacks coherence and hurtles from explosion to gruesome killing to firebomb which exposes the film's thin plot. Craig T. Nelson is a nasty character who allows no one to interfere with his agenda, and Sharon Stone spends her brief screen time trying to stay out harm's way. Vanity, a Motown wannabe with a heroin habit, is pretty enough but is no femme fatale. She and Weathers seem to have good chemistry here, but the film's highs and lows and long stretches of silly dialogue and meandering pace give the movie an uneven feel. "},{"Title":"Apollo Creed Jumps Over a Car!!","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" First off, Carl Weathers will always be Apollo Creed so just stop it.Second off, what other movie can boast full frontal nudity from Sharon Stone AND Vanity? They've definitely both seen better days though, if I may say so myself.Third off, Craig T. Nelson, or as I like to call him, Coach, has a sweet mullet.Fourth off, Action is the coolest nickname of all time. Just try substituting your first name with Action without laughing. Yeah. It's hard.OK bye. "},{"Title":"It was a regular f*ck-o-rama at my place last night.","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One thing is certain. Carl Weathers did not age one bit from all those Rocky films, and he looked as good as ever in this action film that features a really bad guy that got what was due to him. Craig T. Nelson was evil, evil, evil.Of course, Sharon Stone was hot, hot, hot in a pre Basic Instinct film. I would even guess that she might have had some work done in the intervening four years, but I could be wrong. Maybe I'll have to go back and stare some more.Vanity (Wasn't she with prince at one time?) didn't need any work, and i though she was unfairly criticized for her performance. Her singing was great and she really wasn't that bad an actress.Well, it wasn't a wasted 90 minutes, but look for it on cable. "},{"Title":"The brilliant title says it all","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After seeing Carl Weathers in only the Rocky movies it seemed he had nothing else better to do. Action Jackson proves that point. A mixture of Lethal Weapon, Airplane, and Beverly Hills Cop-all done BADLY! The previews showed a fairly impressive car chase scene-but you take that scene out of the movie and you don't have a movie. Even hot stuff Vanity's naked body couldn't save this.  "},{"Title":"Carl Weathers deserves something great","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Action Jackson (Carl Weathers) is a tough Detroit police sergeant. Captain Armbruster (Bill Duke) orders him to attend a ceremony awarding a Man of the Year award to powerful industrialist Peter Dellaplane (Craig T. Nelson). Jackson had been demoted and lost everything after a violent takedown of Peter's psycho son Sean. Peter has a team of assassins who massacres union leaders of Peter's company. His wife Patrice (Sharon Stone) cooperates with Jackson. Peter kills her and plants her body in Jackson's apartment. Jackson escapes with Peter's lounge-singing drug-addicted mistress Sydney Ash (Vanity).Carl Weathers is a charismatic actor. This is more or less a blaxploitation movie. He could do better and he has great skills. The movie is called Action Jackson and there is plenty of action. The thing is that Weathers needs to start the movie with a big action scene. The big starting action is done without context and without thrills. He finally gets one later on with a nice explosive car chase. I don't like the way Weathers ends the confrontation which struck me as being silly and again reeks of blaxploitation. Craig T. Nelson could be a good villain but I don't buy his physical prowess. He doesn't need to be a physical threat for him to be scary. Vanity is close to being annoying. The girl is as sexy as hell but I don't like her songs. Her acting is also lacking. There are some good parts and I absolutely love Weathers. That's why he deserves something better than this. "},{"Title":"LOVED Vanity in this...A Beautiful Lady...R.I.P.","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've just read about Vanity's death a few days ago aged only 57.So sad to discover this news.She was never a BIG STAR Actress but it's amazing how many actresses like her had an effect on us kids of the 1980's.I first became aware of her in The Last Dragon not a bad film but not really great either but she clearly stood out.She really only made 3 films of note (the above one) 52 Pick Up which for obvious reasons had VHS Tapes being worn out in the late 80's, check it out, it has a GREAT cast and I have always been a fan Roy Scheider's but this film also included as well as Vanity (who's role was small but sexy) a certain Kelly Preston whom 1980's teenagers will be FOREVER grateful for -) So two OK films but then came this one...ACTION JACKSON has so much over-the-top machismo that you can't help but smile and enjoy the wave of 80's action.Carl Weathers is BRILLIANT...he really is! he knows what kind of film this is and I love how he plays it (tongue firmly set in cheek) he's also super cool in the Rocky films, Predator and he was even in Close Encounters of the Third Kind (one of my all-time favourite films) BLINK and you'll miss him though.This has an EPIC 1980's cast...Carl, Craig T Nelson(so incredibly good in the first two Poltergeist movies), Bill Duke (one of his buddies from Predator), Robert Davi (007 Baddie from LTK) add in Sharon Stone in an early role and the even more beautiful Vanity and you have what is really something of a secret 'cult' 1980's action movie.Straight from the get go this sprints off the line...Great lines for Carl (I won't spoil 'em for you...go discover them yourself) And yet whilst it's without a doubt Carl's film...VANITY as his squeeze is just joyful and brings a smile to your face every time she's on the screen, unlike Miss Stone who although clearly beautiful is (at least for me)not a match for Vanity (it's funny who makes it BIG and who doesn't sometimes...as I would have gone with Vanity to be the breakaway star after this!) This was her BIG TIME Film and she owns it along with Carl Weathers (WILL SOMEBODY PLEASE GET THIS FANTASTIC ACTION GUY from the 1980's THAT WE LOVE...BACK in the MOVIES!) GOD BLESS Vanity...And family & friends know this... There are a number of teenagers from the 1980's that will ALWAYS ALWAYS ALWAYS...Remember her.ACTION JACKSON is simply a film the likes of which you just don't see made thesedays and that's kinda SAD.They'll be future viewers of this film that fall for the charms of Vanity in the future and this is the film in which there is a twinkle in her eye. "},{"Title":"38 minutes until the Hero gets an action scene","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love cheesy action movies. Not just the modern stuff like Expendables but some of the old ones modern audiences don't quite know much about. Stuff like Eraser, Cobra, Death Wish, and so on. The parts of the genre that were fantastic in the thrill of their heydey but haven't quite had a lasting impact with those youngins' like me today.Action Jackson is a terrible action movie.It's a real shame because it had a lot going for it. Good actors who can turn in solid performances, some star power on the heels of Rocky, and what seems to be a pretty decent budget. I've thought quite a bit about the points I can make on how they use a lot of telling not showing on building up the hero, the ungodly amount of exposition, and so on. But really... it can be summed up with one statement.In the movie Action Jackson... Action Jackson doesn't have a single action scene until 38 minutes until the movie.That's like an entire episode of Sons of Anarchy. And the action scene isn't even good or built up to. It sort of comes out of nowhere and ends unceremoniously.I was hoping this movie would be a good old fashion action cheese fest. But it soooooo sloooooow. Maybe the movie got better after that. I couldn't tell ya, I fell asleep. "},{"Title":"Absolute Nonsense !!","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have to agree with the other IMDb members who find this movie absolutely absurd. This is nothing more than an attempt to capitalize on the popularity of the Apollo Creed character developed by Carl Weathers in Rocky. The fact that this film was named after an action figure doll from the early 70's says it all. The stunts are just plain ridiculous (Jackson leaping over a speeding car head-on and also chasing a speeding car on foot and catching up to it) are just so far-fetched that it gets insulting. Craig T Nelson seems too bland as a villain and the plot is so weak that the action can't even carry it. Also worthy of note is the purse-snatcher who faints every time he lays eyes on Jackson. It's no wonder a sequel was never attempted. Mindless idiocy and a waste of quality movie time! "},{"Title":"Action Jackson","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Absolutely ludicrous, implausible, and outrageously unrealistic action film and it's a hell of a lot of fun! Carl Weathers finally had his chance to be the lead star of an action film, as a Detroit cop of a distinguished reputation. Problem is he just can't seem to stay out of trouble. Craig T Nelson is a wealthy businessman involved in killing union members of AWA (this isn't exactly a crackerjack plot rife with politics worthy of any intellectual investment) and Weathers' Action Jackson was responsible for his son's imprisonment. A demotion due to a backlash regarding his work in that case has left Jackson basically in a rather unflattering cop position where his true desire is to be lieutenant again. Meanwhile, Nelson's blonde-headed Dellaplane continues to use a group of assassins known as The Invisible Man to get rid of unioneers that stand in his way of orchestrating a coup where he's calling the shots of the AWA behind a man of his choosing. Jackson joins forces with a sexy lounge singing heroine addict (she comes along reluctantly, but this serves as a wake-up call to her when Dellaplane had a bomb rigged to kill her in her apartment) in the hopes of keeping her alive and getting to Dellaplane. The actress formerly known as Vanity wasn't much of a thespian but she does look mighty delish in a skin-tight lounge dress. She even shows her tits for us. There's no doubt she was a feast for the eyes. This was during that period before Sharon Stone broke out in Basic Instinct, and she was still trying to find the actress she'd become. Here, she is a looker but her acting leaves much to be desired. It was clear she was hired for her beauty. Her fate is no surprise, as her accidental snooping isn't about to make Dellaplane just avoid dealing with any chance of his plans being ruined by Action Jackson.This cast has some 80s faces in it that should amuse action fans. Like Nicholas Worth (Darkman) as a security guard, Branscombe Richmond (you guessed it, he gets his ass kicked *again*) and Miguel Nunez (Friday the 13th Part Five and Shadowzone) as thugs in a pool hall (as well as Charles Meshack was the big brute Arnie kills in the airplane in Commando), Brian Libby (the Frankenstein experiment psycho Chuck Norris has to contend with in Silent Rage) as a security guard of Nelson's, and gravel-voiced Fat Williams as a former boxer pal of Jackson's. Bill Duke of Predator and Commando is Jackson's superior (who grows tired of Jackson's wreckage) and Robert Davi is a high school friend of Jackson's who gets offed by Dellaplane because he knows too much. Sonny Landham has a small part as a knife-wielding drug supplier that Jackson tosses out of the apartment window into another apartment window across the street! Thomas Wilson (Back to the Future's antagonist, Biff) is a cop wanting to achieve Jackson's lofty position in the police force.Want to see Jackson leap a moving taxi without touching it landing on his feet? Want to see Jackson drive a Ferrari up the stairs of a mansion? Want to see Jackson and Vanity leap from a window into the retractable roof of a convertible and get away without even a bruise? This is the kind of action film where the body count couldn't be high enough, there isn't a limit on how many cars are destroyed or wreck, and no matter how many times you punch the hero he seems to recover without showing any long-term effects. The fact that Nelson is a master martial artist, can operate such a criminal enterprise with little resistance from the police, and shoot a woman and just dump her body in Jackson's home with no serious ramifications of law enforcement questioning him with any clear provocation tells you all you need to know about what kind of action film this is. This kills brain cells and requests that you forget the notion of looking at the film with any sort of real scrutiny. This is about Weathers, and that chiseled athletic action hero physique, hurling big- bodied bruisers through doors, hanging onto moving cars without being slung off despite them going at advanced speeds around curves (and hitting other cars in traffic spots encountered), and a woman at his side who gives us something to salivate over. Vanity's ability to emote may not be her greatest attribute but her slinky figure sure isn't a liability, either. Still, it was nice to see Weathers get his own action movie, even if he never benefited by a studio push he obviously deserved. "},{"Title":"I was not enthralled by the Action, thanks Mr Jackson","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Action Jackson (1988) is a throwback to the days of Blackpolitation. All the nasty characters are white power hungry bigots. Carl Weathers (of Rocky fame), plays the title character. He has been demoted from Lieutenant to Sergeant, due to pulling the arm off of someone he had a spare says Jackson, to his boss. Jackson sets involved in trying to stop a big wig crime lord setting up one of his people to run for high office and control government. On the way there is lots of fist fighting and violent action. Best thing about this is the stunning Vanity, playing a junkie singer, and she is not really know for her acting prowess. I just found the story to be confusing and rather boring and I found it hard to engage with the film. Most people seem to like it so I am in the minority. "}{"Title":"Apollo Creed turns Detroit cop","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The plot gets a bit hokey in Action Jackson and it certainly never did establish Carl Weathers as an action hero. It certainly didn't do much for Vanity as she got a Razzie Award nomination for worst Actress of 1988.Carl Weathers is Sergeant Jericho Jackson of the Detroit PD. He used to be a lieutenant, but got demoted due to the influence of automobile magnate Craig T. Nelson after Weathers busted his kid as sex criminal. He was pretty rough in doing it, but the kid faced a whole lot worse in prison. Nelson has a burning hate for Weathers and the feeling is mutual.But Nelson also has big plans and it involves killing off the various leaders of the Auto Worker's union. He's making a big power grab, one of the biggest and he's not squeamish in eliminating opposition and hindrances. The women in this film have way too much to overcome. I can't believe Vanity as a junkie with Weathers withholding her dope. She should be Jonesing bad for fix, but she never is. She should have been experiencing Man With A Golden Arm type withdrawals. Vanity is Nelson's ghetto mistress.His trophy wife is Sharon Stone and what did this woman think Nelson was going to do to her after she took off with Weathers? This was one of her early parts and she's a tragic figure. Despite the impossibility of her role Sharon Stone did have a career.Enough action for Jackson and the movie-going public who likes this stuff. But it's second rate. "},{"Title":"If I had family problems like that, I'd get myself neutered.","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dumb but fun '80s actioner with a rare starring role for Carl Weathers. He plays the title character, a tough Detroit cop obsessed with bringing down wealthy psychopath Craig T. Nelson. Weathers is great, with lots of cool one-liners and macho swagger to spare. For his part, villainous Nelson is appropriately evil and gets to bed young Sharon Stone and Vanity, officially making him the king of all studs. Speaking of Sharon and Vanity, they both appear naked in this, which is reason enough to recommend it. Also features support from Bill Duke, Robert Davi, and Biff from the Back to the Future movies. If you're a fan of '80s action movies, cheese and all, you'll surely like this one. "},{"Title":"Standard 80s action movie","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I rated this a 5 for it's average qualities.The dialog is cliché, the cop stuff is cliché, the plot is a bit sub par, the acting is mostly average...you get the idea.What this movie is good at is being a typical 80s cop-action movie. So if you love 80s cop- action movies watch this.I like Carl Weathers. He has charisma. I like the character, and heck, would not have minded seeing an Action Jackson 2.There's some good action scenes.Music is slightly above average. You have to like that era of Prince and the Minneapolis sound, Janet Jackson, etc. I do like that stuff, but this is not the best of that era. Undress ( Vanity) is probably the best, and a minor hit IIRC.Vanity is average. Attractive, but average. Better than she was in some other movies though, IMO. Heck, it's an 80s rip off of Shaft, so really no problem with Vanity here.Don't watch this for the dialog except to laugh. I have rarely heard so much well worn dialog in one movie. Watch it MST3K style, mocking the dialog with a friend while drinking some beers.The plot was pretty stupid, but who cares. Mindless action movie plots are forgettable and not really important. "},{"Title":"Carl Weathers Headlines Fast-Paced Action Thriller","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Action Jackson is an action movie starring Carl Weathers. Former pro football player-turned actor Weathers (he earned a degree in theater arts from San Diego State U. before segueing into a brief stint with the Oakland Raiders and a Canadian League team after that) was a veteran of various films by the 1980s most famously as Rocky Balboa's adversary-turned-ally Apollo Creed in the Rocky series of films. He was also a co-lead in the Arnold Schwarzenegger action film Predator, leading into Weathers' first solo headlining feature.Weathers plays Jericho Action Jackson- Detroit native, Harvard Law graduate and veteran police officer. He currently holds the rank of sergeant (demoted in the aftermath of a high-profile bust of the son of a prominent businessman.) Jackson gets involved in a murder case involving several labor union executives, and the investigation reveals a conspiracy leading to prominent auto manufacturing mogul Peter Dellaplane (Craig T. Nelson, imagined as a murderous John DeLorean).Weathers and Nelson make the most of the script, which puts an emphasis on quippy lines and larger-than-life characters. Beat cops, bodyguards, dive hotel managers and hairdressers all get to spout some unusually clever lines.Weathers is a refreshing change of pace from some of his action-movie peers, here. Decked out with a form-fitting wardrobe (no doubt a pleasure for female moviegoers), he seems more relaxed, charismatic and believable than the various tough guys Stallone, Schwarzenegger and Norris tended to play. Nelson is sufficiently oily as the corrupt auto magnate, though it's kind of a thankless role.Pop singer Vanity, an ex-Prince protégé', plays the main love interest Sydney. Here she's a nightclub singer and mistress of Dellaplane, who is among the last secret-keepers of the villain, which naturally makes her a marked woman once Jackson's investigation begins to heat up.Producer Joel Silver (Predator, Die Hard, Lethal Weapon) was behind this, and his pedigree shows in this feature. Silver doesn't skimp on the action set pieces, as Action features such sequences as assassins crashing through skyscraper windows, yachts rigged with dynamite, taxicabs diving through storefronts, and even a sports car driving to the top floor of a mansion! All in all, Action Jackson delivers as an action thriller of the 1980s- light on plot, but heavy on fights, pretty women and explosions. Definitely worth renting/streaming.Further analysis Surprisingly, no sequel was ever made. In retrospect, the film largely ignores the then-current state of affairs in Detroit-- which by the 1980s was largely abandoned by the auto industry-- as well as most of its white population having left for the suburbs and elsewhere. The film was mostly savaged by critics, but managed to pull in a modest profit at the domestic box-office as well as making impact on international screens. By the mid-80s, the African American action movie stars of the 1970s (Jim Brown, Fred Williamson, et al) fell into near-obscurity, shunt into infrequent supporting roles or straight to video features. Comic actor Eddie Murphy became the exception that proves the rule, as his commercial success didn't do much of anything to open the floodgates for a new wave of black leading actors. Weathers' Jackson should have joined Axel Foley, John McClane, John Rambo, etc. in the action hero sequel fraternity. Unfortunately, a likely combination of studio skepticism and mainstream-culture reluctance put a damper on the continuation of Jericho's adventures. "},{"Title":"80's action","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Carl Weathers takes the lead as a veangful cop going against the system,, as he battles, a high - end car manufacturer,, Craig T. Nelson who plays our villain,,, alongside those 2 are Vanity,, and Sharon Stone,,, lot's of violence and gore for ann 80's picture,,, loved Craig T. Nelson's character,, very shady and underhanded,,, Sharon Stone is as sexy as ever,, and folks let's give a hand to Vanity ,, who for me just stole the show,,, she can actually act which I never thought she would be able to pull that off ,,, other than her clothes... but she did,, overall I liked the picture it was middle of the road action,, for the 80's time period,, I'ts not a classic by any stretch of the imagination,, but worth watching,, if not for those 2 fabulous young ladies. "},{"Title":"It was a regular f*ck-o-rama at my place last night.","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One thing is certain. Carl Weathers did not age one bit from all those Rocky films, and he looked as good as ever in this action film that features a really bad guy that got what was due to him. Craig T. Nelson was evil, evil, evil.Of course, Sharon Stone was hot, hot, hot in a pre Basic Instinct film. I would even guess that she might have had some work done in the intervening four years, but I could be wrong. Maybe I'll have to go back and stare some more.Vanity (Wasn't she with Prince at one time?) didn't need any work, and I thought she was unfairly criticized for her performance. Her singing was great and she really wasn't that bad an actress.Well, it wasn't a wasted 90 minutes, but look for it on cable. "},{"Title":"Makes Up in Entertainment Value what it Lacks in Quality","Date":"21 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's at first hard to tell if Action Jackson is oblivious to its own ridiculousness or playing up to it, but when Carl Weathers &#x97; the titular Jackson &#x97; chases a speeding cab on foot and not only catches up with it but actually runs alongside it, I think it's safe to say the filmmakers are well aware of the movie's stupidity. Sure, the plot is routine, the motivations laughable, the one-liners groan inducing, but you get plenty of fist fights, gun fights, car chases, explosions, assassins with near-supernatural abilities (until they meet Action, of course), and flaming bodies falling from a office towers. Plus boobies! And d--k jokes. Lots and lots of those. A few highlights After a cop boasts about his sexual exploits his partner calls b.s., saying They ought to call your place the House of Whacks. After rehearsing a song, Vanity says to her sugar daddy Peter Dellaplane (Craig T. Nelson), I expected a standing ovation. The seated Nelson says You're getting one. The story is pretty standard stuff to wrap around explosions and car chases auto union bigwigs are being bumped off in Detroit, and detective Jericho Action Jackson is pretty sure auto magnate Peter Dellaplane is behind it. After overhearing an incriminating phone call Dellaplane's wife (Sharon Stone in her starlet days) runs to Jackson with her concerns, a move that puts a serious crimp in her marriage. Not that the marriage is all that strong, since Dellaplane has Vanity as a mistress. Soon thereafter, Jackson is breaking down Vanity's dressing room door and enlisting her help to get Dellaplane. More explosions and shootouts soon follow, as well as burning bodies, testicles in a jar, racial stereotypes, and a poorly disguised Pontiac Fiero (standing in for Dellaplane's flagship vehicle, the Halley) charging up the stairs of Dellaplane's mansion.Weathers and Nelson appear to be having the time of their lives, though Nelson is the stronger actor. I prefer Sharon Stone as a manipulative vamp a la Basic Instinct, but she does a good job with her role as Dellaplane's naïve trophy wife. She's expected only to look pretty, show some skin and act scared, pretty much in that order. Former Prince protégé Vanity was at what turned out to be the peak of her career when she made Action Jackson, and while she made favorable impressions in the thriller 52 Pick-Up and the martial arts parody/comedy The Last Dragon, she's only so-so as the heroin-addicted singer Sydney Ash. She acquits herself well in the few scenes requiring her to be sexy (more boobies!) or tough, and she actually does some of her better singing here, but otherwise her performance is fairly weak. Not helping is a script that tries to force a romance between her and Weathers when there's just no spark between them. Also of note I've never done heroin, but from what I've read the withdrawal symptoms are pretty excruciating, yet Vanity's character seems to kick the habit in a few hours after suffering no more than a really persistent headache.Bad as it is, Action Jackson ends up being pretty entertaining, only despite its self awareness, not because of it. The people behind Action Jackson may be smart enough to know how dumb their movie is, but don't realize that just because they're laughing at their own expense doesn't mean they aren't the butt of the joke. "},{"Title":"Brilliant in its cheesiness.","Date":"24 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" While it is a pretty standard genre flick in some respects (maverick hero, psychotic and ambitious bad guy, beautiful women, angry boss, lots of explosions, etc.), Action Jackson maintains an irresistibly silly, tongue in cheek style. It's often so damn silly that it's hilarious. Just witness our hero's attempts to take down a cab driving goon. It begins with a good grabber opening, and continues to deliver enough mayhem to keep the action junkie consistently amused.In his first starring vehicle, Carl Weathers once again shows off effortless charisma and his incredibly chiseled body. He's a natural for a role like this, playing the title character, a detective who's been saddled with a desk job for two years but who gets caught up in the schemes of Peter Dellaplane (a wonderfully hammy Craig T. Nelson), an auto tycoon with political ambitions and a murderous nature. Action Jackson figures that the way to get to Dellaplane is through his women either his young second wife Patrice (Sharon Stone) or his foxy mistress Sydney (singer / actress Vanity).The film comes up with a couple of one liners, some better than others. So? He had a spare! You know it's not meant to be taken seriously when Action Jackson actually drives a car through his quarry's house - and that's just one major example. The clichés are there, too we have the kind of Talking Villain who feels the obligation to tell the good guy his entire evil plan - wrongly assuming, of course, that his nemesis is toast. Craig R. Baxley, a longtime stunt specialist in a career dating back to the early 70s, makes his theatrical directing debut here, and he would follow it up with such other delights as I Come In Peace (a.k.a. Dark Angel) and Stone Cold. So the movie is naturally full of great stunt work.One awesome aspect to this movie is playing Spot the Familiar Face. And lots of them turn up - Thomas F. Wilson, Bill Duke, Robert Davi, Jack Thibeau, Roger Aaron Brown, Mary Ellen Trainor, Ed O'Ross, Bob Minor, Dennis Hayden, Brian Libby, Al Leong, De'voreaux White, Jim Haynie, Nicholas Worth, Chino 'Fats' Williams, Charles Meshack, Miguel A. Nunez Jr., Branscombe Richmond, and Sonny Landham. Now THAT'S an impressive cast!Add to that a very 80s pop soundtrack (Vanity herself performs two tunes), a score by Herbie Hancock and Michael Kamen, a fairly high body count, and a lively finish, and you've got the ingredients for a damn fine 96 minutes of entertainment.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"How do you like your ribs?.....","Date":"23 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jericho Action Jackson is a Detroit police sergeant who was demoted for almost tearing the arm off Sean Dellaplane, whose father is Peter Dellaplane, a major car manufacturer. But he himself is violent as well. Dellaplane kills his wife Patrice and then plants her body in Jackson's apartment, framing him. Jackson suspects Dellaplane of masterminding a murder spree against local officials from the auto workers' union. His aim is to gain a political power base and choose the next president of the United States. Because of what happened to his son, Dellaplane has taken a particular dislike to Jackson. It could probably be the biggest guilty pleasure of the late eighties, and thanks to the success of Weathers in Predator, and Joel Silver seeing a leading man in him, he gets a franchise starter, that never really evolved.It's a shame though, because even if this film is very silly, it's a lot of fun and it never lets up from the moment we first hear the titular character talk.There is no real plot, no real story, and normal narrative to speak of, it's just an excuse for set piece after set piece, with Jackson spouting ridiculous one liners, and Nelson every now and again trying to be the best Silver villain (that still belongs to Rickman).It's the eighties equivalent of Blaxploitation, the women are daft, the support are either dumb, in Jacksons way, or Jacksons help,mothers is no high or low ground.It's great stuff, if you are a fan of late eighties action, this is a must.And the best bit? When Jackson kills a bad guy with a flame thrower and tells him to Chill Out. A load of old cobblers, but you will have a lot of fun.. "},{"Title":"Brainless 80's Action...","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Action Jackson is your by the numbers action vehicle for Carl Weathers. It's has everything you expect from it bad one liners, over the top action, silly villains, hot girls and it's mostly populated by character actors.To say that Action Jackson is a good film would be lying. But it's pretty entertaining, thanks to great cast, the silly story and the good pace of it. The action in Action Jackson isn't really that good. It's not as good as Dead Pool or Lethal Weapon or any Hong Kong action film. But it greatly compensates on character actor department. If you have seen enough bad 80's action films you'll find a lot of familiar faces. Bill Duke as the police chief, Robert Davi, Thomas F. Wilson and so on. Sharon Stone and Vanity provides us with the eye-candy and boobs, Craig T. Nelson offers us a lame, corrupt businessman villain. Carl Weathers makes a decent action hero. He lacks the charisma to carry his own action schlock. Maybe with a better script he could have been better. He is a fine actor but here he just doesn't work that well.It's really pointless to mention the flaws of Action Jackson. The script is a convoluted nonsense, character motivations make no sense and so on and so forth. Action Jackson is what it is. You either like this kind of stuff or you don't.If you like 80's action fluff like this, then Action Jackson is right up your alley. If you want better made, more inventive action films, then go see The Killer, Hard Boiled or Die Hard. As I said, it is what it is. You either take or leave it. "}{"Title":"Brilliant mindless '80's fun!","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Just saw this film again for the first time in 20 years and have to say I really enjoyed it I can't believe this movie has scored so low! What's wrong with you people? How somebody can dislike this film is beyond me - it's the perfect Friday night & beer movie. Great action scenes, great one liners Weathers playing it for fun & two really hot babes! Carl Weathers had the makings of a huge action star, what with Predator coming out around this time also, I don't understand what went wrong? Why didn't Vanity become a huge star too? The girl can sing, looks stunning & isn't too bad an actress - she should have become what Madonna became! This woman is incredibly gorgeous (and topless too - well done director). "},{"Title":"A real 80's 'Action' classic.  Full of non stop action, one liner's and fun characters.  This film holds up wonderfully...","Date":"30 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Okay, I was born in 1979, I grew up on 80's Action films. I love action films with all my heart, and 80's Action films are some of the best. However, in this day and age, many of these once amazing action movies are...well, not so amazing. And often times just plain hard to watch. Now, it's 2011 and I am home from work sick. I want to watch something fun, hoping it will distract me from my sickness. I fire up Netfilx's Instant Stream knowing exactly what I am going to watch...Action Jackson. Written by Robert Reneau (Demolition Man, another favorite of mine), and directed by Craig R. Baxley (A-Team), I watched this movie over and over as a teen. Wondering how it holds up after all these years, I was excited (and nervous!) to see if Action Jackson is still the man I remember him after all these years. And the answer is...YES!!! Action Jackson is still the man!!Carl Weathers is Sgt. Jericho 'Action' Jackson, which is (in my opinion) his coolest role ever. He plays a tough as nails Detroit cop with a reputation for being a one man army, and a real loose cannon. Jackson beats up dozens of 80's bad guys from ninja assassins to junkies, all while delivering classic cheesy one liners. Speaking of classic cheesy one liner's, Weathers also starred in Predator (one of my all time favorite action films!) with Arnold Schwarzenegger. Action Jackson brings Predators squad mates Bill Duke (Mac) and Sonny Landham (Billy) back together again. The whole cast is great in this film, from a strung out Robert Davi, to Craig T. Nelson as a Kung Fu kicking Crime Boss. And with Sharon Stone as his Nelsons girlfriend and Vanity as his junkie mistress (Vanity is smoking hot, albeit slightly annoying at first, as a singer/junkie that Jackson has to protect from Nelson), to the aforementioned Bill Duke as Jacksons Police Capt., the movie is filled with familiar faces from start to finish. This movie is exactly what it set out to be, a non stop, over the top, tongue in cheek action film. Its got a tone that is set early on and holds true to the end. There are kung fu fight scenes, shoot outs, car chases, car crashes(!), blonde mullet having assassins, nudity, drugs, a classic 80's soundtrack (including The Pointer Sisters and Vanity),basically everything you need for an 80's good time! I mean, Action Jackson even does a front flip over a car speeding towards him thats trying to run him down, because he is just that much of a badass. Cool cars, hot women , cheesy one liners, and all the action you can fit into a 96 minute movie! If you enjoy action films, this is one 'Action' fest you need to check out, or re-visit, because they don't make em like this anymore....and in this case, that's a bad thing. "},{"Title":"If you've ever wondered why Carl Weathers didn't become a big star, look no further.","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you've ever wondered why Carl Weathers didn't become the greatest black action hero in movie history, this film will clear things up for you. He had the physique. He had the charisma. But in an era where a black actor was lucky to get one shot at big screen stardom, Weathers wasted his chance on something so poorly done it's barely a millimeter away from being an outright parody of bad 80s action flicks.Sergeant Jericho Action Jackson (Carl Weathers) is a badass Detroit cop with so much backstory it feels like this thing is a sequel. An excessive force scandal has landed him a desk job and taken away his gun, but then he gets mixed up in the assassinations of auto worker union leaders. That points Jackson at car maker Peter Dellaplane (Craig T. Nelson) as the man responsible for the deaths and with help from Dellaplane's wife (Sharon Stone) and junkie mistress (Vanity), Jackson cycles through just about every 80s action cliché imaginable while acting as his own comic relief. People get punched, kicked, shot, blown up, set on fire and the most interesting thing about the whole shebang is seeing a couple of the other stars of Predator show up in minor roles.Firstly, Weathers is still great, even in this crap, and both Sharon Stone and Vanity get naked. Secondly, Craig T. Nelson does a nice job playing a cartoonish villain who could have been the bad guy in at least 2 dozen other 80s action flicks. Thirdly, everything else in this movie feels like the product of an energetic third grader.From not understanding what the bullet from a .357 handgun would actually do to the human body to portraying a junkie going through withdrawal as though it were as bothersome as a hangnail to having not one but two scenes where a man challenges his armed opponent to put down his gun and duke it out, and the opponent does it, Action Jackson is kind of astonishing. I'm not sure I've seen any other film every work this hard to be this routine and hackneyed. There are two Vanity musical performances, one gratuitous scene of Weathers with his shirt off, 5 super-ninja bad guys who would have to have the power to teleport and turn invisible to do all the things they do, 40 minutes of the movie that go by before Jackson does anything even remotely resembling action and a complete absence of any attempt to even vaguely approximate proper police procedure.By the time it got to the point where Action Jackson has Dellaplane's entire scheme explained to him a lady barber who must also trim the nose hairs of Uatu the Watcher to know any of the things she knows, I almost thought I was watching an incredibly subtle satire that was just pretending to suck. But then Dellaplane lets loose with an utterly unironic speech where he not only gives the whole Bond villain tell the captured good guy everything speech, Dellaplane also announces that he's going to have his own son killed for absolutely no reason at all. The son had been mentioned several times in the story as an issue between Dellaplane and Jackson and it was as though they felt a need to tie up that plot point, but did it in the dumbest way possible.When Arnold Schwarzenegger made The Last Action Hero, Action Jackson was the sort of film he was mocking. So, this is like the worst parts of an awful movie all put together for your viewing punishment. Skip this thing. "},{"Title":"A highly entertaining gem!","Date":"15 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Carl Weathers displays his winning charm in yet another title role. Weathers IS Detroit cop Jericho Action Jackson - and you know with a nickname like that he doesn't mess around. Evil, megalomaniacal auto magnate Peter Dellaplane is killing off AWA (Auto Workers Alliance) members in order to keep a stranglehold on his already-impressive power. Dellaplane and Jackson have a past, as Jackson was demoted after roughing up his son before sending him to prison. Ignoring the fact that his wife is Sharon Stone in her prime years of hotness, Dellaplane also has a chick on the side, Sydney (Vanity), who he keeps drugged up with heroin. Sydney and Jackson now must team up to take down Dellaplane before he can frame Jackson for his many murders.Ah, the golden 80's. Just take a second to pause and reflect about that magical decade. Back to the review at hand, Action Jackson is classic 80's action, reminiscent of Arnold vehicles such as Raw Deal (1986). It's well-shot, and unusually well-written, with plenty of clever jokes and dialogue. But the film also has all the action the underground action movies have, but this came out in a time when things like this came to the theater and had a moderate-to-big budget behind them.Besides the aforementioned Sharon Stone and Vanity, Weathers has an impressive cast to back him up Bill Duke as the classic BYC (Black Yelling Chief), Thomas F. Wilson (Biff of Back to the Future, 1985 fame) as the joke-telling uniformed officer, Bob Minor as the evil assassin Gamble, Nicholas Worth as Dellaplane's butler, Al Leong as Dellaplane's chauffeur, James Lew as Dellaplane's martial arts instructor, Charles Meshack of Fear (1988) fame, Sonny Landham and the ubiquitous Branscombe Richmond. It even has fan favorite Robert Davi in a small but important role. Last but not least is the Coach himself, Craig T. Nelson, looking more diabolical than usual, probably because of the hair. We even get to see him do some Craig-Fu - but does he really think he can beat Action Jackson in a fight? The movie is funny, snappy and a great vehicle for Weathers' charisma. But what else would you expect from director Baxley, the man behind Stone Cold (1991) and I Come In Peace (1990), among many others? It's a product of a great time for cinema - and it's also filled with great music, especially the title song by Madame X which you'll be singing for days. It's pretty tough to dislike this highly entertaining gem.for more insanity, please visit comeuppancereviews.com "},{"Title":"Weathers Man","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Made during the waning days of 80s action flicks, this vehicle for Rocky foe-turned-friend Carl Weathers has him chasing down murderous city kingpin Peter Dellaplane, played in slick fashion by Craig Coach Nelson. Weathers is at best a so-so actor but he certainly looks the part of a big, tough city cop. The movie employs every cliché in the book, but director Craig Baxley keeps things rolling along and stages some pretty spectacular car chases and explosions. It's a stunt man's delight. Co-star Vanity, who may have seemed a sexy presence at the time, today looks and acts like a guy in drag. Bill Duke is Jackson's quick-to-burn boss and a young Sharon Stone has a small part as Dellaplane's latest gal pal. Did I say the music throughout is simply awful? Watch it for Weathers. You'll wonder where he is today. At least fellow flash-in-the-pan Billy Dee Williams is doing commercials today. "},{"Title":"Vanity + Sharon Stone = HOTTTT!","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Action Jackson is one bad, cheesy, and extremely funny movie! This is pure 80's badness! Awful script, great one-liners, lots of explosions, bullets flying and hot chicks. We're talking Sharon Stone in her prime, here, guys! And Vanity which at the time was one of the hottest pieces of&#133; I've ever seen. My lord! Carl Weathers is the hero. He's an underrated action hero, that never got the recognition he deserved. The man had the body, the look, the charisma, he had at all. He could have made it big and he shows it here. This is a violence filled, testosterone overdose. I loved it as a kid, and I love it today. It's a man's movie, where guys kick the sh** out of each others, people get light on fire and sent flying off a ten story building into a restaurant, bursting through the glass ceiling, in flames! I mean, Craig T. Nelson knows karate in this movie! How awesome can a movie get? See it! "},{"Title":"What more could you ask for in an action movie","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  All right...it isn't the best dialog ever.  Maybe not the *greatest* acting ever, but not that bad.  Let's face it, you don't watch an action movie for one of those plots or good dialog or any of that other fancy, schmancy artsy stuff.What this movie does have is a decent, very predictable story-line.  A pretty good action hero (Carl Weathers), a babe (Vanity) and the evil villian (Craig Nelson).  What more do you want? "},{"Title":"Surprising & hilarious. A role fit for Carl Weathers.","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Action Jackson dragged me right into the story. I *wanted* him to 'beat the bad guys'. Jackson seems a bit naive at times, which gives certain moments a very funny twist.This movie is a good example of how to combine a good storyline, thrilling action and hilarious comedy. This is one of those few movies where things went the way I expected them, which left me with a great feeling.   "},{"Title":"A distinctive slice of late 80s blaxploitation action","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" STAR RATING ***** The Works **** Just Misses the Mark *** That Little Bit In Between ** Lagging Behind * The Pits Action Jackson (Carl Weathers) is your typical cop who doesn't play by the rules. He's going after a ruthless car manufacturer named Dellaplane (Craig T Nelson) who's been bumping off his competition. With Jackson already in the dog house with this villain for nearly tearing the arm off his rapist sociopath son, the stage is set for a brutal final confrontation between the two.Director Craig R Baxley made the enjoyable Stone Cold as well as the not so enjoyable Dark Angel but he sort of hit that little bit in between for me with Action Jackson, before he slided away later in his career making TV adaptations of Stephen King novels.I'm not sure what to make of Weathers as an action hero. He has this presence as your average-American wrestler type tough guy but it's like he's juxtaposing this with some sort of black James Bond, especially on the front cover. I can't say I find it so surprising that, unlike Arnold Schwarzenegger, he was unable to sustain a career as a consistent action star. Or that this, probably his most up-front mainstream effort, never had a sequel.As for the film itself, there's a cool late 80s soundtrack and a couple of nice explosions. But a woefully inconsistent villain, a lacklustre, apathetic story and insignificant supporting turns from Sharon Stone and Bill Duke make this an imperfect slice of late 80s entertainment. *** "},{"Title":"He Had A Spare","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" There is something to be said for the late eighties/early nineties 'super-cop-up-against-the-odds movies. Action Jackson is one of the all time greats. There is so much to watch in this thrilling movie. First it proves that there is work in the world. As it's supporting cast all died in either Commando, Predator,Die Hard or Lethal Weapon(No Joke). Secondly, it is the only film in cinema history to feature Vanity and Sharon Ston'es naked breasts. That alone is worth paying for the DVD. Then there is Carl Weathers. He plays Jericho 'ACTION' Jackson (at one point Craig T Nelson calls him 'ENTHUSIASM) Jackson is a Harvard Law degree toting cop...in Detroit. This man front flips over a car(the segue into the stunt man is priceless) and drives a sports car up the stairs of a mansion. But, really, it's a love story...because only true love will unite you with your worst enemy's junkie mistress. "}{"Title":"one of the best action movies ever!","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There is not a movie in the world like Action Jackson. The very Charismatic Carl Weathers plays Jericho Action Jackson and attempts to kick the ass of evil white guy Peter Dellaplane (played by Craig T. Nelson). Comedy ensues throughout the entire movie with cheesy albeit HILARIOUS one-liners, jokes and just plain silliness especially in a scene in which Jackson pretends to be a crazy holy man to get himself out of big trouble. Carl Weathers redefines the term Leading Man in my opinion because he's such a cool, charming, charismatic and lovable character. Most of us guys out there, even white guys really want to be like him and wish most people would fear us even though were are really nice guys inherently, much like Action Jackson. There are some other excellent characters, like the big hulking black muslim bodyguard guy. Apparantly somewhere in the movie he changed his religion because he helps Action Jackson kick ass later in the film. The great part of the movie also is that most white guys in the film are not portrayed as utter morons, at least some of them. ;). The movie is pretty mindless, so that covers the action part, I would consider this to be a really great action comedy though, as it is funny, and it has action. I can promise this movie will be one hell of a time for you. "},{"Title":"Good & Bad","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Action Jackson finds Carl Weathers as Jericho Action Jackson, the baddest cop in Detroit.  So enter bad guy Craig T. Nelson and you have yet another 80's action flick.The supporting cast isn't bad though.  It includes Sharon Stone, Vanity, Bill Duke, and Thomas F. Wilson.The director (who worked on The A-Team quite a bit) doesn't provide any over the top stunts.  Jackson leaping onto a moving taxi was fun, but nothing too flashy from this film.**1/2/**** "},{"Title":"Vanity Fans Take Note Her Best Performance","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Review dedicated to the Vanity fans out there, who now know her as Evangelist Denise Matthews.  She plays a heroin addict, songstress named Sydney Ash.  Once again, she plays a role that is similar to her situation in real life.  Carl Weathers, a rogue cop who doesn't play by the rules, seeks her out as part of his research on a killer.  Vanity glows in this role, and turns in a better performance than she gave in The Last Dragon. It's not just her incredible beauty, which has been her calling card. There are moments in her performance where you see real depth and growth in her acting, and a promise of better performances to come.  She held closely to her persona sex kitten formula after The Last Dragon, and we see it here to. We'll never know if she could have improved her craft, since she has become a born again Christian, vowing never to work in Hollywood again.  She has a musical number, and you will not be disappointed.  I recommend this movie as being fun, reckless and entertaining.  I'm not an action movie fan, but I liked this movie.  There were silly moments, but nothing too painful or embarrassing to watch.  If nothing else, see this movie for Sharon Stone before she was SHARON STONE.  There is steamy female nudity for the obvious lead ladies, and blood and violence.  If all that appeals to you, see this movie!    "},{"Title":"Lost In The 80's","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" To come rolling out of the 80's, Carl Weathers had some admittedly high points. Perhaps the biggest was his involvement in the Rocky films 1 thru 4 as Apollo Creed and he had a cool supporting role in Predator alongside Arnold Schwarzenegger ... but the less said about Action Jackson the better. It's obvious this was intended to be his solo action hero breakout movie, but it just doesn't work. Mostly because it's ho-hum. We've seen this all before. Even checking your brain at the door won't help. It doesn't entertain on the simplest of action movie levels.The best parts of this movie are rapped up in a great trailer and I like to think Carl Weathers could have done better than this entry into the hall of 80's big explosions. Everything about this is just rehashed from every single action movie I've ever seen and it isn't done with flair, energy, style or in a refreshing manner. It all comes off feeling flat. The no-holds barred cop who works by his own rules ... has a cool sounding nickname ... groaners for one-liners ... a slightly ho-hum cast ... disappointing fights. I mean you'd think a movie starring Carl Weathers, Sharon Stone, Craig T. Nelson and Bill Duke amongst others would sound like a good action movie. It isn't. People who'll enjoy this slept through the better part of 80's action and/or have rock bottom expectations. "},{"Title":"Forget the action...spot the stars!","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is not the kind of movie you'll watch for the explosions, chases and violence (though there's plenty to be had here); instead, you'll be too busy noticing all the familiar actors slumming along with Carl Weathers.Carl, was Rocky really so long ago?  Oh well....Along with Ol' Action Guy, you get Prince's old squeeze, Coach, the prime suspect from Basic Instinct, Biff Tannen, a couple of other guys from Predator (which Weathers starred in a year prior), that Japanese guy with the long hair and mustache that dies in just about every action movie he's ever been in, the chauffeur kid from Die Hard, and I'll bet I missed a few more.Never mind, you'll have fun picking them out along with anyone else you might recognize from any other movies you've seen.  Guess the film-makers decided the script borrowed from all over the place, why shouldn't they cast the same way?Two stars.  Don't watch it for the plot; it's safer that way. "},{"Title":"Acton Hits are hard to make, I guess","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I always used to scratch my head at how Arnold, Sly and Willis were able to generate such income for movies that were average at best. I guess I just felt that the dumb action movies of the '80s were easy to crank out. HOWEVER, Action Jackson disproves that myth. In fact, Cobra looks like Citizen Kane compared to this boring and senseless movie. I have no doubt that the producers here envisioned a whole Action Jackson series that would generate untold millions. They got a capable actor in Weathers and put a decent supporting cast in with him, however, the script and story are both dismal. You just can't hold any interest in the story, because it just seems to ramble incoherently all over the place. Once again we have a movie based on numerous other bad movies. Craig T. Nelson had the talent to make for a really bad guy, but even his character ended up being boring and clichéd. Sadly, after this bomb, Action Jackson II had as little chance of being made as the documentary over The Making of Action Jackson. Oh well, I am sure there is some factory somewhere in the world with a million Action Jackson action figures, still in their packaging, the brainchild of an overconfident marketing department. And I bet, that if you put those babies on ebay, well, not one person would buy one. "},{"Title":"Action action action-brain alert","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 1988's Lethal Weapon, only more violent, Detective Jericho Jackson, a.k.a Action Jackson, (Carl Weathers) who lives up to his name, is at war with his most hated rival, Peter Dellaplane (Craig T Nelson). I'm glad Craig T. did this as he's superb as the arch villain, car magnate, killing off his competition, the way a person kills flies. From the exciting opening, the first two faces, instantly recognizable from the first Lethal Weapon. Ed O Ross, a great actor, is barbecued, literally, a human fireball, plunging many stories below, before the titles ensue, where we then see one of the most dumbest black robbers, ever captured on film. This film is indeed fun, I can't deny that. It's never boring, but what brains it does have, are seldom few. Officer Jackson, who was robbed of his Lieutenants stripes cause he got too physical with a kid, and nearly tore his arm, almost has us believe he's invincible, the way he lives danger, but no one's invincible. The kid was unfortunately Dellaplane's son who ended up in a mental home, hence the two rival's need for vengeance that runs high in this action pic. A few other faces pop up from Lethal Weapon too, and the different story I liked too. I remember taking my Mum to see it, where the next week I took my Dad to see Colors. She said it was good. But is a good movie, something, where a guy can outrun cabs, somersault over them, or where a thief faints in front of Jackson when learning prior of his hocus story, or just happening to show up in the same places our Jericho is. This isn't spose' to be serious. It's spose' to be action and comedy and this is where it excels. It's great to watch Carl Weathers and Craig T face off in the end. I love these moments where sworn hated enemies go at it, in the name of vengeance. The fantastic fun script for this, is something I'd love to have a read of, (take note of all the hip dialogue) where in the end, stupidity lets the movie down, but for action lovers, who don't mind the hot Vanity, doing some songs (Dellaplane's mistress) or Sharon Stone (Dellaplane's wife), this one is right up your alley. "},{"Title":"Think a Cross Between Apollo Creed and Axel Foley.","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Crazed auto magnate Craig T. Nelson has his hands in seemingly every crooked activity in Detroit. Cop Carl Weathers is the only one in town who can take him down and he will use any means necessary. Silly Beverly Hills Cop rip-off staggers with crazed action and wild camera sequences. Nelson is a white-haired nut who torments the women in his life (wife Sharon Stone and super-sexy mistress Vanity), while Weathers is portrayed as a super cop who does almost as much damage around the community as Nelson with his vigilante antics. Not really much to talk about here. Cop films came a dime a dozen in the 1980s and this one does not really stand out from others except for Vanity's fleeting attempt to become a movie star (by getting naked mainly). Nelson and Weathers have been good before in support, but as primary characters in a film they are both disappointments. Stone is not around near enough to even make an impression, kind of like the movie itself. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"solid,already seen but fun","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jericho Action Jackson is an tough Detroit cop,always bending the rules to get what he wants.He's trying to put behind bars Peter Dallaplane,local rich and powerful car magnat who is killing the leaders of the union leaders who are on his way to leed monopol over the Detroit. The only person that can stop him is Action Jackson who won't give up... Directed by solid Craig R. Baxlesy,this humoristic action thriller from 1988. tried to promote a new character Action Jackson,something like a hybrid of Dirrty Harry and Shaft,tough supercop. Probably planed as a serial,poor reaction from the audience didn't gave any optimisim for possible further sequels. Charismatic Carl Weathers,best known as Rocky's rival Apollo Creed,delivered another role that wasn't able to measure the one of Apollo Creed,as Action Jackson isn't with Shaft or Dirrty Harry.  "},{"Title":"The Best Film ever Made","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Yep, you read me right. What's not to love? It's from the 80s, it's got Carl Apollo Creed Weathers, over the top villains, cheesy action that could have only come from 1988, and plenty of ridiculous scenes that defy the laws of physics, and common sense. Two words can sum this film up (notice I don't say movie, because ACTION JACKSON is so much more than that) Big Fun.The story is simple, but entertaining enough. It centers around the notorious Action Jackson (Weathers), a legendary Motown cop with a reputation for fighting crime -- with his gloves off. Craig T. Nelson, a reigning auto manufacturer who is assassinating his way to political power, pretty much signs his own death warrant when he crosses Action Jackson, and we get to watch the result. What follows is a hilarious and exciting journey through the seedy Detroit underworld (so...Detroit?) as Action Jackson strives to clear his name and hunt down the maniacal Craig T. Nelson.I'm sure I ruptured my lungs laughing when I first saw this film. It is so painfully 80s and full of machismo that you can't help but be charmed. Look, ACTION JACKSON doesn't pretend to be GOOD film making, because it isn't. It is what it is, and the film plays this simplistic fun to the hilt. So, what is there to complain about? For a six dollar DVD at Wal-Mart, you can't lose.Bring it to your next get-together, you'll be the life of the party. "}{"Title":"Top 80's cast","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film would have to boast the greatest B grade cast ever. Carl Weathers, Bill Duke, Craig T. Nelson, Robert Davi, Ed O' Ross, the list goes on..... The story is predicatbly weak, but what else would you expect from producer Joel Silver and leading man Weathers? rating 2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Action and comedy at their best","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I remeber seeing Action Jackson when I was seven years old and enjoying it. I recently bouhgt the film on DVD and I enjoyed even more now and take for what it is a action comedy. The film is full of action and stunts plus plenty of one liners. I give it three stars. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Guilty pleasure is probably the best way to sum up this movie. Producer Joel Silver has a knack for finding bad scripts and adding some explosions and superhuman stunt work to make them interesting. He's at it again, this time with Carl Weathers playing the leading man, the baddest most feared cop in all of Detroit. After a recent event that cost him his Lieutenant position, Jackson (Weathers) has been pushing papers at a desk, waiting for a chance to see some action. Lucky for him, he gets his chance when super-billionaire Peter Dellaplane (Craig T Nelson) starts secretly assassinating his competition in the auto industry.  Predictable and stupid, this film is also ridiculous and entertaining. A fun watch on a rainy Saturday afternoon, when you'd rather be outside playing basketball. Otherwise, I think you're safe to pass on &#145;Action Jackson' and his action ways. Rating 20/40 "}]