[{"Title":"A wonderful portrayal of one woman's dream","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"40 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Who was Dian Fossey?  Enviromental enthusiast?  Insane eco-warrior?  Or both?Gorillas In The Mist is the story of this extraordinary woman whose work with Mountain Gorillas in Congo, and subsequently Rwanda, quite possibly saved these beautiful creatures from extinction.  Her hard work and determination in studying these wonderful animals led to an amazing living arrangement with them.How simply amazing must it be to touch, play and hold hands with a silverback Gorilla in the wilds of Africa?  How would it feel to find that same silverback with his head, hands and feet cut off by poachers? To be frank, these gorillas were Dian Fossey's children - each had a name, each had their own unique trait - so it is hardly surprising that she became a little possessive and started treating the animals as her own.  The horrors that she experienced on those mountains would send anyone mad.Sigourney Weaver is simply superb as Fossey, portraying her hard work and gradual decline into insanity with that touch that only a few actresses possess.  Her chemistry with co-star Bryan Brown adds to the feel of the film and the fact that she was brave enough to go anywhere near real gorillas is fascinating.  To be fair, the two hours do drag a little, but Weaver is talented enough to carry the film through it.Weaver once said I only get the parts that Meryl Streep passes up but to be honest, I couldn't imagine this brilliant woman being played by anyone else but Sigourney. "},{"Title":"Inspiring, moving, provoking and educational.","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Based on Dian Fossey's own autobiography, this true life story is inspiring and has helped these amazing animals in many ways by waking us up to their plight. Originally Dian herself was helping to make the film, until she was murdered and the production team had to go back and start it all over again several years later in 1988. I am aware she did complete a degree when she returned to the USA in 1980 and wrote her book, which was published in 1983, and then revised in 1985. She returned to Africa in to help the gorillas and was murdered in 1984/1985 I believe near Christmas. She may have done things that weren't ethical according to some, though her plight to save the gorilla came first. This movie does give a fairly accurate but slightly toned down version of the events, which took place, though there were a few changes in details. It would be impossible to fit 13 years of events into just over one and a half hours of footage. So I think Hollywood did a good job.The main alterations, leaving out some of the details of horrific animal abuse that would have otherwise pushed the rating up to an R16 and probably left any animal lover in tears. The details they left out as well may have made the film a little to shocking for the chief censors.The special effects makeup, I believe done by Rick Baker, and real gorilla footage is seamless, making it hard to tell which parts were real gorillas and which are very well created costumes.After purchasing the DVD I now realize they had Dian Fossey's original tracker with them to help with the film.All up I think this film gives us just enough drama, action and thrills to make it a hit. I think Sigorney Weaver should have won an academy award for this especially considering how brave she was to film on location with real gorilla right next to her.This movie has inspired myself to change my career path and am also reading the book, which I would recommend for anyone who wants to see how much more horrific the events were in reality.This movie is a must see, who knows it may even change your life. "},{"Title":"A story of survival, heart break and Gorillas in theMist","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This amazing film inspired me to do something, to somehow involve myself in the rescue attempt of one of Mother Natures most cherished possesions, Animals.This inspiring tale is a true story and is based in the Congo region of Africa, where Dian Fossey (Sigourney Weaver), is sent to find more information about the little known, Mountain Gorillas.Dian starts as a bystander pleading to be sent for the trip to Africa in-order to help in some way or form. And boy does she finish wrapped in the core of the Mountain Gorillas chance of survival.Dian Faces love, war, and poachers and beats them of one by one as her courage and determination prevails, she is truly an icon, a lady to be remembered.This is made possible by the outstanding performance of Sigourney Weaver who amazingly succeeds in portraying this strong willed; complex character. Sigourney is an fantastically gifted actor and shows us this in this movie.A must see, a winner, Go Sigourney!  "},{"Title":"Anyone who loves animals must see this film....","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" While this film may have taken certain creative license with some facts, this story is important and upsetting. Many people in the US are still not aware of the poaching issues, the wild horses that are being sold for profit now, and many horrific things that still go on, simply because animals have no one to protect their rights.This film is upsetting and sad, but also beautiful. To see the silver back gorillas, how gentle they are to each other, and see Sigourney Weaver as Dian Fossey, who attempted to communicate and understand them.It is sometimes difficult to learn what inhumanity man is capable of; against both humans and animals. But by learning about this issue, one may be galvanized into learning more, joining a humane association, or teaching their children to respect animals. Animals, especially in the wild are also God's creatures, and deserve to be respected. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Not boring at all","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  despite what other people might say this movie was not boring at all, it had beautiful acting, specially from Mrs. Weaver, beautiful cinematography and a strong story, just because the movie had a very sad and not expected ending it doesn't make it boring, give it a chance, we might be just giving our personal opinions. please make your own. "},{"Title":"very fine movie based on the life of Primate expert Dian Fossey","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" this movie is based on the life of Dian Fossey and her work with the gorillas in a remote part of Africa.based on usually means that some of the content is true and parts of it are fictionalized for dramatic effect.for sure Dian Fossey did work with gorillas in Africa and was instrumental in the increase of their population.some of the details may have been altered,but the gist of the story is true.i thought it was a very entertaining,touching and heartbreaking story.i think Sigourney weaver did a great job as Dian Fossey.she really brought some passion to the character.the movie was also thought provoking and i actually became angry more than a few times about some of the incidents that occurred.i find it rare to become so actively involved with a movie nowadays.for me Gorillas in the Mist is at a strong 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Magnificent Movie; Heart-Breaking Yet Hopeful; Sigourney Weaver At Her Best","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Like most movie buffs, I have seen Sigourney Weaver in a variety of roles and genres, from Ghostbusters to Alien to A Map Of The World among others, and yet I don't think I have ever seen her offer a better performance than in Gorillas In The Mist, in which she plays fanatical gorilla researcher and protector Dian Fossey. Fossey's life - and ultimately her tragic and violent death - leaps out from the screen through Weaver, as we watch her evolve from the uncertain and inexperienced assistant to the great anthropologist Louis Leakey to the committed expert on these marvelous creatures, sometimes going over the top in her quest to save them. Be warned of some possible spoilers ahead.The movie is absolutely heart-breaking in places. The terrified mother gorilla trying to save her baby as the tree they've climbed is cut down by poachers; Fossey's anguished cries of I'm sorry, I'm sorry, to the baby she nursed back to health only to have to turn her over to zookeepers; the horrible death of Digit. I have to confess that each of these scenes brought a few tears to my eyes. And yet the basic gentleness and nobility of the gorilla is brought out as well, and the movie ends on a sad yet hopeful note. Fossey is murdered - certainly by the poachers she opposed for years - but her body is buried beside her beloved Digit, and the gorillas (even Digit's group) live on and increase in number.The movie contains strong supporting performances from Bryan Brown as National Geographic photographer Bob Campbell, with whom Fossey falls in love but for whom she won't leave her gorillas, from John Omirah Miluwi as Sembagare, Fossey's gentle guide through the African jungles to Iain Cuthbertson who was perfectly believable as Louis Leakey.This is spectacular. From the photography to the acting to the reality behind the story. I honestly can't come up with a flaw.10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A beautiful film exploring the life quest of an important 20th century scientist.  The cinematography was excellent and the script and music enjoyable.  One of Sigourney Weaver's best performances.  This was the first feature film to use real gorillas. "},{"Title":"Was emotionally stirring, and inspiring.","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie was emotionally stirring, and inspiring. This movie is about someone very brave who saw a terrible problem and tried to do something about it. Not just fussed about it, but actually DID something. The movie is hard for a tender hearted person to take sometimes, but it will inspire you to get out there and make a difference. I had tears streaming down my face the first time I watched...and the second and third time too. There should be many more movies like this made. "},{"Title":"Powerful and Moving.","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Gorillas in the mist is a film that touched me deeply. It made me have a better understanding of what Dian Fossey did in her life and also made me see how bad some Gorillas have it.I think the film did a good job depicting Fossey's life. The main reason why is because Sigourney Weaver does an OUTSTANDING job of portraying her. Seriously, this is acting at its best. Weaver has perfect emotion and also does a good job acting like a gorilla in scenes. She really should have won an academy award. I know she was nominated and lost but I do not understand how.This movie is very touching. It really made me see what goes on over in Africa and how poaching is a problem. I really felt bad for the Gorillas in this film and this film succeeded in making me feel bad for the Gorillas and make me want to do something about it. I always want to help animals whenever I can so seeing how Fossey fought for the Gorillas sort of inspired me. It is very important to protect all of the endangered species of animals on the planet including the Gorilla.I must say that this film is very sad at parts. If you are an animal lover you will find it hard not to cry at times. Just a warning.A great film that shows how important it is to protect animals. Very sad, but I do recommend it. "}{"Title":"Interesting character study","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film documents the life of Dian Fossey, from the beginning of her work with the mountain gorillas to her decline into obsession and psychotic behavior.  The film has wonderful special effects and great scenery.  Furthermore, Weaver gives a marvelous performance as Fossey, making her descent into madness all too believable. The film does have some flaws, though.  Julie Harris actually only appears for five minutes in the film (which disappointed me, since she received an honorary degree from my school.)  Furthermore, the African actor who plays Fossey's guide has a larger role than either Harris or Bryan Brown, yet is listed further down in the credits. Finally, the film tries to put a happy spin on what is actually a tragic story, and tries to justify Fossey's actions. "},{"Title":"Moving!!","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was so wonderful. I makes me want to take my dreams of being an Anthropologist even further. This woman Sigourney Weaver plays was an incredible woman and Weaver did the best job in portraying Dian Fossey! I recommend it to anyone who is against poaching and killing wild animals...a very moving story. "},{"Title":"gorilla my dreams","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Even if you have no idea who Dian Fossey was, Gorillas in the Mist The Story of Dian Fossey is still amazing. Sigourney Weaver perfectly captures the spirit of the woman who sought to save Africa's mountain gorillas from extermination by human encroachment. It was eye-opening to see her go from an all-American babe (needing her bras in the jungle) to a politicized woman living with the gorillas.The end brings up a question just who was it? Even if we never find out who specifically did it, it just goes to show that various factions wanted her out of the way.All in all, this is a great movie, one that I recommend to everyone. Once again, Michael Apted (of the 7 Up series and the never-released-on-video-or-DVD Stardust) shows himself to be a great director. Also starring Bryan Brown. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" My father actually was the one who rented this movie for me and insisted that I watch it. Apparently one of his all-time favorite movies. Remembering my reaction to The Natural, I wasn't very excited. I like Gorrilas. I'm not a Sogourney Weaver fan but I found her likable, engaging and her acting heartfelt. The footage of the gorillas is breathtaking, as well as the scenery. It reminded me of Out of Africa and Anna and the King at the same time. It's an important film to see, even if it was a little boring, because it reminds people that endangered species are still problems and that we can make a difference. It has inspired me into helping the environment more, and being more focused on Mother Earth. "},{"Title":"THE ENVIRONMENTAL WARS","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" ON New Year's Day 1978, a researcher on patrol in Rwanda's Park of the Volcanoes found the mutilated body of a male gorilla in the forest undergrowth. It was a gruesome sight. The body had multiple stab wounds from spear thrusts, and had been grossly mutilated. Like the victim of some bizarre torso murderer, the young silverback gorilla's head and both its hands had been savagely hacked off and carried away.That event made headlines all over the world, because the gorilla was called Digit, a name given by the dedicated American scientist, Dian Fossey. She had known Digit since birth, 10 years before.This fact would be the inspiration for the film Gorillas in the mist the story of Dian Fossey.(Source The Environmental Wars by David Day, a Greenpeace member). "},{"Title":"A story worth telling","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" One reviewer called this film 'superficial' and I can't really disagree with him it tells a simple, true-life story about a white woman who pioneered research into the life of mountain gorillas in darkest Africa. There isn't a great deal or depth or moralising here. Instead, what you see is what you get - an interesting, evocative and sometimes compelling story of mankind's relationship with nature.The film has strengths and weaknesses evenly distributed. Of course, the gorillas are the real stars of the show here (no disrespect to Sigourney Weaver, turning in another Ripley-esque tough-as-nails performance) and whenever they're on screen, the film comes to life. The film isn't afraid to tug at the heartstrings when poachers come into the plot, but that's fine by me.Where the film doesn't work is in its attempts at Hollywood convention. The real life of Dian Fossey - including her mysterious death - just doesn't tie up neatly into a package. Hence we get the shoehorned-in romantic subplot involving an extraneous Bryan Brown. Nonetheless, GORILLAS IN THE MIST is worth seeing and far more enlightening than most nature documentaries you see on TV any night of the week. "},{"Title":"A compelling story about a morally ambiguous woman","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  First, let me say that this film was very well-done with brilliant cinematography, a compelling story, and a performance from Sigourney Weaver that definitely rivals the performance of Jodie Foster in THE ACCUSED (who beat her for the Oscar).*SPOILER ALERT FOR WHOLE ARTICLE*Despite what other people say, I did think that this movie did get a little boring. It also tries to glorify someone who i just can't respect all that much. I am not an environmentalist, and i do certainly believe that anyone who thinks an animal life is superior to any human life is rather insane. While Fossey seems to have simply ignored the fact that in her struggles to save the gorillas she was also denying money to impoverished African families, it is an interesting topic to bring up. Her valiant effort, however, has saved the gorillas; to that end, i think her life's work is pretty important.The teaser on the box to the film says something like, You may respect what she did. Or you may condemn it. But you will never forget the passion that turned her into a legend. These sentences undoubtedly sum up the film perfectly. Dian did some great things, but she also did some horrible things. The scene in which she scares the little boy by pretending to be a witch is absolutely horrifying. I'm sorry, but finding a baby gorilla wasn't worth doing what she did. Even further, when she faux-hangs the poachers, you get an insight into Dian's passion. I believe she probably suffered from some form of psychosis; her passion was extreme and powerful for the gorillas, which is wonderful, but the lengths she went to to protect them is simply inexcusable.The film was well-written, but I can't help but wish that more insight be given into Dian's life. Practically the whole movie takes place in Africa. I want to know what led her away to these gorillas. What was her life like? Why did she leave her fiance to be with the animals? Her life seems like a tragedy to me, but undoubtedly not to her. She never got to have what we consider a normal life, with a husband and children, but i think that this is part of the movie. Fossey was a different and unique person who didn't need all that.Fossey was very morally ambiguous. She was not a heroine, nor a villain. I do condemn some of the things she did, but also commend her valiant effort. But most of all, the reason to see this movie is to see the undeniable passion that made Fossey a legend.  "},{"Title":"Fossey The True Nightmare of Africa","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS IN THE THIRD PARAGRAPHIf one thing could be said about GORILLAS, it would be to watch it for them and them only. Do not get me wrong, the scenery is also something to enjoy and the story does attract you, but Dian Fossey is beyond a shadow of a doubt one of the most crazed, bitter and confused heroines this generation will see in some time. Her antics, kept subtle but existing in the first half, completely explode towards the end as she tries to shift the balance of nature and business in Africa.Based on a true story, we get to know Dian Fossey as she leaves her cozy life behind to pursue a census on mountain gorillas. Her 'passion' for the animals turns into an all out effort to save the nearly extinct species.The scenery is nice and the gorillas are great wonders to look at. Dian Fossey is not one person you can always look up to. I guess she forgot about her engagement when she went ape all over the photographer. Her mission to establish herself as a 'witch,' while burning people's homes and frightening little kids albeit establishes herself as a savior to gorillas in her mind. Nevertheless, no one but Sembagare is likeable for the characters but GORILLAS IN THE MIST pulls through on good storytelling and acting. "},{"Title":"A very good movie; Sigourney Weaver is perfect in the role","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have owned this movie for over ten years, and have seen it about a dozen times.  It is a truly riveting, and interesting story.  I had read about Dian Fossey in a magazine article only a few months before the movie came out (I didn't know one was being made about her).  I thought the movie portrayed her story quite well. The characters are well rounded, and the acting is top notch, and the drama is as good as any film.  The ending, while sad, is true to life, and I don't think you can improve on that. I highly recommend this movie, especially to those who 1) love animals 2) are concerned about wildlife and it's preservation 3) are a Sigourney Weaver fan "},{"Title":"An incredible portrayal of incredible courage","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Sigourney Weaver in her role of a lifetime as Dianne Fosse, savior of the Mountain Gorilla. Fosse, who with a background in physical therapy, left her home, life and fiancee to perform a census of mountain gorillas for The Leakey Foundation, turned her life into a crusade to both alter mankind's perception of the gorilla and save the species from mankind (in the form of poachers) as well. This is not a simple nice lady learns to cohabitate with funny apes, this is heart touching, powerful drama that shows Fosse's relentless courage in the face of bureaucracy, brutality, and superstition. I wished I believed in anything that much that I would risk my life for it. "}{"Title":"Gorillas In The Mist","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Action is not always a good key to a movie. Caring and compassion is one thing that really gets my attention as a viewer. Gorillas in the Mist was a movie that showed one ladies determination to save a animal that she loved. The beloved mountain gorillas. She left her boyfriend, flew half way around that world and risked her life for these beautiful creatures. In the movie she gets kicked out off of one side of the mountain. and finds determination to go back to the mountains. Dian Fossey came across a big problem and tried to fix it. There was many gorillas getting killed by poachers. She got Anti poaching teams and tried to save many of them. She spent most of her life up there In the mountains studying there habits and there ways of life. While living up on the mountain she met a man who worked for the National Geographic magazine. Well after many years of fighting these poachers she was eventually killed just like some of her beloved gorillas that she studied her whole life. This movie has fun loving parts and tough get down to business parts. but it is a movie that i fairly enjoined. "},{"Title":"Sad and beautiful","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a movie that I've always wanted to see, but for one reason or another had never done so until last night.  It was a very well-shot, moving story that ultimately takes on the issue of man's hominizing the world and its effects.  Weaver is my favorite actress and is great in this role, though she probably belies the true character of Fossie and makes her less of a termagant than she reportedly actually was. "},{"Title":"National Geographic Channel Has Documentary On Her","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Check out the National Geographic channel's documentary on the real Fossey I just saw a few days ago when it's on again. She was indeed that wacko, arguably. They show her putting on Halloween masks to try to scare away the poachers (in the doc.) She wasn't a scientist of primates and knew nothing about gorillas when she went to Africa except that she wanted to study and live with them. Her lack of scientific credentials certainly shouldn't be looked upon as the sole/direct cause of her behavior. --Others in her situation would not necessarily have acted the way she did. In fact posthumously, she probably deserves an honorary degree for her pioneering work in the culturo-anthropological study of primates, if she hasn't been given one already. But her true legacy is one of activism and martyrdom for the mountain gorillas' preservation. "},{"Title":"Really enjoyable classic","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This was broadcasted yesterday on the telly and I just happened to watch it by an accident. And if a movie makes me register into IMDB for over a years of use, just to get myself to vote it, you can surely think out my opinion of it. The title's maybe misleading, and I knew something about the idea already, but they couldn't have made it better. "},{"Title":"admirable","Date":"4 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" the name of Diann Fossey is a symbol. for profound dedication to her work, for the hard war for study and protect the gorillas population. this film is a homage. and, more important, a honest exercise to reflect about a life pillars. the seed of its success - extraordinary performance of Sigourney Weaver. because she has science, courage and force to do not only a credible character but a delicate, precise web from shadow and light. the empathy and the tension, the dedication and the veil of madness, the compassion and the admiration, each of them is used for create not an explanation for a death but to feel the entire pressure of story levels. it is a superb portrait and if, at beginning, it seems be a role for Colleen Dewhurst ( for physical resemblance ) or for chameleon Meryl Streep, Sigourney Weaver demonstrates, scene by scene, not only an impressive artistic potential but a beautiful measure of detail and exploration of subtle nuance. "},{"Title":"An incredible story about an incredible woman.","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie shows you how far we have come with species preservation, even if we still have a way to go. Although I was vaguely aware of Dian Fossey's work I had no idea how crucial she was to the conservation efforts of the beautiful Gorillas. It saddens you that some people are so money hungry that previously we were heading towards extinction for many animals, not just gorillas.Sigourney Weaver is fantastic in this movie and immerses herself in the role. You feel her characters passion and respect her efforts with placing herself in dangerous conditions so she can carry out important research. She never gives up and refuses to be defeated.This is a very emotional movie that encourages you to respect the earth and all the living creatures on it. I promise that you will not be disappointed and you may even learn something. "},{"Title":"great compelling biopic","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Dian Fossey (Sigourney Weaver) brow beats Dr. Louis Leakey into letting go into the jungle to research mountain gorillas. She's joined by a local guide Sembagare and a National Geographic photographer Bob Campbell (Bryan Brown).It's a well biopic from director Michael Apted of an amazing woman and an amazing life. The performances are first class. Sigourney Weaver is able to project a certain self confidence in the character.The other thing I want to mention is the realism of the gorilla suits. It is hard to tell the difference between the real thing and the suits. It's of the utmost importance because we wouldn't want to be hampered by 'Planet of Apes' retreads. "},{"Title":"Gorillas in the Mist","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This biographical portrait of Dian Fossey is a meticulously organized character-study work from a strenuous team behind it. The film unscrupulously binds Dian's unusual adventure with an alluring prospect of mystery gorillas' daily lives.Director Michael Apted chooses a slight mawkish route to expose Dian's journey in the African mountains, channeling the ups-and-downs of her inner state, eventually evolving into an almost lunatic status dragging by her incurable fixation towards the creature. The latter part of the film, when Dian dare to sacrifice anything to protect her gorillas, debatably it has an utmost joy to find something worth dying for, which most of us is still looking for and possibly we will never get it.At large the film is demystified to watch, apart from a few unavoidably horrendous scenes of massacring the primates. But a top-form Sigourney Weaver alone merits the viewing, even for sundry OTT segments, she carries the impetus all the way till her very last scene, her fully- committed devotion is an exact paragon of a n assiduous actor bringing through a so-so film to an award-worthy stature. Ms. Weaver gleaned two Oscar nominations that year (another is for supporting actress in WORKING GIRL 1988), but miserably ended both hands empty, a mishap later would fall upon my goddess Julianne Moore in 2003. And Sigourney haven't been nominated since and it's a jinx I wish Ms. Moore is not being affected (but the subsequent snubs of A SINGLE MAN 2009 and THE KIDS ARE ALRIGHT 2010 are severely swaying my belief).Back to the film, it has a genuine empathy for whoever holds a heart for the beauty of nature and the fondness for animals. Regardless of Dian's possessed mental overload, her heroic story has effectively rescued the specie from the verge of extinction is the sturdy truth which is recommendable and admirable, maybe the film will be a perfect textbook for high school students and may the world shows bountiful mercy to the afflicted land of Africa. "},{"Title":"Gorillas in the mist is an awe inspiring and unreal scene of events which leads to a dramatic effort to save the endangered mountain gorillas in Botswana.","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie is very dramatic and is more black and white with the poachers, and gorillas than some of the other movies. It introduces how gorillas live and are misunderstood, and also displays how far people have to go in order to keep from effecting the animals from which they studied. This movie also is a good reminder of what people are capable of and how easy it is to become that way simply because animals can't stand up for them selves. I also encourage others to watch this movie if they want to know how to save the animals with out putting them in a cage or a fence. I encourage others to fully understand the movie and learn as much background knowledge as there is in order to fully comprehend what all the issues were and why the film was filmed the way it was. "},{"Title":"Gorrilas in the Mist","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie was about Dian Fossey and her life with the mountain gorillas. She moved to Africa to start researching the mountain gorillas. She had a house in the mountains to live near the gorillas, so it would be easier to get to them every day. In Africa they were having a sort of civil war within their towns, and the town people didn't want her to live there so they tried to kick her out. She then moved to a different part of the mountain where it was safe for her to live. She lived with the gorillas and studied them every day. She became close to several of them and as time went by she could even come in contact with a few of them as well. There were poachers that were killing these gorillas that she had come to be friends with and this made Dian very upset. When the poachers killed one of her favorite gorillas named Digit she became very upset and wanted revenge on those poachers. She burnt down the poachers houses and threatened the man who had hired the poachers. She was not making friends with many of the towns people and in time she was murdered in her bed. She was then buried right next to her friend Digit. She saved many gorilla lives and helped set up an anti-poaching program that is still going on to this day. She made big steps with the gorillas and researchers today and still keeping up with her great strides. "}{"Title":"One of the Greatest Movies Ever Made","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I am a Primatology major in my final year right now. Personally, I look up to the Trimates, one of which is Dian Fossey. As for comments about her apparent loss of sanity and obsession, I am a bit mixed in my reaction. She didn't really see the gorillas or the mountain as her possessions. She simply fell in love with them and wanted to do what she had to to save them. While many of her antics could be seen as some what psychotic in nature, one has to realize what she was up against. The poachers in Africa, the ones she was fighting against, are not exactly known as being law abiding or overly moral people. I think what she did took an amazing amount of guts and applaud her for it. One also has to realize that the movie was made, not just to get this story out, but also for entertainment. Many things were dramatized to add a bit of excitement. Anyone who is really interested, should read her book by the same title, as this movie was based off of that. And anyone who believes she got what she deserved, obviously deserves to suffer the same fate. "},{"Title":"It has conflict","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so inspirational and has such a powerful effect on me that I'm going to use it on my English assignment this is because it is based on conflict. I thank Dian for her experiences to devote a part of her life on such an event that is going in my assignment. Thank you for the directors and actors and the script of this movie as it is a true story. This movie has such a powerful effect that both consists of physical and emotional conflict. The way the film was set out didn't have much spontaneous picture however this does not put this enticing movie to the shallow ground. The camera action was excellent and by all means captured the most graphic details of the story. As they say a movie can describe a thousand words and believe me this one does. Based on a true story this movie is a legend that saved the amazing mountain gorillas. "},{"Title":"one amazing woman","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I disagree with comments that Dian Fossey isnt a heroine.Whether or not,in real life, she was a loner or unsociable, she wasan amazing woman and someone we should remember. Her tactics in the films arent condemable,  when she scares thchild she doesnt hurt him she just stands with a mask and roars,leaving it up to the child to think shes a witch.  As for her apparent disrespect for marriage vows jut saying that itcomplete c**p.She falls in love with him she cant help that thesimple fact that heart wants what the heart wants. Also it takes 2 totango. When she pretends to hang the poachers she didnt actually killthem  she used scare tactics. She came to love the gorillas as her own kids, so when she sawDigit with his head cut off she reacted in unpredictable ways.Shenever brutally murdered anyone or thing and she didnt kill formoney.  Dian Fossey is one of the true heros of the 20th century. Also Sigourney Weaver is great in this role and should of won theOscar. 10 out of 10 stars  "},{"Title":"Very Moving","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie, and found it very moving, in my opinion a great movie, it was long, but well worth it. Sigourney Weaver does a great job portraying Diana Fosse. This movie makes me feel the suffering she had to go through for her love. Beautiful scenes, and surprising ending. I just loved it! But if you have a special heart for animals, this one will make you cry. Stacey "},{"Title":"Inspiring","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Only the coldest heart could be unaffected by this story of an endangered species being mutilated for rich men's egos so they can have a gorilla hand ashtray or a severed head to brag about. Yes, the natives who actually do the killing do need to feed their families, but there are other, less brutal and intrusive ways. just because something has always been done or it is the easiest way, certainly does not make it right.So enter a real-life (they are the best kind) martyr, a woman of dubious sanity and complete commitment to a cause, Dian Fossey. She finds herself in a Mystical land studying a very rare and strange, but docile creature, the Mountain Gorilla.The fact that the species is on the verge of extinction, not by natural causes, but by the aforementioned poaching, is at the heart and is the core of her crusade. The Movie is time compressed and some of the motivation, besides just complete compassion, can be seen as thin and some of her more crazy behavior unjustified.But as enlightening and soulful entertainment this is quite engaging. It is inspiring, heartbreaking, and frustrating. It is an excellent work and artistic license aside, can be commanding by all involved and a fine tribute to a noble and troubled Woman. Fortunately, her work and over the top involvement in the mist, was and is an example of One determined fight against all odds and she did succeed, but at such a heavy cost. She probably would think that it was worth it. "},{"Title":"Best True Story Ever Made on Film","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Honestly, when I found out that we were going to be watching Gorilla's in the Mist for an English activity, I was expecting something overly boring. Geez was I wrong. From the beginning scenes of Sigourney watching with deep interest as Dr. Leakey explains the importance to the heart-wrenching scenes of the attacks on the gorillas, this movie had me hooked. I felt Dian Fossey's pain and anger, and felt the loss when poor Digit got his head decapitated. But the end left me wanting more. When Dian Fossey is lying on her bed looking at photos of the departed members of her ape family, reminiscing of the good times they had, she is murdered by an unknown figure. Since this is a true story, it actually happened. And the end leaves you with a question WHO IN THE WORLD KILLED DIAN FOSSEY?! "},{"Title":"**SPOILER WARNING**The Myths and Errors Abound!","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  First of all, I'm an anthropologist who had the (dis)pleasure of meeting the late Dian Fossey in Africa in 1976.  She was nothing like the character given to us by Sigourney Weaver.  In terms of what is presented in the film, based largely on her book by the same title, she was a loner, a sociopath and a thoroughly unpleasant person with no tolerance for the opinions or views of others that did not square with hers.  No, she did not deserve to be brutally murdered as she was in 1986.  But, she did relate to the gorillas and related passionately.  This much in the film was true.  I won't go into all the sordid details because it serves no purpose.  Reading the reviews here, most viewers came away with an appreciation for the destruction of the mountain gorilla, their habitat and their species.  Dian Fossey for all her faults ranted and raved against the injustice of it all and tried in her maniacal way to do something about it.  We can criticize her for her complete lack of people skills but her work as a careful observer of gorilla behavior and as a skillful photographer will endure long after we have forgotten what a pain she was personally.  By the way, the late Louis S.B. Leakey, like Dian Fossey, never completed a doctorate.  Not that they needed it.  Leakey was a great showman, fantastic fund raiser and both were passionate about Africa.  Leakey, his wife, son and now, ex-daughter-in-law, have contributed greatly to our understanding of fossil hominids.  Leakey was arguing humans evolved in Africa long before it was fashionable.  Not only that, Leakey was the one who got a shy,soft-spoken English girl to go out and observe chimpanzees. Jane Goodall has contributed greatly to our understanding of the role these close relatives of out play in helping us understand human evolution.  Dian Fossey's work, while not great in terms of its theoretical contributions, has nevertheless made most of us aware of the issues facing the preservation of the mountain gorilla. The movie?  Well, there are some facts in it...even if they're highly romanticized and a bit distorted. "},{"Title":"Lots of Violence, Cardboard Characters","Date":"3 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie could have been great An outstanding human being defends a part of the natural world at all odds. Instead, we get a mediocre film that has questionable ethics. My first impression, when Fossey arrived in Africa, was Who is she? What motivates and compels her? Why is she interested in the mountain gorilla? How did she hear about the conference she met Leakey at?The film needed to include some footage and treatment of her teaching her human students and explaining how this relates to her decision to abandon that type of job for one on anthraopological study. This is never approached in the film, and I spent the entire film wondering who Dian Fossey was.It was the gruesome content that repelled me, though I did not need to see the scene where the gorilla tribe was killed and butchered. The people who are most likely to watch this film are those who care about animals, and they are not going to be entertained by seeing the aforementioned animals slaughtered. What I found most appalling, though, even worse than the scene where the gorilla tribe is killed, is when Fossey surrenders the baby gorilla to the poachers. At this point, I lost all respect for her, and most particularly, for screenwriter Anna Phelan and director Michael Apted.Immediately after they nail the boards of the box cage the baby gorilla is in, they are seen by a river, joking, smiling, sexually cavorting and smoking cigarettes.While I do appreciate Fossey's work with the gorillas and her attacks on the tribe of thugs that poached them (for centuries), the heart of this movie is in question It was a brutal and insensitive portrayal of a rare communication between man and animal that could have been delightful and inspiring. Hollywood just couldn't resist the opportunity for more violence and single-dimensioned characters, though. "},{"Title":"Gorillas in the Mist","Date":"3 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I saw a few clips of this on a countdown show, and I knew eventually that was not a fictional story, so I was certainly up for it, from Michael Apted (Coal Miner's Daughter, Extreme Measures, The World Is Not Enough). Based on the true story, Dian Fossey (Golden Globe winning, and scar nominated Sigourney Weaver) is the woman from Kentucky fascinated with studying animals, especially with primates, she is particularly inspired by the work of anthropologist Dr. Louis Leakey (Iain Cuthbertson). With the permission of Leakey she travels to deepest Africa to start her work studying these fascinating creatures, living in a Rwandan village with the loyal people who live close to where the primates settle. Soon enough in the jungle Dian and her helpers come across a group of rare mountain gorillas, and she begins to study them in very close proximity, and they do not seem to be bothered or feel threatened, she learns to find communication. But her passion for the safety and protection of the primates seems to preoccupy her, she becomes easily angered by poachers and others who disturb, and she misses out on a romance with National Geographic photographer Bob Campbell (Bryan Brown). Dian complains to the Rwandan government that the poaching is going on because it is the only way for the country to survive, and after they refuse to help she dedicates her time to making poaching illegal and ending possible extinction. Besides starting anti-poaching groups and charities, she also burns down found poachers huts, and does a mock hanging on one of them as a brutal warning, but her good work did do good for her beloved gorillas. In the end though she was mysteriously murdered with a blow to the head by some tool that was identified as belonging to the poachers, the mystery apparently remains unsolved. Also starring Julie Harris as Roz Carr, John Omirah Miluwi as Sembagare, Constantin Alexandrov as Van Vecten, Waigwa Wachira as Mukara, Iain Glen as Brendan, David Lansbury as Larry, Maggie O'Neill as Kim, Konga Mbandu as Rushemba and Michael J. Reynolds as Howard Dowd. Weaver gives a very credible performance as the woman who gets up close with the primates, really bonds with them, and is overly passionate for their well-being, obviously there are the subtle moments that have been fictionalised for excitement and intrigue, whatever, but the story is most worthwhile, the music is really good, and the scenes with Weaver and real gorillas makes for great viewing, a most worthwhile biographical drama. Sigourney Weaver was number 20 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Film Editing, Best Music for Maurice Jarre, Best Sound and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Cinematography, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Original Score, and it was nominated for Best Motion Picture - Drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"Conservation Based Drama","Date":"14 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Gorillas are wonderful creatures, highly intelligence and one of man's closest relations. They have also been endangered for years, suffering from the threats of poachers, deforestation and civil war. Gorillas in the Mist tells the story of Dian Fossey who made it her lives work to protect gorillas in Rwanda.Dian Fossey (Sigourney Weaver) was an Occupational Theparist from America when after attending a talk volunteers to study gorillas in Africa. She works for National Geographic and she attempts to study the apes and count their numbers. In Rwanda she ends up becoming very close to one group of gorillas and her research becomes very important to the scientific community. She becomes a celebrity in the wider world and brings publicity to the plight of the apes. She ends up becoming very close an Australian photographer Bob Campbell (Bryan Brown), who films and photographers the gorillas. Dian sets out to protect the gorillas from the massive threat of poachers who kill gorillas both for zoos to have babies, and for traditional African customs. She slowly becomes close off to the world and too attached to the gorillas.Sigourney Weaver offers a very good performance, earning herself a Golden Globel. She is very believable in the role. Other actors were very competent. The director Michael Apted is a decent director, often dealing with character dramas he also directed in my option the best Pierce Bronsan Bond. He slowly builds up the film and shows what drives Dian. The film does raise a number of issues. The obvious is about the gorillas and conservation. Dian's work was really important for conservation world. But there are other issues involving corrupt government officials in Africa and how could the gorillas benefit the government, poverty and traditional beliefs in Africa and the extent to what poachers would do. If you are an animal lover or an environment you properly know what the world faces.There are problems with the film. The first 2/3rds of the film are a bit too slow and not that much happens. The third act is best when Dian starts to lose her marbles. That was the most interesting part where she becomes to devoted that she becomes blind to everything else. The Second act is okay, but the first was rather dull. The score was cheesy and very 80s. Also the cinematography could have be a lot better, especially with the African landscapes available.Its a 3 out of 5 star film. "}{"Title":"Summary of the movie","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie was based on the true life of Diane Fossey. It begins when Diane wants to take the job for researching the gorillas. Diane gets the job and has to pick a guide, she also finds out that her American friend doesn't stay with her. Diane and her group look for weeks the find the gorillas and once she finds them an African Army takes her away. Diane goes back and people think that she is a witch. There are many poachers that are killing off the gorillas in Diane's group for their hands and heads. Diane gets angry and does all that she can including burring houses to get her point across. She also has a little romance with a camera man that comes to take pictures of the gorillas. Many months pass and there has been no poaching of her gorillas. One day when she has some visitors to watch the gorillas also some poachers kill off many gorillas and take a baby gorilla away. Diane pretty much goes crazy and she gets murdered by someone that is still unknown today and since her death she has made it so that the gorillas would be from then on protected. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!!!!!!!","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Every time I watch this film it makes me realise that we take things for granted. I think that Miss Weaver played this part very well and deserved every award that she got for this film. I always cry at the end because it makes me feel very annoyed that the other tribe killed the lady for studying the gorillas. I think that every body played an excellent part in this film. When the gorilla digit died i was very upset and annoyed at the directors of this film, i thought that they could not show this bit and that the film could be shown to a much lower audience. On the whole, I think that this is one of my all time favourite films. "},{"Title":"summary","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Diann Fossy passion for animals led her to try to save the mountain gorillas in Africa. She didn't know that much at gorillas at first. She got all her information out of books. But the more she was around the gorilla she got to know more than any other person did. Her passion for the gorillas made her for crazy. She threatened poachers and made enemies with a lot of people, which led to her murder. She was murdered because of her dedication to the mountain gorillas, and her determination to save them. The mountain gorillas are still alive because of Diann Fossy. Diann loved the the gorillas like they were her own kids. It was her dream to see the mountain gorillas come back from being endangered "},{"Title":"Gorillas in the Mist","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie was a small, basic overview of Dian Fossey life with the gorilla's in Africa. It first started out with her trying to get a job with these animals. She felt that she could make a difference and help save them. Her mission began as a struggle because she didn't have much knowledge on gorillas and many natives there thought she was a witch. There was also a war kind of going on and she was run out of her first camp. So she had to move her researching to the other side of the mountain. It took her awhile to find the location of the gorillas but when she did she was able to connect with them. Dian became extremely close to the gorillas. She would spend lots of time with the group and would take the time to go throughout the rain forest destroying the traps. She even put together a little anti-poaching group to help protect the gorillas. Near the end of the movie she had become extremely attached to them and would do anything to save them. One night she was mysteriously killed. Even though she died, her research and affect on the gorillas did not. Her work was admired and many people kept on researching. "},{"Title":"Fossey is an example of courage and faithfulness to her work.","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The  movie  was  really  touching.  I'm  sure  no-one  who  has  seen  it can  accept  gorilla  hunting.Dian  Fossey  whom  Sigourney  Weaver  played  extremely  well  is  an excellent  example  to  all  those  studying  and  protecting  wild animals.  It's  quite  incredible  that  someone  can  befriend  gorillas so  that  they  hold  her  hand  and  climb  sitting  on  her!  Sigourney Weaver  was  very  lucky  to  have  the  role  of  Dian.Although  most  of  the  poachers  were  African  I  don't  find  the movie really  racistic,  and  in  fact  there  were  no  real  villains  in the story.  However,  it  was  truly  horrible  that  the  poachers  took  the heads  and  hands  of  the  gorillas  and  imprisoned  the  baby female.The  end  of  the  movie  was  shocking,  but  it  was  really  honourable for  Dian  Fossey  to  give  her  life  for  the  gorillas.  "},{"Title":"Dian Fossey as she wasn't.","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" It is a shame how a movie treatment can be made of a world-renowned character, like Ms Fossey, that bears very little relationship to the person she was, as portrayed both by her own book and the books written about her.Her character remains unknown in this movie. And I've watched it for a second time now, to see if the first frustration with which I viewed it, when it was first released, had left me. No, it hadn't. It starts off poorly, with a fictionalized account of how Fossey met Louis Leakey, the famed anthropologist and how she begs him for a job. Simply not true. Fossey had already been to Africa at the time she met Leakey and he was the one who asked her to go there and work with the endangered gorillas, then numbering well under a 100. I don't even see the benefit of making this autobiographical change to the story. Fossey's motivation for going on this hazardous mission, leaving a fianc in the U.S. is never explored. Was she is in love, as some speculate, with Leakey? Her love and interest in the gorillas is never in doubt and in real-life her obsession consumed her such that her eccentricity became sociopathic to the degree that her distrust of humans encompassed anyone who crossed her path from her students to the government of Rwanda.Her relationship with the National Geographic photographer is unfortunately Hollywoodized here and does not reach the intellectual level of harmony that they had in real life, they knew from the beginning , because of their individual interests and pursuits, that it was doomed to short-term, but celebrated the in the moment aspect of it. This could have been portrayed on screen a lot better.The shift to sociopathic personality, about halfway through the movie is too sudden to ring true and the ending feels rushed and let's get it over with already. Her murder was appalling and undeserved but she had made many enemies, not the least of whom were her students from whom she demanded servility and unquestioning obedience.Sadly, I think she was ill-served in this bio-pic, perhaps a deeper psychological exploration of her character will be made at some point.However, the gorilla filming was breathtaking.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Gorillas in the Mist","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Gorillas in the Mist is about a young women by the name of Dian Fossey who has fallen in love with the mystery behind mountain gorillas. After moving to Africa, Dian wants to research about mountain gorillas. After receiving a letter from the National Geographic that allowed her to view and live with the gorillas, she fell in love with them. After observing them very closely she finds out that she wants to be part of the gorillas way of life. This movie is based on a true story about Dian Fossey and her ways with the gorillas, she was the first ever researcher to be literally in contact with any gorilla, that gorillas name, Digit. Throughout this movie Dian is always fighting away poachers, the poachers killed the gorillas for their hands and head never for any certain purpose. This bothered her, and she would do anything to save her gorillas. Even her life, her death is still unsolved, but without her there may not be any mountain gorillas. "},{"Title":"Fine film of a story that needed to be told.","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I had seen this film some years ago, but watched it again today with Emily and Natalie, who have some aspirations to work with animals when they are adults, and perhaps in Africa. For them, one of the things this film brought out clearly is the ambiguity of working in a foreign country. Dian Fossey probably saved the mountain gorillas from extinction, and for this we should be grateful. By all indications, she wasn't a very nice person, both in interpersonal relations, and in her lack of respect for marriage vows. So we see a good film of a very flawed person who accomplished much through her perseverence. And gave up her life for the cause, probably killed by one of the unhappy poachers. "},{"Title":"Who is Max from Missouri?","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  First of all, let me just say that this is a wonderful film. Secondly, let me say that Max from Missouri (likely poor white trash) is a complete imbecile. Boring? Not at all. This film is touching, heart wrenching, and I feel very deeply for what Dian was fighting for. I feel, as I'm sure a lot of people feel, that animals lives are much more worthy of saving than a lot of humans. And by the way, only an idiot would think they were monkeys. They're Primates. Get it straight. Get an education.  "},{"Title":"Solid, but doesn't go deep enough into anything","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Dian Fossey was definitely a strange person, that much is certain. Gorrillas in the Mist aptly conveys that, though it could have been more.The only real problem is the lack of depth. The pacing is great, especially given the long history it's telling. Even though it is a little long as it is, I think that more insight could have been useful, especially when it comes to Dian's relationship with the gorilla Digit. As someone who previously knew some background on Dian, I can't say for certain how the average person would have seen the relationship between Dian and Digit (it was nothing weird at all, if that causes worry), but the short time devoted to the connection between the two probably wouldn't have given it justice, especially when compared to the other parts of Dian's life. I think another person with no prior knowledge of Dian or Digit would have thought her as weird as everyone else who knew her. Maybe that's what director Michael Apted wanted, though I highly doubt it given his attention to Dian's aggressive conservation methods.Finally, the ending is rather peculiar. It makes Dian look like a heroine, which in a way she was, as much of her research did help save the mountain gorillas from extinction. It has the adorable images of gorillas in their natural setting set to heroic memoriam music, the kind that one uses after telling the story of a fallen hero. However, this isn't such a clear cut issue. I realize that recognizing her as that is in the eye of the beholder, but even so, some of her methods were quite cruel, and especially towards the end, she wasn't a likable person at all. Additionally, it leaves a lot of the science part out (though given the target audience, this decision was probably made with good intentions). However, her methods of research were controversial, as most scientists believe that human interference should be avoided at all costs. But Dian took a radically different approach. She studied them in order to get close to them, which gave her a different perspective on their behavior.That being said, there are many parts of this film that do work. Sigourney Weaver is terrific as Dian Fossey, encompassing her soft side and her love of the gorillas, as well as her portrayal of Dian's dark side, with her explosive and near psychotic temperament. But she can't hold this movie alone. The script (especially the character) don't allow for a great deal of sympathy for Dian. In the end, I was left thinking she was a nutcase who did a lot of good things, as well as bad things. Also, she was very successful at conveying Dian's struggle with the atmosphere due to health problems, though the movie doesn't explain why.The supporting cast is great. Bryan Brown is the likable Aussie photographer who makes his relationship with Dian very believable--he loves her, even though he thinks she's a little off her rocker. John Omirah Miluwi is terrific as her sympathetic tracker. He likes her enough that he'll support her through everything, and effectively portrays the character who brings her back to reality when she needs it (which is quite often) without seeming clich or irritating. Sometimes he seems like a father figure who is happy when his daughter is happy. He's the only person who really seems to understand Dian, which makes it easier to connect with Dian. In a sense, he's the much-needed link between Dian and the audience, so it's good that he shares the screen with Weaver almost 50/50.The production is brilliant as well. Apted makes the scenery beautiful, but he doesn't portray is as exotic as some fantasy safari, which it wasn't. He plays it straight, which is as it should be. This was about all parts of Dian, and just Dian alone. Therefore any weird and inventive camera or other kinds of tricks were not needed and thankfully were not used. The gorillas were the part that worked flawlessly. It was impossible to tell which were real or which were fake without considering that some of the close-ups had to be people in gorilla suits. Still, they moved and acted flawlessly.Even with it's faults, Gorillas in the Mist is a great film, with an interesting character study of a woman who is no doubt one of the most influential figures in ape research and conservation. "}{"Title":"Tragic crusader","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" An age-old tradition of hunting in the mist-cloaked Virunga peaks of Africa places mountain gorillas at grave risk of extinction.In the Eighties, an American zoologist gave her life in a passionate bid to save man's closest non-human relatives. US-born Dian Fossey, a physical therapist-turned-primatologist sent to Africa by famed researcher Louis Leakey, wound up taking a fatal machete blow to the face for her efforts. And Sigourney Weaver turns in a stunning performance as the aggressive conservation warrior, who, at age 53, was buried with the apes she had scrupulously studied and imitated in order to gain trust and access.This film portrays Fossey as beyond-belief patient and nurturing toward the gorillas but brutal toward any human who stood in the way of her cause. At one particularly disturbing point in the film, she terrorizes an African boy left behind by poachers as she uses a scary mask and a Snickers bar to extract information about the bad guys' whereabouts. At another point, she drops a noose around a captured poacher's neck, only to let him collapse to the ground instead of being hanged. After reading about Fossey on Wikipedia, I'm unclear about how much of her organization survives today. Apparently, the Rwandan genocide of the Nineties resulted in a trashing of at least some of the operations she had established.I can't help but think that Fossey, at least as she is portrayed in this movie, went way overboard in the way in which she approached her life's work. Her goals were certainly worthy, but her take-no-prisoners approach toward dissenters was bound to backfire eventually.There are touching scenes in this film that portray Fossey as supremely gentle and giving, as when she coaxes an orphaned baby traumatized by a poachers' raid into eating a blackberry. If only she had been able to extend her brilliant persuasive skills more in the direction of her fellow man! "},{"Title":"Average film, good info","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ok this film was a little bit borring.  But it did have some pretty good information of you're really interested in her life.  Considering it was a biography, they did a really good job. I had to watch this film for a report, and it really helped me with information.  If you're just watching for fun and don't care about her, i suggest skipping it.  But if you really are interested, you'll love it.   "},{"Title":"Gorilla Attack on Gorillas","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Human learned a new technique called Gorilla attack and applied it against Human race in wars.Cunning poachers applied the technique against Gorillas from whom they learned it. When we go to the Zoo ,we simply enjoy them in captivity & never mind to know how the species were brought in & what kind suffering it had undergone during the operation. This is the class example ,how these animals are treated & brought to the ZOOs.The movie is based on the real story of an American lady- Dion Fossy -who dedicated her life for saving the Gorillas from extinction.Happened to see this movie 2nd time after 2 decades & wondered how the single Lady had flown from America & fought against local poachers & corrupted government, to save the life of Gorillas of Africa.Her murder is still a mystery. "},{"Title":"this movie was OK.","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" this movie was about Dian Fossey who went to Rwanda in Africa to study mountain gorillas. some parts of the movie should have been made a little bit better. when i got done watching this movie i thought that Dian got what she deserved. she started saying it was her mountain and her gorillas. which as you may know from watching this movie that this is a lie. the only part that bothered me was when they killed digit and put him in a sitting position without hands or a head. i mean what kind of sick people would take the time to do that. she was also to obsessed with the gorillas. she thought that she was one of them it's sick. she turned down her fianc first by staying in Rwanda than she turned down her camera. she didn't love him. so that means that she just did him for the fun of it. she loved those stupid gorillas than anything else. she also made a big mistake messing around with that tribe who killed the gorillas for meat. "},{"Title":"Was she really that wacked out over Gorillas?","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"   I came away from this film with little sympathy for what happened to Dianne Fosse and I felt that shouldn't have been the case.  She is portrayed as an intelligent well-educated researcher who is metamorphosed into literally a Gorilla thumper who decides that the mountain and the Gorillas that live there are now her own personal property.  It is sort of like when a person is an obsessed fan or enthusiast  of someone or something then they meet up with someone who has the same interest they do. They tend to become hostile towards that person thinking that this other fan or enthusiast is a threat or doesn't have the right to be a fan or enthusiast.  Fosse is portrayed the same way here with her Gorilla obsession.  The real Dianne Fosse no doubt made some very serious and dangerous enemies and in the end paid the price.  This film left me with a `Well she got what she deserved'  I totally applaud Sigourney Weaver and the  courage she displayed as an actress by getting that close to actual real live Gorillas during the filming, but I don't think the real Dianne Fosse became the wacko as she was portrayed in this motion picture. "},{"Title":"Good idea, average execution","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I would like to start by saying that I have absolutely nothing against Dian Fossey, and hers is a story that absolutely should be told. That said, I found this movie to be pretty standard slightly-campy weekday afternoon HBO fare, circa 1993. The idea that it could be up for Oscars boggles my mind. Until I read the other comments here, I had little idea of what ACTUALLY happened, and what was just Hollywood embellishment to sell more tickets. The sexual tension was cookie-cutter, the relationship was cookie-cutter, and I seriously doubt both the platonic-to-sex-in-60-seconds scene and the fact that the two would furiously and frequently make out like inebriated high school freshmen. Almost no backstory of her life is given, save a picture of her fianc - at least the way the movie leaves it, I seriously doubt that the two could go immediately form cheating on their loved ones to joyfully filming gorillas without any guilt whatsoever. I'm unsure to what degree the insensitivity to African culture was Fossey's, and to what degree it was the filmmakers', but I'd imagine that Fossey was close enough to her assistant (I'd remember the name, but he never is given much attention) that the character shouldn't be left so flat and secondary in the telling of the story. The cinematography seems both uninspiring and riddled with clichs - the views in the background are beautiful, but they weren't actually created by the filmmakers now, were they? The best three things that you can say about this movie are that 1. It raises awareness of Fossey's life and the issues that mattered to her, 2. The scenery is beautiful, and 3. The scenes with the gorillas were all quite realistic. "},{"Title":"means well, but fails on more than one level","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" With all due respect to the late Dian Fossey and to the legacy of her groundbreaking work among the mountain gorillas of central Africa, it should be noted that her big screen biography is little more than a glossy star package with postcard scenery and sentiments, presenting the anthropologist as just another white woman who goes into the jungle to 'find herself'. Sigourney Weaver gives the role plenty of energy (mostly by over-acting shamelessly), but the film suffers from too many tactical errors, beginning with a childishly simple script that reduces complex issues into one-dimensional conflicts between corrupt humankind and the unspoiled splendor of animal life in the wild. Critical moments are further undermined by gratuitous voice-over letters home and by Maurice Jarre's overwrought (and therefore not entirely inappropriate) music score. Even the expected romantic interest between Fossey and a handsome National geographic photographer is given the regulation Hollywood screen treatment, proving yet again that sincere intentions are never enough to salvage a trite and superficial film. "},{"Title":"Loved the gorillas - but the film felt like an infomercial","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The true story of Dian Fossey is something that should have been so easy to make into a great and intelligent film. The petty politics of science and academia, the development of the devil's deal that is African eco-tourism, the sociology of our nearest relatives - a complex web of interactions that ultimately lead to the mysterious murder of the protagonist. But this was way too deep for the movie machinery to handle.Hollywood does not understand scientists, their passions, their pettiness, their motivations - so it just ignores this and turns Fossey into a Kurtz-like figure and fabricated a unloved woman sub-plot to explain her descent into darkness.Hollywood couldn't be bothered to try to portray the intricate politics between Fossey, her funders, her students and the Africans with whom she worked. Instead we get the standard, if slightly more enlightened white man's burthen depiction.As for the gorillas - there was no need to explore, however briefly, some of the insights that Fossey obtained about gorilla society and why these creatures deserve protection. It was far easier to just create a van der Villain figure that murdered gorillas and kidnapped cute babies.No, this wasn't supposed to be a documentary but this shouldn't have been turned into a Grizzly Adams infomercial to save ape babies either.As for positives, the photography was stunning and the gorillas were very touching and human-like. However, there is a great and fascinating story that could have provided great insight the science and politics of the conservation movement. Unfortunately, this film didn't tell it. "},{"Title":"Sigourney's Monkey Movie","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  There's an unwritten law in Hollywood to never involve yourself in Movies where monkeys are the lead character, EG Dunston checks in, King Kong Lives, et al. Well, Sigourney Weaver did just that, she went and did her own monkey movie! I am not saying it's bad, it's just a curious oddity. Weaver plays Dian Fosse, a total controlling megalmaniac if there was one, who goes down to deepest darkest Africa to study Monkeys. There, while grunting like the monkeys while they climb all over her, she meets poachers, tribesmen, warring troops, and Bryan Brown, all of which may not be a good thing. Brown plays a National Geographic photographer who basically waltzes in and out of the film. I am actually glad Weaver didn't win the Oscar for this, as it seems now to be too forced, too LOOK AT ME! I'M CHEWING LEAVES NOW! scene chewing. I sorta liked this movie, and gosh darn it, I'm gonna compare this to Mommie Dearest in the eye-bulging-for-an-oscar department for weaver's performance alone.  "},{"Title":"So lame I couldn't finish watching it","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I guess I shouldn't vote on something I haven't seen all of. It could have risen to an 8. Then again it could have sunk to a 1. Or a zero.The best words to describe it are clunky, awkward, clumsy and uninspired. Sigourney Weaver (who I think is a terrific actress most of the time) is terrible here. I couldn't tell if she was going for camp comedy or melodrama, but it had to be one of the two. Her delivery was either wooden or awkwardly over the top. John Waters likely would not have allowed it, his movies have a consistency and flow to them, regardless of whether or not you are drawn to the subject matter.Granted, the script doesn't help and the director seems to be on auto-pilot.I'm also never a big fan of movies that depict ignorant foreigners entering a culture and loudly and brashly disrupting it and becoming very indignant when they can't walk all over it and subvert it for their own needs, despite centuries of culture being at stake. This kind of lack of sensitivity and tunnel vision tends to remind me of the attitudes that precluded slavery.I do however, give the film 2 points for beautiful cinematography, and one point for the acting of Weaver's friend who seems quite believable as a loyal friend and guide who sees the bigger picture but is powerless to impart this wisdom to Fossey. I took off the film (for a second time) about halfway through, just as Bryan Brown's character arrived, and he had only spouted a few clichs before I took it off again, so my I've made no judgement of that actor.The late 80's was a time of smug, disposable movies being churned out. Thank god it's over, (although some say it's coming back again) but you still be burned at the video store, and of course for a few hours of your time. I escaped with only one hour wasted. "}{"Title":"it was OK","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" this movie was OK it was pretty boring. if you like gorillas tou would like this movie. i however felt this movie to be boring. the movie was boring until the end because it was about a girl; living with monkeys and she studied how they lived in nature. the end of the movie was exciting because Dian Fossey went crazy. she had the illusion that the Mt had become her own and they gorillas were her personal playmates. she left the man she loved for the hairy beasts, which in my mind is stupid. she threatened people who were just trying to make a living. she ended up getting what she deserved after burning down those peoples houses. i don't feel sorry for that crazy lady even though she did help the scientific world. "},{"Title":"The Most Boring Movie I have ever seen.","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is by far the most boring movie I have ever seen.  The characters are boring.  The darn monkeys are boring. The whole plot was boring.  I saw this movie about 5 years ago, and I still remember it for its boringness.  I know it is a true story.  The fact that I am typing this essay is true.  Does it make it interesting?  Man If you guys want an alternative to horse tranquilizers watch this movie.  It will definitely put you out.Max "}]