[{"Title":"An innocent girl. A harmless drive. What could possibly go wrong?","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Feast your eyes one of the last films that both Corey's will appear in that are of any merit for the rest of their brief careers. And this can be considered something of merit, despite the nature of the film, since they were only teen stars. License to Drive is a movie about taking chances, though you can probably figure out from beginning to end how the movie is going to go. No less, it's good 80s fun. Les Anderson (Haim) has turned 16 and is desperate to get his driver's license. Over-confident, it is no surprise that he flunks the exam. But he figures no one would notice. So, he lies to his folks and friends about the whole thing, expecting everything will be smooth sailing until he can retake the exam. But Les is wrong once again when his parents learned that he lied, serving up a harsh two week grounded term. But Les doens't know when to quit while he's ahead, and decides he's not going to let this little matter inconvenience him. After all, he has a Friday night date with his dream girl Mercedes Lane (Heather Graham). Hence the line, an innocent girl, a harmless drive, what could possibly go wrong? Everything. It all has to do with Les borrowing his grandfather's antique (and very off limits) Caddillac, a drunk date, and two friends looking for their newly licensed friend to show them a wild night. Sure it's predictable, but it's just a simple 80s comedy.  "},{"Title":"Fasten your seat belts, this is one awesome ride!","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When most people think of the seminal 80's teenage actors and films, the first thing that comes to mind are the 'brat pack' films. Sure, those were excellent films and very talented actors, but with all the focus on those actors sometimes the gems get overlooked. License to Drive is surely on of those gems.License To Drive, one of only a few films that stars both Corey Haim and Corey Feldman, is a perfect 80's teen comedy. Shot at the height of both of the Coreys careers, while they were both still in high school, the film captures their youthful spirit perfectly. License to Drive is hilarious and outrageous while still remaining simple and easy to follow.Haim plays Les Anderson who like every high school kid has nothing but girls and cars on his mind. But this isn't just any girl. Les has his eye on the most beautiful girl in school. The bombshell is played by a very young and beautiful, Heather Graham. When Les is lucky enough to score a date with the bombshell, the only obstacle he must overcome is his pending drivers license test so that he can take his fathers car to pick her up in.Like most high school students, Les slept through drivers education class and when the time comes, he fails his drivers test. But the fun has just begun. Les isn't going to let this stop him. He takes the car anyways. Uh oh... this never turns out right. The night takes a turn for the worse when Les's best friend (Corey Feldman) shows up with 'a plan.' Another bad sign. Well the night just gets wilder and wilder and ends up with Heather Graham drunk as a skunk locked in the trunk of a car, police roadblocks, crazed militants running the streets and some really mean and angry drag racers to boot.License To Drive really has it all. It's a perfect 80's teenage comedy. The DVD has loads of extra goodies including interviews with the stars and tons of deleted footage.Fasten your seat belts, you're in for one totally awesome ride!!! "},{"Title":"Haimster and Feldog's 2nd best film","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the better 80's teen flicks in which Haim and Feldman manage to pull off surprisingly good performances. If you are going 2watch any of their movies make it this one as their output in the nineties as not up to scratch. Nice to see a young Heather Graham in one of her first decent roles as the out of reach babe Haim falls for. The film is also complimented by the great soundtrack featuring eighties greats, Billy Ocean, Belinda Carlisle and many others. Look out for a great cameo from Uncle Phil from the Fresh Prince of Bel Air who plays Les' driving instructor. The Scene with the drunk driver is especially funny. This film is made even more hilarious by the fact that Corey Haim drove round LA without a real driving license for many years when he was in his wild child years. They Rock. "},{"Title":"Get out of my Dreams, Get Into My Car! Oh yeah! 80's bliss...","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" License To Drive was one of those 80's flicks that I had always wanted to see, and yet, never could find a copy. Till now! It was playing on TV recently and I have not only watched it, but am waiting to see if I am fortunate to find the DVD so I can buy it.Quite simply, if you are a fan of the 80's and/or love your nostalgia then this film is for you! Typical 80's groove, lingo, starring leads (introducing a young and very attractive Heather Graham in her screen debut as the delicious Mercedes Lane) and, something that definitely deserves a mention is the soundtrack! Great tunes that suit the mood perfectly. Billy Ocean's Get Outta My Dreams, Get Into My Car was a highlight and with the title License to Drive was the ultimate song. There are others by Belinda Carlise and the Breakfast Club that will have you not only reminiscing, but toe tapping and humming as well.Also, look out for James Avery as Les' DMV Instructor. What a champion! Anyway everyone, Get Outta Your Seats... Get it into your DVD player...Have fun, Cheers! "},{"Title":"Legendary","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Looking back into the mist of time (when i was a child of the eighties) This is the film that encapsulates that time for me. Funny, blokes with rolled up sleeve jackets and with terrible acting by Haim what's not to like? Getting serious for a moment, it is actually a very good film. Tightly written, well directed and with good supporting acting it would get a nine if only Haim could stop a) Blinking b) Keep his mouth shut, he looks like a fish. If anyone wants to know what all the fuss was about in the late eighties with two lads called Corey, then this is the film to watch. In fact it should be given to directors as a how to manual, on how to make a light breezing ENTERTAINING film, which the movies sadly lack these days. A film every home should own. LEGENDARY. "},{"Title":"Another 80s fave of mine.","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the best films to ever feature the two Coreys.  Yep, this is back when they were still cool.  The movie has all sorts of funny situations and (intentionally) funny dialogue that actually works.  I really love the scene involving the drunk.  That may be a bit gross, but I still laguh. Really folks, it's the Summer, run to the video store and pick it up.  Get your 80s fix. "},{"Title":"Still Very Funny","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The sixteen year-old Les Anderson (Corey Haim) has a crush on his schoolmate Mercedes Lane (Heather Graham), but he is shy and she has a boyfriend, Paolo (M.A. Nickles), who has a fancy car. Les and his twin sister Natalie Anderson (Nina Siemaszko) are preparing to the driving test and while Natalie studies the questions, he does not pay attention to them. Les fails the test but is not brave enough to tell neither to his father Mr. Anderson (Richard Masur) nor to his pregnant mother Mrs. Anderson (Carol Kane) and his best friends Dean (Corey Feldman) and the clumsy Charles (Michael Manasseri). When Mercedes has an argument with Paolo, she invites Les to date her to make Paolo jealous. Meanwhile Les' parents discover that he has flunked his driver's test and they ground him. However, when Mercedes calls him asking if they are not going to date, Les sneaks away from his house and drives his grandfather's Cadillac that is parked in the garage to date Mercedes in the beginning of a nightmarish night of adventures.License to Drive is a comedy from the 80's still very funny after almost thirty years. This is one of the best roles of Corey Haim in the top of his career immediately after the cult Lost Boys and Lucas and the debut of Heather Graham. The plot would be considered politically incorrect in the present days but fortunately it was not a problem in 1988. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Sem Licença para Dirigir (Without License to Drive) "},{"Title":"Back when teen movies were classics !","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ..because seriously, they are nothing but trash, filth, sex, and farts nowadays ! I adore such a movie. It's a decent comedy, non-stop action, and centering on beating fear by facing its worst nightmares. It succeeds in every each way it goes, with fascinating sense of creativity.How can any comedy be smarter ? See for instance the character of the father apart; the way he celebrates his son's faultier as a driver and why, his scenes with the about-to-give-birth wife, and his threatening speech near the end. Just unforgettable. The thing about this movie is that it knows its characters and their lives, then could mix that with a lovely touch of craziness where everything you don't expect happens. So, it wins at being truthful and lively. This is one way to be a classic. Not by the heaviest amount of toilet humor !Despite being not highly charismatic Corey Haim was wonderful as the perturbed aghast and eager teen. Heather Graham was fabulous in pink, being every teen's dream back then (and look closer to her name; Mercedes Lane !). Loved her performance as always-happy unconscious drunk. The minor parts were done no less than excellent, even the drunken old driver. Then the best credit must go to that incredible climax; now the teen gets his full chance to drive outrageously by the approval of his parents, winning the recognition he dreamed of, achieving rescuing his mom and her baby on the nick of time, yet that itself was done in one outrageous piece of cinema. Again, this script is smart, smashing smart !It evoked many similar themes and atmospheres from the same era  the suburban teen who wants to challenge his fear, a ride of a lifetime in the city; John Hughes's Ferris Bueller's Day Off (1986), a hellish night of accumulative misunderstanding and funny circumstance; Adventures in Babysitting (1987). My conclusion  Is the 1980s cute or what ?Remember the moment in which the lead lives a cassette tape crises, where the thin brown strip explodes. Ahh, this is something only the audience born before the 1990s knows well, suffered from and laughs about. With CDs and else more advanced devises now, plus teen comedies that have become all about obscenity, you must think; does more development mean more degeneration ? or when things grow less complicated, other things grow more ugly ?Anyway, this is a teen comedy and decent classic. Now the 4 words don't meet together in one sentence at all ! "},{"Title":"don't miss out","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" well what can i say don't read other comments this is 80s at its best...great cast great story... plus a great few cars.plus there's a great scene at the start with Heather Grahem and Freddy Cruger ( another great movie) also check out Philip banks from the fresh prince......last name first...first name lastone of the best 80s films around not yet on pal DVD but wont be long........ check out my reviews i don't liesnoady78 "},{"Title":"A fun movie!","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I freaking love this movie!Its hilarious!The bit with the drunk just kills me every time.This is an absolute classic,one of the best 80s movies.Haim is SO funny in this(RIP)!and so is Feldman.I laugh so hard every single time I watch it, it just never gets old!Carol Kane does a great job as the pregnant mother and Richard Masur is brilliant.This is a timeless film, I showed it to my friends and they loved it!I may turn them into Corey fans!Heather Graham does a good job in this too, she was quite funny and I like the dress she wears at the party.If you have not seen this movie yet, then rent it,order it,it is well worth it!Id recommend it to Corey fans and comedy lovers.8/10 "}{"Title":"Awesome!!!","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the greatest 80s movie of all-time. haim and feldman rock...The guy who plays mr. anderson rules.... and there is a young heather graham. It is a crime that this movie isnt on dvd.  There are some great lines... A MUST SEE "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"17 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Clap clap! I intended to watch this movie as a silly entertainment, but ended up truly enjoying this. The story is totally original, and more than that, very true. The girl's test compared to Anderson's was a funny scene; in my city, the examiners act EXACTLY the same. Whilst guys have to do the hardest things in the exam, girls only have to drive slowly and calmly. The whole cast is pure fun. They seem to be in tone and the cool story helps them. There's nothing to state about the direction, since it's not that important in such comedies. Corey Haim was a very hilarious actor, and it's really such a shame he passed away so young-- dying before forty is way too soon! The ending has a beautiful message of friendship between father and son, which makes this movie even greater. Thank you Brazilian's Telecine Cult for showing this masterpiece! Give it a chance and you'll certainly have a good time! "},{"Title":"Not just a license to drive, but a license to LIVE!","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Loud, energetic, fun teen comedy about Les (the likable Corey Haim), a typical kid eager to start driving. Despite his having flunked his driver's test, he's not about to let anything stop him from being with Mercedes (Heather Graham, in her first substantial movie role), the girl he adores. So he makes off with his grandfather's prized Cadillac for one incredible, long night of misadventures. Now, admittedly some viewers can find certain elements objectionable - the protracted sequence with the drunk driver, or the fact that Mercedes gets herself drunk - but this movie still provides lively, zany entertainment for a very well paced 90 minutes. It resonates with so many of us who saw that driver's license as one of our first steps towards freedom and maturity, seeing all the possibilities before us for good times. Les just couldn't have predicted the kind of stuff that happens to him and his buds Dean-o (a priceless Corey Feldman) and Charles (Michael Manasseri). The aforementioned problem with the drunk driver (Harvey Miller) is just one of them. The highly quotable dialogue includes such gems as I'm so dead they're going to have to bury me twice.. The movie gets off to a fine start with its hilarious opening sequence, and the supporting cast is full of familiar and reliable actors, starting with a delightful Carol Kane as Les's pregnant mom and the always solid Richard Masur as his flustered dad. Graham looks great, and is perfectly cast. Nina Siemaszko is a hoot as Les's uptight sister, as is Grant Heslov as her boyfriend. Other amusing contributions are made by Grant Goodeve, as the most relaxed driving tester on Earth, and James Avery, as a far more intimidating one, Michael Ensign in a dual role as the bus driver & driver's ed teacher, and Helen Hanft as the scary Miss Hellberg of the DMV. License to Drive just breezes along (it certainly would out pace a street sweeper), coming up with some irresistible gags, and suffice it to say, that poor Caddy takes a lot of abuse before the movie is over. It wouldn't be inaccurate to regard this movie as perhaps the ultimate teaming of the two Coreys; it's definitely a career highlight for both. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Hugely enjoyable 80's teen comedy romp","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Despite failing his test for a driver's license, nice guy 16-year-old Les Anderson (a fine and engaging performance by Corey Haim) decides to sneak out of the house and use his grandfather's prized '72 Cadillac for a date with the luscious Mercedes Lane (an extremely sweet and delectable Heather Graham in her first substantial film role). Les' brash hipster best friend Dean (Corey Feldman in top-rate supremely cool form) and their nerdy pal Charles (a charmingly geeky Michael Manasseri) tag along for the wild and outrageous ride. Director Greg Beeman, working from a smart and witty script by Neil Tolkin, relates the eventful and entertaining story at a zippy pace, maintains an amiable good-natured tone throughout, and adroitly milks the funny sense of inspired zany humor for loads of major laughs (the final gag concerning Les' grandpa in particular is a gut-busting corker!). Moreover, this movie deserves extra praise for having actual teenagers portraying adolescents. The lively acting from the able cast helps matters a whole lot The strong and appealing chemistry between the two Coreys keeps the picture humming, with sturdy support from Richard Masur as Les' easygoing father, Carol Kane as Les' wacky pregnant mother, Nina Siemaszko as Les' stuck-up snob sister Natalie, James Avery as Les' hard-nosed DMV examiner, Helen Hanft as formidable DMV head honcho Miss Hellberg, and, in an especially bravura uncredited turn, Henry Alan Miller as a raucous drunk driver. Jay Ferguson's rousing score and the spirited rocking soundtrack both hit the stirring spot. The polished cinematography by Bruce Surtees gives the picture a pleasing bright look. A total blast. "},{"Title":"You can drive in reverse, son? All is forgiven!!!","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was a rather funny movie featuring Corey Haim and Corey Feldman, showing that these two for a short span really had something going coming off the very cool vampire movie The Lost Boys. This movie is just about your average teen trying to pass his driving test and getting his license along with his ultra bright and nerdy twin sister. He also gets to go out on a date with a very attractive lady as well named Mercedes (played by Heather Grahme). Well for some reason he does not do so well on the computer quiz portion of the driving test, but thanks to some luck the test results are wiped out and he is given the chance to take the driving portion of the test. Which of course is highly unlikely no matter how well his sister scored. Well he somehow manages to pass the driving portion despite having a driving instructor from hell while his sister gets the guy everyone should want during this part. In the end though they find his score and no license. Well through a series of strange events he gets his grampa's car and takes the hot girl out as she proceeds to get drunk and pass out. He then picks up his friends as they try to get to this cool hangout. Lets just say a lot of stuff happens and that car takes some hits. I especially found the drunk guy funny. In the end I found the end a bit much, but then most comedies I find have a weak spot in their armor. However, this was a rather funny comedy that passes the test. "},{"Title":"No License to Drive Here","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After the success of the now cult classic vampire flick The Lost Boys, one year later, the popular 80s and 90s duo Corey Haim and Corey Feldman star in a fun-filled Comedy about a serious part in all of our lives, that part is our driving test. License to Drive is a fast-paced, original Comedy which is probably my favorite Haim/Feldman movie.The most embarrassing part of a teens life is being driven to a party or school by their parents. The parents are the ultimate antagonist when caught dropping their kids off because that means the teen doesn't have a driver's license. I'm sure it will be like that when I reach High School.Les Anderson (Corey Haim), the slacker type, crashes the computer on accident in anger after failing his driver's test. His teacher can't find the score to his test, which leads him to take the driving portion of his test, coached by a certain uncle, from a certain Will Smith show.He passes that test, but the teacher recovers his score, realizing he failed, rips up his driver's license, leaving Les to be driven by his parents. He then unwillingly takes out his grandfather's prized Cadillac to take out his new girlfriend Mercedes Lane (Heather Graham) who gets drunk and passes out on their date. He goes to his friend Dean's (Corey Feldman) house. Les, Dean, and their geeky friend Charles (Michael Manasseri) embark on a journey to a drag racing competition in Les' uncle's Cadillac.I have always had a weakness for 80s Comedies that depict the life of true teenagers (most of which are John Hughes movies). This, Sixteen Candles, The Breakfast Club, Ferris Bueller's Days Off, Career Opportunities, and so many others deal with real conflicts that teenagers have consistently. Though I have to feel bad that this one is overlooked and almost like it is never spoken about anymore seeing as it's very touching and funny.Perhaps one of the best 80s Comedies I have seen, License to Drive delivers heavily and keeps the laughs coming.Starring Corey Haim, Corey Feldman, Heather Graham, and Michael Manasseri. Directed by Greg Beeman. "},{"Title":"80's comedy at it's best!","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The two Corey's are at the pinnacle of their career in this classic 80's movie! Corey Haim plays Les Anderson. Corey Feldman plays his best bud Dean. When Les fails his driving exam, he decides to tell his parents he passed anyway -- to avoid embarrassment. When his dad (played by the underrated Richard Masur) finds out the truth, Les is grounded.....but he already made plans -- a date with the lovely Mercedes (Heather Graham).Les doesn't want to humiliate himself any more so he decides to borrow his Grandad's Cadillac to take Mercedes for a night on the town.The results are hilarious! License to Drive is a cult classic comedy. It's non-stop fun and action from beginning to end and it will drive you wild with its sizzling soundtrack featuring Billy Ocean, Brenda K. Starr, Belinda Carlisle and New Edition.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Excellent comedy about the mishaps that can happen as a teenager whether or not you have a driver's license","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" LICENSE TO DRIVE, in my opinion, is an excellent comedy about the mishaps that can happen as a teenager whether or not you have a driver's license! I thought that Miss Hellberg (Helen Hanft) was an absolute bitch! You'd have to have seen this movie if you want to know why. On the other hand, every mishap that occurred after Les (Corey Haim) took the test and wrecked his grandfather's car was absolutely hilarious. Also, I thought that Mercedes (Heather Graham) was a very pretty young lady. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone was ideally cast, the direction was flawless, and production design was spectacular, and the performances were top-grade. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this excellent comedy about the mishaps that can happen as a teenager whether or not you have a driver's license! I guarantee you you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A very funny teen comedy!!!!!!!","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie!!! it was funny and had a good plot! it stars Corey Haim as the main character with none other than Corey Feldman as his sidekick! this movie has lol! the story is about Les(Corey Haim) and he failed his driving test, which is a bad thing because he just got the date with the girl of his dreams, so he takes his grandfathers car and has the ride of his life, with some help from his friends (corey feldman). the girl ends up getting drunk and being asleep the whole time, so she doesnt know anything that has happened. one of the funnyest parts is when a drunk guy steals a bangs up the car and les' father finds out. i think everyone should rent it and watch it, its worth the money trust me! "},{"Title":"Superbulous!","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An all time classic that re-unites the corey's. wooo. one of the best 80's comedies of all time. just the opening scenes of the driving exams takes it above the rest. and then bring on the drunk who steals the car. a superb movie that kicks a**e. wahoo.MINT AS A FISH!  "}{"Title":"The traditional 1980s mix","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The only revolutionary about this film is Natalie's boyfriend the marxist. Apart from that, this is just a run-of-the-mill teenage comedy of the 1980s. Nothing surprising happens and all the characters behave as we expect them to Les' annoying friends, his sister ('A' student with glasses), Mercedes' ex-boyfriend the playboy. Corey Haim does nothing special out of his acting. "},{"Title":"Eighties movies rock!","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have seen many movies starring the two Coreys, including The lost Boys, a cheesy Dean Koontz movie, and some horrible psycho. sexual thriller, the name of which I cannot remember. But the best of these movies has got to be License to Drive. Feldman and Haim complement each other so well in this flick they should have one an award for best duo teen actors. The antics in this movie will keep you laughing through out the film. It has got everything. A Wiley, half senile grandfather, goofy but controlling parents, and tonnes of comical shots at growing up in a completely urbanized society. The only other comedy movies that I can think of are Ferris Buelers Day Off and Canon Ball Run.Anyway, if you have not seen License to Drive or the other recommended movies than I recommend that you watch them "},{"Title":"Good 80's Comedy!","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Corey Haim, Corey Feldman, Heather Graham, Nina Siemaszko, Carol Kane and Richard Masur star in this 1988 comedy. The late, Haim (The Lost Boys) plays teen, Les who fails his driving test and decides to secretly borrow his grandfather's 1972 Cadillac to go on a date with school crush, Mercedes (Graham). His romantic, Saturday night turns into a crash course when dealing with drunk drivers and such. Haim's Lost Boys co-star, Feldman plays his pal, Dean, Siemaszko (Airheads) plays Les' older sister, Natalie and Kane (The Princess Bride) and Masur (Risky Business) play their parents. This is a good 80's flick I've liked since I was a kid. Haim & the cast are good in it as well as Jay Ferguson's score. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"too annoying and predictable to be enjoyable","Date":"9 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hey, I like a cheesy 80s movie as much as the next guy, but this one was hard to watch. Compare this scenario with another Feldman-Haim movie, The Lost Boys. Though not a comedy, Lost Boys is much, much more funny than the explicitly comedic License. The latter movie telegraphs its jokes and plot twists from a mile away, while the former movie is far more sophisticated and original. Maybe that's it though - License is so cliché (not that that's necessarily a bad thing) that the laughs are corny while Lost Boys has an originality and freshness that delivers funny dialogue AND funny situations.I tell ya, it was hard to watch. Some scenes are so bad they're cringeworthy. The Mercedes line in the final minutes of the movie made me throw up a little bit in the back of my throat.And yeah, the dad is the dog-keeper guy from The Thing. I knew I recognized him, but couldn't place him. A quick IMDb search got that all straightened out. "},{"Title":"Genuinely Funny","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Two Coreys at their finest. I'll leave it up to you to decide what 'their finest' entails. The super slim plot summary would be 'high school kid wants license, car and girl'. The parents are very funny and have some of the best scenes. The 'girl' is named Mercedes Lane (pun overload?) and comes off as a privileged spoiled rich white kid with no morals or values, and the car that is the key to a date with her is a Cadillac. Luckily for us she spends most of the film passed out drunk in the back of this Cadillac. Questionable plot elements upon closer inspection are grand theft auto, driving without license, reckless driving, endangering motorists, teenage drinking, etc and the fact our main character gets away with it all, whilst destroying the Cadillac with no repercussions is a testament to the state of cinema in the 80s. A surprisingly fun movie. Even Corey Feldman is tolerable. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful,Hilarious,Entertaining Teen Comedy From The 1980s. The Two Corey's At Their Best.","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" License To Drive is a wonderful,hilarious and entertaining Teen Comedy from the 1980s that's filled with good direction,a great cast,terrific laughs and a fine score and soundtrack making License To Drive one of the better Teen Films of the 1980s and The Two Corey's at their best.License To Drive tells the story of Les Anderson(Corey Haim),a 16 year old teenager who is trying to get a driver license at the DMV. While Les passes his test driving on the road,he fails his computer exam. Although Les has no license and is in trouble with his parents,Les decides to take his Grandfather's Cadillac and go on a joyride with his friends Dean(Corey Feldman)and Charles(Michael Manasseri)and Les' dream girl Mercedes Lane(Heather Graham). It's going to be a wild night of laughs and insanity Les and the Cadillac.License To Drive is a terrific and hilarious Teen Comedy and is one of the better Teen movies of the 1980s that was the second movie starring the two Corey's Corey Haim and Corey Feldman and for 88 minutes offers nothing but fun and laughs. It's a movie that isn't trying to be thought-provoking or inventive,it's just a movie that tells you to turn off your brain for a while and just come along for the ride(no pun intended). License To Drive is a movie that is from the very start is outlandish and takes the viewer on a wild journey that gets more insane and over the top with a relentless energy and never stops until the end. This movie doesn't rely on realism or true life accuracy just lighthearted fun that will have you laughing. And while License To Drive maybe a little predictable and have tons of trademarks and familiar aspects that are in other Teen movies you as the viewer are entertained throughout and there is never a dull moment. The Comedy and laughs in License To Drive are funny and memorable because the Comedy has a wonderful balance of being simple one minute and being surreal and ridiculous the next with some characters and moments that are exaggerated and with dialog that is witty and clever. The Comedy and laughs are nonstop and incredible. What also makes License To Drive work so well is the structure of the film which is two sections. The first section is showing Les trying to ask out Mercedes and taking his driving test at the DMV and trying to get his license. The scenes at the DMV as well as Les driving on the road are pure Comedy gold and we as the viewer relate to Les' nervousness of trying to get a license. The second section of the film is about Les' joyride in the Cadillac with Mercedes and his friends and taking a big risk driving without a license. With the second section Les and his Grandfather's Cadillac take a lot bumps and bruises and even gets into a car chase which is one of the funniest moments in the film. The moments in the second section make the moments the first half look normal and regular in comparison and things get much worse for Les and the Cadillac. You can almost say that the second half of the movie is not only a Comedy but also an adventure with laughs,thrills and stunts. When we see the main character Les Anderson and the chaos that he has to deal with we connect and relate to him because he's a typical teenager who is in a crazy situation that is beyond his control and when we watch the film we are in the car with him and we see what he sees and we as the viewer all ask will he get the car back to his house before his parents find out? When you see the film you will find out what happens. The ending of License To Drive is truly wonderful,hilarious and filled with surprises and laughs that will put smiles on viewers faces. A great ending.The cast is great. Corey Haim is terrific and hilarious as Les Anderson,with Haim bringing Humor and a likable charm to the role. Corey Feldman is wonderful and funny as Dean,Les' friend with Feldman having great scenes with Haim. Richard Masur(Mr Anderson)and Carol Kane(Mrs. Anderson)are fantastic as Les' parents. Heather Graham is great and beautiful as Mercedes,Les' dream girl. James Avery is outstanding and funny as Les' DMV examiner. Helen Hanft is sensational as Miss Hellberg,a woman that works at the DMV. Michael Manasseri is memorable as Charles,Les' other friend. Nina Siemaszko does a fine job as Natalie Anderson,Les' twin sister. Parley Bear(Grandpa Anderson),Christopher Burton(Rudy Anderson),Grant Heslov(Karl),M.A Nickles(Paolo)and Harry Alan Miller(Drunk Driver)give good performances as well.The direction by Greg Beeman is great with Beeman always moving the camera and giving the movie a wonderful style and pace. Fantastic direction,Beeman.The score by Jay Fergusan is good,light and matches the film perfectly. The soundtrack is sensational with songs by Billy Ocean(Get Outta My Dreams,Get Into My Car),New Edition(Crucial),Frank Sinatra(That's Life,Strangers In The Night),Nia Peeples(Trouble),INXS(New Sensation),DJ Jazzy Jeff & The Fresh Prince(Jazzy's In The House),Belinda Carlisle(I Feel Free)and more.In final word,if you love Teen Films,Comedies or The Two Coreys,I highly suggest you see License To Drive,a wonderful and hilarious Teen Comedy from the 1980s that is worth your time. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Hard Drivin","Date":"4 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the best things about being a teen was no doubt having the opportunity to learn to drive. Driving for the teen meant the freedom to go where ever you wanted or needed to go, any time you want. But also for most it was a ticket to being cool. This is an 80's gem that I like and is a gem that has driven under the radar, it's not to say it wasn't popular for it's time but like certain vintage cars it became forgotten.There really not much to say, I really like the plot it's a simple no nonsense plot which is what I like about comedies. Yeah there is absurdity but that's part of what makes it funny. The music soundtrack I think is really good, I like the end credit theme song from Billy Ocean Out of my Dreams which is one of my personal favorite 80's songs.I really like the two Corries, shame both couldn't of kept up on the high end of their carriers, but oh well. Corey Halm whom sadly is no longer with us is great, I've always liked this actor he can do both comedic and serious roles. But anyway I like his character Les Anderson whom is a typical geek that is on a quest to be cool and to get the girl, is ill confidant always struggling to prevent disappointment and being uncool. Dean by Corey Feldman is great, his character just cracks me up, he has some of the best lines in the film my favorite was that speech he gave which is both funny but kinda true at the same time about life. His character is also on the same quest as Les but he is a little more confidant, and a person that is more loose and a bit wild.The adventures with the car are fun, fast paced and hilarious, it's pretty random what these characters run into. I don't want to give too much away, but my favorites are the infamous jump toward the Shaky's Pizza place (damn I miss that restaurant) and the solid car chase for the drunk driver.Though I think what really makes this comedy stand out is on it's emphasize and sympathy factor. Les's predicaments are both funny and a little sad at the same time because most of us have been there, or have felt it. From Les taking that drivers test and under pressure of failing. The threat of getting busted by your parents for something you know you shouldn't do, which results in Les saying my favorite line Im so dead, their going to have to bury me twice. yeah I sometimes thought those words from time to time. But just simply the desire for the first time to taste freedom, to not just be cool but feel cool, as well as just to simply drive.Overall License to Drive has plenty of millage for fun which makes it worth a test drive.Rating 3 stars "},{"Title":"A GOOD light hearted movie you gotta watch!!!","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well,I got hold of this movie from one of my friends and started watching it without any great expectations. But frankly speaking,this movie kept me entertained throughout. Its not the kind of movie where you are gonna die of laughter,but its worth a watch because of its light hearted nature. It will remind you of your days you spend to get hold of a drivers license.The lead actor(Corey haim) in this movie is pretty good and is well suited for the role.Carol Kane plays her role as his pregnant mom pretty well, and Richard Masur is superb as his understandably flustered dad. The Haim-Feldman team works pretty well together.Its a perfect movie whenever you are in a mood to watch a light hearted movie. i was surprised to see a 5.4 rating for this movie. Its surely worth 6 or 6.5.If you love teen movies you gotta watch this one!! "},{"Title":"Typical feel good movie of the 80's","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am so intrigued by teenage comedies from the 80's. The way people dressed back then, the music they listened to, their hair... I could go on and on. It's really freaky to look at all this from a distance.The other thing that I like about 80's comedies is that they are so innocent. No dick jokes, no fart jokes, just the good old problem of the main character trying not to get grounded.License To Drive is an overlooked little movie from that genre. It's no great classic like Ferris Bueller's Day Off, but it does have its charms. The two Coreys are in there as is a VERY young Heather Graham.The characters and the plot are totally unbelievable and there are no real laugh out loud-moments, but that doesn't matter so much. It's one of those flicks that are entertaining to watch nonetheless. If you like comedies like Adventures In Babysitting or Hot Pursuit, this one's for you. "},{"Title":"Cute, enjoyable 80s slapstick","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you want a light laugh on a boring day, LICENSE TO DRIVE is a good choice. In spite of a painfully outdated soundtrack of late 80s pop, the sight gags and one liners are still good for belly laughs.I like the cast Corey Haim, Corey Feldman, Heather Graham, Nina Siemazcko (I can never spell her name right!) Grant Hezlov, and my 2 favorites Richard Masur and Carol Kane as the parents whose own plot line is just as good as the 2 Coreys'.SPOILER AHEAD!!! Another cast member of huge importance is that beautiful teal cadillac!!! It is the only character who ends up DEAD by the end of this tale of one of the most hilariously disobedient kids any 2 parents ever had!!! It still holds up after 20 years... "}{"Title":"The Coreys in all Their Glory","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Corey Haim fails his driver's test. But this does not stop him from picking up his new girlfriend (Heather Graham) and his friends (including Corey Feldman) and going on an all-night adventure. This movie is so 80s it hurts! I love 80s movies. I love Corey Feldman movies. So, yes, I love this movie. My friend Jason and I watched this and could predict the entire plot as it went along (so many 80s clichés, so little time). You would think this predictability would make it a bad movie, but it only made it better. There should be an 80s movie Bingo with things like mobsters chase kids or kid steals car from parents on it... between this film and Adventures in Babysitting, you would have a blackout.I wonder one thing would Corey Feldman be better as the lead actor rather than the supporting cast? He is funnier and more likable than Haim (and more handsome), but can he carry a film? I guess we will never know. And luckily Heather Graham spends the majority of this movie in the trunk of a car. I know many people think she is hot, but even in the 80s when she was still young she was just not attractive to me. For the 80s, give me Ione Skye or Jennifer Jason Leigh or Elisabeth Shue, please.But yeah, if you like car chases and the dad from Fresh Prince of Bel-Air, this is your movie. If you like Carol Kane playing a pregnant woman, this is your movie. If you like excessive vulgarity and sex, this is not your movie (sorry, this is not Fast Times).I recommend this film. Heck, rent a few Feldman classics. Lost Boys, Goonies and this are all great. Maybe even Dream a Little Dream if you plan to be up all night. I can think of a worse film to watch while enjoying a cold beer and some buttery popcorn. Feldman may have grown up to be a complete jerk, but his glory days will never fade. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" License to DriveDriver's exams are the only assessment wherein, after you've passed, you can disregard everything you learned.Unfortunately, the new driver in this comedy must retain proper road etiquette a while longer, because he failed.Passing the road test, but not the written portion, Les (Corey Haim) is accidentally granted a license, which is later revoked.Being unlicensed, however, doesn't stop him from lying to his parents (Carol Kane, Richard Masur), so that he can take out the hottest girl in school, Mercedes (Heather Graham).While his fib fails, Les is not impeded. After dark he absconds with his grandfather's Cadillac and goes on a disastrous joyride with his drunken date and loser buddies (Corey Feldman, Michael Manasseri).Revving with riotous laughs, License to Drive is an ode to adolescent autoerotism and rebellion.Besides, it doesn't matter if a 16-year-old male doesn't have a license; he's paying triple for car insurance. (Yellow Light)vidiotreviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Funny and Smart","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" License to Drive (1988) *** (out of 4) Even though he failed his driver's test, a teen (Corey Haim) decides to steal his grandfather's Cadillac because the girl of his dreams (Heather Graham) asked him out on a date. After picking up his two best friends (Corey Feldman, Michael Manasseri) they head out for what's suppose to be a good time but they hit one disaster after another. This was one of my favorite movies before I hit 16-years-old because it was always a fun movie to watch and fantasize about what my first day out with a driver's license would be like. Watching the film now I was a little surprised to see how well it stood up and especially by how many of the jokes still pack a lot of laughs. This movie was clearly made to get the two Corey's together and they do a terrific job but the main reason for this is that the screenplay is so spot on and smart in terms of what happens. I think the screenplay perfectly builds up that teen spirit of being a dork and wanting the most beautiful girl in school. It perfectly builds up all the fun stuff that one does when they get a car. It perfectly builds up the two friend characters who are constantly want to do more and more simply because they're not the ones who own the car. The performances in the films are extremely good with Haim doing a great job with the nerd role. That shyness and laid back style of his perfectly fits this character and it's really the perfect mix for all the craziness that's going on in the movie. Feldman, to no shock, plays the wilder one and the two of them blending their styles makes it easy to see why they were so popular together. Graham isn't too bad either as she gets quite a few good scenes. Another major plus is Richard Masur and Carol Kane who play Haim's parents. They are both perfect in their roles and really add a lot of great laughs and especially Masur who pretty much steals the film with his lovable bear type performance. The soundtrack is totally 80s with The Breakfast Club doing a cover of The Beatles' Drive My Car and we've got Billy Ocean's smash Get Out of My Car and even a couple Sinatra songs added for great effect. This film isn't an Oscar-winner and it will never be confused as one. It is a great throwback to the 80s with some extremely good performances and a winning screenplay and that alone makes it worth viewing. "},{"Title":"sequel What Happened to Grandpa?","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I always wondered why a movie like this didn't spawn a series of sub-plot based sequels. I really wanted to know what the hell happened to Grandpa? I remember seeing this movie at a really young age getting really excited at the prospect of being a teenager, going for my license, having funky friends and having a shot at awkward circumstances with a hottie like Heather Graham. Of course, life never unfolds in quite the same manner as a 1980s Two Corey's teen movie, but hey, I have an element of curiosity now as an adult about what happened to Grandpa during Les' ill-destined weekend. Such a film could be a stand-alone comedy with a few token references to the first. Of course, the movie would have to be done in that retro 80s style made so popular by such movies as The Wedding Singer. I really believe a sequel would be viable. "},{"Title":"Pure 1980s","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Oh i love this movie. I know i only gave it 4 stars, but lets face it folks thats what it deserves. But I do love this movie, if its ever on TV I can help but watch it. This is a perfect 80s movie, with both of the freakin corey's how can you beat that? With a stick. Anyway, you know what you got here - a stupid teen 80s movie about getting your drivers liscense. If it sounds like something you don't want to see then don't see it. Otherwise go an see it, its better than Cats. I do hate the one corey, you know the one that always has his mouth open, lousy mouth breather, he's the one that got fat and almost died from drugs, oh wait they both did that. "},{"Title":"Hip and hilarious joy ride!","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is, aside from The Lost Boys, the best film Haim has ever done.  It is a non-stop joy ride of adolescent fun that all ages can enjoy, teens can relate and adults can remember.  I'm not saying any Oscars should be handed out, but the entertainment value is full of fun and laughs.  Haim and Feldman pair great together.  This is a must see movie from that decade. ENJOY THE SHOW!!! "},{"Title":"A wonderful and memorable comedy","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Along with Back to the Future and The Breakfast Club, Licence to Drive is one of my favourite 80's movies. I remember seeing it when I was very young and I still love to get it out on video every now and then. No matter how old you get, this film still brings back all those teenage issues such as embarrassing parents, the girl of your dreams, being grounded, pushy best friends and of course passing your driving exam. Licence to Drive creates a wonderful and humorous balance between all these issues, with Corey Haim brilliant as Les, taking his one big shot of getting the girl of his dreams.The other co-stars in this film also make a great impression, namely, Richard Masur and Carol Kane as Les' parents and the memorable performance of James Avery as his driving instructor. Everytime I have a coffee, I think of that scene when Les first gets into the instructors car. Other wonderful scenes include Les' encounter with a tow-truck driver and the hilarious scene where Les and Mercedes dance on the hood of his Grandfathers caddy with the tune of Frank Sinatra's,Strangers in the night echoing in the background.If you're after a hilarious light-hearted comedy that has stood the test of time, and bring back all those awkward teenage memories, then Licence to Drive is definitely the one to watch. "},{"Title":"Drive Away.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  High schooler Corey Haim has just taken his driving exam. The only problem is he failed the written part miserably in this terrible teen film. Friends Corey Feldman and Michael Manasseri believe that Haim is now a license holder and decide to have a wild night of driving around town. Haim is too embarrassed to tell anyone the truth as he tries to get the girl of his dreams in the venture (a young Heather Graham). Clue-less parents Carol Kane and Richard Masur complete the likeable cast that just do not have near enough material to make the production a success. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"License to Drive","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Hughes-like teen comedy with the always nauseating Haim starring as a high schooler who fails his written driving exam but tries his expertise at driving anyways to woo a beautiful woman. Masur is the most entertaining thing in this all too familiar style film as Haim's father.  "},{"Title":"Fun and Lightweight...Just what a teenage comedy needs to be!","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  License to Drive is one of those few movies to come on at three in the morning on a Friday night that will always capture my attention.  It is a fun comedy, and one of the last of its genre at the near end of the decadent 80s.One-time teen sensations, Corey Haim and Corey Feldmen, hot off Joel Schumacher's teen vampire opus The Lost Boys, star as a pair of friends who spend one wild night in Haim's character, Les Anderson's grandfather's 16-year old prize Cadillac.  Well, naturally, hilarity ensues, as does every driving disaster known to man.Great performances abound, especially our two starring Coreys, but also look for stand-out turns by Richard Masur and Carol Kane as the hapless parents of Les.  Also keep your eyes opened for a young Heather Graham, who plays the aptly named Mercedes, and the object of young Les' affection.All in all, an enjoyable, breezy comedy.Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Worst movie ever!","Date":"12 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie has been very, very terrible to watch. I hate this film so much, it makes me not buy it to watch on VHS, Blu-Ray, or DVD. The plot is horrible, and the cast is uselessly picked. It's like a terrible mix of Rush Hour and Dr. No. Why did they create this film? I hate to answer the question. This comedy needs a lot of help, and is so bad, you need an actor to explain this movie for you. Another problem with this film is that it is a short length. If you asked to buy this film, I wouldn't ask myself. I believe this film is unfunny and I need to see a film that doesn't have bad taste in comedy. I don't believe that Corey Haim would make a great lead, either. "},{"Title":"great 80s teen movie","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of Haim's best movies, after Lucas and Lost Boys this is his best. Another star-in-the-making is Heather Graham who plays Mercedes Lane, star of Austin Powers The Spy Who Shagged Me she played Felicity Shagwell. You know after 10 years she doesn't look any different. This is her first movie.16-year old Les would give his right leg to get his license to impress his love from afar Mercedes(Graham) who basically dates 20-year old men with sweet cars. After Les fails his driving exam and is grounded, he gets a call from Mercedes asking if he wants to ride around with her. He goes for this once in a lifetime offer and successfully sneaks out with his grandfather's Cadillac. And from then on it's total chaos. I recommend this movie, I give Licsense to Drive  9.5/10  "},{"Title":"One of The Funniest 80's Comedies","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Even though it wasn't directed by John Hughes, LICENSE TO DRIVE is one of the 80's best comedies and is a pure classic. The movie is a whole lot of good fun; the laughs never stop, the pace moves fast, and the cast is terrific. This is one of my favorite movies and I'm glad to have it in my tape collection. Don't miss this movie, even if you can't stand Corey Haim and Feldman.   "},{"Title":"A gem in 80's teen comedies!","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young LES ANDERSON (COREY HAIM) longs for the day when he can get his drivers license & attend parties & other social events with people his own age, with out his parents having to drive him there, finally the day of the big drivers test comes & Les even winds up getting a date with the girl of his dreams! Then comes the weekend, where he will take his granddad's most prized possession which is of course a car & pick up the girl of his dreams for a hot date, the problem? He failed his drivers test! therefore he has no license, but hey, what can possibly go wrong? Well since this is a teen comedy plenty, you can run into trouble with other punks, get the car trampled on by mobs of protesters, drunks can steal you're car & drive around in it, mess it up a lot & eventually pass out behind the wheel, which of course would lead to a chase to try & get behind the wheel of the car before it crashes & cops could be running road stops which woulden't be too good if they asked you for a License & you didn't have one & they find you're date intoxicated & passed out asleep in the trunk...Hilarious teen comedy is a true 80's gem & one that all fans of this genre should see, it's funny & at times romantic. I had a blast with it, it was so funny!. COREY HAIM & COREY FELDMAN make a great comedy team & HEATHER GRAHAM is believable as Haim's dream girl. Great fun all the way.**** (stars) "},{"Title":"Banal teen flick","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This banal film would surely only appeal to twelve to fifteen year-olds with little or no taste. Written by Neil Tolkin and directed by Greg Beeman, License to Drive finds the Corey twins (Haim and Feldman) as young teens who would do anything to obtain a driver licence, even lie! When young 'Les' (Haim) does just this in order to take out the girl of his dreams, all hell breaks loose.All the humour (or at least ninety-eight percent of it) fails in this pathetically predictable teen-flick. And the film's main draw cards, Corey and Corey and of course Heather Graham, put up a poor showing in this stupid movie. Don't bother!Sunday, September 20, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"LOVE IT!!","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember I saw this movie when I was young.  And I loved it.  I am a huge Corey Haim fan and this is probaly one of my favorite movies.  If you are a fan of the B 80s movies that is has to be on your must see list.  It is a lot of fun and if you have a laid-back attitude than you will enjoy this movie.    "},{"Title":"Lots of Fun","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the best teen comedy of the 1980s. Fueled by his lust for a young Heather Graham (who can blame him?), Haim, who recently failed his driver's exam, takes her and his Grandfather's Caddy out for the night. Predictably, everything goes wrong in an increasingly hilarious way. Filled with sharp-witted dialogue and great performances by the two Coreys, this movie is an awful lot of fun. THere's no way you can not laugh at this movie. Just no way. "},{"Title":"Great Corey Haim Movie","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just rented this movie yesterday and being a big fan of Corey Haim I had high expectations and I wasn't let down.  License to Drive is a great movie, it is extremely funny and entertaining.  It has a great cast and appeals to any audience. I was only 1 year old when this movie came out(I am 15)  but the jokes that were made still appeal to todays teenagers.  This is a great movie and I highly recommend renting it. "},{"Title":"good fun","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the intellectual equivalent of a bag of Doritos. Its a wonderful way to waste two hours. I saw it upon release and had a chance to see it again over in Kuwait. Corey Haim stars as a none-too-bright kid who dreams of getting a drivers license. Corey Feldman is an actor who has been so unjustly maligned. He is much more talented then given credit for. He generally steals the show in any film he is in. Carol Kane is entertaining as the mother, there is one scene that shows her eating mashed potatoes and ketchup though that might turn your stomach. The funny thing about films like this is they generally portray the parents as even dumber then the kids. Thats probably why they are so popular. The scene where there trying to get that drunk as he drives away and slowly destroys the car is really funny (especially when he throws up in the front seat). "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Granted i was 13 last time i saw this one but it was and i'd wager still is a great, fun and enjoyable teen comedy.  Coming at a time when the Haim/Feldman era was peaking it is possibly Lost Boys aside (different class!) their best movie.  I can remember thinking i wish i was Haim by the end of the great reverse driving sequence and it also gave me my first real crush on a young Heather Graham.  It's not going to win any awards but it was a trend setter for modern films such as She's all that, 10 Things i hate about you and Califonia Man (sorry Encino man for those of the USA variety).  If you like them then this is a safe bet. "}{"Title":"Typical '80's teen comedy","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  License to drive again pairs Corey Haim with his namesake Feldman in this jolly teen comedy. Haim plays a boy who has failed his driving test but pretends he has passed in order to take the girl of his dreams ('BOOGIE NIGHTS' star Heather Graham in an early role) out on a date. The date turns into a nightmare as Haim - in his grandad's car - along with Feldman and co. get more than they bargain for when everything that can go wrong does. A great laugh in the vein of a John Hughes movie it really is typical of the type of film which Hollywood churned out in the mid to late 1980s. "},{"Title":"Predictable but entertaining.","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is very typical of lightweight 80's comedies. Not too exciting, but it will entertain you for the two hours you commit to it. It is worth watching to see Heather Graham, if for no other reason. "},{"Title":"forgive me my humor","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I sat through this awkward funny but not so funny stupid movie; others say they liked it; maybe I'm just too old or from another school.  What nonsense making fun of serious conditions, etc.  If the kids liked it, I can't understand their upbringing, There is no excuse for such nonsense. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Are we really curious whether Corey will get his license?","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Some of the reigning stars of the moment (and some moments ago) have started their career with the Troma Studios (Billy Bob Thornton, Kevin Costner). Corey Haim however, started with solid material like 'the Lost boys' (1987) to proceed via liquid and humorless teen comedies like this one and finally vaporizes his career taking part in no less than four flopping crapfests in 1996.'Death Race 2000' (1975) must be the reason why Corey Haim tried to obtain his driver's license from 'Bullet' (1985) to 'License to drive' (1988). Will he finally graduate? I'm not sure if I really care. After all the notable teen comedies (Ferris Bueller, Weird Science, or even Pretty in pink, and other John Hughes stuff, etc etc), Beeman came forward with this degenerate attempt to make a buck. Avoid it. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Heather Graham...","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First time I ever saw Heather Graham... I knew she'd be big... or I hoped it. The movie itself is definitely OK. Not great, but reasonably funny, and certainly never cringe-inducingly bad.The two Coreys are actually good in this, and Haim playing a kid instead of a cool guy is definitely more his speed. "}]