[{"Title":"Heather O'Rourke is the greatest (her best acting, IMO)","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"41 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Going in a different direction from the previous two movies in the series, this one took a few chances. The high-rise, mirrors, a new Kane(sad what happened to Julian Beck), etc. I loved this movie for those reasons. Not saying I didn't enjoy the other two because those were excellent, but it seemed like there wasn't anything in there to make them considered a horror movie except for the presence of ghosts with a little bit of suspense. Poltergeist III contained murder, suspense, tricky camera angles and most of all, the best acting I have ever seen from Heather O'Rourke. She was so adorable in her red pajamas and I truly believe she carried the movie with up to par performances by Skeritt, Allen, Rubenstein, Fire, Flynn Boyle and Wentz. Her presence on screen while watching this movie is so magnificent and very believable. When I was little, she was my first crush and I loved her, I only found out on 6-4-2005 that she passed away and it crushed me. I say this is the best of the series and I know I am the minority, but hey, to each his own. I realize the first movie is pretty much legendary for her famous line They're Here, but I feel the acting here is better. The way they made the concept of the mirrors work is amazing and I thought it was a great attempt a something new. I gave this movie a 9/10 because of how much I enjoyed Heather O'Rourke's performance. Check it out. "},{"Title":"A little flawed, but acceptable","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Poltergeist III is easily the weakest of the series.**SPOILERS**Staying in Chicago with relatives Bruce, (Tom Skerritt) and Patricia Gardner, (Nancy Allen) and their daughter Donna, (Lara Flynn Boyle) Carol Anne Freeling, (Heather O'Rourke) is trying to start life over with a new family. Almost as soon as they get settled in with each other, strange phenomena begin affecting the family at different locations. They are misinterpreted by her school teachers as something wrong with her, and think she needs to be treated accordingly. Carol Anne was telling the truth, as Reverend Henry Kane, (Nathan Davis) tracks her down and uses his spirits to help him.The Good News A sequel to one of the greatest films ever made isn't a big challenge, and this one at least attempts some new ideas. The move into the urban area rather than the suburbs in part 1 or countryside in part 2 is more than welcome and allows for some traps that might be from an unknown source. That is the main source of scares in the film, when an unexpected action occurs from a familiar object. The most obvious is the appearance through the door. It's a striking scene that really leaps out of the screen, as does the gag in the garage. The series of hallway mirror gags are some of the most suspenseful ones in the entire series, and is quite imaginative and clever. The film really picks up once the spirits attack, as all sort of great scenes come up and the pace quickens. The last thirty minutes are undoubtedly the best of the film. This alone makes the film exciting and watchable.The Bad News Aside from those, there really wasn't a lot else going on. It just lags a lot in the beginning with needless and uncommonly grating exposition that is hard to get through. It's what really hurts the film, as it just makes the it a chore to sit through. The cheesiness of the film is also a hurting factor. With no real jump scares in it, it has to rely on it's moments to get the job done, but after that, there's really nothing to the film. It's a real shame, as this had a lot of potential, but with one cheesy, over-the-op scene after another just wears you out. The middle section is the most obvious example, as too much time is spent on the initial discovery of the haunted apartment. The teen antics on display are also a great distraction, feeling entirely out of place and in no real help to the film. It could've easily been taken out with no real damage done. There's several other small little scenes here and there that weren't all that great, but those can be dealt with on an individual basis.The Final Verdict This is a fun movie if that's what you're looking for, but it's cheesiness with no doubt ruin it for those looking for more of a serious time like the first one. It's worth a rental for fans to determine whether it's okay or not, but it's not without a little groaning moments along the way.Rated PG-13 Violence, Language and children in jeopardy "},{"Title":"This series is worn out by now","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Although Poltergeist II wasn't a box office smash, MGM still decided to make another entry - possibly because then MGM was considered the last stop in Hollywood by producers wanting to make feature films (and still is to a degree), and MGM then *really* needed the money (and still does to a degree). The end results really look like a token effort made to make a quick buck. Despite the luxury high-rise setting, much of the movie looks somewhat impoverished. There are a few good special effects (I saw a TV program that revealed that many of them were actually all done on set, instead of being added to the movie after principle shooting), but there are some shabby effects as well (specifically the ice effects seen several times in the movie.) The script contains a number of unanswered questions, more if you haven't seen any of the previous movies. The cast (especially the male actors) all seem to be phoning it in, showing their feeling to the entire enterprise. MGM put this out on DVD with part II, probably because they thought (correctly) that no one would buy part III on its own. "},{"Title":"No classic but it absolutely terrifies me","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was shocked when I came to this site to see how low the rating is for this movie. I loved horror movies as a kid and still do, but of everything I remember watching when I was younger, Poltergeist III scared me the most. I would go literally weeks before I could look at myself in the mirror again... I'd always have to run by them. I used to watch this movie with my friends and it made them equally afraid of mirrors. I'm not going all out to say that the acting was high quality or that it goes down in my books as a classic horror movie but I think it's highly underrated. It's an incredibly dark, terrifying movie in my opinion. I think it's by far the scariest of the three Poltergeist movies, although the original Poltergeist is my favorite. "},{"Title":"Positive thoughts  -)","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I honestly DO NOT know why this film was criticized for being so bad.....while it's not as good as the 1st Poltergeist movie, it's DEFINITELY NOT a bad movie!  The film boasts a good cast (Heather O'Rourke, Lara Flynn Boyle, Nancy Allen, Tom Skerritt), GREAT special effects, and has some scary moments to boot.  It's certainly better than some of the 80's slasher movies, where too many sequels ruined the originals, and I honestly think that it rates up there as being a very underrated horror movie of its time.  -) "},{"Title":"Break the mirror!","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" At times, watching Poltergeist 3 is like watching a bunch of different movies at once. You have John Hughes style teen angst with Lara Flynn Boyle, you have yuppie love problems with Tom Skerrit and Nancy Allen and finally you have the horror film with Heather O'Rourke.There is definitely an interesting concept hiding in this film. Carol Anne has been sent by her parents to live with her aunt and uncle in a Chicago high rise so she can attend a special school to deal with her emotional problems. At school, Carol Anne has been forced to talk about her experiences during the first two films, and this has brought back the Reverend Kane, the ghostly villain of Poltergeist 2. In a neat touch, Kane tries to get at Carol Anne through mirrors by taking possession of various peoples' reflections, and draining the heat out of the apartment building. Tangina arrives to try to intercede, but another ghostly battle begins to get Carol Anne back.It is clear that this movie was lower budget than the first two, and as such, the effects, while very creative, are not as good. The script also suffers, dragging for a good portion of the movie, and not really developing the characters. Also, the words Carol Anne are said ad nauseum to the point where you almost wish the ghosts would just take Carol Anne and go.This is the weakest of the three Poltergeist movies. The movie isn't terrible, but it certainly is not good either. "},{"Title":"Dr. Seaton, You Rock.","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Strange little sequel filled with annoying characters and some horrible dialog. Poltergeist 3 is not really all that bad, it just suffers greatly from those two flaws. Story does wisely by switching the setting from the suburbs to the big city. The character Carol Anne now resides with her aunt and uncle and snobby cousin in Chicago, where they live in a high rise. Soon, ghosts start popping up again. This movie has some of the stupidest lines in it, it's often hard not to grin. O'Rourke did a good acting job in the first two films. Here, not so good. I think that may be the fault of whoever wrote the go-nowhere script. A lot of the characters lines in this seem forced or overacted. Especially the character of Dr. Seaton. The special effects are impressive though. The makers used a lot of mirror tricks that really pull the movie through it's stupider moments. However, the chopped off head of Kane scene was atrocious. I guess this movie suffered because of severe budget cuts.A lot of scenes in this movie feel a bit lame(the kid who busts up through the ice and runs into the window, the break the mirror scene,the kid who flips off the security camera, etc., etc.). Nancy Allen, who plays the aunt, does not look happy to be involved in this. Weaker entry in the series, but it is watchable. Seems a bit rushed. Features annoying teenagers you would find in a Friday The 13th movie. A guy rips off Lara Flynn Boyle's cheek. And whats with that growling window pane in the end? Ya gotta see it if you saw the first two. Two stars. "},{"Title":"Bad on all counts.","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"31 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What made the first Poltergeist so appealing was how likeable the characters were. For the 3rd installment in the Poltergeist series only Heather O'rourke (Carol Anne) and Zelda Rubinstein (Tangina) are hold overs from the original cast. If O'rourke and Rubinstein were smart they would have skipped particiapating in this bomb of a movie also.Though the special effects were somewhat interesting this movie suffers from a bad script and bad acting highlighted by the actor who plays Dr. Seaton, who may have given the worst acting performance ever. There are far too many characters in this movie who are uninteresting and that you have a hard time caring about.There is a certain sadness in watching this film knowing that Heather O'rourke died a few months before it's release. A double for Heather  is used to shoot the final scenes of the movie which creates an odd and choppy ending.This movie is a sad final chapter in the Potergeist series. The people behind the 2nd and 3rd installments were never able to recapture the magic from the original Poltergeist. It's even sadder that the cute and innocent little girl passed away at such a young age.  "},{"Title":"Third times the charm","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first POLTERGEIST is still the best haunted house film in history(In my opinion.), but this 2nd and final(?)sequel comes in at a close 2nd. Carol Anne stays with some relatives(Tom Skeritt, Nancy Allen, and Lara Flynn Boyle.)in a Chicago highrise to go to a special school for gifted children. Suddenly the evil Reverend Kane and his army of ghosts from the first two films show up to make life Hell for the residents of the highrise. Exciting, suspenseful, great story, acting, and music score. ***** out of *****. R.I.P. Heather O'rourke. "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Movies I have ever seen","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Poltergeist III is truly one of the worst movies I have ever seen. The plot is illogical in terms of the rest of the series, as the poltergeists have developed different powers and methods than they used in the rest of the series. Furthermore, the main actors, Skerrit and Allen, are given virtually nothing to do except run around and look vaguely spooked. They cannot show the attachment to Carol Anne that was demonstrated by JoBeth Williams and Craig T. Nelson in the first two movies. Lara Flynn Boyle, making her major film debut, is virtually unrecognizable with a fluffy 80s hairstyle. Finally, one supporting character, a doctor, remains skeptical of the poltergeists far too long to be credible. "}{"Title":"CAROL ANNE!!!!","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst of the trio of Poltergeist movies by far.  In fact it is almost a joke it is so bad.  By now everyone from the original movie is either dead or they have opted out of their contracts and decided against playing in this third installment.  All except the one little woman and Heather O'Rourke.  Though she would have probably been better off not returning as well because she died of complications from the flu or something during the shoot.  If she could have just been able to rest she might have been able to pull through, but I am guessing the movie shoot was just a bit to demanding.  As it is she had to appear in one of the most utterly ridiculous and annoying horror movies ever.  To her credit though she is the least annoying character in the movie as she is one of the few who doesn't yell out CAROL ANNE one hundred times.  This movie has Carol Anne shipped to her aunt and uncle, apparently after all they had been through and done for the girl they Carol Anne's parents (played by Craig T. Nelson and Joe Beth Williams) just could not put up with her anymore. This contradicts the message of part 2 of the family using their love to fight off the evil.  Well not all goes well for Carol Anne in her new settings as the evil old guy from part 2 is back to try and get her (played by a different person this time because the other guy died, and looking quite stupid I might add).  They live in a skyscraper so it is kind of like Gremlins 2 except not as entertaining.  This one is slow moving and rather boring as there just are not the cool special effects from the previous two installments.  Instead of ghosts we get killer cars and people who are different in mirrors that kill people by pushing them down.  And after this one finally drags itself to the finish you will be left wondering what happened to the poor guy who is seemingly left on the other side. "},{"Title":"Overall Disappointing Sequel","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Poltergeist III was overall disappointing sequel which is nothing new! The third ghost film has Carol Anne living with her uncle and aunt in a skyscraper apartment building of some sort and now goes to a private school for gifted children and has a bald headed psychiatrist who can really test your nerves. OK! Whats up with the obsession with the mirrors in this one! It's an original idea but the villain known as Kane (introduced in the better sequel) gets on your nerves also as he keeps calling Carol Anne's name over and over and over. That's not spooky that's stupid and annoying. The thing with this one is that it resorts too much to the 80' slasher cliches; gore, violent disgusting images, teenagers acting like fools getting into trouble, and very lame dialogue! The first two lacked these qualities which made them good! They avoided the cliches while still being entertaining. This one is about half as entertaining as the first (don't get me wrong! it is entertaining at times but not enough!) and the ending is rushed and pointless. Check out the critics' slamed reviews and the failing box office numbers. You'll see what I mean!  4 out of 10 I'm being a little generous!  "},{"Title":"An OK end to the Poltergeist trilogy.","Date":"28 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is an OK second sequel to Poltergeist, where Carol Anne has been sent to live with her Aunt Patricia and Uncle Bruce to hide from Reverend Kane. However, his ghost was able to follow her to her relatives' apartment in the tall Chicago skyscraper and begins another spree of terror. The Poltergeist trilogy has lost some steam by the time this third outing was made, as I thought it lacks the thrills and suspense as the first two movies. The character development, I thought, weren't as strong as well, as it appears the lead actors, Tom Skerritt and Nancy Allen, didn't give a very heartfelt performance in their roles and didn't appear to have a strong relationship with Carol Anne. There are still some creepy scenes and the special effects were decent. Again, like the first two movies, this sequel doesn't rely on gore and violence to make it entertaining, but rather relies on the ghost's presence and the powers they are able to unleash. The screenplay and story by Steve Feke, Gary Sherman and Brian Taggert were OK-written, a plot that is easy to follow, but not an extremely riveting story overall. The direction by Gary Sherman was OK and the acting was pretty great for the most part, most notably the performances of Heather O'Rourke as Carol Anne and Zelda Rubinstein as Tangina.Overall, it's not great, it's not bad, but is a somewhat average movie to close out the Poltergeist trilogy.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Somebody please lead that guy into the light!","Date":"23 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the third and final (although, knowing Hollywood, there will probably come a remake of the original sooner rather than later) entry in the Poltergeist franchise, which is according to yours truly the most overrated and unjustly successful horror franchises in the history of cinema. I never understood the popularity of the original classic because it is an incredibly clichéd, immature and over-sentimental piece of crap that presumably only had success because Steven Spielberg's name was attached to it. The sequel - unimaginatively entitled The Other Side - is just as dull, but for some incomprehensible reason even that film is highly appreciated among horror loving audiences. Poltergeist III, however, is widely considered as a downright failure and a disgrace to the series. Now I don't intend to be contradictory without reason, but personally I actually enjoyed the third part a lot more than the first two parts! This is still an extremely mediocre, forgettable and sometimes very dumb spook-tale, but at least it's not as infantile and whiny than its predecessors.Thanks to the more specific horror expertise of director Gary Sherman (Dead & Buried, Vice Squad) and writer Brian Taggert (Visiting Hours, Of Unknown Origin), Poltergeist III relies more on macabre atmosphere and gruesome effects, rather than on expensive lights & lasers shows. The screenplay inventively adds the use of mirrors to generate multiple uncomfortable sequences, and the film contains a lot less false scares and pointless boo-moments! The Freeling family finally got fed up with all of little Carol-Anne unwelcome and irritating ghost-stalkers, so they send her away to Auntie Patricia and Uncle Bruce in Chicago. They live high up in the ultra-modern and hi-tech skyscraper of which Bruce is the caretaker, and Carol-Anne attends school in an institution for gifted but emotionally unstable children. It doesn't take long before the Preacher Kane shows his nasty mug in the tower again. He enjoys cracking the mirrors, messing with the elevators and icing the luxurious pools, but he mainly just keeps nagging for Carol-Anne to lead them back into the light. Midget-medium Zelda Rubinstein to the rescue once again, I'm afraid&#x85; There's a lot of senseless nonsense and too many tedious dialogs in the script, but at least this is partially compensated through a handful of creepy moments (the possessed cars, eerie mirror reflections or the absence hereof&#x85;). The make-up effects are delightfully tacky and typically 80's, including one of the characters bursting through the corpse of another. Heather O'Rourke, the young ambassador of the whole series, sadly crossed over to the other side herself before the movie was fully completed. Poltergeist III is dedicated to her memory. "},{"Title":"A Let Down, But Not Awful","Date":"24 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This sequel was a let-down when compared to the first two entries.A tiny bit watchable, but only because of the performance of Heather O'Rourke as Carol Anne. The special effects were also the only things that kept it very slightly watchable. The script and story are the only things that bring this feature down. Cinematography was done greatly.This sequel is only memorable for the repetitive name calls Carol Anne! Carol Anne! Carol Anne! This movie makes me feel for Heather; especially after her passing before the film was even released.The ending was disappointing; I would have preferred the original ending. It's a real disappointment that it's impossible to see the deleted scenes, including the original ending.I did notice each film getting darker after the other, in the first sequel the poltergeist went so far to the fact that they wanted to kill the family to get Carol Anne, here someone is actually killed. "},{"Title":"Guess who's back in town?","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Okay, now its Poltergeist III. The only two returning actresses are Heather O'Rourke and Zelda Rubenstein. Its about Carol Anne who moved to her aunt (played by Nancy Allen) and uncle's (played by Tom Skerrit) high rise apartment building. Her aunt and uncle's daughter (played by Lara Flynn Boyle) lives there too. Carol Anne finds out that Reverend Kane (from the 2nd movie) has returned to make her lead him into the light, and the more she doesn't, the more friends of hers will get killed.The acting is terrible mostly but Heather O'Rourke does an excellent job in her last performance and Lara Flynn Boyle also does very good. Tom Skerrit didn't do too good in this one and neither did Nancy Allen. Reverend Kane doesn't even look like himself. The special effects were very good and the use of mirrors was also really cool. The part where the kids were sneaking around was the most intense part of the movie because the movie is not intense. Richard Fire was atrocious as Dr. Seaton and him denying everything just goes way too far. The movie is entertaining and fun. The ending was somewhat abrupt because Heather O'Rourke was dead before filming finished. An average sequel and an okay way to end the story.Overall 5/10 "},{"Title":"Pathetic ending of a good series","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have to admit that I really like the first part,  I also consider the 2nd installment as a worthy sequel.  What makes part I & II special to me is that they have a nice storyline, quite a fair amount of suspense and characters you care for,  none of which can be found here.  Only 2 of the main characters are left.  All this movie has are some nice special effects and a lot of running & screaming.  There doesn't seem to be much of a plot as you can find in the other 2 parts.  Even if you watch this movie isolated from the other 2, you won't find much to enjoy.  If you consider it the last part of a trilogy you may consider it unnecessary as it doesn't add anything to the otherwise interesting storyline.It's sad to see that this was Heather O'Rourke's last movie, she was the only reason which made me watch it until the end (even though she's not in the final scene).  4 out of 10 for her.  "},{"Title":"Unnecessary trash","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The original Poltergeist is my personal favorite movie ever made. And as though part 2 wasn't bad enough, they had to go and make this! First off, they should have gotten JoBeth williams and Craig T. Nelson back. Tom Skerritt and Nancy Allen just can't hold a candle to those two. Second what is up with the extreme bad acting. I have never seen acting this bad in a movie that was not made-for-TV or video. Obviously, a new director was needed. No coincidence that Gary Sherman has never made a popular movie since. The only good thing about this sequel is the visual effects. The use of mirrors for most of them is certainly different from the first two movies. But even the effects are off in timing. If you look closely enough (and are not asleep after the first ten minutes) the reactions of the actors in the mirrors are either a few seconds fast or slow! "},{"Title":"Effectively killed the series","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I place the original Poltergeist among the best 10 horror movies of all time.  You would think that when only two of the original's stars would agree to make a third (Heather O'Rourke and Zelda Rubenstein), they would have taken that as a sign.  Guess not.  The script is dull, the special effects grade Z, not a single scare in the film.  This goes down as one of the worst sequels in history, having little if nothing to do with the original.  Avoid it at all costs. "},{"Title":"annoying and unnecessary","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As another user put it, this was the last straw in the Poltergeist saga.I'm a die-hard fan of the first movie, and I enjoyed the second somewhat, but I found this one unnecessary, clumsy, and often annoying at times.  The beast was destroyed in the Poltergeist II, so why did he come back again in P3?  I guess the writers of this movie had absolutely no original ideas of their own for a horror movie, much less an existing one.The only redeeming factor in this flick is Heather O'Rourke's final acting performance before her sudden death shortly after filming.  This movie was a good indicator that O'Rourke had natural childlike appeal, and could be dramatic when it was appropriate (like in the psychotherapy session with her screwball psychiatrist).  I believe she would have gone on to be a very talented actress in the 1990s.  So tragic...   "}{"Title":"Sadly disappointing finale","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Heather O'Rourke is one of the only original cast members who returns for this Final Chapter in the Poltergeist series.Director Gary Sherman, a special effects wiz, presents us with some impressive visual trickery (all apparently produced on the set), but offers nothing else in the way of entertainment. His film is very rarely scary, rather mostly just plain silly, as Carol-Anne once again faces the evil preacher Cain (an unimpressive Nathan Davis) who this time has taken over an entire sky-scraper.The cast do nothing for proceedings, and even Zelda Rubinstein (who also returns as Tangina) looks as though she wished she wasn't there. Jerry Goldsmith's music is also missing, but perhaps that too would have made little difference to the final outcome. Not much of a finale to this frightening, spooky story.NB Heather O'Rourke sadly passed away after production was completed, at the premature age of 12. A dedication can be found in the closing credits.Saturday, January 1, 1994 - Video "},{"Title":"What a load of crap!","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ~May contain spoilers~Having suffered through the movie and perused the other comments, I'd like to express my opinion on why this movie sucks.First, the original (Poltergeist) was good. Very scary for its time. And Tangina was only slightly annoying.The second, while suffering the dreaded curse of the sequel, was still pretty good, and it was nice to see the original characters again. (Though, they should have made some mention to the oldest daughter, like perhaps commenting on her being in college or staying with friends or whatever.) And Kane really creeped me out. I couldn't stop staring at his teeth.Now to rip into the final chapter. The first was good because there were elements of an actual poltergeist in it, such as the lights flickering, the chairs being rearranged. And there was still a bit of that in the second movie, with the doll's head moving. But in the third, there wasn't one single element of a typical poltergeist encounter in it. It just wasn't plausible like the first one. And fancy mirror tricks and disgusting corpses don't make up for that.The fact that people actually died in this one made it worse. In the first, no one died. It was just mind-f**ks and scares. And I really felt for the characters. When Carol-Anne said Hi Daddy when waking up in the bathtub covered in goo, it was cute. There just wasn't any real family connection in this one. They didn't FEEL like a family.The only thing that saved this movie was... wait, there WASN'T anything good about the movie. Heather's performance was the only bright light in that whole damn thing. I guess that's why the spirits were attracted to her in the first place. She had a low-cheese factor. "},{"Title":"The supposed final installment...","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In this somewhat more darker in tone, but really none the better sequel, little CAROL ANNE is sent to live with her Aunt & Uncle in a neat apartment building, only to find that the evil REVERAND KANE has found her once again & along with other pesky ghosts, sets out to claim her & destroy all who dare oppose him, but the small little lady/Ghost Hunter who helped Carol Anne in the past is back as well to put a stop to Kane once & for all. In terms of acting/directing, POLTERGEIST 3 succeeds, as well as delivering several spooky moments to rival that of the first two, but when compared to the first two films, POLTERGEIST 3 is the least in the series, as you can tell by watching it that this series has gotten old really fast (I mean they were bound to run out of idea's but so soon?) not that Poltergeist 3 is a bad film, like I said above, it's well acted & well directed, the special effects still steal the show & there are several spooky moments, but the film lacks the magical edge established in the first two. A TV series supposedly based on the series is really an in name only series. Rumor has it that a POLTERGEIST 4 is in the works & if it's true, than hopefully it will get back to the feeling of the original.*** stars "},{"Title":"What!!!!","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Wha was so wrong with this movie. It was scary (alittle). the acting wasnt all that good, but to bring back carol anne and tangina one last time was great! The whole mirror thing was cool. Kane was ugly, thats always good, and Lara Flyn Boil (i dont know how to spell her name at all) was in it! It had scares, laughs and gore. sure it was shrter then the first, but it was longer then the second. and alittle more interesting. III had more action then II also. well, i thought it was good. I gave it an 8/10.....maybe i should have given it a 7....too bad Jim "},{"Title":"Horrible Ending to a good Film Series","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Poltergeist III is a bad, bad movie but it has a sort of Mystery Science Theater 3000 charm to it.This time, Carol Anne is living in Chicago with her Aunt and Uncle to attend a gifted school and the ghosts find her. That is the basic plot and given the fact that Kane and his followers went into the light at the end of the 2nd film, having Kane as the main ghost made this film fail.The movie is filled with bad acting and dialogue. Tom Skerritt is just way over the top in his early scenes and gives the worst performance of his career. Nancy Allen doesn't help much and Laura Flynn Boyle was lucky she survived this mess. Then there is the dialogue, which many quotes have become part of my daily life in just the sheer silliness of it all. From Give Me The Necklace to I've got the knowledge and the power to the bloated face Tangina saying Outside-In, the movie makes you laugh unintentionally many times. Oh, then there is The Puddle!,Funny, funnier,We wont harm you..we love you. While over the top, Zelda Rubinstein is the ONLY saving grace in this film. Her presence brings some of the creepiness that this movie needed. Yes, her final scene is pretty bad but here scenes in the middle of the movie are pretty good.Poltergeist III fails on all fronts but mainly due to the fact that it needed a fresh, new idea for haunting Carol Anne one more time. "},{"Title":"Awful second sequel","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Poltergeist III is the third film in the series, and easily the worst. You won't find any scares this time around as Carol Anne Freeling (the ghosts' innocent target in the first two films) goes to Chicago to stay with relatives. Guess who follows her to Chicago?Whereas the first two movies had good acting, Poltergeist III has bad acting from almost everyone. Everyone except young Heather O'Rourke, who sadly died four months before the film's release. Her presence here is the only good thing about it. Poltergeist III also has bad writing and bad directing. And the special effects were very unimpressive. This was thankfully the last film of the series. * (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Kryste on a Krutch, but this is a dismal sequel!","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This stinks.First of all, the family that we've come to love, is no more. Carol Anne is living with an aunt and uncle (Tom Skerritt?! and Nancy Allen!? - Carrie, 1976-Chris Hargensen). Carol Anne's cousin, Donna played by Lara Flynn Boyle (a terribly sorry replacement for Dana's character), was about as stiff and plastic as a piece of disposable silverware and Nancy Allen! should have stopped her acting career after her pitifully horrid performance in Carrie! Her acting talents -??- are highly questionable, as is her ability to deliver a single well-spoken line. Her smile is as fake as her $20 nail job. Ginger of Gilligan's Island was a better actress! While Tom Skerritt is a popular television actor, his talents are best left there. His on-screen presence falls far short...more, flat on its face. He isn't a bad actor. I actually LIKED him in Picket Fences. And his character is likable, as the only adult in the movie who listens to and believes Carol Anne, you really want to enjoy the performance, but alas! he just isn't fitted for the big screen.Child psychologists tend to BE smarmy and full of themselves. So while he was a detestable character, I believe the guy played him as he was intended; an arrogant, syrupy sweet, egocentric putz...however, we could have done much better without his character, period.The dialog is trite and stiffly delivered by most; as if the screenplay was written by a freshman in high school who was holding a gun on the performers. And speaking of high school, again the teenagers are portrayed by twenty-something year olds, headed to 30. WHY do they do that?And Kane. What HAPPENED??!! This guy is NOT scary. He's not Kane. He's some creepy guy, yes. But he's NOT Kane. He's a character actor of dubious talents named Nathan Davis, who has a short list of minor parts to his credit as a performer. The voice they used in an attempt to duplicate Julian Beck's voice wasn't even close. It was rather sad, how miserably they failed in the presentation of Kane. Of course, they couldn't use Beck, since he died in 1985 of cancer, but in my opinion, they could have found a much more suitable substitute than Nathan Davis.And poor Heather O'Roarke! Had she lived for the entire filming of this work, she may could have saved this movie, but you can tell in this concluding chapter of the Poltergeist trilogy that she is sick and her sweet little face is puffy.In my opinion, she should have been in some sort of treatment program rather than working in her condition at her age. Just my opinion though. We would have been happier, as individuals I think, if they had been more concerned with her health and never made this movie, in the first place.The relationship between Skerritt and Allen's characters is flimsy, as though they were cut out of cardboard and then animated. Their characters are as well developed as the ingredients of an omelet (just think about it for a moment and you'll get it...aborted chicken fetuses and cheeeeeese!). While the special effects of the movie were acceptable, they were not what we got in the first or the second film. The mirror effects were nice, but they weren't all that, as the direction of this movie was simply atrocious.But you expected more from director, Gary Sherman? Why would you? The list of directing jobs credited to his name is short and not too sweet. He's done a small smattering of movies, none of which were memorable or even enjoyable, and the TV series Poltergeist The Legacy. Go figure.Aaaand the movie just goes downhill from there. In comparison to the first two movies, this one is lame, lame, lame. The idea of the ghosts taking over the bodies of the family with which Carol Anne now lives is a fine idea, but the effects of the whole thing, the direction and the portrayal of it was classic B movie material. It reeked next to the first two and took on a campy, sad, used and abused quality that you NEVER had in the first two. Kipley Wentz, who has had 3 bit parts other than his role in this movie absolutely stinks in his portrayal as Scott, Donna's love interest. His acting is not anything I would consider talent. It's more ... unbelievable. You have to experience it for yourself to appreciate how bad it really is.We were about half-way through watching this movie when my cousin turns and asks, They PAID these people?! That should give you SoMe indication of the acting quality of this movie.The scene where Donna meets Scott at the elevator, after the metamorphosis...where he tears her flesh from her face? is absolutely ludicrous. They would want and need the deception to be completely intact, so why would they do that? They wouldn't.That scene was about as good an example of wretched writing as I've ever seen. Positively puerile. I have read creative writing projects produced by eighth-graders which were better thought out and more well expressed than this screenplay.The one and ONLY redeeming quality of this movie, in this Fiend's opinion, is the cameo appearance done by Zelda Rubenstein as Tangina Barrons. Love her! Without her presence this flick wouldn't even rate the sorry rating it gets. And not for her performance in this installment, either. It was brief and xyloid. Unfortunately, they failed miserably in recapturing the quality and feeling of the first movie; the second being not quite as good; and this, the third, being horrid in comparison. The only reason I own this movie is because it came FREE with the purchase of Poltergeist 2 on DVD.It gets a 3.1/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"A good horror sequel","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film was one of my first horror movies ever.  It use to come on TV all the time and scare me to death. I still enjoy this film alot and realize there are some flaws, but I think it holds up well for a horror sequel- and is way better than Poltergeist 2.  The mirror's are what makes this film creepy and enjoyable.  And I wish there could of been one more sequel to close the chapter.  I forgive the ending to this film, its not horrible but you can tell its rushed and slapped together.  It still remains close to my heart and even though the first one is the best, its well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"He's found her","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  -Six years earlier in suburban Californaia, five year old Carol Anne Freeling was abducted from her family by a supernatural being who had a special purpose of her. She was rescued.-One year later, the supernatural being returned for Carol Anne. Her family's love defeated him.-Now, five years later, Carol Anne lives in Chicago with her Aunt Patricia, Uncle Bruce, and cousin Donna in a highrise apartment. Her memories of him are mere echos and images. But when the echos grow louder and the images more apparent, Carol Anne fears that he has returned. When her attempt to confront him on her own fails at the cost of Donna, Scott, and herself, Uncle Bruce and Aunt Pat find themselves with two missing children, a babbling psychic, and skeptical psychiatrist. Who will they belive? Will Aunt Pat and Uncle Bruce find the truth underneath the confusion? Will Aunt Pat be able to find the love and courage needed to save the children?It's so sad this movie is underrated. Director Gary Sherman was all about mood for this installment rather then the gory special effect stuff. Plus, all of his special effects were done on shoot. Poltergeist III captures the same mystery of the original Poltergeist only this time in an urban setting. Sadly, Heather O'Rourke passed away upon completion so the ending is drastically rushed. Nancy Allan carries a stunt double out through the mirror.For acting, this is Heather O'Rourke's best film. Her portrayal of Carol Anne is over the top. She was really shaping into a great actress. Nancy Allen dose well as the selfish aunt, Tom Skerritt plays a good sympathetic uncle, and this is Lara Flynn Boyle's very first movie. Despite, the rushed ending, Poltergeist III is an eerie film from start to finish.  "},{"Title":"Fascinating and complex","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie about ten years ago and was scared to death. Recently I watched it again and was still very impressed. Heather O'Rourkes performance is superb. She makes you wanting to protect her and hug her. The music is great and all the other actors (especially Zelda Rubinstein) are also great. What first confused me is Lara Flynn Boyles character Donna. I thought she is Carol-Ann's sister but she is the daughter of Tom Skerrits character and Carol-Ann's cousin. Her sister is called Dana.. But strange that Donna looks and acts very much like Dana. The special effects are great and wonderful to look at, I hate this computergenerated special effects. The use of the mirror images is *fascinating* Ah yes, and the actors in the mirrors *intentionally* move a little bit slower than the real actors sometimes, this is part of the suspense, because the mirror images seem to have a life of their own. Too bad that Zelda dies (afterwards she justs comes back from the other side for a moment to help). The Donna creature that crawls out of her body is just a fake Donna, as is her boyfriend who came out of the ice, as they go back to the mirror world after they killed the psychologist.Anyway, this is one of the best and most complex horror-movies I ever saw.  "}{"Title":"Oh my crap...SO TERRIBLE!","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have seen any number of successful movies turned into shameful franchises, but the 'Poltergeist' trilogy really takes the cake. While I would never suggest the first was a fine film to any degree, it has its share of good scares and (more importantly) iconic scenes and images that stay with the viewer. I can only hope nothing stays with me from THIS abysmal chapter in the series. Not to speak ill of the dead, but Heather O'Rourke truly showed her (lack of) acting chops here. Granted, this is the first time in the series she's been expected to really perform (beyond 'They're here' and 'They're back'...oh, and a LOT of shrieking), and she was only 12 at the time, but who would build their movie around a performance that would embarrass a porn star? Especially when you have comparative heavy-hitters (at least for the time) like Tom Skerritt, Nancy Allen and Lara Flynn Boyle in your cast? Who would do this? Apparently a producer/writer/director/visual effects coordinator like Gary Sherman. Less than halfway through this quagmire, I realised there was something horribly wrong with the direction nearly every one of the actors delivered their lines as though they'd first seen them that morning; the action relied too often on (not particularly spectacular) special effects; and the story offered little sense and less sympathy for any character. I set these problems squarely at the feet of director-co-writer Gary Sherman. I hope he's proud of himself. And whatever happened to Scott, the doofy pseudo-romantic interest for Lara Flynn Boyle? Not that I care, but when you're tying up your loose ends, wouldn't you care to at least account for all your 'major' characters and their whereabouts? I guess that's just me... Any reviewer here who would suggest 'Poltergeist III' is in ANY way good needs to see more movies. Perhaps they are suffering under some mass-hypnotic suggestion projected by the imagination of a manipulative 12-year-old girl they've never met. Within the last month, my wife and I have viewed all three 'Poltergeist' films. Do yourself a favour, and just watch the first. "},{"Title":"What are you talking about, this movie rocks!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best in the Poltergeist series, mainly because the first two were so boring. The first was really more of supernatural kid's movie. It was not scary at all and felt like it was geared towards elementary children, as if it's a substitute for a horror movie to them because they're not old enough to see a real one yet. In short, it was just plain boring. The second was double the bore. I couldn't even sit through that one. Whew. But oddly, this one comes along and blows those away. The setting is awesome (a high rise apartment building), the mood was creepy, and Lara Flynn Boyle is freaking hot. This did what the other two should have done -- cut out all that soapy family lovey dovey crap and getting sucked into a stupid TV with spirits that are as scary as my poodle and make a real horror movie. This one has a great plot. I love the idea of people trapped in a building with evil spirits (at least in this one those damn spirits DO something SCARY rather than play games like wrapping braces around kids and not hurting them (what was that, a joke?). I would skip the first two and go straight to this. All you need to know is spirits are following around a little girl. This movie rocks. "},{"Title":"Not a great ending to the triology","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  No no no this movie should never have been made. Carol anne does justice in this film but the problems are that the film was too long and silly the characters are annoying and parts of this film are so unrealistic it's funnyHeather O'Rourke died after making this film and she could have been a great actress.She saved this film (just) 3/10 (8/10 for O'Rourkes acting)  "},{"Title":"Yet another rehash...","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The change of setting and the introduction of some new characters breathe some life into this watchable sequel, but the general familiarity and a very messy script weaken the whole. One thing is for sure after this third entry, the series had run completely out of steam.If you get bored, try to distract yourself by watching the excellent effects, and by counting how many times the name Carol Anne is heard throughout the film. Maybe more than 100 times! "},{"Title":"Carol Anne?...Carol Anne?!...Carol Anne!!","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A dreadful excuse for a thriller, ending the once-popular Poltergeist franchise on a shamefaced note. A young child, continually dogged by evil spirits, brings her reign of bad luck to a Chicago high-rise after she goes to live with her aunt and uncle (apparently her real parents had had enough). There was nothing in the original Poltergeist that suggested Heather O'Rourke's character Carol Anne was the reason the spirits were taking over that house; she was just a pawn in their plans. This movie makes it seem as though Carol Anne was the spark-plug for all the ghostly goings-on. Actually she's the pawn in a new game that of sleazy filmmakers hoping to squeeze more money out of the public with an obviously-inferior product. Effects, script and acting are all atrocious. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"Where are your parents, little girl?","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Carol Anne has been sent to live with her Aunt Patricia Wilson-Gardner (Nancy Allen), her husband Bruce Gardner (Tom Skerritt), and stepdaughter Donna Gardner (Lara Flynn Boyle) in the Chicago highrise which Bruce manages. Her relatives don't know the story of her ghostly encounters. Carol Anne is in group treatment under the care of disbelieving Dr. Seaton when Rev. Henry Kane reappears. Tangina Barrons is alerted to his presence.First, it's her older sister. Now, it's her parents. They may as well make Carol Anne an orphan in the movie. It would make more sense. The whole movie is flat. It is not scary and none of it is interesting. I certainly don't want to make fun of Carol Anne out of respect for Heather O'Rourke. She remains a positive for the franchise till the bitter end. "},{"Title":"Very scary","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a very scary movie. It is not has scarier the original Poltergeist. Also Poltergeist II the Other side is also scarier. The Poltergeist remake from 2015 is also scarier. But still this a very scary movie. A lot better then A Nightmare on elm street of Silence of the lambs and a lot of other horror movie that are overrated. This movie has a get story line. It also has great acting. It also has great special effects. If you do not get scared of this movie then no movie will scary you. All the Poltergeist movie are must sees. This one is very underrated. It is my lest f.a.v.o.u.r.i.t.e Poltergeist movie. But it is still a great movie. "},{"Title":"Remains creepy despite it's issues","Date":"9 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Freeling family have sent Carol Anne to auntie Pat (not the one from Eastenders) who lives in a luxurious skyscraper, unaware that the evil spirit in limbo, Rev. Henry Kane, has come to get little Carol Anne and take her back to the spirit world.From the director of the unrated horror gem Dead and Buried - Gary Sherman, comes Poltergeist III. Made in a time when sequels usually weren't very good, Sherman's offering is unfairly written off by critics, which is a shame given that it's tragically the late Heather O'Rourke's final performance. That's not to say Poltergeist III is perfect by any stretch, there are some lapse in story logic and lose ends, what did happen to Donna's boyfriend, Scott (Kipley Wentz), why did Pat have a change of heart? At one point Tom Skerritt's Bruce Gardner casually is talking about the buildings issues after witnessing a supernatural occurrence. There's many issues that hamper Sherman's and Brian Taggert screenplay. Whether it's the editing, script changes or a lack of enthusiasm after O'Rourke's untimely death, who knows, but what works are the practical special effects which prevents Sherman's offering dating too much. There are very few optical effects, to Sherman's credit it's all pulled off with cleverly executed old school camera tricks, lighting, reverse shots, body doubles and literally smoke and mirrors. Refreshingly there's not a TV in sight.Along with O'Rourke, Zelda Rubinstein are the only original cast to return. The first act is the most effective with Lara Flynn Boyle (in her prime) and cast giving some good performances. Then in the second act there's cliché partying teenage subplot which reduces Boyle efforts as Donna redundant, although she is quite menacing and scary when she bursts out of Tangina's body or when Boyle later has part of her face pealed off. Co-star Nancy Allen is emotional as the auntie but her character is never fleshed out. Acting veteran Tom Skerritt is on his usual fine form when he's not spending his time smooching, hugging or snogging Allen's character's hands or kissing Boyle. Nevertheless, there is a great setup where they go over to the other-side and are trapped by snow covered cars and a shock moment when they get attacked in a lift. The closing act wastes both Skerritt and Allen as they spend most of their time running around the building with the rest of the cast being put on the bench never to be substituted until seconds of the end. The cityscape and location is captured wonderfully which gives it an air of realism making it feel uneasy in contrast to the fantasy horror elements. Joe Renzetti's music is fitting, the creepy make up effects are outstanding and will get hairs standing on end. There's plenty of jump scares, mainly the eerie reflections or zombie-like hands popping up with the sound design to complement the on screen shenanigans. The lapses in logic aside there's many spine chilling set ups scattered throughout and I'd be a very rich man if I had a fiver every time some said Carol-Anne. Overall, it's not perfect and of its day but there's plenty of horror segments that are worth checking out. If it didn't have a real life tragedy surrounding it maybe it would have gained something of a cult following. "},{"Title":"Because of Heather (web)","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, this is the last movie for this amazing young girl and it's just my saddest mourning for an artist ! She was just a lovable, funny, bright kid and an extraordinary actress as well  here, she has really a lot of screen time before she is abducted (again) and she is just excellent ! This last movie was promising because it was a break for the franchise  after the suburb, the country, now, it's the steel of Chicago Skycrapers. In a way, it reminds me of « die hard » or « gremlins 2 » and maybe « Shining » as the entire movie happens in a new, high-tech building that becomes a dangerous place. The mirror-game is a good idea for tension and fear and « Donna Hayward » and Skerit are efficient arrivals. But, unfortunately, that's all because as soon as Heather disappeared and a short breather from the psychic Tangina back for a last time, the movie just falls apart  it's only a hide-and-game in a malfunctioning building  there are no horrific visions, demons, just cold, smoke and water and shouts of names and « help me ». Allen participates in this disappointment as she seems grumpy and not really caring for her niece. Again, i can't explain Kane's obsession with Carol-Anne and her need for the light. At the end, the movie just stops abruptly without resolving some questions (what about the Doppelganger ? why no final words from the family ?). But, it's a bit hollow to comment beyond because we all know what would have been great! So, Heather, now that you are really on the other side, i really hope that you are happy and if you can, try to reach us as well... "},{"Title":"Save Scott.......","Date":"18 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Carol Anne has been sent to live with her Aunt and Uncle in an effort to hide her from the clutches of the ghostly Reverend Kane He tracks her down and terrorises her in her relatives' apartment in a tall glass building.Will he finally achieve his target and capture Carol Anne again, or will Tangina be able, yet again, to thwart him?....We all know what the film is most famous for, so i won't really dwell on that, but the studio really cocked this up, being scared of offending viewers by changing what could have been a redeeming ending for an average movie.Plotwise, it's as if Kane thinks the only way he can get back into the light is to seek Carol Anne, and the fact that her name is mentioned over a hundred times, proves that the writers were on autopilot.But this is the epitome of eighties horror, all shoulder pads and style over substance.For the most part, the acting isn't too bad, and the use of mirrors and other such stuff is used to good effect, it's just the gaping plot holes and that awful ending really ruin the film.Where exactly did Scott go? It's a question that will haunt us until the original ending is finally released, and the guys from MGM will get off their behinds and dig it up from the vaults.The effects are good, and there are some quite uneasy moments, but one cannot watch this film for what it is, a horror, without thinking of the fate of it's main star.All in all, an average sequel, which could have been great if the studio had never interfered with the proper ending.RIP Heather "}{"Title":"Nancy Allen & Lara Flynn Boyle !","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a nice horror movie. I loved it for some reasons; one of them is that it was nice and didn't frighten me! As you see I'm not a horror's fan, but the glossy image, the 80s's feel, and the 80s's beauties just allured me. And I watched part 1 as well.In some point this movie looks like a good mix of (After Hours) bourgeoisie living a nightmare in one night and (Gremlins 2  The New Batch) evil creatures attack innocent people in one building. But it didn't make a point out of the built of its world; as if the mirrors got the real desires of the characters, or that new sophisticated building is evil, or anything of that sort whatsoever. It's all about accepting another kid to the family, yet shown weakly. And it didn't deal finely with the factors of horror that a situation of haunted skyscraper could produce. Simply that atmosphere could have been more creative and any deep but the movie selected not. So the substance, and the horror, fitted just a poor B movie.It has many naive moments; for instance that doctor assumed too much, the wife saw a false image of her husband in the bedroom's mirror and didn't bother, the totally unexplained power of the medium's necklace, and surely the endless repeating of CAROL ANNE, CAROL ANNE; I thought they were 50 times, but I found lately someone on youtube who counted them accurately; it's 121 times! Nevertheless nothing can outclass the naivety of the end where everything got solved by kidnapping the medium (??). And when you recall that the daughter's boyfriend didn't come back eventually, you've got to begin laughing (for me I laughed gladly. He was that SILLY !).Some matters weren't used well, as the alternative copies of the youth. Some sequences were absurd like the one of the garage which seemed fabricated just for showing an explosion anyway. And the electronic music annoyed me highly. On the other side, it's more coherent than its original. Although the first one is more scary, but it has at least 3 different subjects thrown together into a haunted house situation, alleging being profound while it's too scattered, without one final meaning! True the script and the direction made an average mission, but I prefer their work more than any of the flood of the B horror movies in the 2000s. I liked intensifying the whole events in less than 24 hours, taking place in just one building. The kid Heather O'Rourke gave a good acting, actually the whole cast did a good job. The tricks of the mirrors were done perfectly (you'll ask all the time how they did it?!), being big part of the enjoyment that movie could provide.Speaking about enjoyment, I got the biggest one out of watching Nancy Allen and Lara Flynn Boyle. There is something vivid, innocent and hot about the 80s's women and girls. I don't know but nearly all of them were magically gorgeous. They both looked no less than that. While Boyle, in her film debut, suffered a little bit of heavy make-up, Allen was so damn sexy, even by a simple look from her eyes! I may watch it again only due to these 2 beautiful babies, and the nostalgic feel to the 1980s too (which makes me ask; what ever happened to the female actresses, rather the females, of today??!). Finally, (Poltergeist 3) is a small harmless movie. If there is something horrific more than that badly made ending, it's then the channel that aired the movie; it cut its kisses out. Now this is pure horror for me! "},{"Title":"* * out of 4","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Staying in Chicago with relatives Bruce, (Tom Skerritt) and Patricia Gardner, (Nancy Allen) and their daughter Donna, (Lara Flynn Boyle) Carol Anne Freeling, (Heather O'Rourke) is trying to start life over with a new family. Almost as soon as they get settled in with each other, strange phenomena begin affecting the family at different locations. They are misinterpreted by her school teachers as something wrong with her, and think she needs to be treated accordingly. Carol Anne was telling the truth, as Reverend Henry Kane, (Nathan Davis) tracks her down and uses his spirits to help him.This is a fun movie if that's what you're looking for, but it's cheesiness with no doubt ruin it for those looking for more of a serious time like the first one. It's worth a rental for fans to determine whether it's okay or not, but it's not without a little groaning moments along the way.Rated PG for Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Poltergeist III (1988)","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  **½ out of **** (average, entertaining)Heather O'Rourke and Zelda Rubenstein are the only original cast members to return to the screen in this horror sequel filled with excellent (live) special effects and good cast. Carol Anne is now in Chicago with aunt and uncle and visiting a school for gifted children, when she discovers the spirits have followed her. Now, they take over the skyscraper for an extraordinary night of climactic terror. All the cast does a good job except for Richard Fire who wasn't that good. The special effects are amazing, especially since they were done live. This film didn't have much in the way of a good storyline, which affected my rating quite a bit. For this sort of horror film, a good storyline is an essential element.Rated PG-13 for Violence, Gore and Profanity "},{"Title":"WHAT A SEQUEL","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  WOW what a sequel this movie is the best in the whole trilogyPoltergesit 1      9/10 poltergeist 2      7/10 poltergeist 3      10/10 this movie has better special effects faster scenes more gore a much better story line a imense script and the acting is fernominal a classic horror which will be my favourite for as long as i live "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Carol Ann has moved in with her Aunt and Uncle, who live in a state of the art skyscraper complete with mall, apartments, and various entertainment. Things seem to be back on track for her, she is enrolled in a school for gifted children and is getting treatment for the shock she suffered in the first two entries, but evil never dies. The evil preacher who stalked her twice before has now found her and is trying to Carol Ann to lead him to the light.Clunky dialogue, a few over the top performances and a script that is inept at times, nearly destroy this entry. It does feature terrific effects, some rather tense scenes, and is rather original at times however. Rated PG-13; Violence. "},{"Title":"Really cool movie! I loved it!","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie I had been searching for, for a very long time. I saw it on TV with my cousin and it was so awesome. Heather O'Rourke is really good in her role, as is the rest of the cast. Never has a movie given such a real feeling of every mood possible. It is scary, funny and interesting. Better than Part Two, and comparable to the first. Rent it tonight! "},{"Title":"Not a bad finish","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The problem with thiis movie isn't so much as the fact Carol ann's family is not in exept for her(although I wish they were)nut other things.This movie tries to be WAY too dramatic,and results in a less story.Next,it tries to get WAY(once again)too phycological,the first two were a little phycological,but didn't go this far,this goes so far,that it couldn't scare a 2 year old girl!Now the other two didn't scare me much,but I don't scare easily from movies,but still,it has it's goo points,like where it takes place,the apartment was a real good place,but that's about it.This movie tries to copy off of one a few times,although the effects here are pretty good,and the ending will get you,this is too a PG-13,although I thought that it should've been rated R for a few parts,still,it's not bad,and it could have been worse! "},{"Title":"Lacks qualities of first two, but some scenes okay","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Poltergeist III has to be one of the strangest movies I have ever seen. It is very confusing, but it is one of those films that you need to know the ending.  Okay, I'll just go over the things good and bad and ugly with the movie.  First, the good aspects of the film None.  No, actually I can think of a couple.  Some of the F/X were well-thought out and some of the mirror scenes were creative.  Also, the acting of 12-year old Heather O'Rourke failed to disappoint as she seemed to become better as she got older.  It is a shame to both Hollywood and her family & friends that she died.  Now, the bad Let's just do a list, shall we?  The acting of the adults was bad, the plot was confusing, the ending seemed like it was just cut short, and it's hard to think of more other than the acting of Lara Flynn Boyle was absolutely pitiful I might add.  I wonder why she isn't a big star...and the ugly- one word (or two) Marcie (ewwww.).My rating 4.8 out of 10. (But don't let that spoil the other two films- Poltergeist is amazing, and the sequel is at least respectable and well-acted.) "},{"Title":"I am so scared!","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The greatest achievement in  this &#145;film' is not just that it may well be one of the worst ever spawned by a major film company, but basically that it is so successful in making the viewer fall asleep. The only thing more praiseworthy than writing such a dull and thin plot is actually sitting through it. No scares, no thrills, no fun. Lousy setting, lousy actors playing teenagers, lousy actors playing adults and worst of all talentless Nancy Allen, complete with run-through make-up, sobbing her way through instead of acting, only finding her equal in that lame excuse for a husband -or actor- Tom Skerritt. I am sorry for Heather O'Rourke and Zelda Rubenstein and yes, actors have to pay their bills too, but what were they doing in this stupid sequel? "},{"Title":"This doesn't make any sense","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The whole movie is one big mass of confusion. One minute they'll be in the building, the next they'll be at school. Plus there are many characters that are never explained.Stupid movie, don't see it. I'm guessing the two before this were better. "}{"Title":"Fantastic Story Line But Weak Musical Composure","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, while it is no surprise that Poltergeist III was lacking in a few departments, I think that over all it was a good story.  Heather O'Rourke's final performance deserved an award alone.  However, the one thing that really weakened this films status was the music.  In parts one and two, it had orchestra music and the soothing tone of Carol Anne's Theme.  In Part three, I don't know what happened.  Carol Anne's Theme was totally taken out and replaced by a cheap generic version if you ask me.  Thats the bottom line folks.  The movie in itself was good but the music...well, where was Jerry Goldsmith when Poltergeist really needed him! "},{"Title":"the best in the series","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoy all Poltergeist films but the 3rd is my favourite.When Carol Anne is sent to her aunties and uncles home in a New York sky rise things soon go weird when Carol Anne starts seeing the preacher Kane in window reflections people being pulled into puddles and frozen chickens come alive and so on.A very good horror film. "},{"Title":"uninteresting plot","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Uninteresting plot with a lot of confusion in the entire movie, i think the only thing that kept me from turning this movie off was the performance that Nathan Davis gave as Kane.  Watch this movie for yourself and you may understand what i am saying "},{"Title":"Terrible and Laughable.","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A terrible sequel to the Poltergeist films is very laughable. Neat story was poorly executed. This film has a cult following with myself and my friends, featuring unintentional funny quotes like Aunt Trish! , Give Me The Necklace! and The Puddle! A good group of actors were poorly directed, resulting in bad acting throughout the movie. Only watchable if you want to heckle at it in a Rocky Horror way. I give this film a D. "},{"Title":"6.5/10","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  P3 was ok, but I wish that the basic plot was thought out a little more. Didn't Henry Kane die at the end of Poltergeist II? I can think up a plot that is better than that. Maybe Kane had a daughter whose soul was roaming around and bring her into the movie instead. I also think that Laura Flynn Boyle should have played Dana because P2 never told us where she was. (The orignal actress who played Dana died before P2)Some of the acting is a little stiff but most of it is done well. It is interesting how almost all the effects were done on the spot, not with a computer and the effects look kind of home-made but it is nice to see that in a movie. This movie isn't as good as the original but still watch it if you are a fan of the first film.  "},{"Title":"Good/Bad","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's half and half, when I was little I liked it cause it wasn't scary. Now I think it is kinda ludicrous. But it's somewhat entertaining. 5 out of 10. Rated PG-13 for violence/gore and language. "},{"Title":"The Final Straw","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The concept was good, but could've used some work.  Move the kid to a high  rise in Chicago and hope the demons wouldn't get her.  Wrong!  2 out of 4.   I forgot to mention another thing pertaining to this films predecessor,  Poltergeist II.  It was either during or after filming it that Julian Beck,  who played Kane, died of stomach cancer, which explains why he isn't in  this the 3rd movie.  Another victim of what some believe is the  Poltergeist Curse.  The final straw has been pulled for this trilogy.  "},{"Title":"Poor Carol Anne.","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Carol Anne (Heather O'Rourke) is sent to live with her Uncle Bruce and Aunt Patricia (Tom Skerritt and Nancy Allen) in Chicago so that she can attend a special school for gifted children. There, Dr. Seaton (Richard Fire) puts the young girl under hypnosis to try and deal with her emotional problems, but in doing so he releases restless spirit Kane (Nathan Davis), who needs Carol Anne to lead him into the light.Poltergeist III is a bad film the crappy plot continues the downwards slide started by Poltergeist II, the talents of Skerrit and the lovely Nancy Allen are completely wasted, and the whole thing looks cheap and nasty, with risible special effects. To make matters worse, helium-voiced dwarf Zelda Rubinstein returns as psychic Tangina Barrons.But more than anything, Poltergeist III is a sad film, it's young star Heather O'Rourke clearly very unwell, her angelic face swollen by the steroids given to her for a wrongly diagnosed and ultimately fatal bowel disorder. Poltergeist III may be badly written, poorly executed trash, but Heather's tragic illness makes the film far more difficult to endure. "},{"Title":"The nay-bob of horror sequels.","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Never has the adage leave well enough alone been more relevant than to the landscape of the American Horror movie. Any horror movie with any minor amount of success, no matter how meager will breed a sequel (I'm looking right at you, Wrong Turn). Look around you. Horror sequels are as plentiful as the sands of the desert, and about as useful. The most beloved of horror films must have a sequel, whether they adhere to basic common sense or not.Yet, who wouldn't want to have followed Steven Spielberg? More to the point, who would be crazy enough to try? It could be supposed that after Universal turned Jaws 2 into a $78,000,000 box office hit without Spielberg's participation, a different set of filmmakers couldn't be blamed for at least giving it the old college try. Yet, you much concede that Poltergeist is a different matter. For starters, it ain't Jaws. This was never a movie that Spielberg had close to his heart. It was seen more or less as an appetizer to his other 1982 property E.T. - The Extra Terrestrial. In fact, the two were released a week apart. The fact that Spielberg prepped the two films at the same time put him in contractual obligation by Universal not to direct another film which E.T. was in production. So, in came Tobe Hooper, best known for The Texas Chain Saw Massacre. Hooper's name was on the film, but Spielberg's handiwork is ever-present.Apparently Spielberg was unhappy about the film's third act, recalling later years that it was the most unsatisfying element of the film. I would disagree. While it does pull the rug out from under Tangina's magic, especially when she pronounces that This house is clean, it does speak somewhat to the nature of The Beast who has been duped, robbed of Carol Anne and now comes back to exact his vengeance by not only retrieving the Freeling's cherubic youngster but the entire house. Personally, I liked the down-beat ending.In later years Spielberg would dismiss Poltergeist as Just a roller-coaster ride. While E.T. earned four academy awards and a bucket of money, time would shove it into the realm of Kiddie Fair. It is rarely screen today, and most Spielberg fans prefer the horror to the honoree.For brand name and monitory reasons, one must concede that the title might have been the most tempting excuse for taking another dip in the pool, so to speak. Yet, it is left to wonder if the people responsible for Poltergeist II The Other Side had even seen the original before preparation began. If they had they might have known better than to essentially urinate on the foundation of the story that Steven Spielberg left behind. Whereas the story was essentially tied up at the end, Poltergeist II The Other Side breaks away from the tidy ending to tell a story fraught with continuity problems, asking us to re-fit our understanding of the already-established idea that angry spirits from the uprooted cemetery were instead the work of a malevolent 19th century preacher who prepped his flock for the end of the world by sealing them up inside a cave to wait out the end-times. When the predicted date comes and goes, the minister won't let them leave, therefore leaving problems for the Freeling family a century and a half later.That half-assed approach didn't work. Neither did the notion of defeating the evil minister by keeping firm to Freeling's strong family bond. If they stick together, Kane can't pull them apart. Ahem LAME! Not only is this an idea so ancient it has dust on it, but there's also the problem of the fact that the entire family is not together. One member, Dana, is missing. Maybe Kane missed the head-count.Whatever problems were wrought by Poltergeist II The Other Side they are burdened upon the inevitable &#x96; not to mention pathetic &#x96; Poltergeist III. This story, directed by Vice Squad scribe Gary Sherman, is weighted down with the unenviable task of continuing the lame Reverend Kane story, asking us to believe that he has followed Carol Anne to Chicago's Hancock building. She's there to undergo therapy for her terrors of the previous adventures under the supervision of a certain Dr. Seaton, who wouldn't know his ass from a hole in the ground. The interior of the Hancock building is made up mostly of mirrors, which gives us a handy excuse for all kinds of ruses, double-takes and Alice in Wonderland type tricks. Sadly there is no logic to this mess, and the ending of the movie &#x96; which had to be retooled due to O'Rourke's death &#x96; is so bad and so confusing that the fate of at least one character is left unclear. In fact, the whole ending is left somewhat unclear.Poltergeist III is a bad movie, very bad. It's the kind of a galumphing, nonsensical special effects exercise that might be easy to laugh at if the death of young Heather didn't hang over it. That information not only casts a pall over the proceedings but makes things even sadder in that O'Rourke's farewell performance is in a movie that practically crashes and burns before it gets underway. O'Rourke, I will say, is not a bad actor. In fact, she probably gives the most spirited (no pun intended) performance in this disaster. She steals the movie from established actors like Nancy Allen and Tom Skerritt, who play her aunt and uncle and are sandbagged into acting in scenes so bad that you are almost tempted to label their efforts as heroic. * (of four) "},{"Title":"Mirror mirror on the wall, who's the wickedest one of all?","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There are no stories as unusual as that of the 'Poltergeist' series. From the feud between Steven Spielberg and Tobe Hopper, to the untimely deaths of some series stars, people still debate about it to this day. The first film was a big hit and is considered to be one of the best Horror films of all time. The first sequel too did well at the Box Office, but critical reception was mixed. MGM was eager to keep things going, but there would be a number of changes. Some original cast members not returning, a new composer for the score and a new environment were among these changes.For many reasons, 'Poltergeist III' looked like a win-win situation. You had talented actors, an interesting new setting, and a director with some genre experience. There were some mishaps during production, but otherwise it sounds like things went well. Sadly, young star Heather O'Rourke passed before the film was complete. A new ending was created and the film released on the set date. It was a flop at the time, but some like myself feel it's been unfairly maligned.Pros Excellent performances. Quite good, at times spooky score. Great new setting. Nice job on the effects. Stakes have been raised. Some suspense. A few chilling sequences. Brings some interesting new things to the table. Flows at a good pace.Cons Dated due to certain things, like clothes and make-up. The ending is anticlimactic and contradicts the point of it's predecessors.Final thoughts Many fans really dislike this one and choose to forget it. Everyone's entitled to their own opinion, but this film does have some supporters. Like II, it feels different and the filmmakers tried new things instead of rehashing the past. As for that ending, blame the studio for that one. It was rushed when cast and crew should've been allowed to go through the grieving process, then work out a satisfying new ending. All things considered, this is a truly underrated and chilling end to the saga.My rating 4.5/5 "}{"Title":"We're Back","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I admit that this might of not been as good as the others, but it had a certain charm to it. It was a whole movie in itself. It really didn't need the back story that much. It does help to know it though. One small complaint I have is from Heather O'Rourke. In the first and second she was this cute little girl and she was tiny. So it actually made her a bit creepier at parts; even when she talked. For some reason since she is more grown up in their film, they made her talk really smart and snotty. Like she knew the whole world. But also since she was older, they could do a lot more with her in the film. The rest of the cast was pretty good. Tom Skerritt and Nancy Allen were great. Lara Flynn was OK at the time. Some of the side characters were bad actors though. Nathan Davis played an amazing Kane. He was really creepy. Now this film was great until the end. The ending was rushed to bring the film out. That is because they couldn't film the original ending since Heather O'Rourke died in real life. That had to use a double that didn't show her face and change the ending. But other than that, it really was a great film for a horror type season. "},{"Title":"At least it has the location and the effects going for it.","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you want to see how many times someone can yell Carol Anne! in 90 minutes, I guess you'd be into this. I think they set a world record for how many times the main character's name is mentioned throughout the movie.The plot is standard sequel stuff Carol Anne, the little girl plagued by paranormal phenomena in the first two movies, now stays with her bitchy aunt and her husband and daughter in a huge Chicago high rise building. Unfortunately for everyone, some prick counselor at her new school has been putting her under hypnosis to deal with the events of her past (he believes she has the power to produce mass hallucinations and is a manipulative liar despite witnessing paranormal activity in her presence--smart man). This therapy apparently opens her up and leaves her vulnerable to Kane, the preacher that wants her to lead them to the other side. Kane shows up in mirrors and other reflective surfaces (like puddles) and uses them to attack.I've never seen so many mirrors in one movie. Even Carol Anne's bedroom walls are just big mirrors (I guess she hasn't hit that self-conscious stage yet). The hallways are mirrored. The elevators--mirrored. The poor girl has to go to the parking garage just to get away from all of the damn mirrors and it still doesn't end well for her.There is some mildly entertaining subplot involving Lara Flynn Boyle's character, Donna, and her love interest with really bad '80s hair sneaking their friends into the building's pool after-hours. If you enjoy watching bad '80s fashion, you'll love these guys.Once Kane starts to attack, Tangina, the short lady with the grating voice, comes back to help Carol Anne and her new family.The movie manages to be pretty creepy by utilizing its inspired location--the building is often genuinely menacing. The mirror effects make up for some pretty corny dialogue and the characters' tendency to yell Carol Anne! every other minute.Could have been much better if the script was worked on, but as-is, it's just a formulaic sequel with some average acting. Entertaining enough for a watch if you're not expecting anything close to the original. "},{"Title":"So-So End to the Trilogy","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm a huge Poltergeist fan and I must say,I was hugely disappointed when I found out that only 2 of the main characters of the series were coming back to do this second sequel.I think this movie had the potential to be better than it was.It had an interesting plot of Carol Anne being sent to live with her aunt and uncle in Chicago,so that she could go to this school for gifted kids with mental problems,though I would suspect that Diane and Steven wanted to get Carol Anne away so they could have some semblance of a normal life,at least for awhile,the writers putting this in mostly so that they could have this in an urban setting,in a skyscraper.The most ridiculous aspect of this movie is how Dr. Seaton and Aunt Pat (Nancy Allen),must be the two dumbest characters,they still cling to the notion that all that's happening is just Carol Anne brainwashing everyone into believing that the entire building is being haunted by ghosts,no matter how many times the ghosts make it plainly clear and obvious that this isn't all in their heads. Nathan Davis is no match in comparison to the original Reverend Kane (played by Jullien Beck).Tom Skerritt plays the compassionate uncle who treats Carol Anne (the late Heather O'Rourke),like his own daughter. Apparently,Aunt Pat is not happy to have Carol Anne around,and it might have to do with some sibling rivalry she and Diane (JoBeth Williams),had growing up,though this is never explored.I think the mirror-thing was pretty innovative as well.Admittedly,having Carol Anne playing with a 'Speak-N-Spell' was rather ridiculous,being that she's supposed to be almost a teenager herself now (and so was having her wear those red, one-piece,footed blanket sleeper pajamas (Don't most of these have zippers? I've never seen button-up footsie pajamas before),though I think the writers added that so as to play to the subplot of the ghosts zapping the building out of it's heat and energy,making it freezing inside the building.Until I saw this movie,I didn't even know they make footsie pajamas that big,for preteen kids),and some of the other subplots could've used some work,or had been explored more in this film, overall this movie wasn't too bad,but admittedly,the first two movies in the series were much better,and the ending to this movie made no sense (I think they were planning a much better ending,but Heather died before they could do this,so they had to do this lame-excuse for an ending.Worst of all,what happened to Scott? Did he go to 'the light' with Tangina,Kane,and the other ghosts? Without Heather O'Rourke (whose life and career were cut tragically short),this movie would've gotten only a couple of stars from me,but because of her 8,or 9-star (out of 10), performance,I give this second sequel 5 out of 10 stars,so watch this if you may,but if you want a top-notch horror movie,look elsewhere! "},{"Title":"A great setting and Heather O'Rourke are the best features.","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Same situations, different characters. Poltergeist III follows the events mainly from part 1 but this time the setting is a modern, all crystal huge building where once again Heather O'Rourke is tormented by ghosts. That's all you need to know. Oh, and Zelda returns once again. Some scenes are suspenseful because of the setting and camera angles. But I have to be honest; Poltergeist III is all about false scares (cheap!), and putrid acting. The f/x are disappointing. The director deserves some recognition because he created a visually stunning Horror/Sci-Fi flick. But that is not enough in order to create a good ghost movie. The movie is rather filled with cursing! and the name Carl Anne. The f/x are not even decent as I stated, not even half as good as in the original or even in part II. This was a sad excuse for earning money. The franchise was okay with two movies but ambitious producers came up with a sequel that only a few remember.I wouldn't recommend it but Heather O'Rourke worths the watch (although she's a bit annoying) Come on, the last scene where she gives her life for her new family is rather cheesy. Oh, by the way, a midget dressed as possessed Caroline has to be the scariest feature in the movie.That's it. Don't waste your money on this one, wait until it airs on cable. This time the series went too far...and went to hell!A mediocre sequel with ridiculous false scares. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest sequels...Rest In peace Heather","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I know many people don't like a third trilogy but this film is amazing, amazing. I think that Heather's final performance on film is as outstanding as the first one. Part two, is well, best not to say anything about and part one was of course, a masterpiece. This is movie is the ending of the Poltergiest trilogy and I must say they did a decent job illustrating the final chapter. Of course, if you are aware of the Poltergiest curse, occurred along with this film. It was reported that JoBeth Williams said she was actually being pulled in by the skeletons...the skeletons of the actors. I am sorry to say many people have died after the cause of this film, and I hope they will all rest in peace and I wish only their families the best. "},{"Title":"They're back...again","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first hour of this movie was pretty entertaining (up until Carolanne vanishes in the puddle) after that the movie turns out pretty lame. I thought the mirror FX were a good idea, and the cast does an ok job. It saddens me to watch this, as it was poor Heather O'Rourkes last movie, she died of septic shock and cardiac arrest due to a blocked intestine that know one knew she had. "},{"Title":"How can such a bad film be made so well?","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Poltergeist III is technically brilliant on many levels.  The visual effects are astoundingly good for the most part, and the mirror visuals are very clever.  Unfortunately, it is an awful film.  The script is mostly to blame, though the director seems to be quite inept as well.  We end up with a boring and quite stupid end product.It's a pity, because it looks fantastic in many scenes. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Poor little Carol Ann. She has had such a troubled life and isn't even a teenager yet. In the first two entries she was stalked by violent ghosts who kidnaped her and caused all sorts of trouble for her. Well her parents can't deal with it anymore and ship her off to live with her aunt and uncle in a state of the art sky scrapper complete with shopping mall, apartments, and an art gallery which her aunt runs. She is enrolled in a school for gifted children with mental problems. However, that pesky Kane still hasn't been put to rest and has followed little Carol Ann and he isn't going away untill she leads him into the light.This sequel is a mixed bag at best. The special effects are rather inventive and look very good. There is definately some scares, excitement and tension and the air, however this sequel has a horrible script which tosses logic and sensible dialogue out the door in favor of those special effects and some rather neat situations. The performances are uneven also.Rated PG-13; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"You Can Run From It, But Ya Sure Can't Hide!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERSPoltergeist III is the worst of the series! Something about the way it was done. This movie finds little Carol Anne staying with Uncle Bruce and Aunt Patricia. Apparently Steven and Diane dumped her with them so they could go settle somewhere and then send for her, because they learned last time that the evil spirits terrorizing them were after Carol Anne. Life in the Chicago high-rise was pretty good. Carol Anne was to attend a special school for gifted children. The teacher was a real jerk. Her cousin, Donna, and her friends had a pool party that night. It was also that night that the evil Reverend Kane appeared and captured Carol Anne. He took Donna also, so now it was up to Bruce and Patricia to rescue her. Patricia gave the impression that she didn't like Carol Anne, which she later denied. Help was soon on the way Tangina Barrons arrives in the Windy City to confront this thing. Apparently Kane wants Carol Anne to show him and his spirit friends the way into the light, or something. All the while, Kane disguised himself as people familiar to Carol Anne. When Tangina arrives, she volunteers to show the spirits the way, so she went away with them and was gone forever, but so were the spirits, so Carol Anne's terrorizing was finally over. There's a happy ending. As I said before, this wasn't a very good movie. It just was not as good as Poltergeist I and II. This movie stars Tom Skerrit and Nancy Allen. Lara Flynn Boyle is here too. Heather O'Rourkereprises her role as Carol Anne, for the last time. She died of some odd disease before the release of the movie. I wonder how she would've liked it. Probably wouldn't. But anyway, all the actors and actresses are good, it wasn't their fault this movie stunk like horse manure. But anyway, if you've seen Poltergeist I and II, you might as well see III. I wonder if there'll be a Poltergeist IV. I doubt it. Maybe a next generation thing. In Poltergeist, spirits communicated through the TV. In Poltergeist II The Other Side, they communicated through the phone. In Poltergeist III, they haunted a sky scraper. Maybe in Poltergeist IV, they could come through the computer. Cyber spirits! Oh well. In conclusion, if this movie floats your boat, you'll like it. Don't see it unless you're big fans of I and II.- "},{"Title":"Sad End to a Sad Series.","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Poltergeist was a series that seemed cursed in real life. There was the murder of Dominique Dunne (the oldest daughter in the first film) and the deaths of Heather O'Rourke, Will Sampson (Taylor in the second) and Julian Beck (the original Kane). This entry has O'Rourke staying with her aunt and uncle (Nancy Allen and Tom Skeritt) in Chicago in a new state-of-the-art high-rise building. Of course, O'Rourke's memories from the first two makes the poltergeists come back one last time. The film never makes much sense and the ending is weird to say the least. Overall the film is a major disappointment and it ends up being a sad finale to a series that was not bad to start with, but went downhill steadily. Turkey (0 stars out of 5).  "}{"Title":"Fatally Screwed","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As if Poltergeist 2 wasn't bad enough, poor Heather O'Rourke last film is the terribley weird Poltergeist lll. We are doomed to hear not only the characters scream CAROL ANNE through the movie but we are also annoyed by listening to the ever annoying two some Tangina and Marcie! Why couldn't the two of them shut the hell up? The Gardner parents also drove me nuts. Bruce seemed a little to affectionate towards his daughter and the words Evil little Brat came out of Pat's (or Aunt Trish (what ever makes sense to you)) mouth too many times. Also, along with Tangina's and Marcie's, Kane's and Dr. Seaton's voices were like fingernails on a chalkboard. The things that annoyed me the most was the fact that Scott was never brought back from the other side and Carol Anne was way too old for her stupid speak and spell and those red pajamas. Also, why the hell  was there a tv in her room?  Take my advice people, although it is slightly (by a hair) better than Poltergeist 2...SKIP THIS ONE!!! "},{"Title":"Bad Idea Gets Worse","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I only partially liked Poltergeist I to begin with, I thought it had a good idea but it was actually done quite badly. The second movie was too contrived, but the third and last one in the series is the worst of the lot. It has an interesting idea about a haunted skyscraper and even starts out eerily enough, but then turns into a funhouse ride with no plot and too many special effects. Common sense and reality depart from this story set in an unnamed big city (Chicago? New York ? Detroit ? Pittsburgh ?). the plot goes down hill as you never know what's going on. Lara Flynn Boyle looks great, but the movie is really a disappointment for the careers of her, Tom Skerrit and Nancy Allen since there's no sense or reason for the things which occur. The script writer seems to know nothing about ghosts but everything about cliches. Kane ends up driving a car, Allen acts indifferent to everything and Rubenstein leaves midway through the script as if it's her only way out. There's one sweet but sappy moment with Allen and O'Rourke ruined by a return to the nonsense. In short, this movie is like a freshly painted tenement; looks good, but needs a lot of work. "},{"Title":"An end to an era...","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It is heartbreakingly sad that Heather did not outlive this, her final movie. It is worth watching to witness her proffessionalism alone. She made this film despite being in frightening pain, she is the perfect actress, as her suffering does not show. How many adult actors have performed so flawlessly when actually dying?Who should see this film This film is for people who want a bit of scaryness, but don't want to be freaked out of their skin. It is perfect if you want formulaic scary bits, but also want a happy ending. It is quite a 'fun' horror film because many expectations are met. It is not inivative or new or origional, but it is a fun time-passer. It is also has less annoying cliches & characters than the origional, but the adult casting is a severe disopointment. Ignore the adults, look at Heather & Lara Flynn Boyle's characters and in Heather's case see a potentialy brilliant actress who never had the chance to fullfil what would have been a brilliant career.Tips View this movie as you would a dream. Get into the imagery & symbolism, ignore the bad adult acting & direction and just look at what Carol Anne went through. The idea of 'Alice through the looking glass' is explored through the horror genre to 3D psychological terror. This is a subtle philosophical film & not a mainstream 'easy digestible' horror. The viewer is meant to consider their role as voyeur & not in the 'Hammer House of Horror' sense. This film challenges how we 'look' at film in general. It makes us question what we truelly want to happen & whether this makes us 'sick' or not. This film deserves more credit than it got upon release, because it has not been understood. The ending does ruin the deepness of the philosophical content, so ignore the ending & question the main sequences that deal exclusively with 'reflextion' & reflecting/projection of us & expectations. The middle of the film is reflective of what the great Trauffaut tried to achieve, but never quite could - the projection of self in others. It is a very intelligent film that has been badly edited, unlike the previous films that weren't very intelligent, but cleverly edited! I hope we get a 'Director's cut', as it may offer an ending to compliment the content.This film is the last of it's kind in the horror genre, a straight narrative, with formulaic structure. It gives you the popcorn that you expect. It is no Wes Craven psychiatric epic. But, if you look, it gives you more, as it's actualy more rewatchable than Poltergeist 1. It's a film that you can watch over & over & still not understand all that is possible, unlike the previous films. It is not nearly as scary as the previous films, so you can rewatch it to contemplate the philosophy behind it. It's very clever idea, but badly constructed. There are many loose ends not resolved by the end, such as the demonic teenagers. It is this that ultimately proves the editing to be at fault. This film needs re-editing. Don't see this film if you want a quick fix & flawless viewing. Well worth watching if you love 'reading' or studying a film. "},{"Title":"This movie was great!  I think it's the best of the series!","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I LOVE this movie.  It's one of my all-time favorite horror movies.  And guess what?  You don't hear the F-Word (****) you've all heard before in this one AT ALL!  It's great.  Aside from the lack of a lot of nasty language, there was a good, sturdy plot with great acting, good special effects (they look great, because this was filmed before computerized special effects came into the film scene) and a good story.  The story involves Carol Anne (Heather O'Rourke, who died about 3 months before the film's release) coming to live with her Aunt Pat (she hates to be called Trish) and Uncle Bruce (Nancy Allen and Tom Skerrit) and cousin Donna (Lara Flynn Boyle in her first performance).  Well, Kane's found her again! And he won't settle for NOT having her.  Watch in suspense as Allen and Skerrit travel through a maze of illusions conjured by Kane!  It's priceless!**Note** Julian Beck, the original portrayer of Rev. Kane in the first two films, died either before this film was started or in the filming or something from stomach cancer.  So, another guy plays Kane.  That explains why the viewer doesn't see many close-ups of his face. "},{"Title":"Spectacular Film...","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Gary Sherman did a great job on directing this film.....The story also had a good taste to it, and the Special Effects were good.  I would rate this movie grade B.  This movie beat the second second sequel to the Poltergeist Trilogy.  This film  deserved at least some kind of good award. The cast was great and they did wonderful acting...You have to watch this movie closely and get into it because you will....  "},{"Title":"We're back.","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Poltergeist III, besides proving that each film in this series gets consecutively worse, only adds to the legendary Poltergeist curse.  Dominique Dunne was murdered after starring in the first film, Julian Beck died after filming the second, and the star of the series, Heather O'Rourke, died before this film was released.  While it may be just a coincidence, it certainly does add to the creepiness of the films.  Gary Sherman (Dead and Buried) does a good job directing the movie, but it's the lack of a strong plot that kills it.  It seems like the entire flick is just a series of cool, ghostly encounters.  They don't tie together as well as they could and that is the main problem with the film.  Also, and this is my opinion only, the absence of the Freeling family upsets me.  Tom Skerritt and Nancy Allen (as well as a young Lara Flynn Boyle) are respectable at their craft, but I miss Craig T. Nelson and JoBeth Williams.  The only other original cast member to show up is Zelda Rubinstein.  She's playing our short, lovable psychic Tangina again but really doesn't have too much to do.  Poltergeist III should be watched for its mirror trickery and special effects.  Don't expect what you've seen in the first two films because the entire feel and atmosphere of the flick has been changed.  They skipped suburbia for this installment and went straight for Die-Hard.Oh, and for anyone who's interested in blacking out, a deadly drinking game can be played while watching this movie.  Set up several lines of shots and take one every time someone says Carol Anne.  You'll be on the floor in no time. "},{"Title":"I didn't think the movie was that bad.....","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It wasn't the filmmakers' fault that Heather died so suddenly, and they just didn't know how to do an ending without her.  If they got another actress, people would notice that there was a different Carol Anne.  I thought this was a very sad movie, given it being Heather's standout and final performance and I think it was brave of the director to continue with the end.  I give it points at least for that.  I kinda wonder what kind of actress she'd be today, as she had such potential.**1/2 of **** (two for adorable little Heather, 1/2 for the end) "},{"Title":"This really is The last straw (1/10)","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie's tagline really says it all.You can only stretch a concept so far. Even in 1988 the clothes was outdated. The story doesn't exist. And what's more, the gory effects are only present, when they shouldn't be. I mean talk about bad timing. You have to laugh at such unbelievable acting and filmmaking. The goofs are obvious to everyone.The motivation of the characters is in inversely proportional to their stupidity - but the bad way around. When you think to your self I see something bad happening near mirrors, than I don't go near them. It's what keeps our children alive in everyday traffic. Commonsense is totally missing from this peace.All in all this sequel sucks. I give it 1/10. "},{"Title":"The One Thousand Ways to Enunciate the Name Carol-Anne","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Until further notice, the horror genre is a dead horse that people looking to make a quick buck try to beat into submission. The only people right now doing high-quality horror (and even then with some misses among their ultra-sophisticated hits) are the Asians, and thank goodness for them. But the story of the little girl and her evil friends from beyond the telly, while an initially good premise that the Asians have used to better effect in RINGU, by now in this from-the-basement installment, has gone into the levels of inane.It seems that Carol-Anne's parents got tired of her making their life miserable and threw her into the custody of relatives living in a high-rise in Chicago. But, because of the traumatic events of the past, the little girl is in therapy with a psychologist straight out of the Silent movie era school of villainy -- you know, the kind who would tie Lillian Gish to the train tracks and snicker and sneer without a moment's hesitation. Anyway, he is probably the creepiest (and gayest) thing in this mess a Judy-loving nellie with a flair for bothering the helpless little girl and lingering long after his party is over.But not to digress her Aunt and Uncle love her but well... not that much. And Donna, Carol-Anne's cousin, is all hormones ready to go and wants to have fun. That is, until Carol-Anne's therapy brings back the nefarious Kane into the picture, now played by a cranky old cadaver of a man instead of Julian Beck and voiced by who-knows-what voice-over actor intent on making high, ululating quivers called a voice sound scary.It's then when POLTERGEIST 3 becomes a carnival ride with lotsa lights and mind-bending images. The only hitch is that by now, they've become irritating instead of scary and predate the remake of THIRTEEN GHOSTS in in sheer grandiosity by 10 years. Characters put themselves in danger for no reason, the word Carol-Anne is repeated until it becomes Chinese torture, and the plot advances with zero concern for believability. And on top of this, Zelda Rubinstein, hopefully unrelated to Helena Rubinstein -- she of the well-known foundation of the same name -- appears with her little-girl whisper and her complete inability to act, and then I knew the movie had really sunk.Who comes out winning? Well, the attractive black lady who finds Aunt and Uncle making out in the parking levels of the building after a nasty fight with some evil cars, clones of Christine. She is the one moment when I figured I'd switched channels myself and come across a In Living Color moment. Who is she? Oh well... doesn't matter I haven't seen her in anything since this 1988 movie.P0LTERGEIST III is a misguided mess in every meaning of the word. Nancy Allen, Tom Skerritt, and Heather O'Rourke are painfully bad. Lara Flynn Boyle showcases some 80s excess and comes off a little better but for reasons having to do that she was on the way up, not out. Sadly, O'Rourke's own death during production killed the franchise off immediately. "},{"Title":" Carol Anne, we won't hurt you...we love you","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Heather O'Rourke is great as Carol Anne in this freaky horror flick. The following cast is sensational. The costumes are neat. One of the good farces in the genre, Poltergeist 3 will thrill the viewer with a ghostly encounter. 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A Decent Chilling Follow-up to a Dismal and Shallow Puddle of a Second Film","Date":"20 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Poltergeist III is a fun and chilling inclusion to the Poltergeist franchise. Neither sequel comes anywhere near the brilliance of the first film, yet I found this third addition to be much more enjoyable to watch than the second one. The plot begins with Carol Anne (Heather O'Rourke) staying with her aunt, uncle, and cousin in an apartment within the famous John Hancock skyscraper in downtown Chicago. Carol Ann is seeing a psychologist who in an attempt to help her cope with her past unknowingly unleashes the demented spirit Kane who once again pursues her.What I liked a lot about this film was how it built up suspense. From the start we see the window washer resemble Kane, a mysterious crack creeping up the glass walls of the building, lots of eerie shots of mirrors, cold temperatures, and a creepy piece of art turn its head. Throughout the movie the story does a good job moving at a fast pace. The puddle scene was very cool, but one of my favorite scenes of all three of the Poltergeist films is when Tangina is turned into a rotting corpse and Lara Flynn Boyle's character is seen screaming and digging her way out from inside the decrepit body. This film has a very creative plot full of mirror tricks, icy fogs, dead animals screaming to life, and watery portals, although it loses its way towards the end. The ending itself is rather disappointing, as it literally ends with Tangina and Kane holding hands and walking together into the light like old friends; haven't they been duking it out over a span of three movies? Also I'm scratching my head as to what ever happened to Lara Flynn Boyle's crush, did they just leave him in the spirit world at the end? There are definitely some gaping loop holes in the end.Overall I felt this was a fun 80's horror genre film to watch, and enjoyed it much more than the second movie. As long as the viewer isn't expecting it to come anywhere near the first Poltergeist as far as quality goes, Poltergeist III is worth experiencing. "},{"Title":"What a lovely name. How about I repeat it over and over again.","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Carol Anne Freeling has now moved into her aunt Patricia and uncle Bruce Gardner's new high-rise apartment building in Chicago, to hopefully escape her troubled past. But Carol Anne still sees spiritual activity through reflections, and the spirit of Rev. Kane has finally tracked her down and is doing his best to convince her to join him on the otherside. Soon enough the building starts experiencing troubles and it's left up to her family and Tangina to make sure Kane doesn't exceed.While, aimlessly flicking through the channels. I happened to come across an installment that hadn't seen. I'm not much of a fan of the original and its first sequel was even worse, but this I thought was slightly better and darker (though the film's ending spoils that aurora). Not that I would go out my way to pump it up, but surprisingly I found it watchable. After originally thinking here we go again. The third (probably final) chapter of the Poltergeist franchise is quite a meek and minor foray on the generic supernatural theme. Honestly it's quite a pointless set-up after the second one basically rounded the whole drama off. Anyhow what's done is done. Shocks effects are very little (with one or two grotesque effects used), but it plays more on the subtle visual side with reflections creeping up on the viewer until it finally breaks out into a maniac light-show of pyrotechnics in the latter end of the film. There are few creatively effective trick scenes involving mirrors and the eerie high-tech, high-rise setting is rather refreshing, but languid pacing and a silly script with confusingly corny details really do drag it down in the end. The special effects are technically good, but sometimes too overdone. Jerry Goldsmith, who did the music scores for the first two, is taken over by Joe Renzetti. Who simply overpowers the scenes with a forebodingly makeshift score. Director/co-writer Gary Sherman ups the novel elements with confidence and indeed tiny slabs of tension. While, the film looks solid. Just the material was disastrously inept and the performances from a nice-looking cast are reasonably flat-footed because of their cardboard written parts. The seriously modest Tom Skeritt and a bemused looking Nancy Allen are simply lost at sea in how to take it. Lara Flynn Boyle in her first large screen debut is charming, but does quite little for you to take notice. Only two original cast members return. Heather O'Rourke (who actually died short after filming it) is maturely terrific and Zelda Rubinstein is back to doing what she does best. Simply being annoying, but increasingly animated. Richard Fire provides a bit of humour to his psychologist Dr. Seaton and Nathan Davis is okay (although not a patch on Julian Beck performance) as the sinisterly manipulative Rev. Kane who really likes the name Carol Anne.Only bother with this one if you like the franchise, or just want to see all the films. Otherwise steer clear away this manifestation. "},{"Title":"A muddled, mean-spirited sequel.","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" My Take Isn't nearly as bad as reported, but it's a far cry from the original. Okay the POLTERGEIST movies have pretty much ran out of gas after the original, highly regarded as a genre classic (despite some of its datedness). The first sequel, while I did like it due to its bizarre imaginings, doesn't have the captivating plot the original had, neither the character development. POLTERGEIST III is much worse, but not saying that its terrible. I'm just stating that the apple has certainly fallen too far from the tree. First, instead of brining back the original's cast (save two actress), a new cast, including Tom Skerritt, Nancy Allen and a new-coming Lara Flynn Boyle, is assembled. The original's characters weren't exactly one of the best cast list ever assembled, but this cast seemed so blah and banal, uninspired no less. Heather O'Rourke performs for the final time as Carol Anne, because when this film is finished, Heather died. That's too bad, she would have been casted in many films, especially horrors, due to her famous role in the Poltergeist movies. Director Gary Sherman does pay tribute to her death and dedicate the movie to her. But the film suffers from plot holes and some bad memories (of her death), that it much wasn't successful, and bares too little resemblance to the previous films. Tom Skerritt and Nancy Allen lack the parent figures of Craig T. Nelson and Jobeth Williams as Carol Anne's aunt and uncle. The most famous scenes in the movie is the Reverend Kane (Nathan Davis) and his legion of The Other Side, passing through the many mirrors of the high rise building, creating weird illusions. The writing isn't exactly the film's strongest points. I mean how many times can you let a person say Carol Anne!!! in one 98 minute-film! The acting, save Heather and POLTERGEIST returnee Zelda Rubenstein, is mediocre to too-over-the-top, but who's to blame? The script doesn't exactly have much for the cast to talk about. Other than that, we also have a terrible character added in for additional irritation A certain Dr. Seaton character, a psychiatrist studying Carol Anne's odd psychological illness. He's a moron, and I hate him! I really do. Above all, the movie to is too mean-spirited that it blurs out the message of the original Family togetherness overcomes all odds. Now, it's just a bunch of ghouls on parade with a bunch of characters who care less about each other, just as we care little of them. Rating ** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Bad sequel, bad ending, overall depressing.","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After making the mediocre Poltergeist 2, you'd think the Poltergeist films would be over. Unfortunately that's not the case. And in this one we don't have any of the cast from the other films except Heather O'Rourke, who sadly died while filming, and Zelda Rubenstein. Where the first (and sort of the second) film relied on some genuine scares, this one seems to rely on the quick jump ones which get really annoying. The change of location from a two story house to a big city apartment building doesn't work. The mirrors being everywhere did not make it scary and was a stupid premise. The acting was really bad. And even though it wasn't anyones fault, this is really hard to watch because of Heather O'Rourke's death, and the ending seems tacked on because of the poor actress's death. My final negative is that the Poltergeist music theme is not used in the film. Jerry Goldsmith did not do the music so his beautiful music is not used, and it's place a bad rip-off of the song is in play. I give it a 3 because it had good camera work and special effects. However I'm almost hoping for another just to redeem the Poltergeist name, because it's sad to me that this was how we left the Poltergeist universe.My rating * out of ****. 94 mins. PG-13 for violence and language. "},{"Title":"In Memory of Heather O'Rourke!","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film would have been tossed away if it wasn't for the fact that this film was Heather O'Rourke's last appearance before her tragic death. Heather will always be remembered as Carol Anne Freeling despite her many roles on television and film. The movie is dedicated in her memory because she was the heart and soul of the Poltergeist trilogy. This movie was a weak sequel but the last in a series. Carol Anne is sent to live in Chicago with her uncle played by Tom Skerritt and aunt played by Nancy Allen. She also has a cousin played by Lara Flynn Boyle who was unknown at the time of this film. I remember watching the director discuss for a documentary about the making of Poltergeist III. I think Heather's death overshadowed the movie's goal. He said he will never forget being a pallbearer at her funeral. We can only imagine what might have been for Heather's career. I can't forget Zelda Rubenstein as the psychic who travels to Chicago to save Carol Anne. "},{"Title":"Beware Scary Marcie","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I had seen this one in theaters way back in the day, and thought it was such crap. It still is, only now I have no expectation to get any real scares or chills from it, and it's cheesy and ludicrous that I was SO into it.So Carol Anne has supposedly been sent by her mom and dad to stay with her Aunt Pat, played by Nancy Allen, and Tom Skerritt, who as I recall was always in total trash like this, his nadir perhaps being Poison Ivy. They have a teenage daughter in Lara Flynn Boyle, of Twin Peaks and many other things. They live in the John Hancock building in Chicago, and apparently they keep a guest room ready just in case any ghost-haunted nieces may need a place to stay for an extended period of time.Anyway, the movie wastes no time in getting to the scares, the first being an old guy who is supposed to be Kane from movie II standing outside on the scaffold. Apparently the real Kane died between movies. The new one isn't nearly as creepy as he was, and thus we never really get a good look at him. This one is also all about mirrors, as they are a recurring motif in the high-rise, and also where the spirits enter the apartment this time, leading to innumerable shots where something in the mirror doesn't match what's happening in real life or appears in the mirror and not in life. It gets tedious. Anyway, so the family pile into the carpool of some neighbor in the building, who have a teenage son, Scott, that Lara is really into. And he has this younger sister, Marcie, who is among the best things about this movie. She is the quintessential annoying little brat sister, with her huge glasses, irritatingly nasal voice, and ferocious zeal to get right up in people's faces and make snide comments to them! The first and best of these is when she turns around to Lara and sneers Oh Scott! My knight in shining acne! Another good one later is when Lara goes down to a party at Scott's house and Marcie answers the door Ha! Couldn't stay away from Hot Scott! I totally want to watch a whole movie about her, though I have to say she would be more at home in something like Weird Science than this.Later, while Tom and Nancy go down to this art opening by Takamitsu, Lara sneaks down to a party at Hot Scott's. One thing that can be observed is the rich reserves of late-80s fashion on display here. You know, a lot of movies cover the 80s, but very few of them really zero in on the specific nuances of the late 80's. Nancy Allen, with her hair that looks like a Utah rock formation and big, big outfits with tremendous shoulder-pads and lots of wrinkles and brooches and belts, looks exactly like my best friend in high school. It's a little weird to see her having fully embraced adulthood and no longer presented as a sexpot. Yay, Nancy Allen! But Lara's time at Scott's party presents a golen cornucopia of late-80s style with all the party peoples, including one with this hideous frizz-thing atop her head, a guy with a ludicrous hat that surely evolved out of something having to do with Culture Club, and the whole sense that the teens of yesteryear were on the cutting edge while wearing a sweater with a shirt collar poking out from underneath. This whole sequence is literally breathtaking.Anyway, tons of ghostly phenomena happen, not one bit of it interesting, and even less making sense. It's all just so random and idiotic, one is more than an hour in and feels as though the whole thing hasn't gotten going yet. Things get frozen, they melt instantly, people go into the spirit world, come out, go back in, their doppelganger comes out&#133; and on. And Tangina gets real crispy at one point.Spoilers! At the end Nancy has finally had enough, and starts trashing Carol Anne to anyone who will listen! Who cares about Carol Anne anymore! We never should have let them force her on us! Then one insignificant piece of phenomena is finished, and Tom and Nancy embrace, saying it's all over! Then Nancy is forced to eat all her words about how much she hates Carol Anne and try to convince her that she loves her and wants her to stay! Then Tangina appears and says that all she has to do is walk Kane into the light, and she does, and everything is over. This does not satisfy, as 1) the entire series has been predicated on the idea that the spirits will accept no one but Carol Anne, and 2) Then why didn't you do that in the first movie and spare everyone all the trouble? Spoilers endThis movie was directed by Gary Sherman, who also did a very well-regarded and pretty decent horror movie called Dead & Buried. It's too bad for him to be brought down by this, but because of the bungled ending, we'll never know what it was originally supposed to be like. This is total and utter crap, but I liked it and found it fun for just how stupid it all was, and, of course, little Marcie.------ Hey, check out Cinema de Merde, my website on bad and cheesy movies (with a few good movies thrown in). You can find the URL in my email address above. "},{"Title":"First movie I used the FF button on.","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" All I really remember about this one is I didn't see it in a theatre, I rented it on video. It IS pretty bad and the mirror effects are used too much. During the exciting climax of the movie where they take the window washer thingy up the side of the building, I actually lost patience and hit the fast-forward button for the first time in my life during a film to get to the end. I used to be a purist and would never dare do this to any movie I watched but I couldn't take it no more. Now if a movie starts to suck, I start FFing to get through it if I don't give up all together. The last time I had to do it was on Wes Craven's Cursed. "},{"Title":"Too bad O Rourke Died; Too bad Dunne was already gone...","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the aftershocks from Part one, seen in Part two, little adorable Carol Anne is sent to Chicago to live with her Aunt and Uncle, played by Allen and Skerrit. But, after multiple sessions with a kookie psychiatrist, all the talking of Kane brings him into the state of mind, and then, to Carol Anne again! With usual results seen in parts one and two. A great job done with the subplot of mirrors and cold. HAd some interesting plot points, like taking place in a high rise and dealing with haunted elevators and images on mirror. Had Dominique Dunne been alive, this film would have been completely different. The tragic thing is there is a scene which references the Freeling family and Dana is not even mentioned! Come on, that's a little unfair, well then again, why would she want to be mentioned, though this film had great intentions, it never left the ground, and Dana was better left unmentioned. She had such a great role and part in the first film, and the first film itself is better left un attached to this one. As for little Heather O Rourke, she was just as good as Dunne, and holds the film fairly well for a girl of her age and to have such a good sized role. That was saying a lot. Then she died very tragically, and this film was rushed with a slap on ending, which totally ruined the whole thing. Some points of this film are genuine scares, like when Carol Anne's reflection tried to kidnap her, and when Kane uses Carol Anne's reflection to lure others to the other Side. But beside some really great special effects, and good acting by O'Rourke, this film really has nothing going for it. Wasn't it supposed to be in widescreen at first? Seemed that way in the trailer! Good flashback of 80's horror tho'! "},{"Title":"Amazing, but sad to watch","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i like this movie, it's hard to watch because Heather died when she was making it, oh and Steve you said that you were next door neighbors with Heather, thats cool you were really lucky, she died like a few months before i was born. Lara Flynn is cool i just saw her in MIB.. ok bye!! "},{"Title":"Extremely awful or extremely entertaining...?!","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well... both, really!Poltergeist (1982) was an absolutely brilliant film with a fantastic storyline, superb acting from the entire cast - JoBeth Williams in particular - and great special effects. The first sequel, Poltergeist II The Other Side (1986), is a fairly worthy follow up.This the second sequel is a hard nut to crack! I have seen it many times and I cannot decide whether I think it's quite good or whether it is the biggest pile of rubbish ever made!For a start, not having JoBeth Williams and Craig T. Nelson reprise their roles as Diane and Steve Freeling in this film indicates that even they knew something wasn't quite right with the script for this film. Hard as they might try, Tom Skerritt and Nancy Allen are not able to fill their shoes - Skerritt's Bruce is fairly likeable, but Allen's Pat/Trish is not at all a sympathetic character.I think it was a good idea after the first two movies to have a different setting place, the Chicago skyscraper rather than just an ordinary house, so bravo to the filmmakers for trying something a tad different.The problem with Poltergeist III is that it is just too odd in certain scenes - I still have no idea whether it is the real Donna (Lara Flynn Boyle) and her boyfriend who murder the psychologist, or demons disguised as Donna and her boyfriend?! Is Tangina (Zelda Rubinstein) dead and, if so, how the hell does she keep popping up now and then?!The whole plot devide revolving around Tangina's tacky blue necklace is downright laughable, as is the number of times the dialogue consists totally of two words... CAROL ANNE!I think it is a great pity that Heather O'Rourke, who played Carol Anne Freeling so brilliantly in all three movies, died so tragically after the release of this film. Had she lived, she would have been in her 20s now - wouldn't it be interesting to know if her film career would have continued into the 1990s and 2000s?The guy who plays Reverend Kane in this film is NO MATCH WHATSOEVER for the late Julian Beck, who was so scary as Kane in Part II!The main problem with this film is Richard Fire, as stupid Dr Seaton. Even when Tangina's body turns grey and Donna comes out of her, he stands there saying rubbish like This is all Carol Anne's doing! It's not real, Mr and Mrs Gardner! - puh-leeze! Hasn't he got eyes in his head?!Ultimately, Poltergeist III is an absolute turkey, but that doesn't mean you won't enjoy watching it! One more thing - that creepy little girl named Marcie should have been horribly murdered by Kane!  "}{"Title":"They're Back Again!","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Heather O' Rourke(who sadly died before film was released) again plays poor Carol Anne, who is once again plagued by the same sinister spirits from the first two pictures. Here, she is staying with her rich uncle (Tom Skerritt) in his high rise apartment complex(Craig T. Nelson & Jo Beth Williams did not return) where she is forced to call upon once more the help of family friend and medium Tangina(Zelda Rubenstein) who is determined to end this supernatural menace once and for all...Sequel is really no better or worse than Part II, yet remains just as melodramatic and nonsensical, though it does at least lead to a conclusion of the trilogy, which to date has not been changed(thank goodness!) "},{"Title":"Tired threequel","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The third and final film in the 'Poltergeist' series sees little Heather O'Rourke going to live with her aunt and uncle (Nancy Allen and Tom Skerritt) in a high-rise building, but she can't escape those pesky ghosts. There are some neat ideas here, but they're all effects rather than story. The spooky reflections are admittedly impressive but overused to the point of severe yawn. In any case, why don't they cause more of a reaction? I'm sure if I saw someone I know open a door and talk to me in a reflection before or after it really happened then I might at least mention it, but not in this film. As for the actors, Allen looks like she's had enough and Skerritt looks bored too - and if they don't care, why should we? "},{"Title":"weakest of the series","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This first time I saw this movie full, I never full seen the whole people movie, I have seen bits and bobs of the year.This movie was weakest of the series for sure, I didn't think all that bad,This time is only girl they come back for this sequel and the rest of cast didn't come back for this sequel.This movie had a strange plot, there were some decent moment in this movie, that were worth watching, nothing scary or creepy like first movie.Some of effect in this movie were hit and miss but mostly missing really, as felt really out of place for this movie.Some of acting in this movie was really bad from some of the cast members , the rest of the cast was really good.The ending was okay but could have ended better then that. 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I gave this a 2 strictly to honor Heather O'Rourke (it's actually a 1 out of 10), but this is one...  bad...  film...  Poltergeist III is a stinker all around...","Date":"7 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I recently have been going through a ghost kick. I've been watching tons of ghost and haunted-house films. Everything I can get my hands on- from classics like The Haunting and The Changeling, to foreign films like Ringu and Ju-On, to modern films like the Paranormal Activity trilogy and Insidious. So, naturally, when I saw Poltergeist II and III on Netflix, I started them up, intending to watch them back-to-back. I actually like Poltergeist II- it's silly, but is a fun sequel overall. I hadn't seen the third film, however, in years, and I wish it had stayed this way.Poltergeist III is scary. Not because of effective jumps, a creepy atmosphere, or top-notch writing like the original. But because it is so bad. Just foul, awful. Tedious.This time around, Carol-Anne (Heather O'Rourke) has been sent to live with her relatives in Chicago, supposedly because she's been accepted into a school for gifted youngsters. The real reason is that the actors for the first two films probably read the script and refused to be involved.She is staying with her aunt Pat (Nancy Allen), her uncle Bruce (Tom Skerrit) and her cousin Donna (Laura Flynn Boyle). Bruce owns the high-rise building where they stay, and Pat apparently works in an art gallery in the same building.Carol-Anne has been tormented by memories from the first two films. At her new school, a doctor named Seaton (Richard Fire) believes that she isn't haunted by ghosts, but rather is a manipulator who can cause mass-hallucinations by using hypnosis... uh... yeah, the movie actually goes there. It insults the audience by suggesting that Carol-Anne may be a manipulative hypnotist. Of course, we know it's actually the vengeful spirit of Henry Kane who is haunting her. But the fact that the movie stoops this low by even suggesting this as a possible explanation is just pitiful.Blah, blah, blah- you know the drill. Kane catches up with Carol-Anne, and torments her, nobody believes her at first, and so on. Eventually, the family must come together (with the help of Tangina, again played by Zelda Rubinstein) to stop Kane once and for all.This movie... sucks.The plot is all over the place. The first two films at least had a logic to them. This movie starts up by adding new rules and layers to the haunting that make no sense. Kane just sort of hangs around inside of mirrors the whole time. I'm not kidding. Mirrors were never used like this in the first two films. But in literally EVERY SINGLE SCENE, there's a lame scare where Kane will appear in a mirror (mirrors line the halls of the building), and it actually becomes funny within 10 minutes, because you KNOW it's going to continue. They try to change it up later on, by doing other gags where the mirrors don't reflect things properly, but it's still the EXACT SAME SCARE... It happens at least 50 times in the movie, I'm not kidding. It gets old really fast. They sort-of try to explain it (I guess the mirrors reflect the spiritual world, or some such nonsense), but it doesn't mean anything.Also, whereas the first two films used special effects effectively, and had all sorts of monsters and creatures and skeletons, this film has none. Remember the giant skull from the first film? The Vomit Creature from the second? They are tossed out the window so Kane can randomly appear in a mirror and cackle before vanishing in every single scene. It's so uncreative that it hurts to watch.I also must say, the rules for this film have no consistency. Somehow, Kane can now clone people in the Mirror/Spirit world, so half the movie, you're not seeing the characters, but rather evil reflections of them that don't do anything in particular, just act evil at random. Like everything else, it makes no sense.The film is a mess. There is also a recurring scare where Carol-Anne will hear Kane calling her, but like the mirror gag, it becomes funny when we realize it never, ever stops. I was able to predict when it was coming and say it along with him in the movie, it was so blatant and over-used.The acting was pretty bad. O'Rourke tries, but can't work with the material, and seems more like a brat than an innocent little girl. Nancy Allan starts off nice, but her dialog makes her come off as a nasty, self-centered jerk even though she's one of our heroes, and Tom Skerritt... he just seems creepy and unsettling, even though he's meant to be a nice guy. The actors simply have no good dialog or development to feed off of, and all suffer for it.The film is abysmal. I'm only giving it a 2 to honor the late Heather O'Rourke. But it's actually, easily a 1 out of 10. Avoid this, please, for your sake! "},{"Title":"Pointless following and again Carol Anne pursued by evil beings","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This third installment deals about Carol(Heather O'Rourke)goes with her uncle(Tom Skerritt), aunt(Nancy Allen) and their teenaged daughter(Lara Flynn Boyle)to stay into a highrise building. Then , appear the otherworld creatures who had haunted her previously and she's still pursued by weird beings. Again the strange reverend Kane( Nathan Davies substituting to Julian Beck). The family find its building and the swimming pool invaded by unfriendly spirits which abduct the 6-years-old girl. Carol Anne with the help her aunts and along with psychic Tangina Burrons(Zelda Rubinstein) confront against the supernatural forces.Another undisguised follow-up from excellent original(produced by Spielberg), occasionally plodding and pointless sequel; furthermore, rapidly and lousy made. This sensationalistic scary ghosts story packs eerie scenes, tension, thrills, chills and amazing images. The interpretation is uninspired and is badly pulled off in gaps and flaws that cause no coherence and lack common sense. Average musical score , I miss the magnificent soundtrack by Jerry Goldsmith proceeded in Poltergeist I(Tobe Hooper) and II the other side(Brian Gibson). O'Rourke spontaneously deceased months before the movie's release and the film is dedicated Heather. The picture is rated 'Parent guide' for spooky events, creepy intensity and frightening happenings.The whole project collapses under regular direction by Gary Sherman. Here, he's screenwriter, special visual effects designer and mediocre director. In spite of it, he achieved some success in the terror cinema(Dead and buried). This inferior sequel is exclusively for Poltergeist trilogy buffs. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The multiple sequels.","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Poltergeist III (1988) the final chapter to the Poltergeist trilogy. The film-makers decided to make a second sequel to the franchise. Hey, it was made during the 80's. They made trilogies out of a lot of movies, even if they were marginally successful. Well, the only returning actors in this one are Zelda Rubenstein and Heather O'Rourke. Sadly, little Carol Ann wasn't able to complete the film. The producers dedicated this film in her memory.Poltergeist III follows the exploits of little Carol Ann. She has been farmed out to her aunt. Her presence has caused much grief to the ever dwindling Freeling family. The film moves from the southwest to the mid-west. She resides in a high tech high rise building. But it seems no matter where she goes, that creepy man in black seems to find her. Poor kid, can't she ever get a break? Well Kane (that is his name) doesn't take rejection too well and tries to scare Carol Ann into doing his biding. Because of her unwillingness to co-operate, she brings pain and suffering to her adopted family as well as those around her. Tangenia senses the trouble that she's in and comes flying in to rescue her. Will she be able to save Carol Ann? Can Kane ever rest in peace? Will this be the final chapter? Find out in Poltergeist III.An enjoyable sequel. I was quite shocked by how disturbing the movie was. This has to be the darkest film of the trilogy. Despite the tacked on ending, I felt the movie itself was dark and it had the aura of death surrounding it the entire time. I don't think the film-makers intended on doing this. The effects were quite gruesome for a P.G. movie and it surprised me a great deal. I saw no light at the end of the tunnel in this one despite the happy close. There is no rest for a disturbed soul. The Poltergeist trilogy has a few lying around.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Not Quite a Bomb,but not a masterpiece,either","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this in 1989,when it first appeared on cable.I wasn't much of a Poltergeist fan at the time,but since I have,my opinion of this movie has come down,but I still don't see it quite as the bomb most people think of it as.True,this is nowhere near the quality of the first movie,or even as good as the first sequel,but not quite a stinker! Also true is the fact that Nathan Davis can't hold a candle to the fine,if not magnificent performance Jullian Beck gave in the first sequel,but Nathan Davis was creepy-looking,at times,and Richard Fire stunk as Dr.Seaton,but at least he was good in making you downright hate his character.At first,his theory on the poltergeist might've made,at least a little sense,but after all that he had seen, and he was still using that stupid theory was a bit much.Nancy Allen also did a good job of making you hate her character.I mean,she even went further in believing Dr.Seaton's stupid theory in that she believed it until they found Seaton's dead body on top of the elevator? Why was her seeing that creep's dead body on top of the elevator make her change her mind? She had seen even more than Seaton,and she still believed his stupid theory.I agree with all of you,Heather O'Rourke saved this movie from turkeydom,as did,to a lesser extent,Zelda Rubenstien,but it was funny that instead of the 'light from a family's love',that saved the Freelings in the first sequel,something as simple as Tangina's necklace saved Heather,and her relatives in this one. I agree that most of the other characters were rather stale,though,and the ending was confusing,at the very least with what happened to Scott, but you have to understand,the guy who played Scott,Kip Wentz,had other jobs to do.Gary Sherman says that Kip was on the East Coast,at the time,doing another project.Also,one,or two reviewers said that Heather O'Rourke had the flu,and that if she had decided to drop out of the project,maybe she'd be alive today.Well,you have to remember, Heather's illness wasn't something that was going to go away with just some much-needed rest.It was her doctors never discovering what was really wrong with her,until the day she died,that ultimately lead to her dying at such a young age,so even if she didn't do this movie,she might've died anyway.Well,sorry it's getting long,so I'll just say that this movie,though not a great masterpiece,and surely the first 2 movies were much better than this one,this movie wasn't as bad as most movie-reviewers make it out to be.In fact,I loved the new,urban setting,and the concept of a haunted skyscraper,and the mirror-thing was rather innovative,as well,though since most people think of ghosts as throwing objects around rooms,and slamming doors,what the ghosts did in this movie was a bit weird,and unusual,but again I thought it was pretty innovative,so I give this movie about 2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Deserves more credit.","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie gets a lot of bad reviews.  But, there is something that people need to realize.  Heather O'Rourke died DURING the filming of this movie while the production was on break.  Gary Sherman says, in the E True Hollywood Story of the Poltergeist movies, that he had a whole different ending planned for this movie.  But due to the death of O'Rourke he had to change it.  If you notice at the end of the movie they don't show Carol Anne's face when Aunt Pat is holding her.  And they just show a Carol Anne stunt double running around the skyscraper through the mirrors for 30 minutes of the movie while the Uncle and Aunt chase after her.Therefore, this movie definitely deserves more credit.  The writing had to totally change at the last minute.  And there must have been a big emotional and physical strain due to O'Rourkes death on each actor and the crew.  So I think they did a great job considering the circumstances.  The concept of the film is pretty cool with the mirrors and skyscraper apartment. However, it is unfortunate that we don't see the original parents or siblings in this sequel.  I would like to know or read what was in store for the original ending.  Nevertheless, I hope after reading this review more people will give this movie more credit. "},{"Title":"Good finale to the Poltergeist trilogy","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The late 80's spawned quite a few rotten horror movies, but the second sequel to the classic Poltergeist was never going to better the first, my favourite sequel of all time. Poltergeist 3 has a lot of that `late 80's' feel and has been blamed for some rotten acting and general laziness.Tom Skerritt and Nancy Allen are amongst the cast, and whilst they can never replace he presence of Heather's family, they do a decent job. You may remember Skerritt playing Dallas in the movie Alien. You may know Allen from the Robocop series.This time Heather is adopted by her newly announced aunt and uncle. They live in a huge skyscraper in Chicago. Soon the skyscraper is plagued by the very same poltergeists of the first and second movies, and it's time to draw the series to a close. This involves a group of dumb teenagers who participate in the usual `We're crazy guys! Let's steal some food and beer!' routine - which is actually quite entertaining if a little cliched. Thankfully before a casual sex scene, the spirits give them a fright which guarantees they won't be feeling frisky for quite some time. It has to be said that most people who watch this film will comment on how they are sick and tired of hearing Carol Anne being screamed and shouted after during the last half of the film.People were very quick to put this film down. I always wonder why, because it has a great story, as there's a feeling of a supernatural pursuit in every scene. It's exciting although becomes a bit of a let down. One of the main concerns was that people didn't like new characters being inserted into the series. At least that way the film feels different from the rest.Mirrors add for some clever visual-effects, not only do they look convincing they also give you a chilling look on the `other side'. Julian Beck is no longer Kane as he died shortly after the release of the second movie. His replacement is different but still manages to remain chilling throughout his appearances in the 90 minutes. Sadly Carol Anne died whilst this film was still being shot, as a result the ending lacks something and feels abrupt and non-sensical. Overall Poltergeist is a classic horror series plagued by tragedy and death.3.5/5  "},{"Title":"This movie sucks!","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A waste of time, money, and two hours. Sad that it was Heather O' Rourke's last film. She had a lot of potential as an adult actress. She was actually my next door neighbor in San Diego when we were kids, though I never really knew her (not that it matters, this movie still sucks.) Don't rent it, don't buy it. Don't even LOOK at it! Rent the original. It rocks! "}{"Title":"Wow, this movie is bad!","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Why can't they make original movies?Poltergeist was simply fantastic.  I left the theater shaking, after a whirlwind ride of mystery, suspense and excitement.  Steven Spielberg sure knows how to make a movie.I was dumb enough to see the first sequel, and it was awful.  No mystery, suspense or excitement at all.  The same goes for part 3.  It started off well, with a storyline that drew me in.  But it never went anywhere.  Great cast, but bad acting.  When they were looking in a mirror, screaming at something, it was not believable.  The plot made no sense!  People appear and then disappear, and special effects are thrown in gratuitously, but have no connection to the story.  What a shame. "},{"Title":"Two hours of people running around screaming Carol Anne.  Fun?  No.","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I've seen worse movies but this one was pretty bad. It lacks all of the scare of the first movie and has all of the clichés of 80's horror. Bad makeup/costumes, bad sfx, cheesy music, nonsensical plot, awful dialog. Did I mention Carol Anne's name is spoken a total of 118 times during this movie? Sadly, I'm not exaggerating.This movie is everything that was wrong with 80's horror. Most of the best scary movies scare you not by showing you scary images but by making you feel scared by creeping you out through tone, mood, atmosphere, cinematography, timing and subtlety often very simple in nature. Look at Psycho for instance it was all about the setup. You weren't pummeled into this is the scary part!. P3 takes the sledgehammer approach of making sure you understand this part is scary by beating you with silly visual effects and over the top music and sounds.There really was no reason for this movie to be made other than to cash in a little money. It is barely of the quality of a SciFi channel original movie. Skip it and watch the original for a good scare. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Poltergeist III i think was a fantastic movie. This was the last Poltergeist movie in the Poltergeist series. There has been 3 movies in the movie series. I give this movie 10 out of 10. God Bless you Heather O'Roake who starred in the Poltergeist movies. "},{"Title":"Actually not bad, better than the 2nd one","Date":"29 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I've watched all 3 Poltergeist films and my obvious favorite is the first one. The 2nd one has problems but this one I actually liked.The setting in the high rise building offers a unique setting for this story and actually has some very creepy moments. Many hallucinations are experienced by the characters in the film but they also encounter some creepy moments with mirrors and this works well here. Why do mirrors in films seem strange? I like the fact that the characters wander all over the place within the building and also liked the fact that total strangers were sucked in to what was happening with the family. Some unique scenes in this film.The acting isn't bad but it does have a low budget feel to it at times. Also, some of the reaction shots didn't quite fit. Nothing wonderful here but much better than the 2nd sequel. "},{"Title":"It's so terrible it's fun!","Date":"10 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Got to be one of the WORST sequels ever made! The acting, the plot, the screenplay, the special effects, the very IDEA- horrible!Did the purposely want to be remembered for such an awful movie?!I watch it simply because it's so awful it's actually funny to watch! Maybe it's supposed to be a horror spoof/comedy?!Incredibly awful! Zelda and the old creepy guy from the 1st sequel! How many times total does everyone say 'Carol Anne, Carol Anne'! Horrible!!!But it's so terrible, every time it's on....I just gotta watch it! (I don't know why?!) "},{"Title":"Poltergeist III","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Carol Anne is sent to live with her aunt and uncle(..because actor Craig T Nelson & JoBeth Williams knew better than to return for another bad sequel), Bruce and Pat Gardner(Tom Skerritt & Nancy Allen)in a posh newly built skyscraper, attending a school for gifted students with psychological problems. Her cynical psychiatrist, Dr. Seaton(Richard Fire) reawakens the dormant Reverend Kane(Nathan Davis, taking over for the late Julian Beck) while putting Carol Anne under hypnosis, and he returns to torment the girl, using mirrors as a method of travel. Soon Bruce's daughter Donna(Lara Flynn Boyle)and Donna's boyfriend Scott(Kipley Wentz)are captured along with Carol Anne by Kane, held hostage on the other side and it will be up to him and Pat, with help from Tangina(Zelda Rubinstein)who felt Kane's emergence immediately flying to Chicago to the aide of Carol Anne, in order for their safe recovery..their love will have to relinquish them from the clutches of Kane, who wishes to find the light.Embarrassing close to the franchise, a soulless exercise in special effects with more mirror gags than I ever want to see again. Most of the film features an endless series of special effects sequences with little care given to the characters, and leads Skerritt and Allen must keep a straight face during attacks by frozen cars in the high rise's parking garage, and their daughter's exit from the petrified corpse of Tangina. You have a watery hole, in the parking garage, with arms pulling Carol Anne into the other side, Pat and Bruce caught in an elevator falling at great speed, evil reflections serving as doppelgangers for those Kane wishes to torment, and lots of dry ice. Kane is little more than a tool used to create goofy special effects, rather than an effectively creepy character produced by Julian Beck. You see Kane pop up from time to time in mirrors(..one scene shows a row of Kanes looking out of rooms as characters move down the hall, followed by closed doors)and he's even beheaded by a shovel, his face melting away. Heather O'Rourke's little shoulders have to sustain the anvil of mediocrity this terrible film places on her. Such a tragedy that such a little girl would die so young and not get an opportunity to better service her career from junk such as this sequel. Rubinstein's Tangina has become a joke, her dialogue no longer substantial, but cringe-inducing. Glossy cinematography and a nice homage to Sampson from the second film(..an important necklace around Tangina's neck becomes vital to possibly rescuing those captured)help a little, but the almost complete reliance on special effects weighs down any positives in the film's favor. And, Scott's whereabouts remain a mystery leaving a gaping hole in the plot(..along with how certain effects sequences are stuck together with tape and super glue)and the character of Seaton, who has a ridiculous theory regarding Carol Anne's ability to cause mass hypnosis, was obviously created as a way of poking fun at know-it-all psychiatrists who think they always have an answer for the unexplained and supernatural, no matter how remarkably asinine their logic sounds. It's simply sad that this would be O'Rourke's last completed film. The pits. "},{"Title":"trivia","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was just watching this movie and noticed something funny. The character of TRISH is played by NANCEY ALLEN ... who played CHRIS HARGENSEN in Carrie. As her and the character Bruce as getting ready for a party, they are talking about Carol Anne *supernatural* powers .. Bruce says .. *Come on now...she's not CARRIE*. I was just watching this movie and noticed something funny. The character of TRISH is played by NANCEY ALLEN ... who played CHRIS HARGENSEN in Carrie. As her and the character Bruce as getting ready for a party, they are talking about Carol Anne *supernatural* powers .. Bruce says .. *Come on now...she's not CARRIE*. "},{"Title":"Poltergeist III!","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The third and final film in the Poltergeist series is a good sequel in My opinion!The Poltergeist curse as it is called by some makes the films sad but the series is very entertaining and spooky!I would say this third one is the least scary but it has it moments!Tom Skerritt and Nancy Allen were really good as Heather O'Rourke's Uncle and Aunt.Zelda Rubenstein was good like before!Nathan Davis played Kane well but some may think he isn't as scary as Julian Beck's Kane which in My opinion Beck's Kane was so evil and creepy but there is nothing wrong with Davis' Kane either!The music is very good.I think Poltergeist III is a good film just different than the prequels.If you have seen the other two Poltergeist movies then I recommend you see the third one for a good scary time!Movie Nuttball's Note This is strictly My opinion.I believe that the deaths of the actors that performed in the Poltergeist movie did have something to do with the films but what I don't know.I think the movies where deep in stories as they were different than others and why the things that happened to few actors that died I don't know either.As great as this series is maybe they should have skipped the trilogy?I can't say for sure.May Heather O'Rourke,Will Sampson,Julian Beck,and Dominique Dunne Rest in Peace! "},{"Title":"Pretty bad haunted house horror film.","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the spooky events of Poltergeist (1982) and Poltergeist II The Other Side (1986) Carol Anne (Heather O'Rourke) now lives in a high-rise apartment block somewhere in Chicago with her Aunt, Patricia (Nancy Allen) her husband Bruce Gardner (Tom Skerritt) and his daughter from a previous marriage Donna (Lara Flynn Boyle). Carol Anne is attending a school for infant children with emotional problems, run by Dr. Arthur Seaton (Richard Fire). Strange things start to happen, mirrors crack for no reason and a ghostly apparition begins to appear. Soon this ghost takes Carol Anne, Donna and one of Donna's friends named Scott (Kipley Wentz) to the other side. A dwarf named Tangina Barrons (Zelda Rubinstein) turns up and tells Pat and Bruce where Carol Anne is and how to get her back. But this ghost won't let her go easily. Bruce and Pat must fight dark forces to save themselves and their family. Co-written and directed by Gary Sherman I thought this was a waste of 100 odd minutes of my life. The script by Sherman and Brian Taggert is about as dull and uninteresting as you could hope for. Nothing exciting or in the least bit scary happens at all, a few lights, a bit of mist/dry ice and some failed attempt at spooky noises & voices. There's no gore to speak of, just a couple of dead bodies and a stupid scene where someone bursts out of another's body. On the positive side it's competently made and to be fair the second half moves a long at a fair pace, although the love conquers all ending is unoriginal and far too predictable. There's not much else to say, don't bother with this one as there are much better films out there worthy of your attention. "},{"Title":"Redemption for Part Two","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Carol Anne (Heather O'Rourke) is staying with her aunt (Nancy Allen) in a highrise building, and the supernatural forces that have haunted her previously follow her there.After the disappointing second installment, we have this surprising comeback. A better story, better effects... and even though we lost most of the cast, we gained Lara Flynn Boyle and Tom Skerritt. Carol Anne has stopped being cute by this point (I am sorry to insult a dead girl, but she got really nasty...) but she is able to carry the film.Since I doubt we will ever see a Poltergeist IV, I am pleased to say they ended the series on a high note. While not as good as the original, it is still decent by sequel standards and they prevented the inevitable downward spiral that happens by making endless follow-ups to a series (I am talking about you, Leprechaun and Hellraiser). "}{"Title":"2 out of 5 stars","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a huge Poltergeist fan. I loved the first one and the second was pretty good, too. But 2 movies about the poltergeists chasing little Carol Anne was enough. The story's SO old now, topped with bad performances & cheesy Mirror FX. I guess if you're a Poltergeist fan, you'll just have to see for yourself- But for others, just skip it.  "},{"Title":"More minuses than pluses  sadly.","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Although the movie is not THAT bad, it still is a disappointing end to the series.Huge problem is the horrible script. I think it's not fair to blame the actors for doing a poor job, I think it's all due to the poorly written dialog and dumb situations. They also should have left the Kane character alone, after Julian Beck's death they should have come up with a new and different 'villain'. It is especially the beginning of the movie that is extremely bad and almost B-movie like with horrible dialog and 'comedy'.Nice thing is that this is Lary Flynn Boyle's first role in a movie. At the time of this film she was still looking normal and was eating her food it seemed. Richard Fire as Dr. Seaton was one of the highlights of the movie, he seemed like the only one that knew in what for a mess of a movie he got into. It made his character enjoyable and humor full.The special effect certainly aren't a disappointment in this movie and the mirror effects are great, although heavily overused throughout the entire movie.But what ever happened to the music? Jerry Goldsmith's score for the previous two Poltergeist movies was perfect. In this movie the famous Carol Anne's theme isn't even used once in any variation. Shame on you Joe Renzetti.If you still thought that Poltergeist II The Other Side was watchable enough for you, than Poltergeist III might also be very well worth your time.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Well, they're baaack agaaaain","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Poltergeist 3 was one of those mistake sequels that was an unnecessary movie to make in the first place. The second one ended the story just right and made us feel comfortable with it. The third Poltergeist might have worked, but the only characters that came back was Carol Anne and Tabith, I think her name was, you know that lady with the annoying voice? Well, it just didn't work as well without the other cast, not to mention they felt like a shove off with this plot.Carol Anne is sent off to live with her aunt and uncle in Chicago temporally, she is going to a special school to help her out with all her trauma from home. But the ghost have followed her again to wreak havoc on her and her new family. Only this time, there are more jumpy scenes to freak the audience out.It isn't a terrible sequel, it just wasn't necessary and it was sad to look at that little girl's face knowing she died during the filming of this movie. Such a short life, but at least she'll always be remembered and a great treasure for horror fans. But I would only recommend this sequel for those who wish to complete the sequel. Like I said, it isn't bad, it just wasn't fair to the original movies and it was sad to see Carol Anne in her last days, but I guess you'll just have to judge for yourself.4/10 "},{"Title":"Awful Film That Should Have Never Been Made","Date":"12 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Poltergeist III (1988) * (out of 4) Third and final film in the series has Carol Anne (Heather O'Rourke) going to Chicago to live with her uncle and aunt (Tom Skerritt, Nancy Allen) and sure enough the evil spirits follow her there. I don't have a problem with sequels that milk the original movies because they're bound to happen due to the lack of any real imagination in the majority of those who call the shot at Hollywood studios. What I do have a problem with is when those sequels turn out as bad as this one and what's worse is that it really looks bad on the previous two films with the story changes that take place here. If you've seen the first two movies then you know the reasons behind the hunting's but this film here tries to change those reasons and make it seem as if it was Carol Anne behind them the entire time. This simply doesn't work because it changes facts from the first two movies but the truth is that very little in the screenplay makes very much sense. It's always trouble when members from the original film don't want to come back so that explains why the family members are now taking care of Carol Anne and it explains why the screenplay has to alter various things here. One example is the silly way they bring back the Zelda Rubinstein character. The way she shows up and communicates with Carol Anne is just downright silly. Even sillier are all the plot devices that try to scare us but never work. Constantly we get rooms either freezing or having a ton of fog machines pumping out smoke. Was this meant to be scary? Were we really suppose to look at a frozen over room and feel terror? For the life of me I couldn't figure out why they had this new apartment building falling apart in a variety of ways because in the end it really didn't add anything. There are long scenes where security or other men are seeing that mirrors are cracked, cameras aren't working or the before mentioned ice but so what? Even worse is an extremely drawn out subplot dealing with Carol Anne's doctor who of course turns out to be no good. Both Skerritt and Allen are very entertaining actors but they can do very little with the screenplay and throughout the film both look confused as to what they're suppose to be doing. Everyone knows what happened to O'Rourke after this movie finished filming but she was good here. Lara Flynn Boyle is also good in her role. If you search out Siskel and Ebert's video review of this film they jokingly talk about how many times Carol Anne is screamed in this movie. This is something most people will pick up on because that name is constantly being said and it seems as if a few seconds don't go by before someone else screams it. According to the trivia section at the IMDb, Carol Anne is said 121 times and you can't help but think this is one reason the running time of 97-minutes isn't a lot shorter. POLTERGEIST III put the final nail in the series' coffin and it's yet another example of a bad movie that really makes people think bad on the entire series. "}]